there's no rule that says You must do
three sets per exercise if you train
very close to failure then one to two
sets can easily be enough I think his
take is good here uh I guess it depends
on what you mean by enough you know cuz
like enough to see some growth agreed
even with just 5 to 10 sets a week per
muscle for most lifters you will likely
see some muscle growth however if by
enough you mean maximizing your growth
that is very unlikely most people will
see their maximum growth at closer to 10
to 20 or likely even more than 20 sets
per week per muscle and before you come
for me in the comments I have done that
volume training almost always to failure
people always say oh it's impossible to
recover from that many sets sounds like
a you problem most people don't realize
this when it comes to training volume
[Music]