what kind of movements to do the answer
is usually compound large muscle mass
more or less whole body movements
presses pulls upright rows shoulder
presses squats deadlifts things like
that they train three or four muscles at
a time so they're insanely time
efficient they harden up your body for
an insane amount of anti-injury
resilience cuz like if you can pick 200
lbs off the ground unloading groceries
is not going to pull out your back
chances are they are also insanely
metabolically costly so they give you
some cardiovascular benefits as well
they promote a huge degree of muscle
mass accretion and they give you a ton
of not just injury resilience but real
world strength they hugely modify how
you look and how you feel so instead of
going there and going to the cable
machine and doing like one arm side
raises for the side delt which is the
size of two fingers and exerts a very
minimal Metabolic Effect on the whole
body presses pulls full squats lunges
these are the movements you want to
cultivate