[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
the ideal small-town country girl would
be someone who wanted to play softball
so when I wanted to wear dresses have
long hair makeup
all those sorts of things and if you
deviated from the norm of a small town
country girl in any way it was really
hard to get accepted
[Music]
I'm dr. Jen case with Renaissance period
ization I hold a PhD in exercise science
my emphasis is nutrition and human
performance I also have a Dietetics
degree which means I'm a registered
dietician my bachelor's degree is an
athletic training I have a master's
degree in sports science as well
[Music]
Clay Center is a small farming community
in Kansas typical of all your other
farming communities you know cows
outnumber the people a sort of thing
there's a lot of cliques in Clay Center
if you did not fit into those cliques
he had kind of a hard time growing up I
did not fit into the cliques I wanted to
try wrestling I don't know if the
coaches would have let me try I couldn't
get my parents to sign off on it which
was upsetting so I moved to Topeka and I
wanted to take a self-defense class my
parents want me take a self-defense
class as well and then come to find out
they did Brazilian jiu-jitsu in the back
room of this traditional martial arts
studio so freshly turned 19 year old
fresh off the farm not super social a
very young girl being told hey this
guy's gonna lay between your legs and
you're gonna squeeze his neck with your
thighs so that was a little a little
awkward but once I got over the
awkwardness I really found that I
enjoyed Brazilian jiu-jitsu I found an
activity I excelled at and from there
just kind of snowballed and started to
redirect everything in my life Jen came
and got right in the mix good student
which was also refreshing considering
most those guys are just there to rough
it up she came in ready to learn
so how do guys respond to me it is
varied over the years I do have some
guys that their egos just can't handle
it it's a little more vicious than it
needs to be rather than being good
jujitsu technique and that's frustrating
but since you're kind of part of this
board
I think the thing that I like the most
about jiu-jitsu is just the camaraderie
and the sense of family and acceptance
that you have at your gym and if you
don't have it you're at the punk gym as
my career took me around to different
spots you know I would have to meet a
new work environment a new work friends
but the jiu-jitsu environment would
always be welcoming and once you got in
there told a couple dirty jokes you're
home
[Music]
you're growing up in a conservative area
when you look like this there's a
certain stigma that comes with it and
you just have to deal with that and I
think the best thing you can do is just
show people okay yeah I look like this
but I also have four college degrees I
also have a job that allows me to
interact with people from literally all
over the globe it allows me to work with
top tier athletes you know it allows me
to help people meet their goals on a
daily basis allows me to be able to
become a world-class athlete it does not
change who I am it does not change my
character doesn't change my values it's
just art so once I got my PhD I went on
and taught as an assistant professor up
in Iowa and then at UC them as well
but then the opportunity came along for
me to do Renaissance translation
full-time I still get the opportunity to
educate people about nutrition and
exercise science and so that's very
enjoyable but now I also get to help
people reach their goals and help them
succeed and I get to pursue my own
athletic dreams and so it's kind of just
a little bit better fit
[Music]
it was really cool for me to know that
there were young ladies back in my
hometown that were following me and you
know feeling inspired and being able to
have someone to look up to and realize
that hey you know even though you come
from a small town that doesn't mean you
need have small dreams I'm Jen case and
I'm the Renaissance difference
[Music]
you
[Music]