[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at the most
effective variations to isolate the
chest now before we get into that i
think i should say that i think the best
way to build a big strong chest is to
build up a big bench press and if i had
to include just one accessory movement
it'd probably be a weighted dip but with
that said if you have a lagging chest or
if you have disproportionately developed
pecs say for example your upper chest is
lagging then you can use an isolation
movement like a fly to squeeze in some
extra chest volume without creating too
much fatigue overall so with really any
fly we're going to be performing
primarily horizontal shoulder adduction
so basically bringing your arm across
your body and this is the same basic
biomechanical movement pattern you're
performing with a bench press or a
dumbbell press except with the fly that
elbow angle is going to be kept pretty
much constant which is going to take the
triceps out of the movement and isolate
the chest whereas in a press your elbow
is going to flex and extend under load
which has the advantage of targeting
more overall muscle mass but also makes
the lift harder to recover from now we
can target the upper chest more by
adding in a shoulder flexion component
since the clavicular head of the pecs is
able to assist with shoulder reflection
or basically raising your arm up like in
a front raise and this is the same
reason why an incline bench angle tends
to hit the upper pec fibers a bit better
it forces you to perform more shoulder
flexion targeting that clavicular head
now one of the lesser known functions of
the pack is shoulder internal rotation
so basically when you rotate your arms
inward and you can try this for yourself
if you put your hand on your chest and
rotate your arm inward you should feel
your pec contract a bit so in order to
make this feasible we're going to want
to set up our flies on cables rather
than using dumbbells or the pec deck
that isn't to say those options are no
good but if i had to pick just one fly
to use i think it would be a cable fly
the problem with using dumbbells is that
you reach peak tension at the bottom
where you have maximum stretch on the
pecs since torque is going to be
greatest at that point but then
throughout the concentric range of
motion tension progressively decreases
until it reaches a minimum at the top
where there's basically zero tension on
the pecs now one potential fix here is
to stop a bit shy of full adduction and
just sort of keep a constant tension
groove going in the mid-range and that
can work but then you're still going to
be missing out on that peak contraction
at the top and while the pec deck is
better in the sense that it has a more
consistent resistance curve it's still
limited in the fact that your shoulder
is going to be more locked into position
so you're pretty much forced into
performing pure reduction meaning you
can't get that shoulder flexion involved
to hit the upper pecs more or internally
and externally rotate freely so assuming
the goal is to target the upper pecs i
think you should set up the cables low
so that when you grab the handles your
arms are out at about 15 to 30 degree
angle take one or two steps forward
until you feel a slight stretch in your
pecs and plant your feet with a stable
stance so you don't lose your balance
for me a staggered stance works best and
before initiating the positive you want
to make sure that your shoulder blades
are retracted and depressed exactly as
they would be in a bench press and you
should find that if you really keep your
scapulae retracted you'll feel a much
much stronger pec contraction at the top
and if you allowed your back to round
forward which is sort of going to ease
the slack off the pecs you also want to
externally rotate your shoulders you're
just going to put the pec in its most
lengthened position before you initiate
the fly and then from there you can draw
the cables up and across your body
simultaneously while thinking about
pulling the insides of your elbows in
toward one another so as you perform the
positive you're going to be internally
rotating until you reach a hand position
at the top where your thumbs are facing
one another and then on the negative you
want to reverse the motion under control
allowing the pecs to stretch as you
bring your arms back down while
externally rotating at the same time now
because the fly is a single joint
isolation movement we're going to be
using lighter weights here with higher
reps usually something in the 15 to 20
rep range and because it's more of a
pump focused mind muscle connection
style movement there is plenty of room
to be creative so you can use a sequence
where you set the cables up high for
your first set to hit more of the lower
peck in the middle for set two to hit
the middle peck and then set them up low
for set three to target the upper chest
more also sometimes include intensity
techniques such as cable fly 21s where
you'll do seven reps in the top half of
the range seven reps in the bottom half
to the stretched position and then seven
full range of motion reps to really
finish the pecs off now granted this is
something i'd probably reserve for the
end of a workout for a bit of extra
metabolic stress and so it doesn't
interfere with any of your heavier
pressing volume i would say that the
most common error that i see on the
cable fly is just not controlling the
movement well it's common to see people
use way too much triceps involvement to
help get the weight down rather than
controlling the weight by squeezing
their pecs only so you don't need to
walk the triceps completely straight but
they should be kept at the same angle
from top to bottom another common
mistake is not keeping your shoulder
blades retracted and depressed as i
discussed in the technique tuesday video
on the bench press it's important to
keep your scapulae back and down to put
the pecs in a mechanically safer and
stronger position and if you want to try
this out for yourself you should feel a
huge difference in how hard your pecs
fire if you allow your shoulders to roll
forward versus if you keep your scapula
back and besides that this forward
rounding can lead to shoulder pain that
can be easily avoided by simply locking
your upper back into position first so
guys that is all that i have for the
chest fly uh before we go i wanna let
you guys know that i've got a new
program on the way this weekend so it's
gonna be available for purchase on
jeffnipper.com on april the 20th it's
going to be a six day upper lower
program so it's going to go upper lower
upper lower upper lower rest so
something that's probably unique for
many of you now i've been testing it
myself in the gym for the last couple of
weeks and i think it's ready to go um so
you can sign up for my mailing list at
the link in the description below if
you'd like to be notified when that's
available and i think we can all start
it pretty much the same time
i'm also going to be vlogging my
progression through the program here on
the channel and also on my instagram so
you guys can follow along as we go
through also if you guys haven't seen my
bench press and dip technique tuesday
videos i'll put both of those over here
definitely recommend giving them a watch
as well don't forget to like the video
if you enjoyed it subscribe to the
channel if you happen to be new and i'll
see you guys all here next tuesday
[Music]
oh