I've been using the RP diet to fill my
weightlifting performance for years and
our piece simple science-based approach
has been instrumental to my success with
the new RP diet app following our P's
principles is as easy as entering my
goals and schedule and choosing my
favorite foods the app builds a diet to
my exact needs reminds me to eat my
meals and adapts to my body's changes
every single day and week the RP diet
app is a huge help in my quest to become
the best athlete I can be and if your
goal is to be your best it will help you
three-two-one did I did it oh we're back
in Mario song yeah
all right folks thanks for joining us
this week I apologize that we kind of
got off schedule again unfortunately I'm
dealing with some some family stuff
that's not super Pleasant and Mike was
able to help me out here so appreciate
your guys's patience and we'll get your
questions answered this week like we
always do so thanks for being with us in
an erratic and untimely manner
all right so here's the deal we are
gonna go to the RP plus questions first
as always and then we are going to go to
a few YouTube questions as well right
which is much better than Instagram
questions yeah great garlic moogly
by not people who don't exist all right
so shall we start let's do it okay
Aiden Brown no relation to James Brown
maybe there's an amazing YouTube video
that's titled James Brown high on drugs
you could see where that's going and
it's fucking gold because it's it's just
like him being interviewed on a regular
news show
and it's not dammit i fullscreen the
shit again I'll escape okay
Hindi interviewed by regular news
reporter and she's like so uh mr. Brown
you know what has been sort of your
musical productivity of late he's like
uh okay again so there's some
allegations of some substance abuser
good his clips of him like Sam weird you
know it's like he might as well have
just been doing clips of the songs it
was unbelievable oh it's amazing that's
amazing
all right Aiden Brown says hi Michael
James looking at the mini cut Manuel one
of the example paradise plans outlines
tab three mesocycle mass of four to
eight weeks to have a three-mile grass
of forty eight weeks each yes okay mini
couple four weeks head back into an
eight week mass two-week maintenance
before heading back into another four
week when it comes then finally a four
week mass and maintenance period to
finish off the mattress like a plan oh
this is just an example plan how could
someone take this to make it optimal for
them which is generally how many cuts
should be incorporated for long term
massing goals and fat accumulation is
too high we sensitization is needed is
that only gonna make I should be carried
out to yes
so the purpose of any cut is to address
actual things doesn't have any magical
benefits sort of preemptively ward off
anything so when your body fat has
gotten to a level in which the next
mastic phase would get a to too high of
a level for your provinces and their
optimality you know so then the true
employee mini cut to pave the way for
your next mass phase so to speak and if
you're still lean there's no reason to
there any kind of dreams yeah I don't
really see much more after that at the
you can you can set that up in a number
of different ways that's the example one
in the book but like you could certainly
shorten it up on either the weight gain
side or the maintenance phases that you
take but really there's nothing magical
about it just really just as I set you
up for productive mass phase and body
fat issues aside you can kind of spin it
however you want
yeah yeah all right Daniel hacker is up
next he says do you think having a
long-term body weight range of plus or
minus five pounds and body fat range for
physique is a good idea if you don't
aspire to compete um long term body
weight rate range
I think he's basically saying like if
even if you're not a competitor should
you kind of have some upper and lower
bounds in terms of body weight and body
fat that you set for yourself so you
don't get like too big or yeah I can't
tell if he means like a stable condition
or goals yeah I think I think he means
this for like his mass phases so like
maybe like not going above a certain
weight that would put you at a certain
body fat or you know basically like kind
of keeping a tidy upper and lower as he
goes throughout his body phases that's
how I interpret that at least sure I
think that's a fine interpretation
probably no idea yeah yeah yeah I think
it's absolutely reasonable who is
another way to ask the question James
Daniel is you know do you want to look
like XY and Z and do you want to look
pretty close to XY and Z when you're not
pushing the pedal to the metal and or
just really focused on your diet to
always look like that and then how far
off of that are you willing to look at
your worst so to speak when we sort of
say yes to all of those and then you put
a range on that ladder then you sort of
answer the question right so so for
example you might look your best at 175
pounds like crispy crispy fried chicken
look and if you you know it takes like
you know your being under P's and Q's to
do that like your diets on point all
this other stuff you train really
regularly kind of you know pretty decent
volume so on and so forth so that's cool
if that's the case great you do that and
then you sort of like go to Thailand for
a month or like a super mega vacation
and you know or you know whatever
holidays or some shit you're not gonna
want to be super crispy through that
because it's gonna be like shitty to
diet through some really fun stuff you
sort of like say okay look 175 I look
amazing
if I'm up to like 180 or even 183 or
whatever at the end of the
I don't care and that really allows you
to relax still trade a little bit eat
fundamentally okay and that makes it a
room for some some fun stuff and some
carefree living and then when you come
back after a month or whatever you can
sort of maintain 183 whatever maybe get
strong for a while and then do another
sort of like four to six week fat loss
phase really and then get back down to
175 super crispy and then sort of walk
around and flashier bare abs of people
yeah and I think it's a good way to
setting up kind of your life priorities
where you you know that you don't have
to get leaner than a certain amount
because the the pain and the cost
benefit of time spent doing dieting and
suffering is just too shitty and if you
find that like you know you get a little
too pudgy you start to feel
self-conscious and not great about your
your body comp and your fitness those
are all perfectly reasonable boundaries
you can set for yourself and that's very
similar to kind of what I do except I
don't really go up and down anymore I
mostly just kind of do what I want and
then now the other half of the year when
I said oh that's above my comfort zone I
go back down to my comfort zone and then
a cruise for a while so same idea
basically yeah alright and he follows up
with asking tied to the broad question
above can you should test my long-term
mindset / goal for my physique training
I have said a bodyweight range goal at a
certain body fat with multi-set my rep
performances and many of my lifts my
train of thought this might be really
done but I'm sure James will tell me oh
yeah I'm math alright I'm the bad cop
we're at an asshole Street last time an
old shit man
is that my train of thought is that I
will push my body weight up over time
always at a reasonable pace taking me
miss phase many cuts and easier long
cuts until I could make these numbers
once I can then I will maintain at a
higher body weight and then do a real
cut to idea to have a 10% fat while
still being able to hit these numbers
I'm not too far away from these lift
goals most lifts are just 5 to 10
percent higher than what I could do
currently the stolen
the 5 to 10% seems reasonable what I
won't say is once the part here is I
will then maintain at a higher body
weight and then do a real cut diet to
get down to 8 to 10% fat while still
being able to hit these numbers you
might not be able to hit these numbers
at the time that you diet down it might
be a couple weeks later when you recom
like a giant drop fatigue sure if you
really want to eventually get to being
an agent 10% and hitting those numbers
you might have to get considerably
stronger than you when you initially
yeah I think other than those kind of
like acute performance related things
which can kind of wax and wane with your
body weight I think that's perfectly
fine strategy I don't really see any
major problems with that some lifts just
keep in mind like there are some lifts
like bench is a good example where if
you lose a whole bunch of body weight
your performance is very hard to
maintain that's just normal but other
than that I don't know it looks pretty
good to me I don't know why he thought I
would be so critical of that jeez I
think I'm a scrimmage any asshole damn
it all right Bassam Bassam hey hey Doc's
like in James thanks for answering my
last year's questions love your new
haircut James looking good also thank
you buddy thanks guys I pay money to
come out site to get call them inside ha
ha ha
seems like you could deal to me Bassam
you know you love us and we love you
back taking one of your common Instagram
comments comment trolls for a ride was
quite fun oh yeah Bassam engaged and all
to crunch a great analog to crunch James
this guy's been trolling me for a while
and sometimes he doesn't seem like he's
trolling like he agrees with stuff for
them sometimes he just goes on like an
insult warpath
what does he want what do you want
analog wants to tell people that I'm
using drugs and I don't know how to lift
and then I'm a bad person
oh it's like he's like a natty yesterday
he wasn't at first it's quite it's quite
strange and I so he okay say he goes
taking one of your common Instagram
comment trolls for a ride was quite fun
I learned that they're simply too just
too stupid to realize that nobody
actually disagrees with them while
they're digging themselves a hole of
continuous subjects which II yeah this
guy's that he like you like man I I
don't like that this this guy preaches
like cheat reps and getting so strong
that he lose your mind muscle connection
and Bassam was like I don't think Mike's
ever said any of that actually and
just no one's arguing against you and
he's like now these guys are full of
shit bassam's like what that's like the
complete opposite of no totally it's
crazy I don't want to like stroke my own
ego here but I feel like like in that
particular example that's like we're the
one of very few people who actually talk
about those particular issues so it's
like it's funny that he would paint them
in like the complete opposite layout
know what I mean it's like who else is
talking about that and how could you get
it so confused yeah it's really intense
he goes are generally true if they're
being intentional or if they were
dropped on their head as a child
probably both probably awesome I think
you're ignoring the fact respectfully
that there's a normally distributed
curve about intelligence to the
population some people fall and I but
I'm serious no I don't know I think I
don't think there's an intentionality
there because the intentionality would
imply a point and if you were
intentional and pointed enough to really
pick fun at someone you might be better
than at it like you might actually
pursue a certain line of argument rather
than anything you can grab on to and
then like you said switch arguments
midway through it's just sad it's like
if they got thirteen year old so I mean
just as there is an intelligence bell
curve there is a dildo bell curve and
this guy sounds like he's just down the
far side of it it's just himself like to
a mass yeah and then he says on the
training side I'm currently enjoying my
dealing week so far first day in and I'm
already long longing for hitting the
iron harder than the realization that we
assume ins are small and insignificant
this of course there's a good thing as
it means I'm far from being we're not so
yeah yeah yeah that's good
I got so many questions for this week
and I think too complicated I hope so
question number one I learned recently
the metal of melatonin it can act as a
cox-2 inhibitor like M sense does
chronic use of melatonin have potential
to affect my muscle growth response from
training there's the tiny dosing
voluntary 0.5 milligrams to 2 milligrams
too insignificant to actually have an
effect on it my understanding is that it
doesn't have any tangible effects at
least in our current understanding a
couple other things that are worth
noting there
melatonin is not in my humble appeal
maybe not something that you should be
taking chronically anyway chronically in
the sense of like habitual use
continuously over time it's okay to use
it when you feel like it could be
beneficial to you but and I harp on Mel
Mel does that all the time where she'll
just take melatonin like all the time
I'm like you know it's probably not good
to do that I don't think it's maybe I
should rephrase I don't think it's bad
but I think it might not be serving its
purpose if you're constantly using it
all the time so it's not meant to be
used that way in my opinion number two I
don't think if there is an effects there
that it's very significant if at all and
number three I would also argue that
even if there is an effect you probably
get a massive net positive effect from
the melatonin if it allows you to sleep
in high quantities and qualities so
whatever interference effect it may have
is probably massively outweighed by the
positive effects you get from sleeping
well that'd be - yeah next question
related how about a tea histamines do
they have an effect on performance of
recovery the spring Fox me happens to us
all of my orifices so my quality of life
suffers without use of themselves just
sort of probably what James said there's
no direct research that I'm aware of on
muscle growth and antihistamines on the
suspect there's no relationship IVs in
any histamines for conserve a lot of
time as a matter of fact actually when I
was living with James for several years
James has a cat and I'm allergic to cats
so I use antihistamines twenty two or
three years straight and I did not
really notice the reduction in
adaptation that was sort of affable for
sure but you know who knows and if one
doesn't need shit I don't know any
Studies on that literature but I will
say that if you take the all the
cortisol dumping you'll have from being
fucking miserable and not just a quality
buff reduction but the sleep
interference but high allergy levels
going out of its absolutely almost
certainly welcome to make any esteems
they put me on my ass like I sleep with
a child and that alone would probably
boost my recovery because there's no way
I'm not getting some peace about I do
students yeah and some some
antihistamines like if you get the like
the sudafed run at the behind the
counter kind actually have like an
amphetamine effect can actually if he's
a feasibly boost your performance in
some cases which is maybe not what
you're going for the only thing I think
were
that's worth talking about and having a
significant performance decrement are
antibiotics antihistamine outside of
maybe just some lethargy I don't think
there's anything there antibiotics is
one that people will definitely notice
if especially like if they have a
competition coming up it's generally
best practice to avoid the antibiotics
before competition when possible and you
see MMA fighters all the time don't get
like MRSA or something like that and
then they gotta take antibiotics and
then they say in the post fight like oh
I had to take antibiotics I felt like
shit and tired all the time but that's
really the only one I can think of
mm-hmm he goes thanks in advance and of
course I can't leave without continuing
this nuclear Russian Jew versus Russian
era debate / tough contest a lot of
thank you you did a good point when you
said that my name in Russian is wrong
and should sound like Maxime or Vadim
that's the James that's where he hit my
scene from okay gotcha I never actually
thought about this as I've just been
called at my entire life I'm actually
going to ask my mom why it's a boxing
and not a scene in Russian I think she
told me a long time ago and then she
would call me Vasa
like Vasa and they even just kind of a
Peter so I concluded that my name in
Russian does not follow the rule of
names probably because of its not much
in origin and therefore it can be an
exception yep absolutely
fair enough also how does one pronounced
is we're told in Russian I can't seem to
actually figure it out
it's is rated Mikhail Alexandrovich is
rated that's like still pretty phonetic
I mean I don't speak Russian but that's
how like it's actually more phonetic
than the English pronunciation yeah is
it I did because in English it it should
be his hotel should that Middle East
should just be gone god damn good reason
of that thing I think you just like to
relate any more to the nation of Israel
there you go
alright any and they guess says anyway
hope you to a fantastic evening a
nothing suspiciously bad happens to the
next three days well it isn't Devin's
not tonight yeah that's right actually
James because of your hairdo you're good
thank you yes I use the
the same cat buzzer that I use for
piccolo I use on my head that's how I
cut open if I got a weird disease dick
you wish me ill that badly
well don't worry any ill I can wish you
know I was gonna say Brazilians actually
have a common disease that's caused from
cats what's it called fuck it's gonna
this is gonna bother me it's uh it's
something you can get from cats from
from when they from from there
interacting in their litter box and it
can cause like hyper sexuality amongst
other things as a whoa what and it's a
very common common thing in Brazil God
what's it called this is gonna bother me
the rest of the night until I figure
this out I'm gonna go because I know
plasmosis toxoplasmosis yes babies can
get it and stuff hyper sexuality sounds
great sounds very Brazilian yeah all
right Shawn Morikawa Ruben says hey guys
number one we know that you living with
easy workouts was better for fatigue
dissipation than taking and we
completely off this also applied to
joint and connective tissue recovery oh
especially applies to joint connective
tissue recovery because getting blood
flow to the muscles is not terribly
difficult for getting blood flow and
pliability to the joints and connective
tissues is much harder and thus physical
activity and a warming of the area
actually helps much more so most the
entire basis of rehabilitation not the
entire big basis of rehabilitation for
sure is to get the area's mobile there
is a James yeah there is something to be
said with the connective tissue stuff
where some time off can be warranted
we're just doing light sessions might
actually be contraindicated and that's
when you have like severe inflammation
like if you have like tendinitis in your
elbow so he actually gets to that he
goes my elbows and the surrounding areas
are nagging me quite a bit into my limit
intuition it would seem like a complete
break would do better for healing them
than like training so here's the thing
Shawn I think that if they mad you so
much that a D load workout
better then you need to do two things
one is for sure take a week off and
secondly take maybe two or three weeks
off of the movements that hurt them
possibly for the body parts that hurt
them or the muscle groups and reconsider
your program design and exercise
selection and execution so that you
don't run into this problem in other
words I would not like for you to end up
in the situation where for your lower
body and other parts of your body every
six weeks when you deal it or whatever
you do like training but for elbow
involving movements you always every six
weeks every time you deal or you do new
training like that does not indicate an
underlying condition that's that's
really good you're like look if you have
this just disgusting infection on your
knee and you just always shower by
wrapping it up in cellophane and people
like Duke should you get that looked at
like no it's okay I just wrap it up and
I can shower the rest of my body like
the local issues probably a problem
it means it's all attention one of our
friends more or less did that Alex when
he's like cut his hand and just left it
in a glove for a couple other things too
so this is one of the reasons why Mike
and I are really big on finding
pain-free workarounds when you're having
issues right so we usually say if
something's causing you pain or even if
it's not even if you're not like oh it's
not pain but it's like inflamed I can
tell it's inflamed right or something
like that
we usually say try and find something
else that doesn't doesn't cause that
same pain or irritation one of the big
benefits being most obvious is that you
can continue training right so you can
either either get stronger or keep
getting more muscular and hopefully in a
way that's not exacerbating the injury
one of the other benefits of doing the
pain free workaround is that in that
sense you are kind of still getting some
active recovery to that area you're
still activating the muscle you're still
warming the area are still getting more
flow and it might not be in a way that's
causing the inflammation right so in a
sense the pain free workaround can act
as I I don't want to call it an active
recovery but kind of get that same
effect while still being able to train
and not exacerbate that area so another
big win for the pain-free work around
Mike wasn't somebody on you recently
about this didn't we talk about this
somebody was like I thought we Michael
Rea I believe is his name of barbell
medicine
on Facebook in a comment section in one
of my posts where I referenced our
upcoming book and saying but if you have
movements a movement that you're doing
that causes you pain and specific area
more than a few times in a row that you
can trade it out for another movement
that is a similar muscle targeting that
doesn't hurt so for example of pull
downs of a certain grip seem to cause
your elbow pain switch to pull downs of
another grip or switch to assisted
pull-ups in whatever doesn't hurt and
now that doesn't hurt you can continue
to progress in that exercise for a long
time and then eventually come back to
that other exercise with light weight
reassess your technique and try to ease
into it in such a way that doesn't hurt
and he got on me big-time about others
made a number of claims I'm not up to
date on the literature we essentially
uninformed on literature about the
psychosocial theory of pain that's right
yeah I remember us other stuff I
considered the interaction interesting I
would say that there is a concept there
where I ended up asking him what is the
protocol for detection of pain
sequentially several workouts over an
area and he said that you know we should
modulate load which is to say reduce it
and modulate range of motion which is to
say also reduce it so that the pain
mitigation occurs the thing is that that
argument is interesting on its face but
doesn't unfortunately go very far
because both load modulation to a large
extent to some extent and ROM range of
motion modulation to a very large extent
create problems for overload they
actually make the exercise worse
Frankfurt regime whereas the total
switching in the exercise to one that is
good loading a good range of motion but
it's different and thus doesn't hurt you
actually checks all the boxes and you
know hypertrophy training these specific
exercises almost completely irrelevant
and it's can you do for range motion and
can you load and then can you stick to
it is really those three questions that
will result in hypertrophy so it seemed
like there was a bit of a you know I
think this fight a very sharp diet was
meaning very well I didn't get to the
point in the logic where the circularity
of it
so I it seemed to me that okay you know
and there's also a question of sort of
for school reward that I think you were
you brought up as well James and another
one of our conversations like the
chances that there's actually nothing
wrong with you and the pain is entirely
psychosomatic so to speak psychosocial
and this is this good is fine chance its
extent you know like this let's see it's
fifty percent fine let's say it's 90
percent because what's the downside of
switching an exercise and entirely not
much downside that may be some sort of
stigmatization of pain and people
hopping from movement to move it to
movement and sort of vary from phantom
pain which is becomes incrementally less
likely the more severity of that option
you advanced to say more simply like a
severe version of that is highly
unlikely anyway right but but then the
alternative is you actually do have some
kind of structural deformation or damage
and you getting away from that exercise
actually saves that area makes it
continue to be not injured and that's a
really big plus side and the downside
just seems to be much smaller so I think
James and I would err on look there
something hurts you once and training
like we really just don't give a shit
unless it's a credibly sharp pain I
think you should go back next time and
try to work on your technique a little
bit warm up nice and light and workout
it again but if two or three or four
sessions in a row just consistently
hurts you and you've done your very best
it's time to abandon that movement for
of a time being and then go to another
movement we can do for ramen load
totally agreed and then Shawn just to be
very explicit in in what we're talking
about here so what we're saying is if
you have like if your elbows are
consistently bugging you to the point
where you know you would consider it
like tendinitis what we're saying is
that doing blood pull downs or skull
Crusher's whatever it is that's kind of
irritating it doing a light session or
some like active recovery style workouts
is probably not going to be enough to
alleviate that and so it's gonna have to
be a combination of finding a pain-free
work around possibly reducing the amount
of you know volume to that area or
stimulus to that area but you know what
you can get away with for your muscles
like you can do a couple live sessions
usually you can bounce back you can do a
deal owed usually you can bounce back
your joints sometimes just take a long
time and just doing a couple light
sessions might not be
enough to get you back on track and
that's why we kind of push people
towards the workaround so you can
because there's a time series problem
where what you don't want to do is have
to stop altogether to make your elbows
or whatever stop hurting so you want to
keep making progress and probably the
better way to do that is to find
something you can do pain-free mm-hmm
all right he says number two you guys
have mentioned how for example two
hundred by eight at our p7 is roughly
equivalent performance to two hundred
and five by seven at our PE eight and so
on
this has always confused me if they're
equivalent then why do we say we
progress from one to the next from one
to the next micro to micro so that's
actually very easy answer on our PE
seven is more stimulative than our PE
eight it is maybe equivalently
impressive but it's more difficult to
pull off so because that you're our PE
just sort of determines the magnitude of
stimulus that you're imposing anyway
from our PE five so to speak to our PRP
10 right during the course of a
mesocycle you move from higher our PR so
you lower our P's we're usually used to
say it's gonna say because I'm an avatar
yeah but you know just our PE language
is to keep it consistent here you go
from our P sort of six the seven eight
nine ten and then DLO right so you know
if you had 204 8 @ RP 7 and then you
moved in 205 and got seven reps at our
PE eight if they're roughly equivalent
okay sweet but remember they are roughly
equivalent but you've probably
accumulated some puts fatigue between
one of them the other so those actually
while your performance is the same your
underlying Fitness hasn't increased
right you're basically saying like I'm
one week deeper into my program and one
week more cumulative Li fatigue assuming
you're training about amee of fatigue
accumulates but I could still perform
the same right so if you actually
continued to perform the same but you're
RPGs are declining they don't perform
the same as far as relative metrics your
peas are declining if you take is
accumulating that actually these are
under life and this is improving right
so
why do we progress from one to the next
of the micro to micro is to chase the
RPE target because RPE is falling
through the massive cycle make sense in
a variety of ways that we have described
in many many other doesn't answer so we
could always review them if you want to
ask for next week's follow-up of like
how why do you following RPS is
something we want out of my purchase I
call for chase calm finality yeah and
then Sean just also keep in mind right
you're right sometimes it is kind of
splitting hairs here and it can be
difficult but it's very difficult to
evaluate you know a long-term
progression across a Meza cycle just
looking at one set you know across a
variety of things that you could be
looking at so Mike already explained
kind of the fitness fatigue paradigm
aspect to that where basically your
performance kind of stays level but also
you have to consider that you might not
have to actually have a super like
statistically significant tangible
difference between some of these things
week to week the differences might be
small and some people like Eric homes
might even argue that you might not even
need to actually have something that's
that different from week to week as long
as kind of throughout the entirety of
the mesocycle it is getting harder in
some way right it doesn't necessarily
mean you have to do a little bit more
weight or a little more reps or a little
more sets every single time on every
single one of those sets that you're
assessing so just keep that in mind it
doesn't have to be on everything
necessary mm-hmm and so another way to
think about it is like I'll actually
hold on a sec 200 by 8 in our piece so
technically
though that example I don't think
they're equivalent 200 by 8 RP 7 should
be equivalent to 205 by 8 at RP 8 would
you agree with that Dreamz I think so I
think you know I I don't want to spend
too much time like picking apart the
example I think he's sure it's just kind
of say like similar weight similar reps
similar RPGs right yeah are they
equivalent probably you know you're
close to equivalent but yeah they're not
exactly and there should be some
progression and difficulty so the so so
you're the equivalent performance there
so 200 by 8 at rp7 is roughly equivalent
to performance of two hundred by five
two hundred five by seven it should be
the example is two and a five by seven
at rp7 yeah we only think of an example
so the rpe actually should see you do
205 by eight which is more technically
and there's that tiny little bit of
overloading we call it yeah and so you
could you could kind of think of it
Shawn like the the rpe in this case
might be weighed a little more heavily
than like the five pound difference in
the the set that you did you know as the
rpe goes up we see more of an
exponential kind of issue in terms of
the amount of stimulus it gets but also
the amount of fatigue in in slightly
different shapes one would be more of
like an asymptote one more like an S but
the rpe would be a weight a little bit
more heavily so when you see that change
it has a little more impact
[Music]
you're serious about your goals and the
RP diet app is here to help it creates a
diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
Wolcott
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today number three sometimes I'll
experience a very strange occurrence
usually on machines a bit performing a
semi rep start to slow down and grind
and I swear I'm almost a failure but
sometimes I just flip a switch in my
mind and I started hurting much more
force and Drive and he hit like ten more
reps would just be a textbook example
and me just going through the motions
using my slow twitch fibers and my
faster subscribers only actually my
conscious effort yes will be exactly
that yeah absolutely there so there's a
big big influence on psychology and
which is why studying actually has
science when you're actually getting and
trying to motivate people to go to
failure you gotta yell at them there's
multiple researchers will sit around and
yell at you with curls or squats to do
as many reps as you can every single
time because it's been showing through a
variety of experiments that people self
assess failure can often be as many as
10 reps away from what they think so
because Sean you know that about
yourself you should aim to try a little
bit harder than maybe you have been
trying before but start with low volumes
because that can cause a lot of fatigue
for either your I've missed you a little
probably give you much better results
and then not to be kind of like pedantic
on the issue but there's there's this
whole James no I'm no no I'm not trying
to be an asshole
there's there's a difference between
kind of like assessing the RPE correctly
and then like getting fucking amped up
you know like getting self activated
like really hyping up for a set so I
think that those two things can be easy
to conflate right where you're like oh
like I I flip the switch well like did
you flip the switch because you've got
like a huge adrenaline dump because you
were listening to your favorite music or
because you were thinking about
something that got you really pumped up
right and now your performance goes
through the roof well that's because you
got you have you you know you got pumped
up for the set so there's probably like
a good middle ground that you have to
explore which is not constantly like
psyching up all the time for your sets
but not being too flat and cold when
you're coming into a set so you can get
an appropriate RPE or rir assessment
yeah a training intensity yeah exactly
sorry in in intensity for training
rather than in competition you know
alright Tony drop Mel says hey guys this
new public YouTube format is a real
emotional roller coaster as excited as I
am at the promise of more Marcos and
I'm definitely missing the exclusive rp+
only secrets you guys no longer share
like the perfect cue to hit your inner
outer upper pecs during one hour cable
ties work is progressing on the giant
world astronomy catechol octopus Tony
you know nothing of the octopus and you
will see some desist yeah shut up the
octopus comes for you first I've been
wondering the father recently had a like
a sanity check from you guys would it be
reasonable to surmise that both
isolation movements and movements
affecting smaller muscle groups require
more frequent and radical variation to
remain effective as compared to compound
movements and movements involving bigger
muscle groups very minor grip slash
stance and rep changes seem to stave off
stainless and big compounds for
extremely long periods of time but don't
appear is powerful for increasingly
isolated movements would well would the
major factor be simply the amount of
muscle mass full stop or more so because
there's a greater diversity of
insertions fiber types fiber bottles of
different angles neural coordination etc
I'm more skeptical towards the former
for advanced individuals tend to benefit
from greater variation as a muscle size
increases they say simply be a result of
getting caught in the forest of cod
founders honestly I have no fucking clue
I do suspect that as the complexity
exercises and muscles involved is higher
variations presenting much more notable
difference whereas like if you have
wrist curls it kind of doesn't fucking
matter how you do them but unless you do
them very differently it's just hitting
the same shit over all the same the same
way that's a very good idea but I would
just be pure speculation on my part
James I'm not sure either and I have
basically the same kind of answer that
Mike did I think because isolation
movements you're just more limited in
the kinematics aspects of it where you
can only do like a bicep curl in so many
like if you're doing it like in real
pure isolation like a preacher curl
there's only like so much variation you
can do in that and then after that it's
gonna be more like volume intensity
modification same thing like machine
even even like a PEC fly right there's
only so many ways to do a PEC fly that
you can really tap into that variation
potential where there's lots of
different ways to do a bench press
something like that so I think if you're
looking at isolation moves especially
like machine isolation moves
there's just at some point they just
probably peter out and how much you get
out of it and then the MeV basically for
that movement gets
get so high for you to get anything out
of it it just becomes kind of a waste of
time for you so I'm not really sure why
that is though I would guess it's
probably has to do with the the planes
of motion and the kinematics that you're
just moving in they just get stale after
a while okay this one yeah this is a
mouthful
so I'm a maybe
I suspect my hibiscus that you were
listening but bags man yes that's my
Forrest Gump voice that's my eye man you
got some of that add me on your face
hey man you some jaw see you can V see
you spit those products to you can he
see you there let me know I did I just
pretend to be Icelandic when I
pronounced shit like that because oh boy
I can't wait for you guys to butcher my
name I have to spell it out constantly
where I live
I don't not that it matters but I do
believe this is a female just from that
I remember seeing the profile
in there it's like Agnes me I think it's
like Agnes yeah exactly
let me plug this last name let's see if
my guess was cracking plug this last
name into Google let's see let's see
okay there's there's a way no way
there's like a YouTube channel with some
kind of singer oh the exact same name no
it's just it's just the person we found
Agnes favorites and liked videos peaches
the Hello Kitty the talking cat low-carb
whoopie pie cool that sounds yummy
excellent all right let's
ooh there's okay there's LinkedIn
LinkedIn you holy quit being a creeper
you know whose information oh I got it
about I have moved from Lithuania oh you
called it boom
you called the Belgium
believable don't you the fuck out of her
name because Lithuanian pronounce this
shit like new but he does I can't
believe you pulled that off the top of
your head like that anyway alright I
have a question about activity trackers
and how accurate they are
from your experience I'm doing a female
physique template two times a week I
started first time January 19 that had
great results with them being right
after ACL reconstruction slash meniscus
tear and doing squats at 50% of my nrm's
17 pounds lost together with the RP fat
loss ah yeah super cool guys
I finished all the muscles that look
back to cross at five times a week in
weightlifting once a week I have
overloaded my knee which resulted in
stopping any activities basically a
month of September and still have a
physical therapy it was not allowed yet
to squat below parallel and load up the
bar to my usual weight prior to this I
bought polar ignite watch to see how I'm
recovering and sleeping I tend to push
myself in ignore signs or not even be
aware being highly fatigued suffer in
silence type of gal well the strongest
human of all times
also from Lithuania Damona Soviets gross
also suffers in silence actually it
makes other people suffer by being the
strongest thing that ever was because
everyone wants him to press them over
his head and he can't do it because of
his training like I would love to press
you up but I just a yes sorry for my
training but I cannot have excess
fatigue I love it when they used to
interview him before he like every
single one of a 10 or a classic c1
Kazmaier Big Z how are you feeling buddy
oh you feel like a winner
are you gonna win the auto classic yes
Thank You Kenneth
I feel like good and hopefully winning
this year but competition is very strong
and so we shall see like see can we get
gonna hate anyone no 8 dude he's like a
city councilman in the town he lives in
he's crazy we're all mortals to him
all right he says this to see if I am
overtraining so she got this watch
well we prior to the injury it was
alerting me that I'm overtraining and
have a high risk of injury I thought
fuck it it can't be right why did you
get why did you get the watch if you're
not gonna listen to it all right
as a result I had a strong reaction of
meniscus / sharp pain during squat clean
received in the bottom position wait
what are you doing squat cleans I
thought you couldn't squat yeah what is
happening my knees calm down and I
allowed it to do more and do body squats
for low weight squats maybe a bit lower
to parallel but every time I do females
each template workout currently we three
men cycle one my tracker says I'm
overreaching again I swim once a week
and I do empty bar weightlifting two
times a week and it doesn't say that
with these activities well that makes
sense because it's a lot easier FPT two
times a week as full body workouts and I
raise honestly as I can which in Week
three mmm one doesn't really feel like
much I feel like I'm cruising with a
four to six hours per exercise but it
says I'm overreaching again heart rate
zone one two three so I'm not sure if
this means I have too much of stomach
fatigue still there's a too much volume
for me I'm not sure should I ignore it
this time body weighs I feel a nice pump
after the session and am ravenous but
that's about it most the time medical
sweating never sore there's all those
things together I would say there's a
very low chance that you should send it
we will reach although I don't know the
degree of the other stresses in your
life like career so on so forth so I
would say that it doesn't immediately
appear to me that you're actually over
reaching the reason that you're hurting
her me probably has a much more to do uh
specific mechanic Sophie just a lot of
exercise then it does with Annie
cumulative fatigue you were carrying yes
I suspect that's the case James
anything um so yeah the the the
trackable devices can be useful I think
they are least useful for people who are
primarily doing physique and or barbell
sports which seems like you kind of I
would put you in that group of people I
think if you're if you're doing like
team sports or sports that have like uh
a really good cardiovascular component
or if you're like a hybrid kind of
person you're doing strength training
and endurance training something like
that I think it can be very useful but
there's nothing there that you can't
measure yourself and you can't get a
good feel for yourself
either either by measuring it or just
intuitive feel so for example if you're
not sure if you're systemically
overreached you're not I think that's
pretty fair way of assessing that that's
one of those things where you more often
than not know pretty much right away
when that becomes an issue why because
it starts permeating all of the other
aspects of your life not just training
but your ability to go to work to your
job your mood your effect your hunger
your sleep your all those things will
start being affected by that so I think
they are useful I think for somebody
like yourself who's doing female
physique template doing some swimming
doing some barbell stuff it's not gonna
be super useful for you I agree with
Mike I don't think that that you're very
systemically over reached and I think
that your knee injury although did
coincide with when the machine was
telling you not to Train super hard I
think that was more of the exercise that
you were doing I would say don't do any
more of those squat Queens cleans homie
until you can actually squat below
parallel when your PT says that's okay I
think that's just a mistake don't do
that lay off any of the weight lifting
or CrossFit stuff do the best PT on your
legs that you can and do as much of the
upper body stuff as you on the female
physique template as you can so I think
that the wearables are good people just
um haven't quite figured out how to use
them yet which is usually the problem we
have that same problem in sports science
with GPS we pull all this data from GPS
it looks amazing and nobody knows what
to do with it for the most part same
problem that's the walk yeah just don't
do anything that is contrary to cated by
your therapist yeah that's that's that's
the bigger issue I think with the knee
stuff just don't don't don't be too
quick to try and get back to
weightlifting I think that's a big
mistake just I had I made the same
mistake I have the authority to like
bitch about this because I had an ACL
tear from rugby and I was doing the same
stuff trying to squat trying to get back
into like clean and jerk and snatch and
what happened I just kept delaying my
recovery of my knee injury and all that
caused it was for me to have one really
big buff leg for a long time and one
skinny leg for a long time because that
would just favor the one side over the
other instead of actually just doing the
PT that I was supposed to be doing and
doing more you know
work ended up setting myself back so
don't do what I did you don't do what I
did famous James Hoffman that's the
story of my life don't do it I did real
all right
onto YouTube yes YouTube's not terrible
actually it's way better than Instagram
all right all right
do you have it up on your screen can
yeah I sure do I'll just print it hit
the share button ooh I've got some well
yeah no no don't hit share then whatever
if you hit share its gonna show like
whatever you got going on on the screen
haha don't do that
hello okay and we're good sure and then
it will say it'll kind of prompt you in
green you want to share does it work yep
there we go perfect all right so let's
see which one we should pick here um
this is from last week I like a guy I'm
looking at the suggested ones on the
side why should do intermittent fasting
Joe Rogan featuring GSP how about just
came up for his apparently stuff I
should be watching including my own RP
diet 2.0 videos Cornelius yeah some Jiu
Jitsu some Douglas Murray's a vegan
debate
where's Douglas Murray there he is all
right
so let us go to here's an interesting
one James for you how much of an effect
does one night of bat-sleep heaven gains
and to what extent can you make up for a
lost sleep later and this is by try
froze try froze yeah that actually is a
really interesting question I'm not sure
I don't know if it's something that you
can actually quantify I don't know if
it's something that we can even could
even measure to any realistic degree
especially for like hypertrophy training
cuz it's like how much hypertrophy do
you actually get from one session to
begin with who really knows it's hard to
say so I don't know
to what extent can you make up for lost
sleep later it's also very difficult to
say now I think from a systemic point of
view like if you're looking at like
systemic over reaching mark markers I
think it could probably do you pretty
well if you got if you banked some extra
sleep if you have like uh if you had
them maybe one night of insufficient
sleep and then you got a little extra
the next night I think that probably
works ok on the local level I'm not sure
if that works at all and what we
actually see with sleep which is really
interesting I don't know how well these
two things are connected so bear with me
but in the example of learning we know
that sleep plays a really really big
role in your ability to learn new things
whether it's knowledge or motor skills a
variety of things and they've actually
demonstrated that if you are trying to
learn a new task maybe a motor skill for
example and you miss sleep that night it
was mostly an all-or-nothing effect if
you missed the sleep then you missed out
on your learning opportunity there could
be similar things that happen with
fitness where you might actually miss
out on a substantial amount of
opportunity if your recovery is impaired
by sleep to that degree I don't know
that's just me speculating it's an
interesting question
not sure what do you think Mike I just
wouldn't worry so much about one day for
sure can you make up for lost Li later I
think James sort of sorted out one you
really can't in any meaningful way you
can get a really good night's sleep the
next day but there's no getting back
what I do is I try to reduce the degree
of disruption so for example James and I
travel all the time James and I have a
on Friday in a new seven our country
routine where we show up to the airport
or to the we show up on the airplane in
the morning to another country another
time zone really different time zone
after shit or no sleep on the plane
and usually be show up at different
times or five different areas and we
sort of meet up at some point we haven't
gotten down exactly the routine of fuck
around until the Airbnb lets us in
because there's like that's the worst
part of time in three hours that's the
worst
just have to walk around London so and
then what I do is usually I'll train and
the training is heavily modified most of
the machines and lots of caffeine and
then after training get a nice meal and
then really the priorities get to the
interviewee
everybody have some more caffeine to
stay wakes that I'm not falsely too
early to try to recalibrate too many
time zone it just really just relax like
James and and dr. Mel and dr. Gabby and
I will watch like like TV and a foreign
country and laugh hilarious Liane
accents and stuff like they should the
real bad idea is if you're staying up
it's just to further put stress on
yourself I think at that point you sort
of in for some stress
try to relax as much as possible yeah
totally so I think the sleep you could
you know we usually think of training in
a chronic sense right where you have to
just do a lot of training consistently
for a long time to reap any reward the
same thing it mostly applies to sleep
you have to just have a good lifestyle
to balance out the training so Mike like
Mike said don't think too much about
like the effect of one one night or one
day or something like that it's probably
not a huge deal yeah I like somebody's
liberty from the comments Sam
McTavish is James wearing an all black
straining singlet fuck yeah I was but
yeah
my heart hurts they found out hold up
this guy goes thanks for you guys for
putting up this concept on YouTube
workout Unleashed he said I greatly
appreciate else we get through my
downtime to clients also James and
mostly all black st. Dom's probably
worthless now that we got beat by
heartbreaking we were able to watch what
we were in in Ireland but look at this
can you see my mouse turn oh yeah yeah
look at this review yeah dark feet
review yes it really is that bad I
always kind of want to see the
terminators and the reviews always come
out before the movie and I'm like no
yeah the last one was okay the last one
was okay dong dong dong dong dong I was
too young when I thought Terminator 2
and that music scared
Jude Sherman are too scared the shit out
of me because I remember I came down it
was
I was watching and I came into the
living room and it was the scene where
the fucking terminator had the blade arm
like cutting through the face oh my god
and I was like yeah yeah yeah I did not
deal well with that shit I was way too
young um the music for terminator I
would actually probably listen to that
in my car just like the entire
composition I forgot who made the
terminator hello yeah look for some
super quick to terminate or to
soundtrack it must be one of the famous
people how does it or maybe let's see
even fucking say who made it Brad Brad
vital it's fucking brilliant
oh yeah Brad final yeah the I'm gonna do
a really shitty musical impression
because I have dog shit for talent yeah
I wasn't there's this random video I
clicked on happen to be the volume
roundtable from like ten years ago or
some shit it's a sassy frantically
fantasy motor today's episode okay that
the the sound they do when like the
t1000 is just like getting shopping
nothing's happening eats it yeah yeah
it's like that Brad whatever guy it just
picked the only sound effect it says
unstoppable and like that there's no is
just man again too young and I was like
fuck dude fuck this everyone's dead
Terminator had the same problem that
aliens the Alien franchise did were the
first two movies were like fucking
fantastic and have a unique and then
everyone after that was just kind of a
rehash of the same shit it's a it's a
phenomenally narrow concept when you
think about it yeah we think when aliens
you're like alright we got a ship
alright now what else we got Space
Marines on it hit me it's in space okay
and there's an alien oh shit
what else you got where's you go and
like with terminator it's like the only
way to make it kind of more unique is to
have like a definitive closing to it
right otherwise but play the travel show
loose man like hey you guys remember
when you thought you ended the Machine
Holocaust like yeah well yes again cook
up cook
but it's almost like okay like that was
scary
in Terminator 2 and then maybe a little
in three but at four or five sections
they come on seriously the searing
fucker blows it out another guy's gonna
show up that's that's one of the things
I really like about anime sorry nerd
tangent here but a lot of like the
really great series start and end they
don't just go on indefinitely there's
you get the closure that you want same
thing Terminator close it out we're done
we want to see the ending want conflict
resolution like Star Wars yes yes finish
it finish the story
the story's going at the Clone Wars was
like the most egregious offence to that
where it's like let's just take
something that never ends and just keep
feeling this void of time whore battles
right I will tell you this man I sure
hope they have a big mop for this next
movie because they got a lot of cleaning
up to do holy fuck they better this next
movie this last one better be the
greatest goddamn movie ever because the
last one that was like what Empire was
to being good it was to being bad
like at the end disaster the ending was
a disaster we're like what come on
good epic battle on a scene Snoke and
fucking what's-his-name Luke Skywalker
chief Oliver out or happened yeah he's
like fucking dies or whatever it's weird
you're like what what is this it was
awful alright alright so this was an
interesting I don't even I don't know if
it's a question but it is interesting to
address so our result purge says you die
should definitely discuss
supplementation and actually nutrition
other than just micronutrients in and
around training you probably met
macronutrients but I'll take that for
dinners I know a lot of people never
consider the 90 nutrients the 60
minerals and the 16 vitamins and the 12
amino acids and the three essential fats
that they need to take every single day
sometimes in a surplus in order to
bypass the inroad of muscle damage how
to negate bad sleeping habits was
nutrition or what to take around sleep
to help you relax again more restful
sleep especially because the
bodybuilding diet doesn't necessarily
presuppose you take every single nut
Caesarion nutrient so this is really
more of an answer a question to rather
sort of debating but they asked her I
suppose this isn't really a question and
also it's good for debate it's a really
a suggestion we do talk about sleep a
lot and things to take for sleep
although the negating bad sleeping
habits azar something we actually cover
today and it's not a thing that you can
actually do not negate that's also like
there's really no amount of nutrition
that can overcome bad sleeping habits
and there's no line of anything they're
here overcome bad sleeping habits yes
and this is this is something and not
we're not trying to attack your your
question here but this is something that
is actually covered in one of our books
and we we really hammer this home and
they're recovering from training book we
talk about sleep it's a major priority
and all the different ways you can you
can do it and we also cite like which
things are lower on the totem pole and
nutrition unfortunately is one of them
in terms of recover yeah and then it
says I know a lot of people never
consider the 90 nutrients 60 minerals so
on and so forth
dust and they need to take in a surplus
in order to bypass the inroad of muscle
damage so you got bypassed the amount of
muscle damage muscle damage occurs
anyway it has never been demonstrated
nor is there a hypothetical reason to
think that a consumption of an excess
amount of nutrients other than the
macronutrients will have an effect of
healing muscle damage faster it's been
shown that past their intakes of normal
amounts vitamins and minerals
specifically have no organic effects in
a super physiological doses protein has
some of that effects calories certainly
have a concern amount of fact androgens
have the biggest effect of things get
but vitamins are also big don't you this
has been studied very very extensively
specifically with mega dosing literature
back in the 1980s when bodybuilders did
think in such an extreme way and thought
well if I take 10 times the vitamins
I'll get 10 times better unless you
didn't work and no recipe yeah I will
say this and this is something maybe we
can have Gabrielle doctor general from
RoR are expert in these matters or dr.
Jen case come on here do a little mini
interview on this webinar to talk about
this if you eat a relatively balanced
diet macronutrients are in order to
really brought to be healthy foods and
you take a multivitamin every day
your chances of being vitamin and/or
mineral imbalance that is in any
statistically way to technically going
to damage your training abilities and/or
results is incredibly small I mean just
something you don't see they can tell
you how many nutritionists that I've
been around over the years not support
attrition that thought that the the
improvement in every athletic
performance is going to results in you
know making sure to have this crazy
super diverse diet where you need all
the colors of the fucking rainbow and
shit like that
and it's been studied pretty well and
just doesn't make a fucking our mentor
dr. stone hill of beans difference
I like that explicitly doesn't make a
big difference because your body's
profoundly gonna getting nutrients out
of food it's not that difficult to do
this is in fact pretty one demonstrated
by the fact that people who eat the
carnivore diets aren't actually dying a
performing in sport not so poorly so you
know it turns out that you know if you
eat a relatively balanced diet even take
a multivitamin you're really just taking
maybe ninety five percent of the boxes
user a five percent he could benefit
from that many increase your performance
by half a percent over the year may navy
even unfortunately studies aren't even
powerful enough to detect such a change
so with this the there's III wanted to
address this point because there is this
notion that if you take an incredibly
deep dive do incredibly precise
nutritional programming for someone for
example dieting where you check the
large levels of nutrients that we eat
whatever number of days or weeks and you
reassert the diet to fix the imbalances
but that is going to be somehow way
better results of performance and it's
kind of this idea that makes little
sense tremendous when they say time
right it makes surface level sense cause
you're better your body's machine if we
give it exactly the inputs it needs
based on what's insufficient things
gonna work better
we're sure that your body makes a really
really good balancing act in keeping the
most of its main processes working just
fine and and the real sort of sort of
maybe not last word but the real big
thing about nutrient deficiencies is
until and unless they are clinically
relevant and large they really just
aren't almost important they almost
irrelevant right so and deficiencies are
only relevant in a clinical sense our
young community deficient in X Y or Z
and that's really the only time it
matters yes and then it
the case usually it's pretty obvious
like if you're clinically deficient in
iron your more capacity so just fucking
loud but it's not like I like it to have
a bad better workout so if you were
catching me dogshit right so but again
in general bodybuilding diet iron is
usually over and over what do you think
that we got one more son got short on us
the questions we got a pretty good one
here high docks verses from El Hoth
James whoa whoa whoa whoa who's inclined
jocks might imagine if we got out here
with fakie Johnson with fan ourselves
questions like doctor might you have one
of the world's largest penises and
brains honey honey manage dr. James I
was wondering about mini cuts troll
myself fuck you like fuck I hate myself
high docks after a 50 pound weight loss
and maintained from last five to six
months well for us no I'm thinking of
leaning down a bit next spring I lift
three times a week and do high-intensity
interval training two to three times a
week as well as rolling in an outdoor
and have built a decent amount of muscle
mass on isochoric diet debating if it
would be better physique wise and
performance to make a concerted effort
to build muscle this winter before I
start a fat loss diet 5 for female 140
pounds um better physique wise really
just ass for performance yes almost
certainly it would be better if you
build some muscle specifically if your
performance in the lifting is being
talked about high intensity more
training going away
roaming may not change much if you gain
weight but me oh and then debating if it
would be another physique wise there's
really a value judgments on your part
times I hung around see if Izzy it's
kind of funny cuz he's muscular you
could you could devil's advocate that
perspective Mike already said it's a
value thing so that's I agree with that
totally you but you could also say like
it might actually be better physique
wise to do the cut first because then
you'll have the less muscle loss to
contend with potentially right so at
this point it might just be better to
get really lean and then try and gain
more muscle later rather than trying to
gain the muscle now and then you know
risk or risk well I guess so but you
have more muscle to manage essentially
I'm really splitting hairs here this is
like the splitting of hairs but you
could look at it from both perspectives
and you could say like up
I just do the weight loss now it's gonna
be easy I don't really have to worry
about losing a ton of muscle and then I
can do a really productive mass phase
but it's really just kind of how you
want to look and where you want to be in
the short and long term that's really
where it comes down to yeah she's just
also looking forward to our peace summit
yay that's coming up sooner than later
and folks if you're interested about
going the RP summit it's in Philadelphia
Pennsylvania the City of Brotherly Love
and you it's on November the calendar
pop-up so your pop-up thing November 9th
you know week and a half and there's
gonna be already hundreds of people
signed up and space is limited but if
you act now you can I don't even know
what the fuck it costs so go on the
website and Renaissance period should
not come or go to I'll be strengthened
Instagram and go through there and you
can come to the summit meet all of us
filthy Rp animals in real life myself
and James will be talking you know
incessantly about something James do you
want to do do all talk at some point
we've never done one of those I could
talk like at like a choreograph to like
talk like that's right Mike we can talk
about that bad you're like yes James I
agree like totally shows like show hosts
or we could finish our sentences and
that's the way it goes people like this
sock I learned nothing
you guys just delayed your speech for
hours and then trying to get the lines
right dude that'd be horrible it'll be
horrible but it will be fine you can see
check it out on me like the seminars
page on the website usually have a good
time and if any of you are p+ people
show up and you don't say hi we're gonna
come after you if we find out you were
there that is the worst offense yeah if
you're upper class you better say what's
up because you get you got fan points
yeah
alright well actually I was I was pretty
pretty pleased with those YouTube
questions I always cringe because you
know how you know sometimes but those
were really good we had great rp+
questions this week guys I apologize we
were a little off schedule I feel like
the last several weeks we've had some
scheduling issues and they've all been
my fault so I'm feeling a little
self-conscious about it but I appreciate
your guys's patience and flexibility and
letting us do it on Wednesday and not
just
during your weekly schedule too much so
catastrophe aside I'm planning on doing
the normal Tuesday next week Mike are
you gonna be around yes I will be in a
debt loss again
so for the best I will find some Wi-Fi
webinar okay cool so tentatively on
schedule for next week guys thanks for
tuning in we appreciate you very much
and keep posting those good questions
peace