specificity refers to the idea that
adaptations from training are specific
through the training performed itself as
a natural consequence when you want to
get better at squatting for example some
people will say just squat however what
do we actually know about specificity
and how we should incorporate it
come back going to be doctor model
Warfare and actually today we're kind of
talking about something that I've
researched indirectly so let's get into
it specificity is kind of a buzzword
people use it a lot to justify a lot of
things but I wanted to look at what do
we actually have evidence for you see
when it comes to Progressive overload or
the specificity or to exercise variation
or to any of these training principles
they're often commonly assumed to just
hold true for some reason but equally if
we don't have evidence suggesting that
they're right empirical evidence we're
kind of just guessing and making
generalizations and so here are the four
areas where we actually have evidence to
my knowledge of specificity applying to
performance improvements number one
specificity does seem to apply to the
exercise modality specifically we have
them at analysis comparing strength
gains when training with free weights
versus with machines and indeed if you
want to get stronger at say machine work
you see greater improvements in your
performance with machine work if you
actually train with machines and vice
versa if you want to get better at free
weight exercises like the barbell squat
training with free weights seem to
improve strength in those exercises to a
greater degree and so improvements in
strength and performance seem to be
modality specific so if you have a
machine based goal most curved machines
on the other hand if you're a strength
sport athlete like the paddle of the or
a straw man athlete or a weightlifter it
would probably behoove you to do most of
your training with free weights with
that being said in this meta-analysis
they also looked at non-specific or
neutral strength essentially strength
measured not using free weights or not
using machines and actually when your
strength goals are not specific to a
certain modality like you don't only
want to get better at machines or only
free weights you just want to get
stronger in general you can likely be
pretty flexible with your modality the
second area of research where we have
some evidence of specificity applying to
performance improvements is range of
motion in math analysis my own the one I
wrote you feel me soon to be a doctor I
remind you we categorized performance
outcomes as either being a full range in
motion a partial range of motion or
being neither so kind of outside the
range of motion or just kind of in the
middle of both and what we saw is that
when a group trained the specific range
of motion of the outcome they saw better
performance improvements and so if
you're a power lifter who wants to
improve your squad to parallel for
example you should probably do most of
your training only within that range of
motion so yes performance improvements
do seem to be range of motion specific
and in fact strength and performance may
not just be range of motion specific but
might actually be resistance curve
specific one thing that's been seen in
literature every now and then is a shift
in the length tension relationship
essentially how much tension is a given
muscle or muscle fiber able to produce
as its length changes now we translate
this to the squad for example this can
mean how much force are you able to
produce at parallel near lockout halfway
up it's cetera this is just called the
length tension relationship and what we
found in literature every now and then
is that through training we can shift
the link Central relationship to get a
bit stronger at certain parts of the
range of motion and so strength seems to
be resistance curve specific potentially
but making certain parts of the range of
motion more challenging liked by using
bands you're causing your body to adapt
more strongly in those positions and so
if your goals are not involving bands or
not involving that resistance curve
using a different resistance curve may
actually worsen your strength games or
performance games a little bit number
three specificity also applies to
loading range now this is mainly the
case for maximum strength it is actually
contentious whether or not this applies
to sort of strength endurance or higher
rap strength but for maximum low AB
strength there is definitely a
specificity component to how much weight
you're lift if you want to get stronger
at low reps you do need to lift heavy
the adaptations are distinct between
lifting heavier and lifting lighter and
so for strength athletes most of your
training should be pretty close in
intensity to those low rep ranges
different clothing don't worry about it
with thorough over here you feel me one
final thing I forgot to mention is that
strength games seem to be both movement
and velocity specific the idea that
strength gains are movement specific was
beautifully illustrated by a recent
study by Plotkin and colleagues one
group did only squats one group that
only had thrusts they measured squat
deadlift and hip thrust strength what
are the results well the squad group
gained the most squat strength the hip
thrust group gained the most hip thrust
strength finally in the deadlift gains
and strength were similar gains and
strength may also be velocity specific
so if your goal is to deadlift as much
as possible for one rep the velocity of
that outcome will be pretty slow so for
some new training you'll be wanting to
lift pretty heavy and therefore also
pretty slow to train at the same
velocity as your outcome the same could
potentially go for something like
jumping where jumping velocity is
actually pretty fast and so when lifting
for that straight thanks for that
outcome you may want to be lifting at a
pretty fast velocity
so we know strength and performance is
pretty specific does that mean if you're
a strength athlete or you want it
stronger you need to be specific all the
time like if you're a power booster you
need to always do singles only on the
squat bench netlift ideally in a singlet
because that's most specific
no not quite keep in mind your strength
and your performance don't need to be
peaked year-round you only really need
to be strong and athletic when you want
to be for competitors that could be
during competitions you don't get awards
for being really strong in the off
season and then not showing up on Game
Day right equally if you don't have any
competitions coming up you're just doing
this recreationally you don't need to
worry about being piggy around either
you just need to worry about being
strong for example when you're maxing
out your lifts here are a few cases
where you wouldn't necessarily want to
be super specific there is likely a
diminishing return situation by having
about half or say three quarters of your
training be pretty specific you know
mostly the competition lifts mostly
pretty heavy you're likely getting
almost all or all of the benefits of
being specific within your training for
power lifting at some point going from
say 80 of your training being specific
to say a hundred percent it's unclear
how much more benefit that would give
you and because it's unclear how much
more of a benefit that could give you
this has to be weighed up a little bit
with the benefit of being a bit less
specific and here are some of the
potential benefits first muscle growth
probably helps with strength getting
bigger all else being equal will
probably make you stronger and using a
variety of exercises some of which won't
be perfectly specific can actually lead
to more hypertrophy as a recent study
found using a variety of exercises is
better for growth than just using one
the second potential reason is just
monotony for a lot of people they don't
necessarily enjoy doing the exact same
exercise in the exact same app range in
the exact same style day in day out week
in week out at some point it just gets a
bit boring and so if only for the sake
of breaking that monotony a little bit
having some variation in your program
and not being perfectly specific all the
time can be nice and beneficial and sure
if breaking that monotony makes you a
bit more motivated and makes you train a
little bit harder it may actually
directly enhance your strength as well
next for mixed goals let's say for
example you have strength goals but you
also have muscle growth goals we also
have power goals for other goals
sometimes being super specific to only
one goal actually can hold you back like
I mentioned if all you ever do was
singles on the squat bench and I lived
for a power after but you also had
muscle growth goals and physique goals
like having bigger arms doing singles on
the squat doesn't really grow your
biceps very well and so not being super
specific when you have several
conflicting goals can be really
beneficial for overall goal achievement
finally and this is a bit more
speculative is number one injury
management or pain management and number
two more speculative injury prevention
so if for example you get pain from
doing too many squats a week like low
bar squats heavy squats Etc then maybe
incorporating some higher rep higher
squats can be a nice way to manage that
pain a little bit and so being a little
bit less specific to something that is
causing you pain at least temporarily
that can allow you to manage that pain a
little bit better while still making
progress now the second part of that
injury prevention is a bit more
speculative but there is some data that
athletes and strength Sports whose
exercise selection and specificity is
generally a lot higher than physique
sport athletes seem to suffer higher
rates of injury potentially as a result
in part of the greater amount of
specificity that is beneficial and
required for Peak Performance so what
are the takeaways from this video as far
as your training and specificity are
concerned I'm going to assume that if
you're watching this if you're someone
who wants to get stronger in the big
lifts or you're a strength sport athlete
competing with free weights number one
most of your training should be composed
of free weight training as I mentioned
specificity applies to the modality that
you use number two most of your training
should be within the range of motion of
the target exercise for example most of
your squats should only be to about
parallel if that's where you squat to in
competition that being said some partial
range of motion training is fine and may
even be preferable as mentioned in this
video right here number three resistance
curve should be played with infrequently
for the most support avoid using bands
if the exercise is trying to get
stronger in doesn't incorporate bands
number four the loading range and the
wrap range you use should be kept pretty
specific as you get closer to a comp or
to a max out strength gains are also
movement specific if you want to get
stronger at a specific movement you
should mostly be performing that
movement if you want to get stronger
benching for example you should mostly
be performing the bench press itself
likewise gains and strength are somewhat
velocity specific so if you want to get
better at grinding out a heavy 100 Max
you should be spending some time
grinding out heavy lifts finally and
this is important specificity is not the
only thing to consider in your program
it's not this Ironclad principle that
takes priority over everything else here
are some reasons why you might not want
to be perfectly specific all the time
first you get diminishing returns from
increasing specificity secondly there
are benefits of different ranges of
motion different exercises and different
modalities for muscle growth which can
contribute to strength third breaking a
monotony having the exact same exercises
for the same rep ranges all the time can
be quite monotonous fourth if you have
different goals and conflicting goals if
you both want to grow muscle and gain
strength being super specific to the
main lifts all the time may actually
hold you back with that growth goal
yours finally if you have some pain
stemming from the main lifts then not
being super specific might be beneficial
equally and this is very speculative so
take it with a grain of salt not doing
the main lifts all the time and being
super specific May reduce risk of injury
a little bit anyways that's the video
specificity biggest buzzword in the
industry but I hope you enjoy the video
if you liked the video please comment
like subscribe it's like 8 P.M on a
Wednesday we out here grinding so please
respect the ground and I'll see you guys
in that next one peace
[ __ ] it's sick it's piss it's revolting
sorry I'm an internet seller