testosterone stayed right in the op
upper end of the range cuz we're we're
doing trt um hormone replacement therapy
not not a huge deal there I'm sorry what
Gary the health benefits of trt therapy
when seen in the context of someone who
had excessively low testosterone before
they started that therapy have a
humongous amount of research behind them
and the magnetude of their effect is
infinitely higher than all that other
 red light therapy oxygen tank
stuff were talking about but the trt is
not a huge deal does he mean it not a
huge deal in the capacity that since
it's good we're good or does he mean a
trt is not a big deal cuz it's a huge
deal and I suspect that the trt has
probably a lot to do with Dana White's
transformation it's at least awesome as
a supporting mechanism to help promote
General good health good sleep good
nutrient partitioning an ability to
train hard and muscle mass accretion
cardiac outcomes and godamn near
everything else TT is a big deal Gary
you can't just say it's not a big deal