17 lbs in 22 weeks I wonder if he's
going to bring any real people that had
Real Results on that's what I'd do next
if I was a charlatan so I gave the
supplements to two viewers 5 days
ago hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance pation creator of the RP
hypertrophy app the RP diet coach app
and professor of exercise and sports
science at Leman College in the Bronx
hey the brogs whoa off hey anyway that's
how I speak when I'm in the brogs but I
also speak like that when confronted
with people making false claims about
diet and exercise that's right they get
quite hood and maybe nobody has made
more false claims in public and been
taken to a congressional hearing because
of it about nutrition and exercise
science in the most false way possible
than Mr Dr Oz not the Oz you're used to
going to when the tornado spin your ass
up dumps you somewhere outside of Kansas
but the oz of lying to people about what
they can expect from pills that do
nothing oh I'm getting ahead of myself
let's take a look at some of Dr O's
claims and see if we can make any sense
out of them at all roll camera you may
think magic is make belie yes Magic is
make belief anyone after the age of
eight is either in that opinion or is
deemed mentally
unwell but this little
bean a bee
my eating insects and bean bean
thanks got the video guy has scientists
saying they found the magic weight loss
cure for every body type wow I wonder
how many scientists have actually said
they found the magic weight loss cure
for every body type as a scientist let
me break this down for you nobody no
wait wait I Can Do Better Body types
aren't even a real thing magic isn't a
real thing and weight loss is not
something to be cured but to be treated
because you're not acquire weight loss
as some kind of disease that occurs from
a pathogen or something like that
finally I'm cured of my weight loss no
no excess body weight is the thing
you're actually trying to cure if you
were even going to architect that
position intelligently Dr Oz yes I know
you're an award-winning heart surgeon or
some like that but your boy went to
PhD in gym class and I finished that
 about to critique you more ah I'm
already channeling Scott how am I
supposed to say it the duck
I just wish I had a lightning bolt to
zap this dumb with you feel
me all right it's green coffee beans and
when turned into a supplement this
miracle pill can burn fat fast did he
say green coffee beans yes he did okay
but apparently they only burn fat fast
if turned into a pill and I wonder if Dr
Oz makes any money off said pill now for
the record there's nothing wrong with
making money and nothing wrong with
promoting your own supplements what's
wrong is if you're lying about their
effect now I'm sure he's not lying let's
look at more of these claims for anyone
who wants to lose weight this is very
exciting and it's breaking news breaking
news I just want to see like a little
snippet of like the Ukraine war heating
up again as Russia counterattacks wait
no Bob hold on a second we've got
breaking news coming in Dr Oz is a liar
again oh thanks Amy let's go to that
story right now this study love it when
they mix beakers and yo hold up
that looked like blood did they
accidentally get footage of the vampire
lab from like Blade Trinity yeah you
know what I'm saying the scientists look
kind of fine too what's up girl I love
beakers and you could you could you
could pour your blood
into presented at a meeting of he's
looking through a microscope at coffee
beans and there's nothing I love
more in this world than stock science
footage and remember us scientists never
ever enter the lab without a laboratory
coat on if you ever actually been to a
science lab you'll be shocked to see how
much just regular people in there with
regular clothes in most contexts what a
huge disappointment me lab coat
goggles and generally I just like to
wear hazmat suit the whole time it's fun
it's cozy in there the world's largest
scientific Society triggered
unprecedented excitement for a weight
loss study it showed women and men thank
God and I thought it was only half of us
lost an astounding amount of fat and
weight 17 lbs in 22 weeks P the doctor
certified nutritionist Lindsay Duncan is
here with the findings folks what do we
think about men with the name Lindsay
now I know there are many people in the
NBA with that name but uh I don't know
what I think about it you know look it's
2023 all the genders are great but uh
why your name Lindsay get a real man's
name Bob or mahmet that's Dr oza's first
name by the way solid name so Dr L you
you love this Bean why is that you know
I usually don't recommend weight loss
supplements there comes the
qualifications folks look at your screen
naturopathic doctor and certified
nutritionist certified nutritionist
almost certainly is a play around the
term registered dietitian which he's
almost certainly not you can be a
certified nutritionist with a variety of
governing bodies that don't have a whole
lot of authority in the United States or
any other country and you can actually
make your own nutrition certification in
most places just by announcing that you
have one um naturopathic doctor folks
that is unfortunately a real thing and
without offending too many people it's
all because doctors select from
a variety of treatment options they
don't care if it's natural or not if
something natural Works to help you
doctors love it real doctors that is
people with MD and after their name ND
ah I having that and if you're an
naturopathic
doctor uh hello but go get a real degree
I'm kidding sort of I'm not kidding that
I'll put my foot on that one but this
one has got me really really excited you
look so excited Lindsay so in the
medical community you're not in the
medical community
 Scott this is going to take
a while weight loss Community is all
buzzing about
this I still want it to be a bee if he
had me eating bees I'd be like I believe
it that's weird enough to work and
here's why the recent study that you
were talking about earlier they the the
participants took the capsu schools and
they did nothing else they didn't
exercise they didn't change their diet
they actually consumed 2400 calories a
day I don't understand how that's
relevant but please continue they burned
only 400 calories now that's weight gain
not weight loss
what folks there is no one past the size
of a small child that has a resting
metabolic rate of less than 400 calories
so it is impossible for these people to
be burning less than 400 calories there
is no no mathematical trickery going on
here this is at best a wild
misunderstanding of how reality works
and at worst a blatant lie now there are
people on the internet that claim to be
able to read facial expressions and
analyze whether or not people are lying
consciously I sure hope they get
their ey lasers on these
cuz I can't tell I'm autistic as
they all sound like they're trying to me
but uh godamn that can't be what he
understands to be true do you know why
because it's not true and they lost over
10% of their total toal body
weight wait a minute 17
lb over 10% of their body weight that
means the average study participant
would have to weigh less than 170
lb generally people in studies of drugs
or supplements that help people lose
weight are considerably overweight and
these people would not be again
nothing's adding up
strange 10% 10% they lost guys again lie
detector people on the internet can you
focus in on Dr O's face he looks so
interested and so compelling and I will
say his hair is just fabulous listen
again as I continually insist on this
channel and dwell in perpetuity I may be
in the conversation for the top 10 no
five straightest men of all time but a
little salt and pepper older man with
authority a doctor oh my God i' be on my
knees quick on my knees for what you ask
oh come on this is a this is a channel
for families I can't get into that
 if you guys like that and you
want a little bit more we have an
extended xrated no no triple x-rated cut
in our members section give that a click
check it out if you're interested in
seeing more and they lost about 17 lbs
per participant and they had no side
effects zero side
effects okay so he was wrong earlier got
it thanks we just throw make believe
numbers out by the way zero side effects
is every single study properly
designed collects side effects data and
in every single study just through
statistical noise you'll get people
reporting a certain number of side
effects people report uh
gastrointestinal distress when there's
nothing happening to them in reality
they report headache in most cases
nausea and so on and so forth so it's
actually um very Unbecoming to say
there's no side effects you can say
minimal side effects you can say Trace
side effects no side effects
well that's exactly the kind of
You' expect on a Dr O's Channel and how
long do they have to take the pills for
they did it for 12 weeks only okay I'm
no uh scientist but earlier Scott the
video guy didn't they say 22
weeks 17 lbs in 22
[Music]
weeks I mean I you can't even keep your
own story straight like if you're going
to lie it at least lie
consistently Lindsay you had one job
Lindsay why wouldn't just drinking
coffee do this yeah because when the
coffee that we drink is roasted and when
they roast it they roast it at
475Â° F that sounds like a big number
that scares me but the most important
thing it does is it removes the
chlorogenic acid that's the key to what
we're talking about today you know I
don't even know what the chlorogenic
acid is sounds made up but it could be a
real thing it absolutely is possible
that various modifications made to food
in the Preparatory process such as the
heating of coffee can degrade some of
the phytochemicals and prevent them from
having positive effects or negative
effects on your body that's totally
plausible and so what this gentleman is
saying sounds plausible it's the results
that we're concerned about does it
really cause the things that he's
claiming I suspect the answer is no by
the way so how does it work well it's
amazing it's what we call a triple
threat yes that's what we typically say
in science triple threat it goes in and
it causes the body to burn glucose or
sugar and burn fat mainly in the liver
he's either phrasing this very poorly or
he's just making up the liver
doesn't burn a lot unless the liver
metabolism goes up and typically when
your liver metabolism goes up the
doctors tell you you're going to die
really soon the liver can liberate its
glucose and fat stores and release them
into the bloodstream maybe that's what
he means
never can tell the second way and the
most important way is it slows the
release of sugar into the bloodstream
contradict my earlier point I just don't
know anything so when you don't have
sugar building up in the bloodstream you
don't have fat building up because sugar
turns to Fat I mean everybody knows that
this guy's a great public speaker he
could run for office um which Dr Oz
actually tried to do
recently um it reduces the amount of
sugar going into your
bloodstream somehow that's also supposed
to increase the amount of sugar you
burn if I know where that sugar is
burning I guess it stays in the liver
and gets burned inside the liver what
does the liver do with the extra ATP or
is it an uncoupling process where extra
heat is generated in the liver you could
make yourself into fagra o that sounds
kind of tasty Scott the video guy you're
aoral enough to eat fagra do you like it
I do do you pronounce it fo grys when
you order it of course my man that's how
people know you're cultured and
everybody must remember that when the
two are combined together you get this
synergistic effect you mean
contradictory effect that basically
Burns and blocks and stops fat you
definitely want to stop fat I see fat
like shaking at a security guard with a
gun Give Me Your Money bank teller and
then the police come in they like fat
you got to stop this he's like I know oh
God he drops his gun that's how the body
works now I I always pred myself at
having the smartest TV audience out
[Laughter]
there oh God that's good now listen if
you watch Dr Oz like my grandma used to
watch Dr Oz no longer with us not
because of Dr Oz but sure not you
know what I'm saying he didn't help um
politically amazing thing to say I mean
God is he like a sociopath or something
you know what I'm getting quite hot let
me uh take my sweatshirt
off This Is
War the smartest
audience and so I'm hoping some of you
are skeptical about this oh I love it f
skepticism encouragement I don't don't
just believe what I say let's talk about
Real Results with real people I wonder
if he's going to bring any real people
that have had Real Results on that's
what I'd do next if I was a charlot so I
gave the supplements to two viewers 5
days ago
brilliant brilliant and he's given him
away for free my God what a nice guy oh
how how did it work for you uh yes the
march of the Kens begins I believe that
Dr Oz's secret is that he draws energy
from Karen like Goku draws energy from
all life to create the Spirit Bomb ifbb
Pro uh and Renaissance puration
bodybuilding coach Jared Fe draws energy
from uh women of Southeast Asian and
Latin descent a and um you know Dr Oz
stay calm Scott the video guy Dr Oz
draws energy from
Karen cuz there are a lot of Karens that
want to lose weight understandably
Karens no offense call me whatever you
like steroid addict ugly man all true
but um but they God there's just so many
of them and so that explains why Dr Oz
is so
powerful um it gave me more energy than
I usually have is that woman at gunpoint
she looks very
afraid tell them right now tell them you
hate the US government tell them free
all terrorists all around the world and
that you like this green tea extract
supplement go okay okay okay it um made
me less hungry than I usually am you
know in the beginning stages of trying
to lose weight and I seemed to get
Fuller faster when I was eating I did
get a lot more energy I didn't change my
diet everything was the same I was
Fuller and I was Fuller
longer oh my God I was going to dig into
these women they seem like such nice
ladies Dr o stop ripping people off
they're good people here's the thing I
get snarky all the time on the channel
especially in these reacts videos IRL
though like man we're all on the same
team you know what I'm saying we're all
human beings I got love for everybody
except people like Dr Oz who rip
everyone off these are such night oh my
God and I was excited with my results so
you were she excited okay let's find out
tener started off at 176 lbs and in 5
days guys 5 days means nothing in the
weight loss world I could give you a
diuretic a pill that makes you drop body
water alone you lose 15 lbs on 5 days no
problem it doesn't mean anything uh 5
days with nothing nothing else changing
ooh I like that um the weight loss comes
from a random number generator they're
like well essentially like a lottery you
lost 2 lb oh yeah that's not even that
exciting um I thought for a second that
the green bar was for how much weight
she lost she and Karen lost 174 PBS
congratulations oh my
God which is good okay again 5 days ago
you're 255
lb that's a lot of Caren less than a
week later Omar has lost six
PBS that's more than a pound to day
black men in the audience are like Boo
am I allowed to say that Scott the video
guy we'll see the non-drug free side of
bodybuilding these people will try
anything and everything and do try
anything and everything to put into
their bodies to maximize their results
and these are the leanest people in the
world coffee extract and like that
it just doesn't really make the list
truly powerful weight and fat loss drugs
are actually available they are called
glp agonists and uh they're they're
getting more advanced now that they have
glp Gip combined agonists they're in the
lab working on Triple Agonist with
glucagon so that triple thread he was
talking about that's a real thing now in
the lab the results from these are way
more impressive they're real it's not
like one BS study that some supplement
company makes that nobody's able to
replicate and this is the real P problem
and pain with this kind of stuff people
who want to lose weight you know it
means something to them sometimes even
be described accurately as desperate and
they go and they get Hope from watching
these stupid shows like this and then
they take this stupid green tea extract
or coffee bean that he's selling
him and his cronies get aing fat cut so
he can have his net worth of God knows
100 million plus and then you go and you
spend your hard earn money on the
you take the pill and basically nothing
happens and uh that blows that blows
selling people that does not work
is um GE it's immoral I would call it
immoral
Dr what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
[Music]
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now know most women are eating foods
that are absolutely wreaking havoc on
their
metabolism as as an exercise
physiologist I can tell you flat out
this is categorically false there are
precisely zero foods that wreak havoc on
your metabolism they just don't exist
one of the biggest setbacks to weight
loss says Dr a Chili Peppers potatoes
what else what else is bad is eating
apples they're up what he calls
metabolism death Foods man you know
someone's on to some right when
they can say metabolism death foods with
a straight face shut down your body's
fat burning
potential
I have more to say in a second I've
discovered the sees to help you rev up
your metabolism and turn your body into
a fat burning machine finally someone
with
Secrets I don't mean to get personal but
I wonder how far my fist could move
through this man's face before violating
the laws of classical physics and
leading to
einsteinian reactions causing the
destruction of an entire city block
behind
him I'm being a bit extra let's go to
the video metabolism death foods are
foods that act like toxins on your body
and actually put your body into a flight
fight ORF flight response hey you
up your caned pitch idiot figh ORF
flight responses typically lead to
weight loss the figh ORF flight response
is characterized in almost everyone by a
reduction in appetite and an increase in
energy expenditure you know that's how
that works if you shock a rat with
electricity in a cage all the time
weight gains not the result weight gain
generally comes from a lot of
parasympathetic activity of a lot of
just you know sitting on the couch and
being really relaxed and throwing back
Cheetos God damn it this is all
backwards oh and it's Josh axe DC who DC
seems to be not also a real doctor this
is Dr axe he since moved on after this
clip recording to be a doctor in his own
right and Scott the video guy will get
to his ass at some point in his own
stupid video physician and nutritionist
my man you know and one of the scary
things about it is a lot of these foods
are actually labeled as being Health
Foods by idiot real doctors when in fact
they're the very same foods that are
shutting down our metabolism the first
up rest in peace metabolism oh my God
they have little gravestones and there's
a little skull on there it's so adorable
it's kind of like uh Dia delis muos you
know what I'm saying like by the way
when at DIA delis muos get that
half the half skull painting boys
all about that what's up ladies just
kidding I'm married but Jared is not so
what's your problem with them well you
know the problem that I have with whole
grains I don't care God damn it it's my
job to care okay I put on my care hat
one big one is that these are empty
calories I'm sorry what what
oh let's do some science empty calories
is a shitty term it was made up a while
ago and it should have never been made
up but let me explain what the best
intention of the term is empty calories
are when you have a food that has
calories in it that is it has protein or
carbohydrate or fat but it has a very
few micronutrients in it per any given
amount of it that you eat so very few
vitamins minerals phytochemicals or
fiber per how many calories that food
has so something like Laffy Taffy you
eat Laffy Taffy you laugh with your
friends eating Taffy ostensibly and it
has carbohydrate it has calories in it
but not really any vitamins or minerals
or phytochemicals or F
do you guys want to know a food group
that's the opposite of empty calories
whole
grains in place of those grains sprouted
grains and coconut
flour if I told you that sprouted grains
were a subcategory of whole grains would
you be mad at me and coconut flour uh
while I'm on the subject coconut oil
which many of these people pushed as
healthy turns out to be be in large
quantities not so great for your
cardiovascular health so this is a
double
wrong well you know the good news is you
can have your grains and eat them too
you know when you're looking at sprouted
grains where Dr Ross is like that's
pretty
funny so now your body is able to absorb
all of those nutrients that support
metabolism and my favorite flour is
coconut flour it is a dieter's best
friend I'm going to kill
myself that's it that's all I had to say
we know more than ever about why your
fat deposits where it does so here's the
question for all of you which new body
type are you old body types annoying new
body types what up girl hey Max the
editor guy can you take that Meme where
it's the guy with the girl and he's
looking at the other girl's ass but it's
old and new body types you know what I'm
saying Valerie volunteered herself as
being the sugar type do you love sugar I
do yes yeah which one is sugar type oh
she should have love handles when you
have a lot of sugar suar the insulin has
to deal with it and when you make more
insulin gets what it does all right hold
up she's got a she's got her guts big
isn't that the stress type she got some
love handles though listen ladies nah
that's not my place to say this but
little bit of love
handle I don't best don't stress too
much otherwise you're the stress type
see it says store the sugar as fat and
it then very meticulously goes to
certain parts of your body in many cases
it'll become those love handles yeah so
to deal with it you have to use sugaring
lowering techniques yes sugaring
lowering techniques Dr Oz tell us more
this my friends is a mashed banana with
two eggs okay mashed banana is
essentially all sugar I don't know
what's happening anymore I'm confused
and the world is becoming
dark again there's no flow in that good
yes it is who would have thought eggs
and banana look at a pancake and with
this you won't have the problem the
insulin the other thing you can do the
problem with the insulin bananas are
literally made of sugar you
idiot how is this real life so folks
when the childbearing years are
progressing you have will often not only
have a lot of estrogen but you'll have
strong PMS symptoms as well there's
everything bad about women yeah he woman
sure you have PMS too right she's like
uhhuh he's like you hate it she's like
yeah here's this stupid banana sandwich
for you
 I do I have a very bad PMS I I get
tired too I'm tired and I want to
overeat and not eat these Foods I
sitting here pause there's not a goddamn
thing wrong with your body Karen you're
looking fine as but I could see an
argument for more estrogen for this girl
wear that ass though she's got something
a little little white girl pancake back
there but more estrogen not less no no
the no why would I put these fruits here
these are vegetables right but they're
not just any vegetable no no they're
specific vegetables and here's the big
story if you want to deal with the
estrogen you actually have to deal with
the with with the food you're eating
because they can help block the estrogen
yes estrogen blockers used in the
treatment of breast cancer that come
with a variety of downsides you see
estrogen is good for building strength
good for building muscle it is excellent
for maintaining a uh a good mood day
today it is vital for proper
psychosexual function and it helps your
bones
grow and lastly and very importantly is
cardioprotective it actually increases
the probability that your heart will
continue to be healthy for years to come
estrogen is good for you in almost every
way estrogen blockers are taken in two
circumstances one in the medical world
when there's a tumor and your titties
that is eating up estrogen and fueling
itself with it you got estrogen block to
kill off that mother and two if you're a
bodybuilder and you're using estrogen
blockers in the last maybe week or so
before your show to get that extra
drying effect it is not good for your
health it is profoundly bad for your
health the last thing in the world you
want to do is block estrogen luckily
cruciferous vegetables do almost nothing
to block estrogen so the following will
be a lie thank God so come on back here
you know on the the oh my God is this a
is this pre or post me too what the he
can like grab people and like hey man
take my hand
seeo d plans we're offering like the day
off diet as an example what I love Scott
when's the last time you were a guest on
a game show and the host was holding
your hand while talking you through a
list of non-starchy vegetables cuz you
can eat as much of the stuff as you want
all these great things the asparagus the
bamboo shoes there's no need to hold her
hand anymore look at her face Max zoom
in on her face she's like get the off of
me godamn it these are the cruciferous
vegetables and they very specifically
seem to help us deal with estrogen
levels that was all lies by the way just
for those of you still tuned
in whatever it is that you do in your
life can be entirely selfish and help
nobody else dope it can be super
selfless and help everyone but you
amazing both types of people are awesome
for society then there is another type
of person who does things to benefit
themselves at the expense of everybody
else those are not good people we should
have a general degree of compassion and
love for all living beings and for them
we need to go you get the compassion and
love but what you're doing is a bad idea
that you should probably stop Dr Oz
 you're in that third
category and if I ever see you in the
street I'll probably just look at your
hair and go wow he's so beautiful but
there's an off chance things could get
quite confrontational verbally of course
I don't want to issue physical threats
as I believe that's illegal but if we
didn't have any laws swear to
God Scot the video guy ceue up more
 doctors for us to eviscerate
I'm officially upset I've been Dr Mike I
rate Dr Oz as an out of 10 see
you guys next time you guys see that
right there give that a click YouTube
thinks you like it and we think
YouTube's usually correct about
[Music]
stuff