all right what's going on guys so I
wanted to make a quick video here just
covering a few tips that I have for
modifying your training during the
corona virus outbreak many people now
being forced to train at home now since
this is a fairly heated topic at the
moment I'm going to start here with a
few disclaimers first I'm not an
infectious disease expert so you'll want
to visit these websites that I'll put up
here on the screen for specific
recommendations related to kovat 19 and
if there's any conflict between what I
say in this video and the things
reported from these sources you'll want
to default to these authorities second I
decided that I am going to monetize this
video after all I'm just gonna donate
all the ad revenue that it generates if
it generates any to a charity for kovat
research or something like that and I'll
leave the details in a comment down
below once I figure out what makes the
most sense there now it comes to the
general coronavirus stuff I've listened
to several different interviews with
experts on this in there are two
podcasts in particular but I definitely
recommend checking out especially if
you're still having a difficult time
sort of filtering through all the noise
on this also before I get to the
training stuff I do want to quickly
cover diet and as you'd probably expect
there's been no shortage of idiocy about
this stuff on the internet um so I've
seen people saying that the vegan diet
can prevent Co vid I've seen other
people saying that the carnivore diet
can help and keto people saying that the
keto diet is the key all of this is
nonsense there's no evidence that any
named diet can prevent much less kurkov√°
19:00 I am aware of one study linking
the keto diet to protection from
influenza however this was only one
study it was conducted on mice in
influenza viruses are not the same as
coronaviruses so to use this paper as
support for the keto diet is an enormous
stretch to say the least and my best
advice is to simply follow the same
general nutrition advice that you should
be following anyway so I try to stick to
a Whole Foods minimally processed diet
for the most part you need a wide
variety of different fruits and
vegetables to avoid nutrient deficiency
also there was this super popular post
on Twitter claiming that drinking warm
water would help flush the virus down
into your stomach or stomach acid but
then kill the virus this is also
nonsense staying hydrated is a good idea
but unfortunately isn't going to prevent
you from catching this thing or cure you
of it if you got super dosing vitamin C
has also been suggested as a prevention
method according to examine this only
seems to work against the common cold
and only if you started taking it
regularly before falling sick and again
there's zero evidence that it does
anything against coronavirus so I think
the best things that we can do are
behavioral things like washing your
hands not touching your face in avoiding
contact with infected people
so this brings me to the gym now I would
say that many of us are most likely at
some point gonna need to switch to at
home workouts very soon if we haven't
already so I'd like to go through some
general modifications and strategies for
training at home now first of all
there's no need to panic about losing
your gains you're probably not gonna
lose a significant amount of muscle even
if you take a small break from lifting
or if your training is suboptimal for a
while for example there was this 2013
study from Elvis our and colleagues
which had one group trained continuously
for 24 weeks so for 6 months straight
and then another group trained
periodically for 6 months so they
trained for 6 weeks take 3 weeks off
trained for 6 weeks take another 3 weeks
off and so on and what they found was
that during the 3 week D training
periods subjects did lose some muscle
but regained it back very quickly when
they resumed normal training again so
over that six-month period for both the
triceps in the pecs muscle growth ended
up being about the same so a few weeks
isn't going to rob you of all your gains
as long as you get back to regular
training afterward especially if you do
some kind of weighted loading it doesn't
need to be the most perfect workout ever
in order to maintain your muscle mass
and any tensile stimulus on the muscle
is gonna be better than no stimulus at
all I'd also recommend eating at caloric
maintenance or in a slight chloric
surplus if retaining muscle is your main
priority if you're cutting you're
already at a greater risk of muscle loss
and then if you're forced to Train
sub-optimally that's only gonna make
matters worse so if you're training from
home using only light weights and
minimal equipment I'd recommend at least
bumping your calories up to maintenance
now obviously if your main goal is to
continue losing fat you'll want to be in
a caloric deficit so in that case I
recommend at least bumping your protein
up to one gram per pound of body weight
alright so with all that said I'm gonna
take the camera off here and show you
guys a few of my favorite at-home
exercises and show you a few strategies
that might be helpful if you're stuck at
home
so general principles are for general
principles if you want to keep in mind
the first is I recommend doing three to
five full-body workouts per week you
want to pick one or two exercises per
body part depending on what you want to
focus on most for those exercises you'll
want to do three maybe four sets per
exercise depending on how much volume
you need to do and then the fourth one
is the one that most people miss which
is you need to train close to failure I
found a lot of people who do at home
workouts just write three sets of 20
reps and they stop at 20 because that
seems like a lot but maybe you could
have gotten 40 to 50 and what we know
from the research is it doesn't really
matter what the specific rep count is
what matters is that you're getting
sufficiently close to failure so for all
these exercises I'm not going to list
any rep counts because it doesn't really
matter they're probably going to be
pretty high because we're not training
with any or much external resistance so
you're probably gonna have to do fairly
high rep workouts but again the key is
not the actual rep count
it's are you sufficiently close to
failure so for all these exercises just
leave one maybe two or three reps in the
tank and then I'd say for the last set
of each exercise just take that to
failure and actually push yourself this
is gonna be far better at maintaining
muscle mass and just doing circuit style
workouts where you're just getting a
pump or just going through the motions
all right so I'm actually gonna break
this down into four different categories
so we're gonna do leg exercises push
exercises pull exercises and isolation
exercises so stuff for like the biceps
triceps calves and abs so for each of
these categories I'm gonna provide two
or three different exercises that you
can choose from so you're gonna pick one
exercise per full body workout if that
makes sense I figured that would be more
comprehensive than just doing like one
sample workout so I'm gonna show you
guys a bunch of different exercises and
you can pick out which ones you want to
do on which days first thing you should
do before anything is just get the blood
flowing so do a little bit of like
cardio so you can do like jump rope if
you
- what I would do is over here play
their basketball and that'll get you
wind up so I'm sorry I'm kind of by the
way but whatever the activity is if
you're gonna do it you could just like
jog back and forth whatever come back
tomahawk who's gonna get you going with
a bit of energy so then from that then
you'll hop into your first exercise
we're gonna start with the legs first
exercise for legs is gonna be the
Bulgarian split squat is gonna be way
harder than just doing standard
bodyweight squats so you're gonna
elevate one back leg bring your front
leg forward and you're gonna drive
through your heel here and do reps until
you get two to three reps left in the
tank for a lot of you that's gonna be
way too many reps so you're gonna need
to make it a little bit harder on
yourself so one way that you can do that
is by keeping a constant tension
approach so if you come down get nice
and deep here and then you're not gonna
come in and rest all the way up at the
top you're just gonna keep a nice pulse
going and you're probably gonna bang out
a nice few reps now that's still too
easy for you you're probably gonna need
some kind of weighted resistance so I've
only got 12 pound dumbbells here at home
for now but even just having that little
bit of extra weight can make a big
difference if you don't have any weight
at all you can make it a little bit more
difficult by increasing the range of
motion so in addition to keeping that
constant tension approach elevate your
front foot up here careful this is gonna
be back and get a little bit deeper at
the bottom and then still keeping your
constant tension approach at the top and
that's gonna be more challenging than
just simply doing it with that shorter
range of motion alright so that was
mostly for the quads next is an exercise
more for the glutes and again you're
only gonna pick one or two of these per
workout for the most part so this is
just a simple hip thrust so for some of
you guys you could just do straight hip
thrusts with a strong glute squeeze and
a strong land muscle connection but you
might need to do a million reps in order
to get sufficiently close to failure so
what I would recommend doing here is
doing them unilaterally
lift one leg up and you're doing the
same motion keeping constant tension on
your glutes so even at the bottom you're
not releasing that tension and you still
kind of got your butt cheeks squeezed
together
and then at the top you're really
squeezing that glute so this is going to
be a lot harder a lot harder and you
easily cut your reps in half if not more
and then obviously repeat it on the
other side if that's still too easy then
you can obviously add some resistance
what I would do is just sit a dumbbell
here in your lap and then you can still
do them unilaterally and even just a
little bit of weight like that does make
the difference does make the exercise
quite a bit more challenging okay so the
next one is going to be a Nordic ham
curl this is a really difficult exercise
probably the toughest of the ones we've
done so far so for here you just want to
pin your heels underneath your couch
this should work for most people my
couch kind of pops up when I do them so
what you could do is have like a friend
or a significant other sit here on the
couch so that it doesn't pop up if you
find that happening but we'll be okay
here for the duration for this one the
most important thing is keeping your
hips extended so when a lot of people do
the Nordic curl they tend to come
forward at the hips and that's a way of
cheating that's gonna make it a lot
easier on you so keep your hips extended
by keeping your glutes squeezed and
you're gonna fall fall fall fall fall
fall fall until you feel like you're you
can't control it anymore with your hands
friends and you're gonna push yourself
back up till you get about maybe half
the way and then finish the squeeze out
with your hamstrings so I'll do a full
rep for you guys here so I'm gonna fall
fall fall fall fall squeezing my
hamstrings then I'm gonna come in and
I'm gonna squeeze back up
push and squeeze the rest of the way and
I would say maybe I would get something
like eight to twelve reps like that and
those are really challenging any way you
slice it
oh and you could also if you don't have
the smoke that you could just have a
training partner kind of pain your
ankles down for those as well when
you're doing these workouts you can do
them in a circuit
you don't have to do all three sets of
the leg stuff first and then do like
your push stuff and then your pull stuff
you can just go through it in a circuit
and that'll help keep the pace of the
workout up a bit I find with at home
workouts if you're just sitting around
you can get distracted on your phone or
whatever so I just kind of like to keep
things moving alright so the next
exercise I'm going to cover is the
pistol squat so most people won't be
able to do this outright so there's a
simple progression you can follow pistol
squat is basically just a one-legged
squat so you're gonna put your non squat
leg in front of you put your hands out
for you is that's a counterbalance I'm
gonna sit back into the chair and then
squat up and you can do that for however
many reps you're comfortable doing that
for I'd probably do at least 10 to 12
and then obviously switch legs and
repeat that's the first progression
after that you can move on to the
assistant pistol spot so for this you
have one hand out and the other hand on
some kind of surface that'll keep your
balance and then you're just gonna squat
all the way down back up this hand can
help you a little bit right okay easy
then once you've mastered that having
done a full pistol squat in a while so
good easy on me at home you can do it
freestanding pistol squat so for this
like at the front of you hands out as a
counterbalance and I'll solve it babe
I want to do two in a row okay yeah so
filled your rep count up on that for
most people balance was probably the
most difficult thing at first but you
will build that strength as you go as
well all right that's it for the leg
stuff up next we're gonna do three I
think different push exercises so I'm
not gonna split these into like chest
and shoulders are just going to be
function as general push movements so
the most obvious one here is really
going to hit the pecs also the anterior
delts is the pushup
so everyone can do this well if you
can't do it you can do it from your
knees but it doesn't require any
equipment at all and I think the push-up
is a good exercise that to just do high
reps with so I even actually have this
included in my own full body program
when I'm training at the gym and I'll
just try to beat whatever rep count I
got the previous week so right now I can
do around 65 push-ups as an AM lat
so if I were to do that right now the
next day I do push-ups I'd want to try
to do 66 and 67 and then so on and so
forth now if you don't want to do all
that high rep training there are ways
that you can make it more difficult so
one way is to just elevate your feet so
this is going to make the push-up mimic
more than equine press so you'll target
more of the upper pecs and anterior
delts doing it this way then just the
standard feet on the ground so they only
get a bit more difficult but not by much
now if you have a partner around with
you you can have them load a plate if
you happen to have one on your upper
back or if you're really strong you
could just have your friend or
significant other or whatever literally
sit back which
Hotel workouts and things like that and
then also if you have some bands you can
easily wrap the band around your back
and just do push-ups like that now one
other thing that you can do for push-ups
I forgot to mention is deficit push-ups
so if you're at home and you have plates
you could stack a couple plates under
your hands if not maybe you could stack
like a couple textbooks on top of each
other that's just going to give you a
little extra range of motion a little
more stretch and make the movement a
little more challenging and after that
we're gonna move on to the next exercise
which is going to be a vertical pushup
so similar to the regular pushup except
you put your feet up on the wall and
you're gonna do push-ups that way now
you'll want to gradually increase the
torso inclination until you get more and
more vertical you might find these to be
really challenging so this is a way that
you can kind of load your shoulders and
your upper pecs you know higher rep
range without actually having any
weights so this is one of my favorites
actually all right third push exercise
kind of a push exercises the shoulder
exercise it will call it push is gonna
be a lateral raise now if you have
bayesians or dumbbells it's pretty
obvious how you do this
check out my technique Tuesday video if
you don't know but I think what's more
interesting is if you don't have any of
this equipment you can do unloaded
lateral raises with a strong isometric
contraction I'll show you guys how to do
that over here in the door by stand in
the doorway and push against the back of
your hands like this not super hard but
hard enough so that you can feel your
lateral delts start to turn on here so
I'll hold that for maybe 10 to 15
seconds kind of gradually increasing the
pressure and feeling my lateral delts
turn on and then I'll step out for that
game when you're a kid they were just
like naturally contract so what you're
gonna do instead of just letting it fly
or letting it float is you're gonna
actively squeeze your delt and do
unloaded lateral raises this is gonna
look stupid but you're at home it
doesn't matter
hidden what you can do to make it a
little bit harder is kind of coke
contracts your lats to antagonize this
movement here so think about almost
packing your Latium as you press against
an imaginary weight here and flex that
lateral head of your deltoid as hard as
you can you might think this is crazy
but there is actually some research
supporting no-load training and it does
work they showed it to work in the
biceps
I believe it could work for other muscle
groups because you are still generating
a lot of tension inside the muscle even
in the absence of external load so if
you don't have anything for pretty much
any exercise you can just flex and
squeeze the muscle as you go through a
range of motion as hard as you can
and that's going to be a hell of a lot
better than doing absolutely nothing so
this is a lateral raise option you can
do if you have no equipment so I'm gonna
quickly go through the pull workouts
here my number one exercise for the back
would be a pull-up so if you have an
at-home pull-up bar you should use it if
you don't have one I definitely
recommend getting one that's gonna
pretty much cover most your bases when
it comes to the back so that'll be your
vertical pole I don't actually have one
so I won't be able to do those so as a
secondary pole or a horizontal pole I'd
recommend doing rack chins so I'm gonna
show you guys how to set this up on the
desk over here under the desk
think of this like an inverted row so
you're going to grip the top of the desk
make sure this is gonna be able to
support your weight I've already tested
this you're just gonna roll your your
bodyweight up like this to do that for
however many reps you need until you get
to that point of being pretty close to
failure for most people that's going to
be way too many reps so what you can do
to make it more difficult is elevate
your feet and if that's still not
difficult enough for you then you can
have a training partner or someone load
some weight on your stomach and that'll
increase the intensity a little bit
welcome to the old technique Tuesday
studio guys this is where the magic you
I'm gonna be bringing it back by the way
it'll be different but I'm still trying
to nail down the idea the next pull
exercise is going to be just a variety
of different poles using a band so I
definitely would recommend getting a
band if you don't have one of the pull
exercises from home we're gonna be a
little more difficult and you're gonna
need a door anchor most sets of bands do
come with this but if not you can easily
get one treat the door anchor over the
door close the door so that's gonna be
really tightly in there to get a bit
more attention you want the band to be
pretty lengthen if you do pulls like
this it can mimic more of a high row so
you're gonna hit lats and traps so this
is a great one if you want to make it
more Lac dominant just
to move in closer to the door so I
actually like to turn around for these
so you can turn around and do basically
black hole downs and then the third
thing you can do with this is face poles
so you can pull the weight back you can
squeeze your rear delts here at the top
and then if you want to make it more
crack dominant again you can just do it
more like a high row so those are all my
pull exercises we're gonna finish off
with a few isolation moves and that's
gonna be a wrap so up next we're gonna
hit biceps triceps abs and calves really
quickly I'm just gonna show you guys an
example of a few different exercises for
each of those so for the biceps
basically all you want to do is some
kind of curl so that can be a seated
dumbbell curl if you have dumbbells it
can be a band curl if you have bands if
you have no equipment at all
again remember just like with the
lateral delts you can do a similar thing
with the biceps and kind of flex your
triceps and use your bicep to squeeze
against the antagonistic action of the
triceps again this has been shown in
studies to work so if you don't have
anything it's definitely better than
nothing similar deal for the triceps
basically just want to be extending the
elbow I would recommend probably using
two different shoulder positions so one
exercise where your arms overhead like a
skull crusher and/or an overhead
dumbbell extension and then one exercise
where your arms are down at your sides a
band would be great for that when it
comes to the ABS they're a bunch of
different exercises that I recommend I
think the bus bicycle crunch is great I
covered that in a technique Tuesday
video planks are also very effective
especially if modified to be a long
leaver posterior pelvic tilt planks link
that video down below as well and then
you can also do reverse crunches so this
is probably the closest thing you can
get to a hanging leg raise if you don't
have a pull-up bar because you just do
this yourself on the edge of the couch
and kind of curl your knees up toward
your chest and that's gonna work the
lower abs and upper abs quite well and
when I finish this thing out with a bit
of calves definitely don't want to skip
on the calf work so for this you want to
find something that's slightly elevated
this way you'll get a little bit of
extra range of motion I'm
you're gonna want to use very high reps
if you don't have any weight but if you
do have some weight you can hold on to
some weight and make them a little bit
more challenging all right guys that's a
wrap for this video I hope you found it
to be really helpful if you did don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up don't
forget to subscribe if you haven't
already and I'll probably be doing more
at home workouts so if you like this
sort of thing please let me know and
I'll keep that in mind and I'll see you
guys all here in the next video