hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization today's topic is one that
i have received numerous requests for
and finally we're getting to it thank
god butt wink
is it bad
is it good i don't know if many people
said good
when
some people do the the dancing they but
they wink the butt up and down and that
seems to uh
that's nice to look at every now and
again
but if your lower back is rounding at
the bottom of a squat ooh not as nice so
let's figure out what butt wink is and
if it's bad and if it is bad how we can
remediate it so
technical definition here at least an
attempt butt wink in my view is when
your hips tilt down under
you at the bottom of a lower body
pressing move which means training quads
squats are very common offender uh
sometimes on the leg press uh and or not
as often but every now and again on the
hack squat as well
i can think of at least
five reasons
for having butt wink
one is poor technique by the way we'll
have a separate slide on each one of
these
one is poor foot positioning one is poor
ankle mobility or low ankle mobility a
limited range of motion another one is
poor glute flexibility and the last one
is a hip bone structure i was going to
say problem but really just limited bone
structure in the hips that prevents a
certain range of motion in other words
deep hip sockets
something about that sounds dirty but
it's not you would think
all right so poor technique how does it
happen why does it cause about rank well
a lot of times people just don't know
that they have to have the pelvis
anteriorly tilted so that their butt
wink doesn't round their lower back and
they just don't know and sometimes
because they don't know that they
realize well i seem to be stronger in my
squat if i sit back
as much as i sit down and then because
they're sitting back really far
in order for them to hit proper depth
they have to get the range of motion
somewhere and it comes from the lower
back when the hips tilt and that's what
happens so
a lot of times that technique is
something they just don't know about
that they have to be doing so there are
a few technique fixes that in many many
many cases
but week is completely eliminated
altogether so the yes of course these
other ones other reasons for butt brick
we're absolutely going to talk about
them and they may very well be the case
with you or folks that you train
but a lot of times technique just
kobashes this whole thing all together
so first is chest up not that there's
anything magical about having your chest
up when you put your chest up you're
less likely to sit back too far you're
less more likely to sit straight up and
down and that means that you generate
the range of motion necessary to get
deep from flexion of the knee or you're
using your quads which is kind of a good
thing anyway and that you don't have to
round your lower back and that's half
butt wink in order to hit depth another
one is tummy out so you literally stick
your tummy out now you breathe in big
embrace but make sure your tummy is
sticking out and that literally is just
another way of saying arch your lower
back because the lower back rounding is
the butt wink so if you arch your lower
back a lot of times even if your hips
are pulling to round the lower back if
you're arching it by pushing your tummy
out you counteract that and the back
ends up remaining neutral which is a
very good thing
another cue this really easy one stay
upright okay a lot of people who tend to
ball over tend to round over if you say
just stay upright
lower and upper part of your upper body
keep everything upright a lot of times
but wink is eliminated again a lot of
that is because their knees move further
forward they don't have to round at the
hips to get low
and
one
cue that should be taken care of by all
these but sometimes isn't because a lot
of people in training myself included
for many many years carry old
mythologies with them and that cue is to
let the knees travel over the toes on
the way down and
as long as your heels are still on the
ground that's totally safe it's super
even more effective for the quads
than just sitting back and not letting
your knees travel over toes the thing is
you have to generate the range of motion
to go deep in a squat from some joint
from some combination of joints if
you're saying okay i'm not going to have
my knees go over my toes i'm just going
to keep it here i still have to hit
depth that means we need more at the hip
we need more movement at the hip and
sometimes you run out of movement for a
variety of other reasons and then the
lower back has to round and voila butt
wink but if we let the knees go forward
as we squat down you can stay super
upright no need for butt wink or more
more of the range of motion is generated
at the knee less at the hip and thus no
butt wing so this technique solution is
something that
if you watch this whole video at the end
and you say oh i wonder which one of
these causes and it could be
combinatorial it could be you have a few
things going on but if you're wondering
which one of these causes is really
doing it i would in every single case
try to remediate the technique first
because if it's a technical cause you
don't have to like rabbit hole yourself
and they're like oh fuck i have to do
stretches now and oh shit my glutes are
too tight blah blah don't worry that's
we'll cover that but the technique is so
at least in principle easy to fix it
doesn't require a whole lot of work it's
just a few realizations and you practice
them a few times they're like oh shit
well goodbye butt wink so uh this is an
easy fix
an even easier fix however is the next
possible cause of butt wink mostly
happens in machines is poor foot
positioning now i don't really get to
this
uh in
this lecture so i'll just say it now
because it's a good thing to point out
foot positioning can still cause
buttoning problems not on machines with
free weight squats but then the foot
positioning is like some people try to
have their feet pointed too far uh too
too much forward not angled out
naturally your feet tend to angle out it
gives you a better range of motion at
the knees and the hips a lot of times
people have too close of a stance which
again in in many ways limits range of
motion of various joints and then it has
to your lower back has to compensate for
it and then some people to go too wide
so really the solution for foot
positioning
for butt wink in the squat is find a
position of feet just literally by
experimenting with an empty bar just a
plate on a side of which
one of these foot positions gives you
the most comfort the most power and the
most ability to hit depth while staying
upright and limiting your butt wink
because you could be like oh fuck butt
wink but you're squatting like this or
you're squatting like that and then all
of a sudden you squat like this just as
an example not necessarily the right
answer and you're like holy shit i can
stay completely upright i'm like fucking
purist nemus out here and then all is
fixed and you're like god damn it i
haven't really had a butt wing problem i
had a stupid technique problem so this
can definitely occur on free weights
however it tends to occur more often
with genes because with free weights a
lot of times if you position your feet
in a certain place there's kind of more
degrees of freedom so you can adjust
other parts of your body and your hips
maybe don't have to take the load they
don't have to take the shortened range
of motion and thus they don't have to
round the lower back in order to
actually execute the lift however if
you're in a hack squat or especially if
you're in a leg press
yeah there's no degrees of freedom left
over and if you position your feet
poorly your back almost has to round
right and that's really how this happens
so you put your feet up too high on the
platform that's typically the offending
act
that reduces your range of motion that
you're getting for the entire lift and
especially reduces it to the quads right
the range of motion at the knee is
smaller that definitely lets you lift
more weight which is sweet because then
like i've said before in other videos
finally you do like six plates or eight
plates on a leg press and that super
fucking hot girl who's always like doing
like stretches in the corner of the gym
she comes up to you finally after she
sees it and she's got sunglasses on
right she's just like
and you're like
hello and she's like i am from europe
and specifically sweden and i want to
have love with you and you're like
yes
but that never is gonna happen because
more likely she's gonna come up and be
like you're not doing proper technique
and range of motion and i don't deal
with men like that and you're like fuck
but your accent's so hot
oh full range of motion how do we do it
while keeping the back safe so here we
go
if you have your feet really high on the
platform
yes you lift more weight but you get
less of a quad stimulus
and you are much more likely to have a
butt wink because
if you go down and you're limiting your
knee range of motion the range of motion
has to come from somewhere so either you
cut it completely and no ballwink but if
okay range of motion is good but i put
my knees real high on the platform my
knees don't have the degrees of freedom
to actually flex and extend much and
thus the range of motion has to be
generated somewhere which means at some
point you run into the hip problem and
then your lower back starts to round so
yeah you're getting deep but your lower
back is rounding which is butt wink
which may not be a great thing how do
you improve this well
easy one is get your feet lower on the
platform how much lower the lowest point
is when your heels and toes are still
pressuring on the platform so if you get
them so low that it's just your toes
there's a few problems with that very
small chance that you could injure your
calves uh you know pull a calf tendon or
something because if you're using 500
pounds just with your tippy toes that
might not be the brightest idea that's
not very likely what's mostly going to
happen is your body's going to reduce
central force production it's going to
detect the instability which is another
reason why sissy squats might not be
superior to like hack squats or leg
presses because if you're in your tippy
toes your body just doesn't produce a
whole lot of force and thus your quads
won't be as active they won't grow as
much and then it sucks it sure solves
the butt wing problem but it's not a
very productive way of training so i
recommend going as low as you can on
that leg press or hack squat plate in
which your heels and toes are still
producing maximum force they're in
contact with the platform and then you
will solve a lot of ruttling problems
because then the range of motion of the
knees is super high and we don't have to
compensate with rounding our lower back
which is bullwink itself and sometimes
you move your feet down but then shit
feels really weird your knees might hurt
hips might hurt so once you move your
feet down i would play with narrower and
wider positioning of the feet and
turning the angle of the toes to find
something that feels natural reduces
butt wink and still gets you a great
quad workout without hurting other
joints
all right
next culprit is low ankle mobility
probably in my estimate the number one
cause of butt wink because if you think
about it from like a biomechanical
perspective
if your ankles had infinite flexibility
like if your shin here's your foot
here's your shin if you could do some
shit like this
gee whiz you know you could stay
completely upright not needing any butt
week at all your knees would be like
three fucking feet in front of your toes
you'd be doing the deepest squat in the
world look like a fucking spider or some
shit like a crab
and that would be amazing for your quads
that you wouldn't be squatting a lot
because it's a huge leverage
disadvantage but you'd be fucking jacked
the problem is most people can't do that
at some point they run out of range of
motion in the calves and they start to
get on their tippy toes if they don't
want to get in their tippy toes they
have to keep their heels down and then
what they keep continuing lower and like
i've said a few times already the range
of motion has to come from somewhere you
ran out of knee range of motion out of
hip range of motion if you continue to
go down the range of motion will be uh
essentially generated by your lower back
which means your pelvis is going to
start rounding and then that's not very
good right so
low-income mobility definitely a problem
how do you improve it well first
this is the big one
you find
from a few of the other points you find
a really good foot position for yourself
it lets you get the deepest in the
safest manner with good positioning
and then you practice squatting a little
deeper and a little deeper or leg
pressing or whatever it is over time
while minding your positioning and
resisting butt wing a lot of times
that's probably the best way in a more
sport specific way in this case your
task specific way to increase mobility
and at some point a few months or a few
years later you're going to be
dunking olympic depth squats
in super range of motion tom platt's leg
presses and you're going to have no butt
link at all so a lot of it's just slow
incremental practice like at first you
squat to here and you're like that's all
i got
then here then here then here then here
a couple months later you're fucking
down here you're golden that's really
how i did it for the most part you can
also stretch your calves regularly which
will also get them more jacked so enjoy
when you're doing your calf training you
should be going through a full range of
motion and really stretching the very
deepest part for like a second or two
that's going to improve the flexibility
of your calves and it's going to get you
extra super jacked another thing is
when you're warming up for squats like
presses or hack squats which you can do
is stretch your calves during and
between warm-up sets so that you know
yeah stretching a lot of times doesn't
convey as much flexibility improvement
over time as we would like ideally
but acute stretching interestingly
enough if you step on a vibration plate
you get an insane acute stretching
response but the only thing the plate
does seemingly for like ten thousand
dollars don't if i can get one uh but if
you stretch acutely like stretch uh for
a few 30 second rounds between your
warm-up sets of squats or leg presses
you may be able to get like an inch more
of range of motion there that doesn't
last like the next day you wake up and
it's more or less the same tiny bit of
improvement you don't fucking need it to
last you just needed to get you through
the workout and a lot of times that can
work really really really fucking well
lastly
get weight lifting shoes just fucking
get them what kind any kind that shits
with the heel olympic weightlifting
shoes right or the sport of
weightlifting one word shoes
um don't get man i don't want to talk
shit about company specifically
but here i go
atomics
i don't understand the fucking point of
that shoot looks cool looks like you're
from the 90s bodybuilding but it
actually covers your
ankle completely so it
does the opposite of what we want to do
here
so get weight lifting shoes the heel
super fucking helps and then with
whatever ankle mobility you do have now
you seemingly have more because of the
heel and it's super stable and it's high
friction it's all the fucking best
things in the world
all right
next up poor glute flexibility which
especially if you're an adult dancer
scott what's the term for stripper
that's politically correct
just dancer right
dancer
dancer
that's like you saying you hang out with
a bitch and you're like what do you do
and she's like i'm a dancer you're like
uh like on broadway and she's like um
you're like ah
ah
you know what i'm saying you want to go
back to my place shh we can dance all
night so to speak in any case i don't
know if this is am i allowed to say shit
like this on youtube
yeah
so anyway
related to adult dancing
poor glute flexibility so how does it
happen it's just usually genetic um
and you just have tight glutes and
sometimes your glutes will run out of
space so glutes will be like that's it
that's all you get to bend and the lower
back will take the rest it just happens
and
how do you improve again from the
earlier point just going slowly deeper
over time really really really helps
because it's loaded stretching which is
awesome for hypertrophy and gets you
more flexible and mobile
using pauses is a great idea so if your
butt wink starts like if you're coming
down here
knee joint if you're going down here and
your butt wing starts go down to just at
that level of which you're about to
begin and pause for like three seconds
then come up pause squat right or pause
leg press or pause hacks and
actually every rep that you do or every
like two or three reps in a set you'll
be able to go a little deeper and every
set in a workout you'll be able to go a
little deeper and then every workout
that you come back to
still shallower than the end of the last
workout so like a deeper deeper deeper
through the workout you come back next
workout you'll be back here not as high
they're sorry not as low but a little
bit lower than before and over months
and months and months you can actually
get considerably deeper
work on your glute flexibility
and again that's a huge side benefit as
you get fucking big ass glutes because
uh loaded stretch is really really
awesome
you can also do the thing we do with
calves where between warm-up sets you
can do dedicated loot stretches um
if you i don't have any examples for you
i'd have to get out of the chair and you
guys know i'm unable to do that somebody
called me uh an instagram a sit-down
comedian i thought that was brilliant um
that's only partially correct because
while i am sitting down i'm not that
funny but but
i'm not getting up and showing you guys
glute stretches youtube's not ready for
that shit uh however if you google glute
stretches just make sure to do it at
work when there's other people walking
around it's always fun to try to explain
shit like that but in any case if you do
glute stretches between sets
hey by the time you get to your working
sets and even if you do them between
working sets yes your power production
reduces but we're here to do
bodybuilding shit so we're not so
worried about that you will be able to
get marginally lower lower over time
things will be good
sorry uh i want you guys to have all the
pertinent info and every now and again i
think of some shit that i didn't put in
the slides
if you want the best
uh ankle mobility and the best loot
mobility and one of those two things or
both is keeping you from
properly executing squats and like press
without butt wink what i recommend is
stretching like three to six times a
week
you ain't training calves three to six
times a week you're sure shit not
training quads three six times a week i
hope uh so you will sometimes do the
flexibility training in the warm-up but
also i would say every other workout
fluff for flexibility uh stretches
should be just done like in the morning
or midday or evening whenever you can
relax like watch some tv do some
stretches that really adds up okay like
gymnasts are super flexible they don't
get that way by doing stretches once or
twice a week they do this shit fucking
six days a week so you don't have to do
six but maybe do three maybe do four see
how it works
all right bone structure
how does it happen well
some people have relatively shallow hip
sockets so that their uh
femurs can move quite a bit some people
have deeper hip sockets this is like
fuck animation we don't need that shit
around here and then the other femur
doesn't move all that much
uh you know
for the exaggerated effect right if your
femur only moved this much holy fucking
shit you could barely walk
but some people who have deeper hip
sockets can't move the femur much and if
you're going down deep in a squat or leg
press and you run out of femoral motion
and you have to if you continue to
insist on going lower the range of
motion has to come from somewhere it's
either going to come from ankles knees
no more femur so the hip is gone now
it's lower back now you get butt wink
and that sucks
how do you improve it um
the fundamental reality is that there's
really no way to improve that but you
can know your limits
and squat around them so if you've tried
all the other things and maybe you went
really crazy and got some mri shit or
some x-rays done and a sports medicine
doc's like yeah you have the fucking
world's deepest hip sockets so
sorry
um then you can just
uh work within the range that you're
okay with and understand that butt wink
is something that you're not gonna be
able to improve upon outside of maybe
getting weight lifting shoes and
changing your foot position and all the
other stuff that doesn't require you to
fuck with everything else so this is a
shitty one and it happens to some people
i will say it's much more rare than many
people would insist most people if they
apply all the other strategies
especially the technique thing and
moving their feet up and down on the
platform
there's a huge fraction of people will
be able to squat and leg press as deep
as possible and you're fucking all the
way down with a totally upright back no
problem some people do in fact have
deeper hip sockets and there's not much
to do about that however however uh you
guys know i'm a sports physiologist but
i'm dabbling in medicine
and especially experimental robot
surgery so if you want to leave
something in the comments give me a
convincing story from the heart as to
why you should be
candidate
for
for my experimental hip socket ablation
laser guided
and laser performed procedure um some
anesthesia is involved not mandatory uh
i know some things about how the body
looks so totally fuck it up what
happened to the other
three candidates for surgery my lawyer
says it's not a good idea for me to talk
about that and those people will never
talk again
they can't talk when they're dead
anyway
when
is so so we've remediated a lot of this
we've learned a ton so far about what to
do about butt wink but
let's talk really quick about
we haven't even addressed this is
botwink bad or is it fine because
there's a bit of gray area and i think
we can get a lot of traction here so
when is butt wink bad because you know
there's like that paranoid butt wing
crowd on social media that anytime you
have a semblance of butt wings they're
like
dr mike you're gonna fucking die
like here lies dr mike israel
owner of 18 and a half lamborghinis a
former owner
and no no owner i'll be buried with them
and uh
cause of death butlink that's how it
works
and then there's other people that are
like who gives a shit man techniques
bullshit you just fucking train and
range motion gets strong and they're
like candy caning everything and you're
like
orthopedic surgeons do need to make
money so thank god you exist
in any case when is buttwick bad when is
it maybe not so bad so it's not so great
when your lower back is getting strained
over time when rounded like you're doing
your leg presses your lower back
surrounding you're like ow fuck
and you can barely get out of the
machine you're like fuck and three days
later you feel better and you're like
time to leg press i guess again and you
fucking heard it again not a good sign
another one is when the butt wink is
visually very pronounced so if your
fucking lower back's like
maybe you still feel fine but
one of these days
fucking vertebrae is going to pop out of
your asshole and then what right that's
very low risk but higher risk than you
might want um you know it's kind of like
if you have a friend that drives super
dangerously like weaves in and out of
cars or like 95 miles an hour you could
say oh well i haven't gotten hurt yet
and you're like no that's true
but just visually assessing the
situation i don't estimate the
probability of you continuing not to
hurt yourself as very high so maybe we
could slow the fuck down and you not be
insane that would be great so if your
butt wings are really fucking gnarly
visually you just look at it like oh you
look at a video yourself and you're like
there's another christian about this
video
maybe it's not that great and maybe you
could start to work on it another one is
a no-brainer here when your lower back
is hurting more and more each week like
week one of squats when you had butt
wink it was fine week two you're like
feeling something week three like stiff
for a few days week four i'm like
fucking physically hurting and then the
last one is the worst one
it is when you detect pain that's
shooting down on your legs uh during and
or after a session in which you
experience butt wink that means that
something is happening that involves
your spinal cord and the spinal nerves
and that's real no way no bad news you
won't have anything fucking do with that
sciatica any motherfucker anyone of you
who has experienced sciatica before uh
feel free to talk about in the comments
which fucking blows it's nothing you
ever want then when you have any kind of
spinal nerve or spinal injury even if
it's relatively mild most of the time
you make a complete recovery you never
fucking think about it again there's a
small percent chance that it'll fuck you
for the rest of your life
and not even in a big way just in a
small way where you're always like is
this the rep that's gonna fucking get me
and it blows it's nothing you you want
i've herniated disc before
uh
not exactly with butt wink i actually
was doing too much overhead pressing
with an arched back and chest and i
ended up uh just kind of
irritating my si joint and in order to
come this sounds dumb as fuck in order
to compensate for that when i was
squatting i couldn't stay as upright
anymore so i started rounding my lower
back because it actually felt better and
then one time
that rounding really got to me and
i herniated disc in my lower back some
of the worst pain in my entire life it
got better it took a few months within
weeks i was training legs again but
extensions and super upright lunges and
very very light squats and um i would
use weightlifting shoes and stand on a
little plate so it took a while for me
to get my groove back but i still tmi
the office is a really high level tmi
there is a part of my inner glute which
none of you motherfuckers is ever going
to see unless you're on my mostly fans
and then you see it every day
that i actually can't feel so if i like
uh take my own finger and rub my inner
glute god damn what the fuck are we
talking about here right um i can't feel
it like i can feel my finger because i
have fucking nerves working on my finger
but the nerves in my inner glute on my
left side it doesn't work anymore and
that's instantly happened when i fucking
hernia just because the nerves are
sitting there and the disc is like fuck
they're just like gone so it's not some
shit you want i don't want to scare the
fuck out of you guys this is all super
super low risk but if you can take very
reasonable easy steps to mitigate it you
should now
when is butt link probably okay nothing
to worry about or nothing to even try to
do anything about first when it's
visually not profound like if there's a
very lively debate about whether or not
you actually see butt wink in your
videos you're fucking fine i guess some
people are like your back went from arch
like this
to arch like this you're butt winking
you're gonna fucking die like nah you're
good okay unless it's really profound
it's probably not an issue um multiple
studies have been done on this and uh as
usual greg knuckles and company did like
a really cool lit review where they
showed that like spinal flexion to a
certain degree happens in almost every
even externally
visually good technique lift and it's
nothing to worry about like extreme
spinal flexion probably bad with heavy
loads but limited amount it's nothing to
worry about right so if you have to ask
do i have butt wink the answer is
probably you're fine right another one
is when there's no pain associated with
it at all that doesn't mean that again
if it's visually profound i would try to
curb that enthusiasm anyway but if it
looks okay and there's no pain you're
like do i have butt weak well no you're
probably totally fine
and if it feels normal
sometimes there's no pain associated but
someone's like do you feel like your
back is rounding you're like
when i hit the bottom of that squat i
fucking like shit i feel ooh this is a
stretch it's not a painful stretch but i
can tell some other shit's going on if
it feels normal it's not feeling like
it's compromising any joints or anything
moving weird if you can check all three
of these boxes and i probably just
wouldn't worry about it all i wouldn't
worry about in any case i wouldn't even
take any steps to remediate it because i
don't think there's anything to
remediate here
all right so and just to end on a good
little recommendations note
how do you decide on your own butt wink
process that's right we have a process
so if it if you're checking any of the
bad boxes especially a few one of those
bad boxes like your lower back is
getting strained or it's experiencing
progressive pain over workouts or
visually the butt ring looks really
insane
i would retool technique and positioning
to avoid or greatly minimize ball wink
again it doesn't have to go to zero but
just have to go into checking the good
boxes when it's not visually profound no
pain associated with it and it feels
relatively normal right and if it only
checks the okay boxes
then you can always be a bit more
upright during quad moves mostly because
that's going to improve your stimulus to
fatigue ratio for the quads it's going
to let your knees travel out more and
it's going to get you a better quad
workout but uh you just don't have much
to worry about so if you're not really
checking the box as a butt wink it's
nothing i would lose sleep over folks
thank you for tuning in um
like
subscribe
donate to my only fans patreon that's
right that's the thing
yo scott how is that not a thing
it's like you donate but you're not
guaranteed porn
yeah it's not guaranteed porn that's why
it's not a thing anyway fox swipe
fucker which is the twitter of sex i'll
see you on all those platforms i've said
enough see you guys later
hey guys do you want to hear more about
squat technique especially if your knees
should go over your toes or not check
out this video right here and maybe
you'll learn something