the idea that you need to focus on the
squeeze or on the Mind muscle connection
has become super popular even within the
pop science field you can contract a
muscle very hard chances are you'll be
able to generate hypertrophy and
strength gains pretty easily in that
muscle however you might be surprised to
find out that the jury is still out on
whether or not this is actually
beneficial for muscle growth
what one people we're back Milo Warfare
soon to be doctor with wolf coaching and
today we're talking about the Mind
muscle connection and whether or not
it's actually beneficial for building
muscle you might be shocked to find out
we only have one study on this and this
study was performed by show and
following colleagues a few years ago in
the introduction the authors do a good
job of pointing out that there is some
evidence suggesting that adopting an
internal Focus like focusing on what the
muscle is doing like squeeze that muscle
as a cue has some evidence showing that
it might increase surface EMG or Surface
electromyography conversely at the time
of publication and at the time of this
video there's actually quite a
convincing body of evidence suggesting
that adopting an external Focus
something like get the weight up or
being explosive or focusing on the
outcome of the movement more so than how
it feels internally that seems to be
beneficial for performance so while
there was a ton of data about
performance being improved when adopting
an external Focus compared to an
internal Focus hypertrophy might be a
different story and maybe this increase
in activation as measured by surface EMG
could lead to more hypertrophy when
adopting an internal focus of focusing
on that muscle
basically the Mad muscle connection so
what did they do in the study well they
took about 30 participants and assigned
them to one of two groups both groups
performed both the stunning barbell curl
and the live essential exercise but one
group focused exclusively on an internal
cue of squeezing that muscle and the
other group focused exclusively on an
external Hue of lifting the weight both
groups performed three weekly sessions
on non-consecutive days across eight
training weeks while the authors did
mention that eccentric durations were
generally kept around two seconds the
tempo with which participants lifted
wasn't super controlled otherwise the
participants were free to do as they
pleased in order to best focus on either
the internal cue or the external cue all
sets were completed until concentric
momentary muscular failure in other
words ending a set when you actually
fail the rep so these folks trained
pretty hard this study's participants
were untrained the queue given to
participants in the internal focus group
was squeeze the muscle on the other hand
for participants in the external Q group
the focus was get the weight up as far
as measurements of body composition went
the authors took measurements of fastest
lateralis and rectus femoris thickness
thickness of the elbow flexors and
finally body fat percentage skeletal
muscle mass and body weight as far as
strength went they assessed strength
using isometric knee extension and elbow
flexion strip as far as hypertrophy
outcomes went the results were actually
quite mixed there was a significant
difference in favor of demand muscle
connection group through elbow Flex from
muscle thickness but all other
differences although non-significant
leaned in favor of the external focus
group likewise for strength although
there were no significant differences
differences generally lead in favor of
the external focus group when you see
these findings you can kind of form one
of two interpretations interpretation
number one is that an internal focus and
focusing on the Mind muscle connection
is better for growth indeed they saw
significantly better growth in their owl
flagship and when it comes to why they
didn't see more lower body growth the
authors speculated that potentially it
could be because participants and humans
in general have less efferent control or
nervous system control over their lower
body compared to the upper body Limbs
and so maybe the participants simply
weren't trained enough in order to be
able to focus on the Mind muscle
connection and activate their quads to a
greater extent when focusing on the Mind
muscle connection if they were able to
and they were more trained perhaps then
they would have seen more quad growth as
well in addition to the increase in
bicep growth so interpretation number
one is basically that yeah focusing on
The Mamas collection will increase your
hypertrophy but it may be the case that
you need to be quite trained for you to
take full advantage of this training
strategy interpretation number two which
I am slightly biased towards I would say
is that differences were generally close
to null and mostly lean in favor of the
external focus group and so maybe the
significant difference in elbow flexor
thickness was simply noise and maybe not
worth reading too much into the reason I
am a bit more biased or leaning towards
this interpretation is because we do
have a pretty extensive field of study
showing that focusing on the outcome of
a movement or an external focus seems to
yield better outcomes as far as
performance goes as far as strength
improvements go compared to focusing on
an internal cue like the man muscle
connection so if very consistently
focusing on the outcome of the movement
yields better strength outcomes part of
me thinks that that might also result in
better hypertrophy outcomes here's a few
caveats to the results of this study
first of all like I mentioned Tempo
wasn't super controlled as the authors
hypothesized in the introduction
focusing on an internal cue or my muscle
connection can increase activation of
certain muscle groups now a more recent
study actually try to look at activation
comparing an internal to an external cue
like for example my muscle connection
versus lift explosively when lifting as
explosively as possible possible what
did they find well when participants
just were lifted as explosively as
possible the cue that they focused on
didn't actually change muscle activation
at all so it may be the case that when
you're lifting very slowly or very
controlled focusing on target muscle
could increase activation a little bit
however when you're actually lifting
with decent intent and relatively
explosively it may not actually matter
anymore as far as activation goes it's
important to know that activation and
growth are not the same thing caveat
number two this study only looked at
isolation exercises it's unclear how
this would generalize to compound
exercises I could actually see a case
wherein by focusing too much on a single
muscle group during a compound exercise
your overall leveling performance which
then can limit the stimulus that you get
for other muscle groups and so I think
generally for compound exercises it may
not be worth focusing too much on my
muscle connection of a single muscle
group now that the boring science part
of this video is over let me talk about
all that matters and that's my n equals
y one experience insert random platitude
about how everyone is an individual and
what works for me may not work for you
bro you know you do you the reason I
bring that up is because a lot of people
justify a lot of dumb by saying
that they're individual and sometimes
it's absolutely true a lot of time it's
just because they don't really want to
listen to reason really anyways here's
my experience switching from an internal
Focus to an external Focus so a few
years ago back in I want to say 2020 I
was actually focusing very consistently
for about a year on the Mind muscle
connection I wasn't really focusing on
the outcome of the movement obviously
still using good technique but I wasn't
focusing on being explosive or lifting
the weight as quickly as possible or
that sort of stuff I was exclusively
focusing on feeling the muscle groups I
was training while training eventually I
decided you know what it's been a while
now let me try and focus on being
explosive on the concentric phase of
each repetition what I found to be
honest is that my most connection didn't
decrease by that much but I was able to
do a lot more reps I remember doing
doing face pulls and I was using a
weight for I want to say about 8 or 10
reps and then I switched my focus from
my muscle connection to more so being
performance orientated and I found that
that weight went from being hard for
eight to ten reps to being quite easy
for about 15 reps or more so I found
that when focusing excessively on land
muscle connection it actually
substantially reduced how much weight I
was able to lift now whether or not
that's negative for hypertrophy I
couldn't tell you for sure we only have
this one study and I'm not going to
oversell my own individual anecdote
however for me given that there's only
one study on this topic and as I
mentioned it's not all that compelling
and we had a lot more evidence looking
at the strength and external Focus where
focusing on the outcome of the movement
is beneficial for strength I would
rather go for external Focus over an
internal Focus especially when I must
connection tends to reduce how much I'm
able to lift pretty substantially
anyways word the takeaways here what
should you focus on while training
takeaway number one the Mind muscle
connection or an internal Focus probably
makes little to no difference to your
muscle growth compared to an external
Focus all else being equal number two it
may be the case that the more trained
you are the more you're able to tap into
that matter muscle connection and
potentially see a benefit from it in
terms of muscle growth number three we
only have one study comparing focusing
on the Mind muscle connection to
focusing on an external cue so it's not
really clear yet which one is better for
muscle growth number four for compound
exercises I would typically recommend an
external Focus focusing on technique
focusing on being explosive during the
concentric for isolation exercises you
can go either way if you have a strong
preference towards an internal Focus
focusing on a muscle connection you can
go for that I would say generally I
would still recommend an external Focus
over an internal Focus even if your goal
is muscle growth the preference plays a
role here I don't think it makes a huge
difference so if you have a preference
towards focusing on the feel that's
probably fine too number five we
definitely need more evidence in this
field we only have one study looking at
hypertrophy and this is something that
we need a lot more evidence on
considering how many people actually use
this and care about it so if you're in a
university and you're thinking ah I want
to do some science consider doing it on
this topic that would be very cool
anyways that's the video if you liked
the video and you learned something
please consider liking commenting
subscribing if there are any topics that
you would like to learn more about
please leave a comment down below
letting me know what you want to see and
I'll see you guys my viewers in that
next one peace