o EMP piic and all of those drugs for
almost everyone if you don't want to be
obese anymore you just take the
medication and you won't be but if you
do you just don't take the medication
and you will be why is why can just one
pill or one injection do so much because
it makes you less hungry fundamentally
and then when you're not really hungry
you stop eating as much food and all
these weird other hypotheses about why
we were getting fat OA kind of crushed
all him out like how does it just do all
that yeah okay that's that makes sense I
think some people have an issue with the
fact that they feel like it's kind of
cheating you know I had to get there the
i' love to tackle that one okay yeah
your ability to lose weight can be a
test of your willpower or you can take
the pill and with no added willpower
lose all the weight you want and then
you can test your willpower on tending
to your family better being a Kinder
person to others coaching Little League
football and being on time for the kids
instead of standing a Hardy line getting
your third cheeseburger for that day