[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna be looking at how to train the
Cavs with perfect technique but before
we jump into the technique itself let's
have a quick look at the muscles and
biomechanics involved first so with any
calf raise we're gonna be performing
ankle plantar flexion so basically
pointing your toes down she's gonna
target both the 2-headed gastrocnemius
muscle and the underlying but actually
larger soleus muscle now one important
point to note is that the gastroc is a
bi articular muscle meaning it crosses
both the ankle joint and the knee joint
so it can also flex the knee which is
why it'll be active on leg curl
movements and because there is some
degree of ankle plantar flexion on
squats and deadlifts
the calves will be somewhat active there
as well but the plantar flexion range of
motion is actually pretty small so I
think it's necessary to train the calves
it directly to maximize their growth
potential also because the soleus only
crosses that ankle joint and not the
knee joint it's probably better targeted
with a bent leg calf raise while the
gastroc is better targeted with a
straight leg however both muscles will
be active anytime you plantar flex
regardless of knee position so I think
using both a straight leg and a bent leg
option in your training makes the most
sense now there are also a bunch of
creative variations on the basic
standing calf raise that I like
including the donkey calf raise which
you can easily set up on a smith machine
and it's been shown in some independent
EMG data to have the highest muscle
activation out of the six variations
tested and I also really like the single
leg calf raise for avoiding asymmetries
from having one calf take over but for
our purposes here we're going to be
focusing on fundamental technique
principles that can apply across all
straight leg variations and I'm going to
be using a standing calf raise machine
no but I think what really matters is
that you have a straight leg not that
you're actually standing so you can
easily do these on the leg press or
Smith machine if you don't have a
standing calf machine available so for
the calf raise I think there is merit
and training across a variety of rep
ranges so anything from 6 to 20 or more
reps the most recent evidence on this
suggests that both the gastroc and
soleus are type 1 dominant
they may benefit from the use of higher
reps but because we're also taking the
ankle through a full range of motion
with the calf Anna biomechanically
strong position I think could be
negligent to exclude any low rep
strength work so I think splitting this
up where you have at least one heavy day
where you work more in the 6 to 12 rep
range and then at least one light day
where you work more in the 12 to 20 zone
makes the most sense now with that said
because it is extremely easy to cheat on
the calf raise I think you really want
to make sure you put proper technique
above heavy loading or anything else
when it comes to the calves before
anything you want to do one or two
priming sets where you get used to
taking the calves through a full range
of motion with bodyweight only to
establish a mind muscle connection and
get the ankle joint loosened up first at
this point you'll want to make sure that
you're able to fully stretch your calves
at the bottom so if you're on a smith
machine make sure you're standing on top
of some plates or a riser so you want to
set up with your feet pointing straight
ahead one 2011 study found that
externally rotating or pointing the toes
out may lead to more medial or inner
gastroc activation however later studies
found no significant difference in
activation between various foot
positions so I'd suggest going with
whatever feels it most comfortable to
you which should be either straight
ahead or using a slight flare now you
want to make sure that you're setting up
with the balls of your feet on the edge
of the foot stand so you can get a true
full range of motion and you can do
these barefoot if you feel a better
stretch or contraction that way but
wearing shoes is fine as long as they
don't impede your ankle mobility so
high-top chucks may not be your best
option here now before actually
initiating the raise you want to start
by actively flexing your quads I'm just
gonna accomplish two things first it'll
completely extend your knees keeping the
focus more on the gastroc and second
it's gonna prevent you from cheating by
getting your quads involved in the lift
to help you sort of squat the weight up
so once your calves are in the fully
stretched position they should feel like
they're being pulled apart similar to
how your hamstrings feel in the bottom
of a Romanian deadlift and from this
stretched position you want to think
about pressing your toes down into the
ground as your shoulders rise up against
the pads without shrugging throughout
the positive your knees and hips should
remain perfectly straight and locked and
at the top you want to pause for a full
1 to 2 second count
forcefully squeezing your calves and the
negative phase should last for another
two seconds as you keep tension in your
calves still resisting the weight on the
way down now the most important pause
comes once you've reach the bottom
springing out of the stretched position
is gonna cause the highly elastic
Achilles tendon to take over carrying
momentum out of the bottom and limiting
the actual calf muscles contributing
power so you want to pause for one to
two seconds in the bottom and actually
count this as one Mississippi two
Mississippi in your head so that you
don't get lazy and ignore this crucial
aspect of the movement after the pause
initiate the next rep by flexing your
quads pressing your toes down your
shoulders rise up against the pads
actively squeezing at the top and then
lowering again under control to the
fully stretched position and when it
comes to the seated calf raise most of
the same principles apply however you
may want to use slightly higher reps
since the soleus muscle has even more
type 1 or slow to its dominant and
you'll just want to be careful not to
use your grip to help boost the weight
up or create momentum at the hips by
leaning back on the way up I personally
find that leaning slightly back and
gripping the sides of the seat and
really help me resist that temptation to
cheat now before we get into the common
errors I just want to mention calf jumps
as an additional exercise here where you
explode out of the stretch position when
the calves are at their strongest and
this is going to take advantage of the
natural strength curve of the calves and
really target those less abundant fast
twitch fibres however there is much more
room for form inconsistency here so if
you are gonna give it a shot I'd make
sure you still keep the proper slow and
controlled calf raises your main
bread-and-butter movement so I think the
most common error with the calves is
just not using a full range of motion
most people seem to just bounce between
the concentric and the eccentric
allowing the Achilles tendon reflex to
take the ankle about half the way up and
then letting the calves fall back down
without active resistance this is
actually the worst way that you can
train your calves because even though it
may look like you're hitting them hard
it's really just your tendons not the
actual calf muscle that's doing the
brunt of the work so slow the movement
down get comfortable pausing in that
fully stretched position and make
yourself accountable to that 1 to 2
second count
on every phase of the movement they
they're counting out loud or in your
head on every rep going to heavy is
another error that we see on many
movements but I think it's especially
problematic here because of just how
technique sensitive calf training can be
if you're not doing the things we've
been discussing here I'd actually
recommend starting with bodyweight only
and really getting in a good groove with
a proper controlled lifting tempo for at
least a few weeks before you even start
loading with any weight at all and then
as usual once you do start loading
should never come at the expense of
proper lifting tempo and technique so
guys before we go I want to shout out my
calf science explained video I actually
just re-watched that before recording
here and I think it adds a lot of depth
to this video as over there I go into
more detail on the scientific literature
and there's at least 15 studies cited in
that video and it's on its way 20
million views so I'll have that linked
down below don't forget to hit the
thumbs up button if you enjoyed the
video don't miss the last two videos
I'll put them over here on the dip and
the shrub hit up the button to subscribe
if you haven't already and I'll see you
guys all here next Tuesday