the lat pull down is a phenomenal lat
building exercise it has a few benefits
over pull-ups now there's nothing wrong
with pull-ups but pull Downs are usable
by nearly anyone they're more flexible
in terms of rep ranges they're a little
bit less fatiguing and more here's how
to optimize your lat pull down technique
to build bigger
lats welcome back Dr my wolf here PhD in
sport Science teaching you how to
improve your lat pull down technique to
finally build some Lots before I give
you the best technique on lat pull Downs
let me break down some common mistakes
that I see a lot of people make when it
comes to pull Downs there are a few
important components of technique for
building muscle here's what they are
based on the scientific evidence there
are three or four components to good
hypertophy technique and when it comes
to each different component of technique
there are people out there making these
mistakes first off a good Tempo there is
likely such a thing as going too fast
but also such a thing as going too slow
for your repetitions both a met analysis
by Shen fing colleagues and another
systematic review performed recently
found broadly the same conclusions if
your repetitions take much less than
about 2 seconds or much more than about
8 seconds per rep you're likely reducing
hypertrophy additionally some more
preliminary evidence suggests that if
you want to maximize muscle growth we
probably want to control the lowering
phase or the Ecentric phase to a decent
extent taking around 1 to 2 seconds at
least for the Ecentric phase and
additionally when it comes to the
lifting phase or the concentric phase of
any exercise we likely want to perform
that a bit more explosively the evidence
for these recommendations is a bit more
limited but it's worth keeping in mind
and that's where the first few common
mistakes come in I've trained with
kiraka Grizzly before and I've got all
the love in the world for him but his
technique on pull Downs not great do not
Grizzly your pull Downs for maximum
muscle growth instead control the weight
app for about 2 seconds and be explosive
on the way down likewise one mistake I
see made less frequently but still occas
Al is one taking way too long per rep
say taking over 8 seconds but more
specifically pausing in that bottom
position as we'll get to a moment that
is what we want to avoid your Tempo
should have you spending more time in
that lengthen position in all likelihood
and less time in that shorten position
there's no direct studies looking at
this but based on the research I'm about
to mention that is likely a good idea so
if I see you pausing at the bottom of
your pull down when you're already
struggling to reach your chest I'm going
to have a bad time I'm going to cry and
that brings me to my second point when
it comes to range of motion which is
another big component of technique and
perhaps the one we have the most
evidence on one thing we don't want to
do is to skip out on the stretch
position in the exercises we perform
that stretch position is likely more
important than that shortened position
where you getting that Peak squeeze or
Peak contraction and so going back to
Tempo if you're pausing at the bottom in
that Peak contraction position that then
thereby reduces how much time you're
spending in that more beneficial stretch
position while there's no direct
research on L growth or even the lat
pull down as far as technique goes this
principle of lengthened training being
beneficial for muscle growth does appear
to be generalizable across different
muscle groups and this research is
especially interesting when it comes to
exercises like the pull down or even any
sort of pullup variation or any sort of
roaring variation in all these exercises
the lift tends to be most difficult when
you get into that fully shortened
position if we were to use length and
partials or essentially cut out that
fully shortened most difficult position
in lift we'd be able to use a lot more
weight and make that lengthened stretch
position more stimulative and so
theoretically even though we don't have
direct evidence in the back muscles like
the back or the side delts where you
typically don't experience much tension
in that stretched position might be the
best place for you to use lengthened
partials in the first place as a good
fistic in fact if on a given movement
you're able to use a lot more weight by
doing lengthened partials versus a full
range of motion that might theoretically
be where length and partials or most
beneficial but regardless you don't want
to miss the stretch position if you're
doing full range of motion reps make
sure you get a full stretch and bring
the bar down to your upper chest if
you're doing lengthen partials just
bring the bar down to about the top of
your head now let's say you don't like
just doing length and partials
fortunately there might be an
alternative and in fact the infamous Sam
suck is one example of this when he's
doing lat pull Downs he does full range
of motion reps or at least full range of
motion is and then when he can't get
another full rep he instead just does
the top half half the easier half of the
movement where the lats are actually
more stretched out so he's doing length
and partials after hitting 4 range of
motion failure I call this concept
lengthened super sets and as it turns
out just this week at the time of
recording this we are publishing the
first ever study looking at muscle
growth from doing lengthened super sets
in the Cavs When comparing doing
lengthened super sets to just doing a 4
in of Motion Set we observed around 50%
more muscle growth when doing length and
supersets and so while there's only one
study on this compared to all the
studies on length and training in
general there does seem to be a benefit
to doing those partials after failure so
if you prefer getting those partials in
after you hit failure that might be a
fine way to apply This research as well
this research also allows me to mythbust
a couple things one that you always want
to use a wide grip for the lats in fact
it might be the opposite the narrower
the grip to an extent the more of a
stretch you'll typically get on your
Lots so a somewhat narrower grip like
around shoulder width or narrower will
likely be better when it comes to
targeting the lots and getting more of a
stretch on them in the top position
likewise people like to poo poo on the
vgrip when it comes to pull Downs while
indeed the vgrip doesn't allow you to
get that Peak contraction quite as well
as just using a straight bar it allows
you to get as good of a stretch or maybe
even a slightly better stretch and so
the V grip is just fine and that brings
me to another mistake people often make
and that's not getting a full stretch
when doing the lap pull down either it's
because they're not really paying
attention and they're just kind of going
until it feels about right and their
elbows are mostly extended except
they're really not and they're
curtailing the stretch on the lats or
it's because they're simply using the
wrong machine or setting up the wrong
way as a bit of a tall individual myself
around 62 and around 220 to 240
depending on the time I relate to this
certain machines just don't give me a
good stretch so pick the right machine
or in fact if you can't find a good
machine consider just using a cable and
doing them single arm if you sit on the
ground you'll get all the stretch could
need another common mistake I see people
make is depending on the machine they
actually let the weight rest on the
stack at the very top of each rep in
that deep stretch position this is
exactly the position where we don't want
to relieve tension off the muscle so
when you're at the very top of the rep
do not let the stack rest instead
control it the whole time and one other
final claim I want to myth bust a little
bit and that's the idea that underhand
pull Downs are going to be way better
than overhand pull Downs for bicep
growth the truth is I don't think it
makes a huge difference but if I wanted
to theorize a little bit I would
actually argue the opposite an overhand
grip would further lengthen the biceps
given that the biceps assistant
superation proning the hand as you would
during an overhand pull down would
actually further lengthen them and based
on the research I'm mentioning now that
would probably be better for hypertrophy
so overhand pull Downs might be slightly
better for bicep hypertrophy all else
being equal next up another component of
good technique is that we want the
target muscle to be as close to failure
as possible AKA we want it to be the
limiting factor in your performance that
means minimizing Body English and the
involvement of non-target muscle groups
for closer to failure we take a given
muscle group The more growth it tends to
experience from a given set those are
the finding from a met regression by
Robinson and colleagues from a couple
years ago in the case of the pull down
there's going to be a few different
muscle groups being trained pretty
effectively to be honest there's going
to be the lats the Terrace major the
rear delts the biceps and in fact it's
the only study we have on the pull down
actually measuring muscle growth found
the following When comparing the pull
down to a supered dumbbell curl we
observed similar bicep growth from these
two exercises and so the pull down seems
to be a pretty good choice when it comes
to Growing your biceps and in fact based
on another study where we compared
underhand dumbbell Rose to dumbbell
curls where we saw less hypertrophy of
the biceps from the rose it seems like
all else being equal potentially pull
Downs or vertical pulling are going to
be better for your biceps compared to
rowing or horizontal pulling exercises
as far as body English goes this brings
me to a couple of common mistakes on the
pull down first do not crunch down at
the bottom as it means to get the bar
closer to you it's very common as the
set gets difficult for me to see Tres
crunch down as a means to pretend they
got the bar for further down than they
were really able to sometimes they
didn't even re-extend their chest to
touch the chest to the bar spoiler
if you want to train your abs do it
somewhere else another mistake is to
kind of lean back a ton turn it into a
weird row variation or sometimes even
just lean back a ton and then come back
forward to pretend you actually lifted
the weight properly if you want to do
rose please go to Rose and finally the
fourth component of good technique based
on my experience as a coach and as a
lifter myself is preference and Pain
Management here's the deal
if your Technique allows you to hit the
above boxes of range of motion Tempo and
minimizing cheating and maximizing
involvement of the target muscle very
effectively but a certain technique
feels nicer to you like slowing down the
Ecentric from 2 to 4 seconds allows you
to feel it in your back a bit more if
that's the case feel free to do it while
there are definitely things we want to
do to maximize hypertrophy in terms of
technique there's more wiggle room than
you might expect there is no true one
size fits-all in terms of technique
likewise some people experience pain
when doing the pull down in a certain
way for instance my good friend Dr Pac
gets some elbow pain whenever he does
underhand pull downs and so for him he
can just do overhand pull Downs by and
large they are interchangeable so if one
technique causes you substantially less
pain allows you to train closer to
failure with more volume without feeling
as much pain go do it now that I've
broken down the science on technique and
common mistakes I see being made here
instead how to optimize your lat pull
down technique to maximize lat growth
use whatever grip you prefer overhand
neutral underhand it doesn't matter it's
mostly personal preference for bicep
growth overhand might be slightly better
and in general a relatively narrow grip
is likely best I personally recommend
setting the thigh PAD as low as possible
to maximize the feeling of being locked
in I just feel this allows me to pull a
little bit harder likewise consider
going on your tippy toes to push your
knees into the pad to feel even more
locked in before starting the set let
your shoulder blades come all the way up
and extend your arms forward explosively
pull the bar or attachment down until
either the top of your head for partials
or all the way to your upper chest for a
full range of motion control the weight
back up taking at least around 2 seconds
or potentially even more when you've
reached the top position let everything
extend and Elevate without letting the
weight rest on the stack and pause
briefly for about half a second to a
second repeat this until you've done all
the Reps for the set where you breathe
throughout the set is up to you I like
breathing in and out on the way up and
Brace on the way down but it's mostly
personal preference optionally if you're
doing a 4 range of motion set but You'
like to experiment with length and super
sets once you're pretty close to failure
or you can't get another full rep
touching the bar to your upper chest
keep going until you can get another
lengthen partial or even bring the bar
down to just the top of your head let's
go through the technique checklist and
make sure that I've given you effective
pointers based on the scientific
evidence we're getting at least a 2C
Ecentric in being a bit more controlled
on the Ecentric phase and a bit more
explosive on the concentric phase
further more we're pausing in the
stretch position as a means to
accentuate the benefit of the stretch a
bit more as far as range of motion goes
we're making sure we don't skimp on the
stretch that means one letting your arms
extend fully and letting your scapula
Elevate on the way up using a relatively
narrower grip as a means to stretch out
the lats a bit more potentially doing
partials after you've hit failure as a
lengthen suet or even just doing
lengthen partials since the pull down
doesn't load the stretch position all
that well using these tools can allow
you to effectively Target it a little
bit more we're also making sure to use a
machine that allows you to get a full
stretch if you're tall or you don't have
a nice pull down machine available that
might mean sitting on the ground with a
cable pulley in order to get a full
stretch and finally as far as momentum
goes or involving non-target muscle
groups we one avoiding crunching of the
spine as it means to bring the bar down
and randomly involving abs and we're
also avoiding turning it into a row by
leaning back excessively so why you
might not be a sports scientist yourself
I hope you can see how that makes it
good for hypertrophy Dr Milo wolf just
broke down optimal technique on the lat
pull down for growing your lats if you
enjoyed the video please leave a like
comment what other exercises you want to
see me break down and subscribe I like
half of you aren't so please do listen
the sign it's still broken so you're
going to have to bear with me chilling
for a moment the best training app on
the market is coming soon and that's my
adap we're aiming for it to be like
coach in your pocket using all the
latest scientific research to get you an
individualized training program based on
your preferences for a certain routine
based on what muscle groups you want to
specialize on based on what equipment
you have available based on how much
time you have to train and a million
other things and confident saying
there's nothing else like it out there
go to my app.com and sign up to the
email newsletter to be notified when it
gets released once it comes out by
signing up to the email newsletter
you'll be able to lock in at a lower
price than any other time I hear you
saying that's a nice lilac t-shirt I
guess I'm not not a color scientist
apologies but this is a nice t-shirt I
got it from Rascal apparel.com and to be
honest it is my favorite training
clothing so if you like what you're
seeing go check out Rascal apparel.com
and to support me use code wolf at
checkout for 10% off and finally if
you'd like me to coach you and take care
of all of your training give you
feedback on your Technique then check
out the link above and I could become
your coach in the meantime have a
fantastic day and we'll see you next
time from Wolf coaching peace