here are the best glute exercises for
building a bigger butt according to the
science welcome back Dr my wolf here PhD
in sports science and proud owner of
Buns of Steel people always asking about
gol mil how big are your arms how many
inches first of all that's confidential
information and second of all how big
are your glutes should be the real
question and before you answer I would
like you to try these glute exercises
what makes a glute exercise any good for
muscle growth the exact same things that
make any exercise good for muscle growth
in general there are principles to this
stuff first for an exercise to even tget
a muscle we need to make sure it targets
one of the functions of that muscle
importantly and this is something we'll
come back to throughout the video there
are a few different muscles within the
glutes that have different functions and
so knowing those functions does inform
how we should trade knowledge is power
baby second The Toria muscle group
should be the limiting factor or at
least we want to maximize the chance of
it being that way what this means is
that a lot of hamstring movements or hip
hinges are very solid glute exercises
but do run the risk of not having your
Lo be the limiting factor reducing
stimulus for hyy a little bit for the
boots for example when you're doing a
straight ordal with your knees
relatively extended you may find that
your hamstrings are more likely to be
the limiting factor compared to the
boots whereas if you allow your knes to
bend a little bit all of a sudden your
gles can become more involved and by the
way that's what makes the hip thrust a
decent exercise for glute building even
though it has other shortcomings it just
focuses so heavily on pure hip extension
that the glutes will be taken close to
failure next and this is one of the
shortcomings of the hip thrust is that
the exercise we pick should be stretch
friendly if we want to maximize muscle
growth what ises that mean well pull of
the stretch friendly checklist there's
three things to keep in mind here first
the movements we pick should fully
lengthen the glutes that means that
exercises that don't get your glutes
fully lengthened because other muscles
get fully lengthened first like for
example RDL with your knees back or a
good morning with your knees back by
keeping your knees back you're likely
going to have your hamstrings reach
maximum length before your glutes do and
so you're fully Ling the hamstrings but
at the expense of not getting a full
stretch in your glutes so for an excise
to be optimal for hypertrophy we likely
want to pick an exercise that allows
your glutes to be fully stretched next
we want a decent amount of tension in a
position and this is where the glute
Kickback machine as many machines are
built at least kind of falls behind a
little bit there's of not very much
tension in the stretch position compared
to how difficult it is near lockout and
by and large the same applies to hip
thrusts there's a very old video around
the interet of me thrusting 650 lb with
relatively poor technique back when I
was 18 and one thing you notice in those
videos is that the lift really only gets
hard near lock out when the glues are
fully shortened or hypertrophy that's
upgrade and that's part of the reason I
haven't done hip thrusts in quite a long
time at this point the third factor in
the stretch friendly checklist is making
sure the exercise is lengthen partial
friendly by performing lengthen partials
which is a technique that's been studied
a few times in the literature now you're
able to circumvent these issues a little
bit too much resistance in the shorten
position just stop doing it and you've
resolved that issue so getting a good
stretch during the exercise having
plenty of tension there and ideally also
being length partial friendly are
probably going to be good things for
muscle growth and based on the available
research you might see an additional 5
to 10% of the hypertrophy compared to
just doing full range of motion if you
did partials an additional consideration
and exercise selection that doesn't
apply to too heavily to glute training
is being actually loaded versus Nona
loaded most glute exercises
unfortunately will have you placing some
load on your lower back all usse being
equal we would want to avoid this as it
does nothing to increase glute stimulus
but does increase fatigue overall but
with loot training unfortunately most
movements invol hip extension most
movements involving hip extension also
involve your lower back a couple of
bonus points to consider depending on
your circumstances one how time
efficient is the movement certain
exercises are more time efficient than
others for example stack loaded machines
dumbbell work those are going to be
longer time efficient on account of not
needing to loan up the bar get in
position Etc it's essentially plug and
play and the second factor is micro
loadability ideally the XS we pick
should be easy to adjust in small
increments relative to how much weight
you're using or alternatively you could
just wear double progression or just add
reps week to week that's why this isn't
such a huge Factor all right that's the
checklist for what makes an exercise
maximumly effective for hypertrophy but
but you'll notice I mentioned the glutes
functions and the fact that there's
different muscle groups within the
glutes that we want to treat differently
to understand how we would actually go
about training these we need to
understand the anatomy and the functions
of the glutes by and large there's two
groups of muscles within the glutes that
we need to worry about the first one is
just the gluteus maximus by far the
biggest muscle that makes up the butt
musculature the second group of muscles
we need to worry about I would
categorize as glute medius and Minimus
the reason these are two separate groups
is because while the glute is maximum is
involved in hip extension the gluteus
Minimus and medius are not and so if we
were to just do one hip extension
compound exercise we wouldn't be
training the gluteus medius and Minimus
and if you want your biggest butt you're
going to have to train those as well
instead the gluteus medius and Minimus
are responsible for hip abduction mostly
as a Cory of these Anatomy facts that
you've just learned we would need at
least two exercises in your program to
maximize overall GL hypertrophy one
compound hip extension exercise and one
hip abduction exercise for the gluteus
medius and Minimus one other thing to be
aware of is that the gluteus maximus is
also actually involved in hip abduction
but because it's also involved in hip
extension if we dive the hip or lean
forward we are further lengthening the
lus Max and so whenever you're doing any
hip abduction exercise leaning forward
further lengthens the gluteus maximus
and likely would lead to more muscle
grow so leaning forward on all of your
hit abduction movements is probably a
good idea if your aims to maximize
overall growth of the boots now I hear
you saying all right Dr Milo paid off
that big long muscle length you know
people are seething on social media now
day about me communicating my
PhD I have to go
now thank you Ron solo hello Tom I want
to help you with your assistance search
it turns out we have about five studies
now comparing
L do you actually have any evidence for
lengthened training being beneficial in
the goods turns out we do we have three
studies and the glutes that I can think
of the first is a study by kuo and
colleagues where they compared the half
squat to a deeper Squad and the half
Squad group participants squatted down
to about 90° of KN flection in the full
squat group full squat in quotation
marks they squat about 140° of NE
flection it's not an as grass squat but
it is a pretty deep Squat and the SP as
the glutes went they observed three
times as much hypertrophy in the deeper
Squad group compared to the shallow
Squad group so this St suggest that at
least in the squat training your glutes
at lower muscle leats is beneficial for
muscle groups second we have a study
that has not yet been published by
mywing colleagues in the multi- hiip
machine exercise as a quick note while
this has only been presented on the C
conference I have spoken to the authors
personally this is a research group
that's been involved in two prior
studies of R of motion already and so I
do think the results are relevant they
compared doing length and partials so
essentially just the stretched half of
the rep to doing a full range of motion
on the single leg multi- hiip machine
they measured hypertrophy of the
hamstrings and of the glutes by MRI
which is a very solid measurement method
and to make a long story short they
observe twice as much hypertrophy of the
gluteus maximus when doing length
through partials or focusing on stretch
position on the multi machine compared
to using a full range of motion
importantly the multi-p exercise is kind
of similar to an RDL your knees are
relatively extended and you're
essentially just performing hip
extension and so in both the squat and
Aral or hip hinge type movements it does
seem like training the stretch position
leads to more growth compared to
training and more shorten position the
final study I want to mention actually
slightly goes against what I just
mentioned and that's a study by plk and
colleagues in this study they compared
growth in the glutes and a variety of
lower body muscles in part ipants either
doing just the squat exercise or just
the hip thrust exercise they found a
couple things one neither the squat nor
the hip thrust was really that good at
hypertrophying the upper gluts
suggesting that you can't get away with
just doing one of these exercises or
even both if you're able to hypertrophy
the whole glute including the upper
glute the second thing they found was
that hypertrophy of the glutes was very
very similar between the squat group and
the hip frust group so does that mean
the squat actually isn't better than the
hip thrust of for glutes well not so
fast for one although the authors did
their best to make participants squat
deep the average squat depth still
wasn't that deep and so the average
muscle length involved between the squat
and the hos scoup might not have been
all that different however what this
study does kind of suggest is that
longer muscle lengths or stretch isn't
everything and I've tried to make a
point of this throughout this Channel's
existence repeatedly we're not expecting
a huge difference by focusing on stretch
we're expecting potentially like a 10%
Improvement in your grows and alongside
the squat group not really getting that
de of Str
I think that the fact of the hip frust
group essentially focused heavily on the
glutes in the hip frust there's just not
many other muscle groups that could give
out first before the glutes do and so
ideally we want to pick movements where
the glutes are likely to be a liming
factor but also get a solid stretch and
So based on these three studies in the
glutes and based on all the criteria
genely Mak an exercise effective for
hypertrophy here are my picks I'll pick
an exercise both for compound hip
extension movements for the gluteous
Maximus and for isolation mve M ments
and willing hip abduction for the glus
medius Minimus and also Maximus you need
both in your program to maximize glut
hyper I'll give you a few options for
each calary without further Ado I think
the best compound exercise for the
gluteus maximus is the squat the split
Squat and the high stance like press let
me break down why each one is beneficial
first let's see what they have in common
provided you go sufficiently deep and
you're able to you'll get a good stretch
of all these movements they all have
plenty of tension in that L position
depending on the Le you're using they
are also L and partial friendly they're
all reasonably stable but ha with sets
one apart from the other first for the
astig grass Squat and by the way I would
recommend if you're going to do partials
to do these on a Smith machine just for
safety there's a few things that are
advantagous it's a pretty stable
exercise if you can go deep you can get
a deep stretch in your glutes we have
tested a more shallow squat to a more
deep squat in the glutes and found more
hypertrophy so it does seem to be an
efficacious exercise for growing the
glutes in general and importantly a line
of research in pal of do actually
suggests that in the squat the muscle
groups most likely to fail first are
going to be the glutes and adapters with
the hip extensors more broadly and so
the squat also successfully checks off
that criteria of having the glutes be
the L factor or very close to it in a
similar vein we have the split Squad
again I personally like the Smith
machine for these just because you can
rectu it at any point should you fail
it's more stable you're not going to end
the set just because you fell over with
a pair of dumbbells while you do need to
train your two legs separately it has
the advantage of requiring far less load
which has two distinct benefits one in
my experience it takes less time to warm
up for and two it loads the lower back
to a lesser extent which is generally a
good thing when we want to make sure
we're minimizing fatigue and making sure
the glutes are linic factor it's also a
good thing potentially if you're dealing
with some lower back pain overall you
may find NR endorsement you may find
that you can tolerate them more easily
the high stance leg press or the high
foot placement leg press has similar
benefits one minimal spin loading two
for leg loots the leg press is actually
already a length and partial when you're
storting leg press your hips are
typically bent to about 90° of hip
flexion already and then if you go
sufficiently deep with a high foot
placement your fully length thing the
glute Maximus and so without even
needing to do specifically lengthened
partials you are essentially going
through just about half the range of
motion of the glute Max and specifically
the more stretched path which going by
the research is probably a good thing
for muscle rul and in general you could
actually make the argument that because
the Light press is a lengthen partial
for the glutes it's actually a better
glute movement or L be equal than a
quality movement and finally I wanted to
mention this the hip thrust isn't a bad
exercise if all you want is glute growth
it's highly specific by just having hip
extension be involved there's not really
many other muscle groups that could give
out first but in my view trading theall
loons in the more lengthy position is
broadly speaking going to be better for
hypertrophy compared to the hi thrust
and as far as the best glute medius
Minimus isolation exercise goes here are
my two picks one the hip abduction
machine and two the ankle cuffed side
step the hip abduction machine does
actually also involve your luteus
Maximus because it's involved in
abduction and so by leaning forward
doing that exercise you're actually
lengthening the gluteus Max in this more
and potentially leading to more
hypertrophy of the glute Max and your
glut overall in my experience is also a
bit more stable than the ankle cuffed
side step it's a bit more available most
GS all all gyms have this whereas fewer
jibs I think have an ankle cuff although
you can purchase that and finally it is
bilateral however all else being equal
it is going to be providing less of a
stretch on the gluteus medius and
Minimus than the ankle cuffed side step
while the ankle cuffed side step
provides a better stretch on the
gluteous medius and Minimus it likely
won't involve glus Maximus as much on
account of the moving power involve
indeed it's a bit closer to transverse
abduction than pure abduction equally
with the uncuffed side step you will
need to do both leg separately which can
take a bit more but it is functionally
like impartial allows you get a deeper
stretch on your gluteus medius Minimus
so if all you cared about was gluteus
medius and Minimus hypertrophy no matter
the time constraint that I think it
might be the better option and by the
way shout out to Brett contrerus for
suggesting this exercise let me give you
a few takeaways the same principles of
exercise selection apply to any muscle
group importantly for the glutes we also
have studies broadly lending credom to
these principles as far as the glutes go
and so as a result of all these
considerations I think squats split
squats and the high St leg press are
your best compound glute exercises
conversely your best gluteous medius and
Minimus isolation exercises I think are
the machine abduction and the uncuffed
side step that is the video broke down a
ton of glute science for you guys if you
enjoyed the video please leave a comment
like down below subscribe to the channel
if there's any topics you'd like to see
me cover leave a comment down below and
I will get to it if you'd like me to
coach you consider checking out the link
above and in the meantime have a
phenomenal day and I'll see you guys my
subscribers in that next one
peace I love being an editor but there
are a few things I miss silence the
absence of noise one single Moment
undisturbed by the sound of Dr Milo wolf
and his long muscle length
nonsense there is no quiet
anymore there is only lengthen
partials you might be asking why would
lengthened partials be better for muscle
growth