okay what's going on everyone so what
follows is a conversation that I had a
couple days ago with John Meadows and
for those of you guys who don't know
John is in my opinion one of the most
highly sought after bodybuilding coaches
that are out there and he has been for a
long time he himself has competed over
60 times in bodybuilding and he's
actually done 11 shows as a pro and he
has his certified strength and
conditioning specialist degree or
certification and he's coached hundreds
if not thousands of bodybuilders from
all around the world on the Pro and the
amateur level and I really like his
approach because he's just so open and
honest really about everything and he
also keeps a very open mind in terms of
new science that's coming out and I
really respect the fact that I think
he's one of those rare and refreshing
examples of a coach and a bodybuilder in
the mainstream who really does keep
themselves open to scientific evidence
just a few quick things to note this was
basically a raw unscripted conversation
that I had with John so this should
probably be seen more so as just us kind
of having a chat rather than a scripted
Q&A interview per se and we do talk
quite openly about anabolic steroids in
this interview or in this conversation
and I've voiced my personal opinion on
the channel a few times about steroids
and I'll just basically link a couple of
videos in the cards up here if you'd
like to check those out after this but I
basically wanted John to more or less
have the floor in this one someone who
has a ton of experience on this front
and I really appreciated and respect and
respected his basically just no [ __ ]
very upfront approach to communication
on this topic so I really hope that you
guys do as well
and just as a note the recording does
like glitch out I think about partway
through the interview for some reason my
recording software decided to freeze on
my face so I have the exact same facial
expression for about 10 or 15 minutes
about partway through other
and that there is a little bit of static
in the background noise throughout the
the interview so just be aware of that
still basically trying to figure out how
it is I can record these over Skype in a
way that that sounds as crisp as
possible or maybe I may have to start
doing more in person interviews but
anyway my goal is to improve the audio
for these in the future and I'd
appreciate if you guys just basically
bear with me in the meantime there will
be timestamps in the description box if
you'd like to to jump around a little
bit and I'm gonna be releasing this on
my podcast as soon as I get the design
work back from my my graphic designer
basically rebranding my podcast as the
Jeff Nippert podcast so once I have that
all ready to go I'll release that over
there and you can check that out in the
description box once that once that goes
up and yeah please leave us a like on
this video we'd really appreciate that
John was very generous with his time on
a Friday night actually to record this
with me so show your appreciation for
his time as well and yeah just hit the
thumbs up button it'd be very much
appreciated and without further ado here
is my interview with the mountain dog
John Meadows alright everyone so I'm
here with John Meadows and John I just
want to say thanks for coming on the
channel and coming on the podcast it's
really nice to have you here man
well you bet you you're done some
awesome work man so the pleasure is all
mine
sweet yeah and I think some of our
listeners might be a little maybe
surprised by this this collaboration but
I think that it's something that a lot
of people will benefit from with with
your very extensive experience as both a
body builder and a coach and so I have a
ton of respect for your work for anyone
out there who maybe isn't familiar maybe
you could just give a give us a quick
primer on your background as a coach and
as a body builder yeah well man I got
started real early when I was 12 years
old actually competed the first time
when I was 13 years old so I've been
pretty obsessed with hypertrophy my
whole life I mean I always wanted to be
a body builder right
I did some stints in piloting a Westside
barbell which I thoroughly enjoyed but
you know I started competing very
I to this point my career I've done over
60 contests I did I've done 11 shows as
a pro I placed in five of them but I've
always been interested in how do you
make things better you know just because
something's working doesn't mean it can
be better
so you know I got my back in the day I
got my CSCS and I got my certification
from Jose Antonio's group and and I've
always I've always just felt like no
matter how much I know there's just so
much more out there to learn so I feel
like I've been a coach forever and I
don't feel like I know everything I feel
like there's still a lot to be learned
and I'm just as excited about
bodybuilding now I think as I've ever
been from purely from the perspective of
just muscle building you know mm-hmm
that's awesome I yeah I didn't realize
that you did your first show it's 13
years old that's that's crazy yeah I was
a little insane and I remember I was in
track at the same time and I remember I
would train my legs and I was a sprinter
I had to run 100 and 200 and it didn't
mix very well there's no safe workouts
in the same days so so if you were
onstage at 13 you must have started
weightlifting when you were what 12 or
did you just hop right on stage right
away oh when I was 12 I started training
I've actually got some pictures of when
I was 13 and I competed I was 119 pounds
but in 1985 I watched see that mr.
Olympia used to be on ESPN and the 1985
I watched mr. Olympia and course Lee
Haney to me I'll always be this just
fantastic guy and a fantastic champion
so I always loved Lee Haney and always
appreciated tom platt seat
he had an intensity to this day that's
probably not been replicated and he was
also very scientific in his approach you
know he did some collaborations with
Fred Hatfield just as an example but he
was I went to his seminars when I was a
teenager I went to several of them and
he was incredibly articulate he
understood training at a very deep level
and I was just obsessed with it by that
point I you know I I knew all the
hamstring and for
our muscles when I was probably 16 17
years old so those were the two that I
really liked they really got me into it
just right out of the gate gotcha
and you've obviously developed this into
like a career in a business for yourself
have you found that in doing that has it
taken away any of your passion or has it
tainted it in any way you said you're
just as gung-ho as you always were
that's something that I get asked a lot
is someone who's now like turning this
into basically a profession it's like
sometimes people will say once you start
doing it professionally it takes take
some of the joy out of it have you found
that at all well okay so sometimes it
gets sometimes I just want to train and
I don't want to film I don't want a
video but I but I do video I'm very
active on Instagram and in YouTube so at
this point in my career that's a
marketing department for me and it's a
tool to educate people and just to share
just there sometimes and I just want to
just get away from social media and just
train but not because I dislike social
media I just I don't like any
distractions but in terms of actually
training I still love it man I mean I
still I still never miss a workout I
couldn't tell you the last time I missed
a workout and I don't anticipate on that
change in anytime soon I mean it's been
130 some years now so that's awesome man
yeah yeah I'm sure a lot of people are
really gonna gonna look up to that I
find it really inspiring myself so I
guess the first thing we can start out
with here I wanted I think most of our
conversation to be focused around around
training I've had a few a few friends
who've ran through some of your programs
or tried to anyway
and they sound pretty intense pretty in
group pretty grueling to me how how
would you describe your general training
philosophy the mountain dog training
philosophy well it's it's very
methodical for one it it may seem like
everything is a little crazy but there's
a reasoning behind everything I do I
have what I call base workouts and I
have pump workouts and the strategy
itself that I use has just evolved over
a long period of time I didn't just wake
up one day and go huh I'm just gonna
throw a training program together and
think of a name and sell it some of the
routes you know I a lot of it it's
rooted in longevity too when I was in my
twenties it seemed like I was constantly
getting injured
almost I almost tore my pecs I'm gonna
say probably 40 50 times constant
strains and I was always doing compound
movements first so eventually after many
many years I realized you know what that
might not be the best thing for me so I
moved the compound movement into a
different part of the workout either the
second or third exercise and you know as
you get older you start to realize how
important activation is and I thought
you know when I go to those compound
movements you know for me as a
bodybuilder not a power lifter I'm
trying to use them for hypertrophy so
the better I can get it activating the
muscle before I even get to it the
better off I'll be so you know I have a
phase where I'd really worked for
activation at the beginning and then we
plow the compound movements and we work
hard I try to train compound movements
with a fair amount of speed I'm a big
believer that you should apply as much
force to the bar as you can and you know
for you know for to hit the maximum
muscle fibers and then you know you kind
of got this old-school thing to with the
pump and I've always felt like the the
really exhausting and this is probably
the stuff but your friends were talking
about their drop sets the ISO holds all
that I feel like that has a place in
your workouts now I only do that for one
set and some people see a video me doing
it and they're like oh my god you're
going over train they think I'm like
it's my whole workout but the reality is
it's one set of the third exercise and
of course now Brad Schoenfeld and all
these folks are talking about cellular
swelling all this stuff and that's
essentially what I'm trying to
accomplish and then one of the things
I've always felt that was really great
was once you pump a muscle up to stretch
it really hard use a movement that
really elongate the muscle belly put a
hard stretch on it and I never really
knew why when I was younger doing that I
just it just something felt right about
it you know you
I guess you could talk about igf-1 and I
guess you could talk about for range of
motion all those things but to me it
just felt it worked
so I structure those base workouts in
phases and I feel like I'm getting the
best of both worlds I feel like I'm
getting you know the stuff the the
tension the mechanical tension the drys
muscle growth I feel like I'm getting
the metabolic stress that drives muscle
growth and you know that is like the
meat those are the base workouts and
then the second workout I come back
again later in the week and I just drop
out that face to the compound stuff so
like if you were training chest for
example I wouldn't let you do the
barbell movements second I feel like
that's a recipe for disaster over the
long term when your joints are
connective tissue your ligaments and
stuff and when I really started figuring
that part out is what that's one of the
major things I can say to help my
longevity I you know I don't think that
training a muscle group once a week I
mean it it weren't initially but man it
quit working and I can take you through
kind of why my frequencies changing all
that but I feel like that's a way that's
a way for me to increase or anybody to
increase their frequency without tearing
herself up in the process
so I guess my point is is there's
there's a lot that goes into it I don't
think many people have really looked at
exercise sequencing and that's one of
the biggest things that I've done and
for about seven years now I've ever had
a real study plan with sequencing and
just how some things flow better and to
the other gotcha yeah that's interesting
it's kind of its kind of a loaded
question it's like if someone asked me
to describe my general training
philosophy I really where do I begin
there's just so much so much to get into
right but that gives us I think a pretty
good picture of of what it is you're
talking about so when you talk about
exercise sequencing could you go into a
little bit more detail about that so
like you mentioned doing some kind of
like activation exercise first so I
guess that would be like you know if we
just take like the back for an example
would that be like some kind of
isolation movement like a pullover or
something like that and then you'd get
into like heavy rowing next or what
would that look like I'm see okay
man I love talking about this stuff so
the pole over to me is more of a stress
exercise okay so it would be any kind of
a pulldown or a road to me probably more
of a rope you know where you're using
very strict form you're keeping your
elbow at your side if you can I guess if
you're targeting your lats but you know
for a chest that might be a dumbbell
press it's not an isolation movement
okay it's it's just a movement to get I
want to get blood moving in the muscle I
want to get the you know the right
muscle activated and I want to start
delivering nutrients to the muscle so
it's not necessarily isolation but in a
lot of those isolation movements like
for chests to fly for example I consider
that a stretch exercise that would go on
the bottom into my workout okay another
example would be like a stiff legged
deadlift your hamstrings that's going to
go on the bottom of my workout I'll pull
over for your back is a really good
exercise stretch your lats that would be
another one that we go to a part of the
workout where I'm really stretching it
so it's not necessary in isolation
movement it's just a movement where you
can control the way like a dumbbell or a
machine machine presses for chess we can
really squeeze or a dumbbell we can
really squeeze that's that's what that's
my thought process gotcha
and you found that getting I guess like
the blood flowing and kind of like
targeting those muscles then allows you
to sort of feel those muscles better and
activate them better in the later
exercises is that the the basic theory
behind it or is it more of an injury
prevention thing it's both it's 50/50
it's 50/50 yeah since I started using
that philosophy many many years ago I
never had another PEC injury and what
happens is people get a little bit if
they're not used to it at first so they
get a little fatigue and they think I'm
weaker yeah it's not weakness it's just
fatigue it's just because you've done
something else but if you stick with it
your strength comes back and then it
gets even better
you know I've I what I would say 90% of
people find unless they go absolutely
nuts on the first exercise is that the
doesn't really
I'm sorry I thought no I don't know I
thought that's right um well what people
find is that if they just stick with it
their strength comes back and it's even
better mm-hmm no but that is a common
thing that people say well why isn't it
gonna affect the strength on my compound
exercise I'm like well yeah it might
increase your strength initially but
it's also just fatigue it doesn't mean
that muscles aren't working hard yeah
and if you're going cyber trophy which
mine is then it's going to help you
achieve your goal and it's not that I
don't want you to use heavy weight
either don't get me wrong if I say a set
of six
I want you using as much weight as you
possibly can with perfect form for your
six the other thing I would say over the
years tip that I've been pretty adamant
about is using perfect form on compound
movements and just being a part of the
powerlifting world and things like that
those things have a potential to really
tear you tear you up
so when I'm using you know incline bench
press or a squad or something I want to
see perfect execution and it's not that
I advocate doing the light training I
just want to use good form so if I had
to say to a set of eight we're gonna
work up until you can just barely get
any with perfect form mm-hmm I got it
yeah no I like it I think how I would
think of it in terms of like the fatigue
that you see initially is almost like
taking one step backwards you can take
two forward sort of thing because
initially yeah you're if you're adding
another exercise in before what you're
used to doing first you'll be a little
bit weaker on that initially but it's
basically just creating a new starting
point for you and now you already build
your way back up right right yeah yeah
and I'd also really like the the big
picture long-term approach in terms of
longevity because powerlifting obviously
like you said you know as has gotten a
lot of popularity recently especially in
the natural bodybuilding community and
you do see a lot of people come in and
they just go boom right to their
deadlift right to their squat or what
have you
I don't know if this correlates well
with any kind of increase in injury or
anything like that but from my own
experience I feel like something like
what you're talking about makes makes a
lot of sense and if you've been able to
train as long as you have doing that
approach I think if my hats off to you
you know because a lot of people in the
sport do you get really banged up yeah
you know I've worked a lot of banged up
people I think it was about four years
ago I started working with Marc Dugdale
and he was on the verge of retiring
because he was so beat up from hit
training yeah he had torn hamstring torn
pectoral odd and mark two years ago won
three Pro shows he won one he went on a
winning streak and you know he's one of
many guys that I'm trained that they
thought their careers where their bodies
were just to beat up but the system
allowed them to you know I started
working with quad and he had some some
injuries and Vlad was able to win a
couple shows and he's had some injury
sense but I think it's always smart to
think long term you know I know it's why
I've been there you know I was the guy
Jeff that I remember when I was when I
was 20 I was 21 at the time won a world
gym and I was actually squatting
probably around 550 or 600 back then and
I remember the squats the there were
five squat racks in the back and I
remember the old power lifters world on
those Saturday mornings and I was on
Saturday mornings every Saturday morning
night you'd start getting excited you
start getting pumped up you just
couldn't wait to get in there on
Saturday and I remember going to narrow
Saturdays and these guys are putting all
their old man cream on their wraps and
their knee wraps and I remember kind of
like laughing those guys and like the
only reason you guys are all hurt is
because you don't train right yeah awful
form and I got a little older and I
realize holy crap you just get beat up
it's just the fact of training hard if
you train with intensity it's just it
you're going to get aches and paint and
pain and strains all those things so
you're probably better you're probably
wise to be really careful and you know
to try to stay in one piece yeah yeah
for sure I'm gonna get a little bit of a
clearer picture about how your exercise
sequencing goes so you'd start off with
your your activator is this like
lightweight higher rep stuff like a
really like kind of constant tension
type movements so like say a machine
press for the chest
what kind of like reps on are you
working in there and are you going
anything like a medium yet wait okay
like eight eight to ten okay and then
how close to eight how close what I
typically do is I'll work my way up and
the last set will be the one that's to
failure okay so let's say like for a
machine press for example like let's say
I do you know say for warm-ups or me I
do like ten warm-ups what let's say the
machine has like 250 pounds let's say
that I can do the machine for a maximum
of eight times I might do 200 for 8 to
10 parade to 25 for eight and then 250
for eight now obviously the to hunt does
those preceding sets obviously weren't
the failure but I consider those working
sets it's not like you didn't do
anything it's not like you didn't
challenge the muscle at all but then the
last set I prefer to really be to true
failure with good form so I'm not gonna
get up to that weight and stay there set
up for set on per set one of the
interesting concepts now and you did a
video on it is you know how often should
you come how often should you train to
failure hmm and so I'm not big on taking
every set to failure and I've just
always felt like that's probably doing a
little bit more than you need you
probably did a little bit more damage
and you need to so to answer your
question I want to work up and I'm gonna
count a few of those sets as volume that
aren't the failure and then the last one
should be the failure gotcha gotcha and
then after that do you get into like I'm
ain't some kind of main movement or what
comes after the activator compound
movement gotcha gotcha go for chest like
my favorite exercise is a slight incline
barbell bench presses on Sam gotcha
and depending on what the exercise is
the rep range is now they're gonna drop
a little bit so now you're looking at
maybe a five or six or seven reps
generally probably around six reps what
I'm trying to do there Java's I'm trying
to get people up to somewhere around 85
percent of their max for as many reps as
they can get some people can get six
with that some people can get five with
that just in that ballpark I feel like
if you get to that level of intensity as
relates as it relates to a one-round
maximum you can feel pretty good about
hitting those
threshold motor units you know with the
weight being that heavy and as I
mentioned earlier I like to really apply
a lot of force to the bar so if it's a
squat I'm purposely trying to drive up
as fast as I can if it's a bench press
I'm trying to push as hard as I can
I kind of like have a sprinter mentality
like force
you know just explode so that's kind of
how that one looks Josh yeah I think
that also that whole speed component
really ties in nicely with the safety
and longevity idea because I'm aware of
some research showing that if you move
away that's it like say it's a lesser
the weight is actually lower but if you
move that at a really fast velocity you
can stimulate a very similar number of
motor units as you would with a much
heavier weight or something that it
basically makes up for lighter loads so
if you can handle lighter loads it's
less stress on your joints and your soft
tissues just move it a lot faster and
you look similar hypertrophic effect
right right right well then you know
when you get into rate coding all that
stuff but um yeah
hundred percent man plus fun she's fun
yeah yeah yeah exactly yeah so after
this is that when you'd hop into like
some kind of stretch or movement or is
there a little more fluff in there like
I call this sort of the the third phase
is what I call the Supermax pump phase
and all that means is just I'm gonna
pump the muscle as much as I can I
literally want to get as I want as much
cell swelling as I can possibly get so
that's going to be an exercise that
allows me to do that and then the fourth
set is always gonna be the one where I
apply the high intensity technique so it
might be the drop set or it might be it
might be a bunch of accentuated
negatives like I might say you know have
an exercise where you can just apply the
lecture manual resistance on the
eccentric part it might be an ISO hold
at you know it might be partials all
those different things that you can
extend the set create lactate and all
that fun stuff but that's the third
phase gotcha gotcha and then after that
you'll do your your stretcher to finish
something that just stretches the hell
out of the muscle you feel so good at
that point in the workout too and yeah
you know I've never seen anybody get
injured down at that point I feel like I
feel like it's very beneficial
definitely
gotcha I really I really like that
that's
and then you would run that through a
couple times a week for each each body
part or does that depend time for each
body part and then the second time I
take out that phase - gotcha
so you don't beat yourself up with the
heavy compound stuff gotcha I gotcha
yeah that that's it that's a really
that's a really solid setup to me and I
think you're right what a lot of people
tend to really gravitate to is like the
hardcore bloody stuff which is like
those drop sets and everything but
that's just a small portion yeah that's
why you're actually doing yeah so thanks
for sharing that with us John
one thing I wanted to talk to you about
is genetic limitation so as someone
who's been doing this for a really
really long time
I would imagine you'd have some pretty
good insight into this so do you have
any strategies for helping people break
back or break pass what might be a
perceived genetic limitation well okay
so if they didn't pick the right parents
you know why I tell you what though
Geoff one of the things that I'm a firm
believer in is people don't know what
they're capable of man until someone
pushes under that level and I've had so
many people you know I have pros come
here all the time and they'll do it
they'll do a workout and they'll say I
didn't even know I was capable of that
mm-hmm you know and these are people
that have trained hard their whole life
and I think people just aren't aware
number one of what they're even capable
of so I think the majority of people who
think they're their genetic limit I
don't think they've really pushed
herself to even be able to say they're
at their genetic limit but let's say
they're close or something like that so
you know then you've got a whole lot of
things you got to look at you got a look
at their nutrition I personally am a big
believer and what you put in your body
around training around the training
window I know that's very controversial
but and then you get people that you
don't look at their training programs so
what all have they really tried like if
somebody comes to me what I've always
found crazy was you know you'll get
people to come to you and they'll say
like well my legs won't grow and you'll
give them you know you'll prescribe some
workouts for them they'll say well I
don't I don't that'll do that I like to
do this wait a min you just told me your
legs don't grow from that
so you know so people they getting they
get like ingrained these ideas in her
head and they won't change anything and
I'm not married to any idea if I learned
that my system was horrible there was a
better way to do it tomorrow
I would abandon ship and I would adopt
the new philosophy but um I think one of
the hard things with people was there
just so first of all you got to get them
to try something new then you got to
look at you got to do a history with
them okay what have you done because all
those things that you've done that
didn't work we have to do something
totally different and him it might be
the intensity of the workout it might be
the volume with her workout it could be
me and there's a number of things that
could be the training frequency but
there are a lot of variables that you
can manipulate over time and for someone
to tell me they're at their genetic
limit they better I've tried all that
stuff for many many years you know
there's a lot of rocks that unturned
before you can truly say I was stuck at
210 pounds competing for ten years and I
was convinced I was at my genetic limit
but I was wrong so there's a lot of
rocks you got up you got a turnover
there so you mentioned you know people
would come in and say there they didn't
even know they were capable of doing
that so basically like you just have to
push yourself harder how do you how do
you do that without you know
compromising what we've talked about
about training to failure and so on like
if you're only taking one set to failure
and it's your last one how do you how do
you kind of do that how do you how do
you push yourself harder in that in
those confines well the best thing that
has is to have an awesome training
partner yeah I've been fortunate - some
really good training partners I don't
know if you've seen all the videos what
they've taped I have a man but we used
to just kill each other but to do it
intelligently you know you've got to
look at a few things you know one of the
biggest misnomers that I grew up with
was thinking you had to be really really
sore in order to have a productive
workout in order to grow you had to be
super sore and the more sore you were
the better I was completely wrong about
that and I feel like there is a point of
no return where you beat your body up so
bad you know when you people tell you
like they can't walk for five days they
can't sit down their legs are so bad
that's overboard to me so if you're
going if you're working that failure set
really hard and you're that sore you
probably went a little too far so you
probably got skaila back and then in
terms of just in general not a cute but
chronically if you're doing these sets
over and over you just got to look for
the classic symptoms with people you
know people tend to their performance
decreases you know maybe their peak
power goes down maybe their endurance
goes down you know maybe they are more
moody you know I see people like all of
a sudden they get moody when they're a
little over trained or so you got to
kind of be wary of all the traditional
overtraining symptoms I look at a lot of
I look at the performance part probably
more than most people I look at the
speed in which they're training like
those compound movements if all of a
sudden that 315 used to fly up if all of
a sudden it's going really slow that's a
like a bell goes off I'm like okay we
got to look at this so speed you know
people don't get pumps anymore maybe
their insulin sensitivity is kind of all
out of whack
but those are the same things you look
for overtraining or kind of the same
things you look for here and when you
find those things sometimes you just
have to pull back you know how do you
pull back that's a whole nother story
you know is it something where you need
a D load or if you just need to maybe
just maybe not a DLO but maybe you just
need to adjust the intensity that once
set it might just be as simple as that
you know does that make sense
you know that makes perfect sense um I
think that's something that I kind of
advise people if they're like I'm stuck
at a plateau what do I do
and I'm like well how beat up do you
feel and if they're like really really
beat up I'm like well you probably need
to do a little less and if they're like
now I'm not beat up at all it's like
okay you need to you need to push
yourself a little more I need to do a
little right so so that's kind of the
way I think to solve that and I totally
agree how about we we bring the the
steroids card into play here what do you
think about people who are natural and
feel like they haven't really made a
whole lot of progress is that is it a
different story for someone who who has
anabolics on their side hundred percent
yeah hundred percent
I mean you're Jack and protein sent us
this up so much
you're reducing muscle protein breakdown
so much it's a different ballgame and if
anybody tells you differently then they
must have had fake fake gear so it is a
different ballgame you're capable your
recovery is much different
the interesting thing jump though is I
tell you what I've always kept about you
know if I look back at the number of
people I have the probably half were
natural half weren't so I've always had
a good population it was natural and one
of the things I found was that there
were natural athletes that were very
gifted that recovered really fast and
there were also people who were not
natural taking you know a fair amount of
stuff that still couldn't recover so I
think there's a genetic card in here for
recovery and I don't really understand
it I don't really understand the science
of how somebody can recover genetically
really well and somebody has all these
extra advantages can't but those aren't
the exception to the rule you know
there's there's there are people like
that but they're they're the exception
the majority of people you know if
they're using insulin and growth hormone
and steroids they're going to recover
ten times faster and this is what has
ruined methodology and bodybuilding Jeff
because people will have awful programs
but they take so many drugs they just
assume their programs are awesome and
then they tell everybody else so you
need to do these programs you know
that's happens there's nobody that
really in bodybuilding I will say nobody
there's not too many people that have
been able to think outside of drugs and
this is one of the reasons why I've
always liked having natural people
because you can't it's not one for one
you have to think a little differently I
personally think natural people need a
little less volume I think people who
are enhanced can handle more volume and
more volume as you know can create more
muscle yeah but you I'd be a little bit
smarter about when your natural and then
also obviously the drugs push people
that are natural passed our natural
plateau I don't think I ever could have
reached a pro status natural just no way
there's just no way so you can get I
think you can develop an awesome
physique naturally but um just for
someone is they all you can be a pro
you'd be a pro bodybuilder or you can be
too hard
deepal and that's hard to believe but
that the guys with the help are
definitely recovering faster like in
that book came out with let's definitely
to live in her favor oh yeah yeah it's a
different ballgame for sure in the
context of breaking through weak points
do you think it would be fair to say
that like someone who is enhanced or at
least open to being enhanced you could
just always say just up the dose is that
something that you you recommend or do
you think it's more still smart to just
focus more on your training just like
you know a natural guy would yeah man I
when I have somebody with a weak part
the first thing that comes into my mind
is how is their exercising most people
just say more frequency just train it
more often but if what they're doing if
they're not executing the exercises
properly just doing it wrong more often
is it gonna help the first thing I like
to do if someone says well my chest
won't grow I'm gonna watch them train
their chest is their start I'm caving in
or there's all the stress transferring
to their doubts and their triceps or are
there some mechanical are there some
things they're doing wrong with their
form that you can fix that's the number
one thing that comes into my head if all
those things if your form is great
everything looks great the tensions
right and then in the recovery is right
then maybe you can look at adding
frequency but usually upping the dose
isn't necessarily a way to fix a weak
body part you know it might make your
whole body grow but it's not gonna
selectively like if you have poor legs
it's not gonna all of a sudden make your
legs grow and you're not in your upper
body not grow I'm not a big fan of the
up the dose just to be honest with you I
mean I've been a low to moderate guy my
whole life I would I constantly post
posted blood work I post blood pressure
all the time I posted it yesterday maybe
him today and I'm gonna turn 46 in April
and I'm still doing really good so I
think that kind of backs up I've been
saying for many many years so yeah on
that note I guess now if you got time to
talk about some of the the health
effects especially in light of recent
events in the bodybuilding community
there's been a huge backlash against
steroids and
you know the bodies are turning up rich
Piana passed away
Dallas McCarver passed away really young
age how much of this do you think is
attributable to to steroid use and has
the public caught the the wrong idea
here
well man the thing is the body isn't
meant to have 300 pounds of muscle I
mean I hear a lot of people say well I'm
healthy
you know it's muscle but if you think
about the stress when you're hard I
would almost rather someone be have more
fat you know it doesn't require the
blood supply that muscle does so when
when your body weight gets really high
for your height then you're asking a lot
of your heart and if you have some
genetic issues in your family like
Dallas did it's really rolling a dice
I've got genetic issues in my family and
I'm actually getting a calcium score
test done next Thursday just to see if I
have plaque buildup and things like that
there is a backlash and there should be
a backlash it's just amazing what I hear
first even first-timers doing I mean
you've got these drug gurus out there
that put people on right out of the gate
750,000 milligrams of tests you know all
this other stuff on top of it and look
I'm of the opinion people can do
whatever they want you know but I'm also
the opinion people should be educated to
know what they're getting themselves
into and you know you can take most
people you know my offseasons for the
last price six years have been straight
HRT and I've had many many people do the
same and they did really well if you if
you really focus on diet and nutrition
and training you can get by on such a
smaller amount it's unbelievable people
never believe it until they try and then
it actually works for them then they're
like wow you were right I can just take
500 Meg's of tests about 1,500 you know
so again I don't you know people can do
what they want I'm not the kind of guy
says you know shame on you you can do
what you want you're
but I think people should understand
that a lot of the coaching and
information out there is just way way
overboard on that part mm interesting
so just for sort of curiosity when you
say you bring the dose way down then in
the offseason does that result in muscle
loss or do you just compensate that for
that by eating more calories so that you
can continue to make progress or do you
actually shrink up and then grow in to
the show well there's a couple different
approaches one of the approaches is is
you got the old Kevin the brownie
approach where you just shrink up and if
you can respond to D ball like he can
then you can blow right back up I know
when I used to teach my guys in the
offseason after they would do their PCT
or HRT yeah if I felt like they could
bring their PC their hormones back I'd
put them on PC T you know some clomid
hcg things like that but if you don't
feel like they can get their natural
hormones back then you go down to an HRT
legit HRT dose you got to do that for a
long time but then when I used to tell
my guys was let's find the absolute
lowest amount we can take and still make
progress in the offseason and for many
guys it was four hundred Meg's a test
maybe two hundred Meg's of something
else that car EQ certainly much lower
than what they call blasting these days
everybody likes you use the term
blasting now but I used to like have my
guys use the lowest amount that they
could use and still do well in cycles
and then you know maybe 12 weeks of that
and then maybe come back and do another
PCT or you drop down a true HRT dose and
the nice thing there is when it comes
pre-contest time that's when you do have
to ramp it up to look like a pro
bodybuilder you have to take more and
it's not so much high doses of one
compound it's now you got to work some
other compounds and they give your
muscles a cosmetic look and the nice
thing is Nelson your body will react
really well to that stuff because you
weren't pounding it though all year
round you know when you pound stuff year
round
I've been around a long time Jeff I've
seen a lot of people come and go
Superstars and then me and weirdest guy
come from
two years later poof they're going yeah
you know these guys they jam it in the
offseason their grams and grams
grams and their body finally just says
all right man that's that's the best I
got you know and I think the approach
that I have is also certainly much less
risky I'm never gonna say with no risk
it's always risky but it's nice to be
able to respond to things when you're
dieting dieting itself is it's hard
enough to maintain your muscle right
when you're dieting I mean that's hard
so you know now you can actually ramp
some of the stuff up close to a contest
and main protect your muscle a little
better right just because this is
something that I I very infrequently
will talk about on a channel or the
podcast just keep everyone up to speed
when you say HRT that's hormone
replacement therapy so that's sort of
like low-dose testosterone right yeah
and then when you say PCT post
psychotherapy so maybe you just briefly
go into what that means in case anyone
is is unfamiliar with that term and why
that may be important and then we can
move on to some new stuff yeah
absolutely well you know when you when
you take a lot of gear when you're
taking a lot of steroids your own body
you know will stop producing
testosterone and that's a problem if you
want to have kids or things of that
nature and the more cycles you do the
more years you do the higher the
likelihood of you shutting it out
permanently it gets shut down
permanently when that happens you have
to take testosterone you have to take
HRT which would be a low dose of
testosterone maybe 150 200 Meg's a
testosterone tweak now if you're
fortunate enough that you haven't set
your own body down there are compounds
that can get your own natural
testosterone testosterone production LH
FSH all that stuff back to normal you
know things like HCG clomid and OVA tax
and so you know if somebody is kind of
beyond that point they're gonna have to
do HRT arrest they're like I have to do
HRT personally I tried to bring my eye I
tried the last time I tried to see if I
could bring everything back naturally it
was 2002 and it didn't work so I've had
to take HRT ever since
but eventually the longer you do this
stuff it'll shut you down so if
someone's considering doing this stuff
you really gotta think about it you know
can impact your ability to have kids you
can put y'all on medication the rest of
your life you know there's definitely
some implications with doing that right
yeah I mean as a professional natural
bodybuilder myself I guess I've always
preached sort of that mentality on the
channel I think for one thing like you
sort of said earlier it almost
simplifies things in a way it's like you
have these two variables training
nutrition and you've just got to
optimize those and that's the best you
can do with the genetics you have I feel
like steroids involves this huge third
variable that just opens up a whole
nother can of worms and almost it almost
turns it into something different you
know in a way for me it becomes more
about the chemistry it is anything 100
percent man it's a hundred percent man I
love talking about training nutrition
but man it drives me nuts talking about
the chemicals because then all of a
sudden the training and nutrition just
aren't quite as important to people and
it should be that should be one yeah
yeah that's what I was curious about
because for say just take me for example
as someone who's been training I've been
training now for about 11 years and it
can be discouraging sometimes you know
like for the last I'd say four or five
years I've basically been between this
like same range of body weight really
right and I will improve I will see
improvements in my physique like I might
bring up my traps a little bit bring up
my biceps a little bit but when it comes
time to shred down for the stage I'm
looking at you know roughly the same
stage weight I find at this point you
can look a little bit harder maybe the
skins a little bit tighter but you're
kind of looking at a very similar
massive muscle so when I asked you about
you know that that weak point thing it
was kind of like would your advice be be
different for someone who's a natural
than someone who who has all the extra
stuff at their at their disposal yeah
and I guess the answer is is yes in a
way but ultimately for you it seems to
come back to the to the fundamentals of
training and nutrition really yeah other
person yeah so on that note I mean for
say any of our younger viewers or
listeners out there who've got a strong
fire and a passion for bodybuilding and
what kind of advice would you have for
them in terms of like do you think that
they should try to max out their natural
potential first and then consider
turning to anabolics after or you know
if the genetics are there and the fire
is there maybe you should get started
earlier and sort of see how your body
responds to it
what's your thought on that well I would
never in good conscience tell somebody
to do antibiotics yeah you know I am I
train for eight years natural I had a
500-pound squat
I was benching about 365 I had a really
good foundation ashore I won a contest I
worked really really hard to build a
really good foundation and now that I
take next to nothing I still have a lot
of muscle and I but I believe it's
because I build it the right way
I would always encourage people to Train
natural as long as they possibly can you
know try different training approaches
try different nutritional approaches
make sure you won't return every single
rock that you can before you cross that
line and if you do that I think I mean
if you did do that and you did cross on
line I think your results at the and in
the long term would be even better so
the closer you can get your genetic
potential naturally I think the better
you would be if you did the other stuff
right you know but I think people
meeting these guys now they just want to
jump right into it it's like holy cow
you know yeah yeah yeah I noticed that a
lot especially like in just recreational
users like say people who aren't wanting
to to be on the IFBB stage they I find
that if you I'm not sure about this but
if you almost don't have the genetic
predisposition to be a good bodybuilder
it almost just makes your physique it
can make it look worse in a way I find I
feel like it could be unrelated but I
feel like your proportions can get way
out of whack in a hurry get all these
bad side effects and it's just like man
you you should just wait a couple years
first but that's the other my opinion
you know I agree you know what's
interesting is people think that the
biggest abusers are the pro bodybuilders
and that's probably true now
but back in the 90s and the 2000s it was
actually the guys at the national level
was actually the amateurs because they
gave out so few Pro cards that these
guys were doing everything they could to
get their pro card I mean just roast in
their bodies and many of them turned pro
and then disappeared I can think of
several guys I compete against that look
phenomenal
turn pro you know I run into them
they're just like man I just couldn't
handle the drugs anymore you know you
talk to him about what they took and
you're like whoa but um it's a little
easier to get a pro card now so it's not
quite as bad but but back in the 90s and
mm at to me is when the people were
hitting the drugs the hardest because
they were right on that cusp of being a
pro but there were so few Pro cards you
just these guys were just going nuts you
know ever I remember the first time I
took growth hormone I took two I use
after I trained five days a week and I
went to the USA and the guy sitting next
to me he's like man I'm not sure if I
can afford his growth around any longer
and I was like really why is that he's
like well taking 18 IU's a day which was
a bottle of sarah stem I was like you
mean a week and he's like no a day it's
like man you know I get to see a
hundreds of stories like that so yeah I
mean it must be an expensive hobby I
mean it's got a rack of the bills I
don't know how these people pay for it
yeah pharmaceutical growth all around is
super expensive yeah and so yeah I don't
you know a lot of these guys they get
involved with shady stuff and you know I
don't know if you know much about my
background Jeff but I worked as a VP at
Chase Bank for 12 years and so I had a I
had an income outside of bodybuilding
and I treated bodybuilding purely as a
hobby obviously I'm very passionate
about it but I didn't rely on income you
know I had a I guess what you would call
corporate job right so but a lot of guys
won't do that I mean all the guys you
hear them well I can't work a real job
and train to like why not I don't get it
yeah I don't understand why you can't
work a job and train you know even if
you train two hours a day which is a lot
you know you can still find time for
that I know
get it or just lazy yeah yeah yeah so I
mean obviously there's a way to do it in
a very unhealthy way and so that you can
abuse it and the steroids that is and I
think that this is where what a lot of
the the medical literature has focused
on is steroid abuse do you think that
there's a way to use it
that's if not healthy at least
significantly less unhealthy or maybe
you do think there is a healthy way to
use steroids well if you have like if
you have if you're at the point like you
know we know that certain hormones
decline as a male gets older you know
growth hormone testosterone if you're in
a position where those things are low
they're not at an optimal level then
it's unhealthy
so to add the steroid in to bring you to
a natural look to where it should be is
actually healthy really low testosterone
levels is linked to a lot of different
issues including heart disease
depression all kinds of things like that
but you know as far as being there are
ways to do it and I would say lessen the
risk is what I would say I would say
less than the risk because you know
there's things that there's things that
I really like to track I'll tell you
some of the things I like to track
insulin levels I don't mean fasting
blood glucose I mean true insulin levels
growth hormone can create a lot of
glucose resistance I mean I know several
guys who are diabetics from using growth
hormone too much if you keep an eye on
your insulin levels that's one thing and
also high insulin levels are linked to
heart disease and just about every
Alzheimer's I mean just about everything
you can think of is linked to high
insulin levels I like to look at
c-reactive protein just to see if your
body's full of inflammation one of the
things I've seen over the years is
people using all these underground drugs
that aren't pharmaceutical grade you
know they're buys you if the their CRP
levels are sky-high you know we should
be 1 or below and it's actually like
eight or something insane like that so I
really like to watch that I mentioned
blood pressure earlier really like to
watch people's blood pressure it's one
of those things Annalee it's a big deal
but kidney damage or things are
accumulating over time building
for building up and when you get kidney
scarring and things like that you know
you can't you can't you know there's
nothing that it'll just remove it the
other ones I like to look for I mean on
a lipid panel all the cholesterol stuff
is really debatable but I still think
it's a good idea to keep your
triglycerides in your HDL and range the
other stuffs kind of debatable total
cholesterol seems to be pretty
meaningless but LDL you know there's the
argument is it large you know as a
fluffy or molecules or small and dense
or is it oxidized but I still think at
the end of the days it's good to have
high HDL and it's good to have low
triglycerides those are kind of the
markers that I look at I don't think too
many people look at fasting insulin but
that would put down at the top of the
list interesting and how often are you
recommending guys get this stuff stuff
measured oh like twice a year yeah the
other thing you know the other thing you
got to watch if you're the gear geared
up is hemoglobin hematocrit red blood
cell count those things are
traditionally always higher in your tank
and stuff I mean that's what a lot of
that stuff was used to treat you know
different versions of anemia aplastic
anemia and different thing different
things like that so that's another one
you can fix that by donating blood
donate blood twice a year and that stuff
will stay in range for the most part and
never have an issue
hmm what do you what do you think of the
argument that you know if you start out
saying on this like lower dose
scheduling or what have you
you're always gonna be tempted to want
to do a little bit more because like
people are kind of inherently lazy right
so like there they may not have to
embrace her mentality quite so much they
may say well if this much is getting me
this much results then this little bit
more is gonna get me those a little bit
more results have you noticed that a lot
in your experience or is that just
something that drug anti drug people say
well no man it's um hey you know I felt
like that too
you know I used to love winstrol you
know I'm like well shoot if 50
milligrams a day works let me try a
hundred you know I'm not I'm not a mean
to it but um you know usually there is a
law of diminishing returns hey
and I think that I think that people
don't aren't willing to accept it
they're just like well and what happens
is what you mentioned earlier they go to
a certain dose and then beyond that it
just becomes side-effects mmm and like
the sweet spot would be as much as you
can with the least amount of side
effects would kind of be in the sweet
spot and you know and and you know not
an impact to your blood work you know
that would be the ideal place to be but
you know it takes experimenting you know
there were certain things like I can't
handle tremble on there's guys out there
that smashing you know and I couldn't
handle it like I just one of the things
I couldn't handle so everybody's a
little bit different
I could never handle some of the stuff
that other people can handle but we're
all a little different in that regard
right yeah I think that's that's true I
mean you you always hear about certain
body builders like I know Lee Priest was
notorious for at least saying this how
he would take ridiculously I don't know
the numbers but it's it was supposed to
be a really really low much complicated
stuff it was just very very simple basic
stuff and he got really huge and then he
might have even come off everything in
his off season I'm not sure but he would
still maintain like 270 or something at
like five foot five in his offseason
which is kind of crazy do you think that
that's just a genetic thing and and you
know just like anything else some people
will respond like crazy to the stuff and
then others seems like they can take it
and not get too much out of it
well look at Lee Priest muscle bellies
and right there you'll see some
incredible genetics yeah look at his
pictures when he was 16 years old you'll
see a kid that had phenomenal genetics
so there's a lot genetically going on
there with him yeah you know so you know
you look at Sean ray when he was 16 17
18 years old he looked incredible I mean
these jacks have cream of the crop
genetics yeah so it's not I believe I
believe that they don't need a whole lot
to look great because I can see their
genetics right you know now there's
other guys like if you told me they took
a little mound I'd say no way he's I
just can't see the neck genetics you
know right I got you and I think it's an
important point that it's not always the
case that's like the biggest guy or the
most impressive looking guy
is the guy using the most but you would
you agree with that oftentimes sighs
yeah yeah sometimes you'd be surprised
sometimes a little guys the one that's
usually the most because he doesn't a
little guy yeah yeah all right he
started then the little guy so he's
cranking you know I I had a two 12
competitors send me a note about a month
ago and he's like you know I feel like
I'm gonna kill myself the current round
I'm on and he showed me what his coach
had him on this guy was about 195 pounds
and he probably tripled what I've the
maximum I taking it was quite cheerful
what I've taken and I'm just like man I
just can't believe it I get these notes
all the time for people and um you know
that's the problems coaching our
industry is these guys they don't know
how to solve problems with diet with
training and nutrition and you can solve
a lot of problems with training
nutrition but they just you know they
just they're issued their way to solve a
problem is what we need more t3 or well
we need more clenbuterol or we need more
growth hormone there's no you know let's
take a look at the diet maybe you want
to do this maybe one do that so and
drugs are powerful things so it works
and then people like oh wow what a great
coach yeah I'm curious like has any of
this stuff left any bit of a sour taste
in your mouth for bodybuilding or do you
just realize that like in anything in
any endeavor there's gonna be idiots and
this bodybuilding is no different or
does it seem to really attract a certain
type of person how do you think you know
why man I don't I'm one of those guys
that people can do what they want
yeah I've never been like if you told me
you take five grams of testosterone I
would say okay I wouldn't think any
different of you whatever for me man I
didn't do it I did bodybuilding I didn't
do it because people picked on me or
because I was trying to pick up girls I
truly loved it and even though I might
not agree with what other people are
doing it doesn't take away my love for
bodybuilding are there knuckleheads out
there 100% but they're in every like you
said man they're at everything yeah you
know when I worked in the corporate
world
there were jackasses that were in the
corporate world you know I worked in
hard manual labor jobs when I was in
school I ran a Jack
I've worked in a wooden mill I worked in
a car factory you know there's there was
you know people who weren't so nice
there in all walks of life I go to
church every Sunday and there's always
someone that flies out of the parking
lot you got to be careful they don't hit
you doesn't matter I had good teachers
bad teachers so I don't get too hung up
on you know sport being terrible it's
just changing it's just turning into
something a little different it's not
like it wasn't a 90s but it's afforded
me a really good life and I can never be
mad at the sport because it's provided
me the opportunity to do really well for
my family yeah you know I never would
have been in Forbes magazine if it
wasn't for bodybuilding so there are no
hard feelings in me man
I love bodybuilding I'll always love it
and you know like you said there's
always gonna be knuckleheads out there
yeah yeah that's that's that's well said
I'm just like kind of curious now so I'm
gonna have like three imaginary
scenarios so you have one person who's
who's relatively new to bodybuilding and
they don't have the best genetics they
want to put on a lot of muscle and of
considering turning to steroids you have
someone who has been bodybuilding for
quite a while
naturally and it's suspicious that
they're approaching their genetic
limitation they're kind of discouraged
with their training not making a ton of
progress probably close to where they'd
be maxed out naturally then you have
someone who say I don't know in there
maybe 50s or what-have-you and they feel
like maybe you know their strengths and
their their shape is starting to like
decline they're considering TRT what
would you say to those those three
different people and in terms of just
giving them advice of someone who has a
lot of experience the TRT guy okay the
first thing I would say is what's your
total testosterone what's your free
testosterone I would want to see blood
work yeah if his total testosterone was
150 I'd say we got a problem you need to
get some medication in you I don't look
at someone to make a guess I don't go by
how how they're feeling although those
things can give you vital information
you still want to see some lab work yeah
you know you can't ignore that
and I personally would like to see lab
work in all three of those scenarios I
got to see what someone's at I mean
knowledge is power the more you know
about I have a really high free test
level which is a great genetic gift that
means that I can use stuff better than
most people and that's probably one of
the reasons why I can get away with less
but I would never know that if I didn't
get blood work done so frequently say
the second guy was approaching his
genetic potential you said yeah I mean
you got oh so I start with I start with
all the life stuff first yeah it's like
okay do you have a are you married you
have a spouse what would she think I'm
not gonna tell you to do something if
your wife disagrees with me do you have
kids
what would your kids think you know are
you I like people like they get into
this thing where it's just their own
life and they can't see out and this is
bodybuilding man this is how
bodybuilding is people are very selfish
it's a very selfish sport and you can
get lost in it in you for you can forget
about the people around you I mean I've
seen so many broken relationships and
body bullying more than I can count
and it comes down to the selfishness
it's a selfish sport but doesn't have to
be so I'm always talking to people like
tell me okay if you want to make this
step how's this going to impact your
family what's your wife won't think
about it you got it you got to ask those
kinds of things right because maybe this
guy's all gung-ho and he doesn't and
maybe his wife is like I want to have
kids you know how's this going to impact
us having kids so if I told that guy to
go for it and his wife want to have kids
and I just told him to do something it
might reduce his taint so having kids
I'm a pretty shitty person I think so
you know I try to understand people's
lives what's going on in their lives I
don't coach a ton of people anymore you
know but the ones I do it's like a
family and that's kind of the
relationships I like to have with the
people I work with and these are the
kinds of conversations I have with them
like you and I are have yeah someone
says Neil what do you think man I'm not
even etic potential should I take gear I
will even get into that until I
understand the dynamic of their life a
little better
you know if it's a dude apartment just
him and he doesn't care and it's the
only thing he has in his life and hey
man don't four dude if that's what you
want to do go for it but so I guess my
answer Jeff is you know you it's always
good to have data it's always good to
know someone's blood work is but you
also got to know what's going on the
person's life personally what if it's a
person who has an addictive personality
and you're telling to do that is that a
good move probably not you know what if
it's someone where they tell you they're
close to their genetic potential but but
you know they don't train are they don't
eat right is that the kind of person
would tell them take drugs probably not
there's probably things they should fix
first so you gotta really do some
inspection when you answer questions
like that you know so that you're given
well informed answer I guess I'm saying
yeah of course of course
and then I guess for the less said of
this the young guy he's 19 years old and
he's kind of just frustrated wants to
make some some quick gains what what
would you advise him probably eat more
no would you when you're younger man you
burn stuff up my grandmother raised me
and she worked in a restaurant she was a
cook in a restaurant and she brought me
home a cherry pie every night yeah when
I was trying to gain weight before I
went to bed I eat a whole cherry pie
every night for a long time and I mean
that's the goal nice sometimes it's hard
as hell to gain weight you know I
remember when I wrestled I would get
home and my mom would make a tray of
cornbread and I would have a giant bowl
of whole milk and I would throw the
cornbread and like mush now it eats a
whole tray cornbread you know but I was
trying really hard to gain weight and it
didn't really work until I hit about 20
years old and then all of a sudden like
you know 15 20 pounds you know from
eating but most of those young guys
mayonnaise gotta eat more yeah you know
it's John I've got two more questions
for you and then we'll call it a wrap
this was a really interesting
conversation for me so we talked a lot
about genetics I'm curious what do you
think about this do you think that
genetics tend to trump hard work or can
you really out work or yeah out work bad
genetics and be successful as a
bodybuilder well
ultimately the guys who do the best they
have both right they have granted that
exam they work hard but I've seen a lot
of genetic freaks in my day they could
never get in shape they can never
fulfill their potential and then you
have guys like me if you look on my
structure I have narrow clavicles I have
a wide pelvic girdle I have a high
pelvic crest I have I have hi Lance
you know those are traits that you would
say there's no way this guy can be a pro
at let alone play some pro shows but
I've overcome that and I'd like to think
I did that with smart smart training so
I think I think there has to be a
certain level of genetics though to hit
that you can't just take anybody make my
pro I think that's given people false
hope there's a lot of people I worked
with there were great people but no
matter what they did no matter what drug
they took they're just not gonna be a
pro it just genetically is not in the
cards for him so there's like a minimum
level of genetics I think you have to
have and there's so much it goes into
that but I have like I said me and I
have seen a lot of guys with absolutely
sick genetics man just never take
advantage of it just lazy and a lot of
them and I beat a lot of those guys yeah
you know you know but then the guys come
along to do both and they crush me so
yeah yeah it's similar to any sport I
suppose you know there's always gonna be
that interplay between discipline and
genetics exactly you know I'm a huge
football fan I mean you know you look at
the Jerry Rice the guy was gifted he was
fast he ran in perfect routes and he
worked hard he was one of the hardest
workers in the NFL history and then you
get guys like Dez Bryant supreme
I think yep my dad found oh doesn't
really work real hard and he you know
you see your right you see that in
Osborne yeah yeah so something I think
that can apply to to really anyone who
has an interest in bodybuilding or even
just building a more impressive physique
is the idea of weak points it's like
some muscles and it's different for
everyone just really seemed to be really
stubborn and not grow no matter what a
lot of guys come to me
calf issues in this regard but you know
I think for me is probably my biceps and
my traps more than anything what would
you say just general advice for for weak
point prioritization or improving those
well I mean again I think you gotta look
at exercise execution and I'm gonna give
you an example you mentioned calves I've
built up 20 inch calves they're not like
that now but at one but two or three
years ago there are 20 inches and ever
behind all your calves or genetics are
off the chain like actually my genetics
are pretty weak with calves but I
figured out how to train them you know
and it's really logical that you think
about it I've been telling people for
years you have to work out of the
stretch everybody gets on these cow
machines they just work the top half
yeah you know we'll just get up and flex
and do sets of 25 all it's fast twitch
its slow twitch muscle fiber and maybe
your soleus but but they don't really
emphasize the stretch and that's what
your calves aren't used to they're not
used to coming out of a stretch position
with heavy weight so the first thing I
tell people is okay I want you to
stretch I want you to pause in the
stretch and I want you to use
progressive overload and try to build it
up until you're using a whole stack
there's things like that so that's an
example of people give up on their
calves when the reality is how many
think they've trained incorrectly so I'm
gonna try to get them to train them
correctly first of all biceps the
biggest thing with biceps is people just
train them too heavy a lot of times you
know maybe there's too much lower back
or shoulders when they curl no maybe
there's maybe there's not enough full
range of motion you know maybe they're
just you're joining was so narrow
they're not really long getting a muscle
so I guess I'm really big Jeff and I got
to see how exercise execution is and
that's step one for me you know that you
know if that's good if all that stuff
proves right then I look at how can we
increase frequency so how can we
increase because maybe they're not
trainable maybe they're training they're
getting a nice little good effect and
then they're waiting too long and it's
about bottoming out they're kind of
starting over so maybe you can instead
of waiting five days now maybe you can
wait two or three days give yourself the
48 hours it's customary and increased
frequency that's of an approach I like
to use here's the thing with frequency
though when I have someone let's say
they have bad legs and I increase their
leg frequency you you don't have an
unlimited amount of recovery so you've
got it you got to give up something
somewhere so I'll take someone strong
body parts let's say it's their back and
I'll bring their works that's way down
hmm and I'll I'll make up with the stats
on their weak body part so you can't
just mindlessly add volume to people's
routines and I see people do that a lot
they'll take their straight routine that
they're doing and then notice keep
adding volume but then you can't recover
if you could then we could just train
our whole body every single day yeah you
know it just doesn't work that way
so but if we can give your body a little
bit more recovery capacity and then
maybe we can hit it more frequently so
if you're getting 10 workouts in 30 days
as opposed to for now you've got it
now maybe chronically maybe you can get
more muscle tissue over the year right
yeah I think I think that's that's great
advice right there I need to I need to
apply that for my biceps Yeah right on
I'm so done that's all I had for you
were going on a just over an hour here
now but it was it was an awesome
conversation man I think I think the
people are really gonna gonna enjoy it
it's something different something that
I've never really talked about on a
channel especially the stuff to do with
with steroids some of the differences
there some of your training techniques I
think are really really novel even for
me to hear so I think it's it's really
interesting I appreciate it man you're
doing awesome work and I appreciate you
having me on I know I'm not the typical
PhD so no it's awesome I love I love
talking to people who just have tons of
experience in bodybuilding because like
you're here like you know you can tell
you like you're your own scientist and
you're not dogmatic you're not stuck in
your ways like you said and this is the
way I see it myself it's like people
will often say oh you're just like
picking studies to support your point of
view and I'm just like why would I do
that
like I'm trying to figure out what is
gonna work the best all right I don't
care about defending my own view if it
turns out that I'm wrong tomorrow I'll
be the first to admit it I'm just trying
to figure out what works best so anyway
I respect that he seemed to have the
same basic idea
there yep but yeah so to everybody
listening make sure you go and check out
John's YouTube channel he's putting out
a ton of a really cool content there
I'll have a linked in the description
down below I think you guys find it
helpful a lot of different tweaks and
cues on certain exercises you probably
won't see anywhere else and we're here
recording this late on a Friday night so
make sure you give us some lovin hit the
hit the thumbs up button if you enjoyed
it make sure you you say thanks to John
I like I said I'll have everything
linked down there in the description
thank you guys for watching if you are
new by any chance you can hit the
subscribe button I'm going to be doing
interviews like this at least once once
a month moving forward
in 2018 that's something that I've
wanted to sort of introduce to the
channel again so yeah thanks for
watching guys thanks again John and
we'll see you all next time
[Music]