[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you're serious about your goals and the
rpi app is here to help it creates a
diet for your specific needs let's you
choose your favorite foods and tells you
exactly how much of them to eat and when
expert system AI guides you along to
keep you on track to your goals for less
than $15 a month you have one of the
most powerful diet coaches in Wilcock
[Music]
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today
[Music]
and we're rolling folks welcome back
we're in the the wake of the rp+ seminar
which are which went great
Opie plus 700 just know what the hell
I'm talking about the RP summit I didn't
get either of those right and it was
fantastic
we had a bunch of fun I got to meet
people I met through our old job at
temple there was former students there
there were RP clients of mine there
there were RP plus people there it was
great there was a ton of people it was
really fun yeah it was really good time
can you hear me okay am i coming through
okay yeah you're great you know if I
start to robot off yeah so thanks for
everybody who came out hopefully you
guys had a good time we're definitely
thinking about doing another one in the
future and when we know more well what
you know yeah it was highly successful
we might do more of these different
locations for example we might do one of
the west coast's california ish who
should be sweet yeah yeah all right
let's get into it yeah yeah yeah let's
start so Eden brown says how much James
just wondering if I could give you an
outline of my upcoming massing mess oh
and give me some feedback on at arms and
side delts are four times week frequency
as they will be main focus throughout
the block of training then increasing to
five and openly as six times a week for
last measure oh by the way Hayden that's
a good prospective plan I just have to
do due diligence and notifying you that
if four times a week is even a bit much
and you go to five it feels like it's
just way too much don't go to six you
don't say then hopefully six times a
week so I think heads in replace chest
back in quads and hamstrings and when we
going to four times a week on the last
muscle it seems reasonable so far I'm
gonna scroll through and see how many do
you wanna share the screen there James
or should I share mine I heard it on
screen share already do you want a
scratch
Oh perfect no no no no
I just I just scroll down okay he's got
six days I'm just good because if you
got some pretty big plans for a purchase
you get a training probably something
like six days you know what I'm talking
about James like I had to scroll down
and see how many days it said because
like I'm I really it's a really strange
thing when people like I want to grow
all these muscles and oh you know I've
got a clean three days a week so it's
just funny yeah so we might just have to
like spit some ideas out here but one
thing I'm just noticing looking through
this right off the top sometimes you
kind of go from agonist to agonist
muscles and then into kind of other
muscles or even antagonists so like on
for example day one wide grip bench and
then you do deficit rows and then you go
into flies I would say just go into
flies and just keep your pecks are
already nice and warm no need to get off
the train there in fact it might even be
kind of a potential downside of just not
accumulating more metabolites just from
keeping on the same muscle group and
pushing through so I think I see that in
a couple instances here I think also
like on day two you see squads I think
good morning to them like extensions you
know what just go just blast the quads
until they're done probably and the way
you know you would think like oh but
this means that I have to do like
prioritize something versus others you
do but you can do that in some of the
days and do the opposite the other day
it's only day one chest focus can be
just first back second you know day
three or something like that can be back
focused where you start with back and
then back back and then chest chest like
at the end and it ends up people seeing
that effect they get at least one study
recently published where clustering the
muscle group exercises together resulted
in more anabolic signaling than
separating them it's one of those cool
instances of like that's what's been
done in practice for a long time and
only later it gets verified later what
our lat prayers that's what I want to
know mmm man I took what you just sit
there grateful ads I think because I
think like prayers makes me think hands
together right so I'm wondering if it's
like maybe like a machine like pull like
a pullover
kind of thing yeah maybe not sure on
that one it's not a reasonable idea same
idea there I logged a three you know if
that is what I'm thinking of or if at
the very least if it's just a back
exercise like just do that right out of
the Rose same thing would be a for
consolidation CD six and so one thing
I'm noticing is here's a constructive
criticism that always reminds me of the
waterboy when he opens up his likes it
recommended things like he has
suggestion box and it says each in and I
signed everybody yeah not exactly what I
call constructive criticism what's the
cause was lovely unbelievable quotable
Josh Bobo I've never seen it
my jujitsu coach had never salon huh
like a year ago I was like watch it you
have to watch it so he saw it feels like
okay I understand all the hype and it's
like this movie is designed for you also
more nonsense did not age well with the
with the woke era a true that means an a
for me and aged for you and I have aged
even better exactly so constructive
criticism is here is you say earlier
that you say that arms and side delts
aren't four times a week as they will be
my mean focus not the block of training
but when I look at you to eat arm and
belt exercise does seem to be last in
every single session if they're really
the focus they should be front so you
should start day one with laterals and
curls then get into vigor bench deficit
rosin cetera so I would absolutely have
that as correction James yeah cuz that's
a very good point because the way I'm
looking at this this looks like a really
well-balanced program but it definitely
doesn't look like a super shoulder
emphasis program to me and there is a
lot of shoulder exercise but they're all
placed at the end which is fine that's
how you if it was like a balanced
program that's how you would do it so in
that regard it's good but I'm not seeing
the like shoulder emphasis either so I
think Mike brought up a good point there
but otherwise I'm not really seeing any
red flags here everything else looks
good you might consider you might have
already said this maybe I just missed it
but you might consider putting some of
the big movements on maintenance values
and or even you know the thing with the
shoulder emphasis is like the shoulders
aren't enough to really soak up like the
calories that you need for our mass
phase so that might be an instance where
you put things on mev rather than m/v
just because be kind of a waste just to
do like all the all those calories for
like shoulders and arms so that might be
a good instance where you put like your
quads or your packs or something on any
V values rather than and M V values
something like that but you might be
already doing that and I just missed it
yeah right there Mike okay but he says
what if he lectures you see Tobias the
volume slightly yeah oh maybe there was
a delay there like it your face like
paused and you were like kind of like
bug-eyed for a second and I was like I
couldn't tell if you were making a face
at me or not
no okay gotcha okay
hey so yeah my internet connection is
unstable
I've life by the way
okay it was unstable last ektu interest
checks out
doctor I'll buy you on stay but it's
just like your lifestyle the BPM it
sucks all right I want to get back to us
on um so let me know if I cut out James
will do I was gonna say of a Saints
don't think what I was to cut off in one
of your lectures you say Tobias the
volume slightly in favor of the five to
ten in the first mezzo 10 to 20 in the
second and 20 to 34 well setting up the
first mezzo of training is only one
exercise for each muscle group in the
flesh 210 sufficient Tobias this way yes
mm-hmm
and then slightly add more volume over
the weeks to about same exercise what I
need to add another
to tell exercise no like you're fine
it's not matter of preference there and
again like that idea being for the
emphasized muscles of this of this gain
phase right so like should you be adding
lots of sets of five to ten on
benchpress I would say maybe not because
that could just be retracting from what
you could be doing in shoulders so a
good example of that might be like five
to ten seated barbell overhead press
something like that and then adding you
know sets to that as you see fit yeah
the plan for the next vessel would be to
increase the frequency to four times a
week for the big upper body muscle
groups instead of three apart from the
lower three times a week as all my knees
can take yeah actually just switch back
to two times a week on my lower because
I could take it
progestin a perfectionist to the each of
the eight out of day both of the pit to
20 is a if you didn't want to change the
vessel it I guess we didn't say that
thanks in advance for checking which had
both are much appreciated and then he
says hi Mike and James sorry I heard
your cat in the background I'm Wow yeah
that's either the cat or the kid can
tell okay yeah for a client who just
wants to get stronger after every good
productive lack of a virtual free
training would be 8a a the key things in
designing a strength micro slash
mesocycle by our book scientific
principles of strength training and
design of most likely using that was the
best answer but generally speaking you
just wanna you know I would say if they
just did a productive hypertrophy block
and let's assume that it's bonding going
stop hypertrophy not power lifting style
because palaces how virtually generally
pros almost exclusively in a 5 to 10 rep
range its Bottomly hypertrophy for all
the three main rep ranges all the way
from five to thirty reps I'm a big fan
and probably James's to we'll see what
he says of a transitional mesocycle
where you do an entire mezzo more or
less than a 5 to 10 range and then sort
of through the meso you increase load a
little bit more than you would and
increase volume less than you would or
not at all so that by the end you're
doing mostly sets of 5 to 8 as opposed
to sets of 8 to 10 and that really wraps
you for the next true strength mezzo
which is are mostly three
raps Jade yeah I'm massively in favor of
that and I used to move people kind of
into like a subgroup of that called you
know like a four to eight range but I'm
more in fear doing a like as Mike said
like a five to ten and then eventually
moving into whatever strength range that
you want to use whether it's closer to
maximal or maybe in between there one's
fine but having that transitional one
really does help a lot yeah then after
that it's just like be smart about which
movements you want to use like make sure
their movements that are conducive to
their goals or sport keep the volume in
check like it's going to be a good jump
off points gonna be like two-thirds of
the the movement volume that you did in
hypertrophy and that's kind of it from
there yeah good call mark as Villard L
says hi
your little robot e at the moment
question is related to them I hate this
okay you're bad when I'm not robot II
yeah you're good hi I'm Mikey so my
question is related with AMPT if at the
beginning of the week I do four sets of
squats in later that week I'm still all
traceur from the training but I can do
the same or more ups than the last
training session should I rate it as a
zero or as a negative one until now I've
been reading it as a plus one since I
could do more reps but the fatigue and
soreness makes me feel tired most the
time despite eating at a surplus and
resting thanks doc so go but I won't say
here is actually uh mavin whoo James and
I have been writing this book and one of
the best benefits of writing a book on a
subject is you really get to organizer
to thinking I don't actually develop and
even further because you really connect
some dots and clothes and moves for
before with speculation now becomes
really very likely because you sort of
think of all the things we can actually
give you a pretty definitive answer here
so there's sort of a two-part
autoregulation system around hypertrophy
and volume to do mostly with soreness
and performance the thing is if you will
performance is increasing within a
massive cycle we don't know what percent
of that is because you're gaining muscle
and what percent is because of
or architectural improvements which
could be very very rapid but we do know
that we have extreme overlapping surahs
there's a chance you're dipping into
your maximum rate of gains by causing an
excessive degree of muscle damage that
you're at an adaptive pool has to
compete with so our advice is if you
have nasty overlapping soreness either
rated as a zero or a negative one which
means either stabilize or slightly
reduce the volume so that you do not
have overlapping soreness now does the
performance indicate that you are
recovered yes in the technical sense but
remember recovered as holistic me that's
neural recovery plus muscular recovery
etc etc those nasty overlapping swamis
tells us that you're probably not at a
volume which optimizes growth probably a
little bit north of that long so my
advice would be to rate as a zero so
your catch on to that recovery or even
as a negative one in some cases if the
source is happening very extreme James
yeah that's I have virtually the same
answer I would only add that if you're
really feeling tired all the time as you
described in the question I would maybe
push that to the minus one because it
might just be a little too much like the
combination of both the overlapping
soreness and the like kind of lasting
fatigue would be an indicator that
you're getting like just a lot of
systemic like fatigue from that exercise
and a lot of local fatigue so if it was
just like overlapping soreness but
performance was pretty stable I would
say zero but in your situation you're
having that situation plus like the
fatigue I would say minus one yeah
brilliant all right Leonard
Morrison's says hey docks they need to
limit by training my good James so yes
muted myself because I was eating for
your good words I need to limit my
training to maintenance volumes for at
least one year in order to focus fully
on my new career as a prostitute Christ
Leonard my objective with training now
is to only preserve muscle mass we're
training for meanest arrest at a period
of time should my medicals and macro
cycles look essentially the same as they
did when I was training fiber trophies
save for the static volume is during the
hypertrophy mezzos probably not that's
my assumption that I should be training
in hypertrophy rep ranges usually seven
to sixteen for me depending on the
muscle and increasing intensity and
closing in on failure from week to week
and Dean living every fifth week it's
correct we wanted to make sure I plan my
mat least it's like so here's the good
news about training for meetings pull
out of sight James my back yet your back
really good news for trainings of
maintenance is that you can cut your
total volume for sure by half for the
year and see no losses of muscle there's
a fundamental fact the training for
maintenance is much easier than training
for our hypertrophy for gains so you
don't have to structure it in any way
similar to hypertrophy Mazouz
you can absolutely increase weight on
the bar as a matter of fact you can
train essentially just for strength
because it's a cool time to get stronger
but what you can do is let's say you
training six times a week currently you
can train really in any rep range you
want because all the rep ranges can
serve muscle just about the same amount
you can train people than do and James
and I do program training in the lower
ranges just also get stronger which is
an in the side effect but get down yeah
it's low begging for food he's like
trying to put his face in my cup Oh
you don't have to do that but you can so
it's optional whether or not you change
intents for these you can work through
all the intensities if you do very low
intensity or survey high intensity very
low reps for an entire year you might
have to do a mezzo here and there will
you do very light loads just to get
stress off the joints so you can't train
it as a training phase but if you let's
say or as a string things but if you are
normally training six days a week you
can literally maintain muscle by
training three days a week cutting all
of the set numbers total per week that
you do in half
even more really to a third of what they
normally are picking any rep ranges
really that you like and doing mostly to
compound basic exercises and not having
to get too fancy with isolations because
it just compounds are really good to see
in a safe time right like you do
underhand pull-up so there's your back
and there's your biceps pretty much
right so doing that is how you maintain
and do is you put one weight on the bar
every week yes do you still do it on
occasion when your fatigue rises yes but
those d loads may be very big big gaps
between them and depends on how much
weight you put on the bar every week but
fundamentally it should be as much
easier much less time commitment much
less complex that hypertrophy training
James yeah and so I think Mike already
touched on this but one of the big
differentiating factors aside from just
though the raw volume I should have
switched the screen back sorry is the
frequency so you can train it much lower
frequencies in terms of sessions per
week but also how frequently train those
muscles are weak I mean so you can
literally just change them I already
said this but you can just go down to
like three days a week of full-body
training and that's pretty good which is
fucking awesome you might also find that
you might be able to extend your mezzo
lengths depending on whether or not you
push the intensity if you push the
intensity you might not be able to do
this but if you do more of a gradual
approach and intensity you might be able
to go out for like five six maybe even
seven weeks before you really need to
deal ODE if you treat it more like a
strength phase you might actually see
that window shortening more than normal
so if you normally did like a foreign
one if you really push the intensity you
might have to go down to like a three in
one whereas if you just treat it more
like a true body building style
maintenance phase you might actually
only increase the intensity every other
week or so and that might push your
muscle cycle length out to like six
weeks before you need to deal oh so
that's kind of the two big like
fundamental differences and after that
it's kind of consolidating your exercise
selection and conserving variation for
later on when you get back to doing more
structure at heart training so just pick
a couple basic movements hit them hard
and your workouts will be short and
sweet my man also does training at
maintenance volumes but with typical
hypertrophy rep ranges desensitize me to
a hypertrophy training in any meaningful
way like regular hypertrophy training
does re sensitize it does re sensitize
you actually type or trophy volumes in
what I need to do a lower rep range
resynthesizing measure every six months
or so when already doing long term
eating and straining know so I think
what do you might have been maybe
winking at is like should I be utilizing
all the loading ranges or is that maybe
a lot of bad long-term strategy and I
would say mostly no outside of doing
like what a bolide training yeah even
that have such low volumes it probably
hasn't desensitized exactly so usually
we recommend just using the heavier
loading zones anyway and then what kind
of in the previous question maybe even
transitioning into non hypertrophy
loading zones like strength zones but no
it will not ultimately also should I
still be devoting a portion of my volume
work to metabolite work or does the
utility of that go out the window when
you are trying to grow well it's
literally a special technique designed
to grow you if you're bored if you have
some injuries if you don't want to go
heavy metabolite works great to maintain
muscle but no you don't have to do it
that's the thing here's the fundamental
thing like all these techniques for
growth they're so overpowered for
maintenance that you can use them if
it's a similar to a question of do I
take my Lamborghini down the street to
get a Slurpee of a 7-eleven like yet you
can if you want to show off
if you want to see if the Lamborghini
still works but do you have to know do
you know if you enter a race do you have
to add a Lamborghini Yeah right
so that that's a lot of the answers here
mm-hmm
am I still coming through okay it's
still good my man sir I promise I back
home next weekend stop harassing
bullshit O's hf5 fucking Hayden all
right and then lastly if I was to change
course at some point in the future
decide to Train say chest and tries up
to the Hermer V but keep everything else
in maintenance but assume the needy load
all the maintenance muscle groups every
fifth week of the meso along with a
medium RV ones yes for systemic fatigue
purposes I would say yes here's the
thing man that James Kriegers analysis
of literature on this proved pretty well
d loading just straight up doesn't cost
you muscle and because of the recent
ization effect it doesn't cost you time
either like if you didn't deal oh then
but if you did in some studies even
incredibly often way too often and some
of these studies didn't even train for
weeks at a time
you still gain the same total amount of
muscle at the end of six months or at
the end of the year the only benefit of
de living is that it for sure saves you
and gives you tons of systemic benefits
and ferg reduces injury and all this
other stuff so all of the benefits of
not D living and keep going are
completely washed out by all the
downsides of doing that so James and I
are pretty clear on this 90% of cases
James correct me if I'm wrong if you
have to ask do I deal owed or not the
answer is team load oh yeah absolutely
especially for this demographic that
tends to train hard like you know if
you've trained someone to train wants
the deal after two weeks like the other
bitch but like that's the only situation
really where you say no right it's like
if they're just if they're just avoiding
doing hard work and then it's like okay
well it's not even a question of
optimality your heads already out of the
game at this point like yeah you've got
bigger fish to fry so come on I'm saying
yeah all right and then thanks for all
that you do scientific principles of
strength training all the articles and
dr. Mike survives strong by appearances
have proven an invaluable resource am I
looking forward to the forthcoming hyper
textbook not a textbook Brad Sean Feld's
book is the textbook which we'll be
referring to and that have been the
hypertrophy book but thank you so much
for your balls deep into editing it
we're actually most of the way through
editing it now and it's James what do
you think so far man not at you've yeah
I didn't get asked there it's great
actually was editing it earlier today
and I had a cool idea and I was excited
about it and I think it's coming
together really really really nicely and
I think it'll be a nice resource I mean
for a lot of our people us people we've
kind of spilled the beans on things like
SFR and yeah volume landmarks and things
like that but for other people who have
never even like thought of this idea I
think it'll be a real mindfuck for them
it'll be it'll be a you know a
nomenclature to to intuition right
things that they understand like in
their mind like oh I know this exercise
works good for me and this and that but
now there's kind of a system of
describing it which I think people will
really appreciate it's also I think one
of the only books in muscle growth to go
from a repetition and how to do it
theoretically how what a good technique
looks like all the way to exercise
session microcycle etcetera etcetera all
the way up to career like it really
gives you a framework for all of
hypertrophy training and I have never
seen anything that does that you know
like a rest times between sets all that
stuff is covered to like if you have a
question about how to train for muscle
growth that book is gonna at least send
you on a pretty good intellectual to
think about things you know what I mean
like yeah absolutely and that and like
in combination with like I don't want to
spill any beans so cut me off if
necessary but like the hypertrophy
guides that are been updated and are
gonna be on the website soon it's just a
lot of awesome content and Mike and I
were joking shooting the shit on text
and it's I just said something to the
tune of like man can you imagine having
this information coming out of high
school like I would have killed for
somebody to tell me this should have it
on a free website I was I was the
muscular development bodybuilding.com
era like I bought all that shit and did
all the dumbest stupidest crap there was
to do so like to me it's
really cool that we can put stuff like
that out there and people find it
valuable because Mike and I have gone
through all we've done all the dumb
stuff when we took us a long time to
figure out what was done what was useful
so I'm really excited about that stuff
Steven gooder there says hey Doc's been
a while since my last couple of
questions I just finished about here
there's a little chopper nesting thing
[Music]
probably only had one month of me yeah
it said there had a stroke of genius
hello sorry you're a little choppy there
but it looks like you caught up okay am
I good yeah you're good I think by the
time that I say it's choppy you you've
already like you know gone through a
little bit but that's okay yeah I think
stroke of geniuses were I think I left
off with you okay stroke of genius slash
common sense I figured this here is my
coaching you season approaches I would
take my training down to maintenance for
the length of the wrestling season
because coaching takes so much time and
energy and late nights I don't have it
in me to push hard on both fronts so I'm
very similar to last question I think
yeah so I'm looking at three and a half
months of much-needed maintenance and
diet how should I organize that Stephen
[Music]
C Eason you just go right back to that
and just beat the shit out of it for you
would you agree that James before I keep
it I'm sorry Mike could you repeat what
you said this fuck I'm sorry it was like
girl girl girl girl girl girl girl girl
James what do you think of that Ignat oh
my god do you know how much data it
takes to broadcast an hour a video isn't
more than 15 gigs or no it can be
depending on like how high-quality the
audio and video is fuck because I have a
hot spot on my phone
and see it's it's already cutting out
again different 15 gigs a month off I
hate this um Jana why don't you take
this one and it just ran and that you
want me to just read and then you can
we'll just flip flop for today how's
that yeah how about you read and answer
until I come back I'm gonna try to solve
this problem sure if you have a landline
that might be helpful okay so I think
dr. Mike's gonna be worried okay let's
just kind of take it from the top since
seems like we got a little off track
here so I had a stroke of genius and
common sense I figured this year as many
coaching's as my coaching season
approaches I would take my training down
to maintenance disaster all right I
would take my training down to
maintenance the wrestling season because
coaching takes so much time and energy
nice I don't have it in me to push hard
on both fronts so I'm looking at three
and a half months of much-needed
maintenance training and diet
how should I organize that with my team
on most movements low volume three reps
from fail to approximately seven reps on
the first set mostly heavy compound
movements with any muscle groups be
trained lighter in the higher reps than
that delts Buy's tries calves so first
off that's a great approach you can
basically just take that idea and run
with it and use you can do extra like
accessory movements if you want to
that's just totally up to you and you
might find that like your if you have
like really big arms for example you
might need to actually do a little bit
more like direct bicep or tricep work
like if you have arms dr. Mike sighs he
might not be able to just do like bench
presses and pull-ups to keep that arm
size he might have to do that plus like
maybe a few sets of curls or skull
crushers or something like that so
that's that's more of an individual
choice that you will have to figure out
but yeah mostly just like right on
points so anything in that six to ten
rep range 10 rep max 3 from fail puts
you right in that range that's gonna be
seven reps I'm pretty good if you wanted
to do some higher rep stuff that's also
fine especially if you feel like you get
a good response and certain rep ranges
in certain movements so like if you
wanted to do you know side laterals into
10 to 20 range that's fine so long as
the volume came down all good there so
yeah you basically take that approach
run with it and you can drive the
intensity and just treat it like a
strength it's kind of the same as the
last couple questions we had okay second
question do I increase weight sets or
proximity to fail as the week's go I'm
thinking definitely not increased volume
as I need to be sensitised but it's
maintenance do I need a progressive
overload on any parameters at all or
just stay with week one numbers so you
do need to change it a little bit over
time so usually what we recommend is
once you make the initial switch to
maintenance to really bottom out those
volumes on week one and then kind of
bring them what would be kind of your
standard and maintenance of volume in
week two and then basically the volume
from that point on unchanged for the
most part outside of just doing more
reps right you're not gonna add any more
sets at that point unless you start to
notice that your deconditioning and then
you could add some sets you can
absolutely increase weight you can
absolutely increase proximity to failure
though you don't necessarily have to
it's still a good idea because you will
over time acclimate to the training that
you're doing and that's just the reality
right so it's not a bad idea to increase
in weight even if it's a true resents it
ization maintenance phase like every
other week or so if you wanted to treat
it more like a strength phase you would
increase the weight every week and in
some cases like we said in the previous
question that might shorten the
mesocycle length or if you just do it
like every other week or every two weeks
or something like that it might actually
increase it so definitely increase the
proximity of failure on a grand scale
like star from 3 from fail run that for
two weeks and then do it like 2 weeks of
2 from fail and then you could maybe
even do another week of 2 from fail or
moving to one from fail depending on how
long your projected messe cycle will
last so yeah you do increase on some
things but definitely not volume just
volume is like a very bare-bones start
really low start like abysmal e low and
then maybe go up once and then cut it
off for the rest of the time
okay hmm next I'm looking at three and a
half months of this how often should I
deal owed if it's just maintenance
training so we kind of covered that in
the other one it mostly depends on
whether or not you're just doing recent
Siddhas Asian stuff where you're not
really progressing much in intensity or
if you're doing more strength e stuff
then you'll be d loading more often so
you can kind of take what you normally
do is a good starting point and if you
find that by the time you get to what
would be the end of a normal
accumulation phase and you're kind of
still just good really not any wear and
tear to speak of you can just push it
out and kind of see how far you can go
so I would say start like your normal
one and then you can auto regulate from
there if you're not pushing the
intensity you could plan on probably
doing an extra week and if you are
pushing the intensity probably plan on
shaving off a week or Auto regulate it
and take a deal owed when I feel beat up
or performance decreases that's always a
good choice can't argue with that one
lastly a few joints feel rough from the
past mesocycles of training most notably
my shoulder I did incline dumbbell bench
for two sets and flat bench for one set
with my 10 RM and my shoulder hurt
excuse me
I don't really want to take out the
benching motions because that kills all
my heavy weight compounds
should I go lighter weight higher rep
range you can do that swap it out
completely for flies and PEC deck type
movements maybe maybe not that is an
option I know it's going to hurt for my
next chest system to Incline hammer
press flat cambered bar bench and dips
I'm curious your thoughts on that one so
what I would say is it's probably your
your train of thoughts correct I would
say it's probably in your best interest
not to take out the push movements the
compound pushing entirely maybe just
play around with variations that just
don't hurt your shoulder so for example
if flat you know regular grip is hurting
your shoulder try wide try Close Grip if
if the incline dumbbell is hurting your
shoulder try incline barbell you know
just play around with the different
grips until you can find one that's pain
free if you are just up shit out of luck
shit Creek whatever you want to say then
you might decide to swap to something
like oh sorry so the next thing you
would do is try the lighter rep ranges
right so that would be the next chain of
command type activities so you try
different exercise variations then you
try the lighter rep range
and if the lighter rep Rangers are still
hurting your shoulder then you would
switch to like PEC fly or PEC deck type
movements but I would save that as the
last option so mostly just try and find
like a work around the exercise
modification being first rep range
second and then if you need to switch to
isolations go from there
all right hey gamez I hear yeah there
you go
I'm back and I my brother-in-law gave me
a password for a better network that's
closer so looks oh it isn't let me know
if he was holding out on you yeah okay
let me know if that's okay you sound way
better excellent yeah I thought all
those answers are great I have nothing
to add okay cool let's pick up them with
John Howard okay John Howard says the
art assignment went well I guess he was
at the every cylinder
oh we said hope the episode on cheese
Crescent garland it was a disaster huh
three questions for you guys nor one
what is the reasoning for daily
ovulating periodization does alleviate
the need for the recent civilization
phases by incorporating the strength
strain along with hi wrong training say
mo cycle know or say microcycle no it
does not do that
looks like that is used in the older
2017 hypertrophy hub examples but a male
physique template doesn't seem to work
like that just curious so a physique and
template is a little bit more simplified
and the male physique template does well
you could say is block undulating
periodization or block periodization
which it can see mesocycle doméstico
cycle it does some different things mom
we now hold the view James and I that's
some combination of within microcell
within mesocycle and within block
difference in intensities is a good idea
so there's actually a lot of nuance
between those two so our answer is you
probably need to be doing all of them
but there needs to be logic to them the
reasoning for DUP for hypertrophy
training is that you have a certain
volume allotment and if you do all of
that in a super-heavy range
you're probably gonna just work your
joints right off the body so you might
need to do later work just
to unit volume if you only ever do later
work you might be missing out on some
specific benefits of very heavy training
particularly for faster fibers and some
of them stronger muscles so by doing all
of the ranges 5 to 10 10 to 20 20 to 30
you might be getting a little bit more
benefit to doing just any one of the
Rangers though if you only ever did the
10 to 20 range you'd probably get 95% of
us bidding so DUP in this case is an
optimization strategy not a requirement
do you pee in powerlifting or in
strength training is a little bit of a
different idea mostly uses the concept
of variation to allow you to manage
fatigue very well and present
overloading stimuli without doing too
much for too long
James any additions to that yeah that's
actually the direction I was gonna go so
the the reasoning for DUP will vary
depending on the the goal of the program
entirely right so Mike Mike already
mentioned I mean even the stuff that we
recommend that you guys do in terms of
varying your exercises varying your your
vial your volumes your priorities your
loading ranges I mean those are all
examples of DUP in a bodybuilding
context however you want to spin it
right a lot of people will say BUP is
all these other crazy things but really
all they're trying to do is like
systematize something that has very
broad general general applications and
it's something that's been part of
periodization for a very long time if
you were to look at sport training right
you see kind of a maybe I would say a
slightly stronger case maybe not the
best case for using DUP in the sense of
fatigue management and variation right
because then you get the benefits of
using heavy loading and then heavy power
outputs different times throughout the
week which kind of makes sure that you
have an elevated sense of preparedness
for any one of those activities on any
given days though that could still be
achieved through just very reasonable
programming so I'm not a very big fan of
like the DUP in the sense of like the
very like modern as in like the last 10
to 15 years interpretation of DUP but I
am a fan of it in the classical sense
yeah scientists do
number two if not actively prepping for
a competition what are your thoughts on
tracking calories and protein with
evenly spaced feeding this is that good
enough for scenarios out self contests
from as long as you also eat mostly
healthy foods I think you're fucking
golden James oh oh well I was rereading
it sorry oh that's okay
I do have an amendment to what I
answered I think that that's totally
cool as long as you don't eat too little
carbohydrate oh I see and as long as
you're nah shit my original answer
sucked I've misread the question a
little bit in my own head as thinking of
contest prep is just a more serious time
if you're a bodybuilder you can do
better than just eating some mix of fat
and protein and here's why some
individuals if they under eat fat too
much get into a problem where their
hormonal levels aren't any good thing
and training energy and they might get
hurt more often on the other hand if the
too much fat or not enough carbohydrate
what they end up doing is not having
great pumps not healing fast enough
anabolic will share you might network as
well they actually don't get as big as
their kid and they get extra fat so I
think it's worth sticking roughly to
consuming most of your protein are sorry
most of your above protein calories as
carbs but enough as fats to check the
boxes is there is some nuance that there
as to how much that is so for example
let's say you have a combination of you
know roughly sort of 600 grams of
protein / fat I know that minimally the
calories but it's pretty close 600 grams
of protein / fat to eat per day how much
of that do you eat I think there's a
fine case to be made for eating as
little as 350 grams of carbs and 250
grams of fats
I know 200 ish grams of fats or
something I think there's a fine case to
be made for eating you know Alba - she
you know 550 grams of carbs and only 50
grams of fats but I think less than 50
grams of fats or less than 350 grams of
carbs when those are the macros
dated sister really pushed into the
limits of too much fat not enough carbs
and the other way around so if your
normal diet just feeds you the kind of
like for example if your own meals like
pasta with sauce brown rice with chicken
blah blah blah and he have some ice
cream on top of that you're totally fine
just tracking calories and protein but
if you eating nothing but bacon and
almonds for three days or something and
some protein shakes or you're just like
oh you're just into the clean eating
thing or you tilapia rice and lettuce
for three weeks straight and your
testosterone tanks in the shit then
apparently the calories and protein
thing wasn't that great of a situation I
will say one more thing look if you're
gonna compete in contest prep contest
purpose is the sort of one of the wisdom
he's the wisdom of bodybuilding and this
is something all bodybuilders pretty
much agree on that have competed long
enough is that the guys that get the
best relative to in genetics treat the
offseason pretty seriously that's not to
say they treat it as seriously as
contest broad but they don't just buck
off so we got the variable of protein
calories and that's two variables or we
can have proteins carbs and fats that's
three variable is one extra variable of
tracking and and allotment really gonna
kill you know can you still have an
amazing super fun time eating super fun
foods and training really hard on
offseason by tracking fats and carbs yes
so I think it's worth tracking both can
you do just tracking calories protein
yeah if you don't go to extremes yes
James yeah that was a great answer I did
a lecture I think it was in Calgary and
I think they posted an rp+ on I just
called the physique and lifestyle which
kind of outlines the trade-offs of when
yeah be more fussy about those things
and maybe we have multiple categories
right yeah and it just kind of breaks it
down based on how how involved you are
in either the sport of physique or just
how lofty your aspirations are so this
one says contest prep yeah so so that
means it's probably a regular competitor
and in the two examples I give that
would give like you in the one or two
category so there's a lecture on I think
it's on our P plus or might be on
YouTube I think this is called like
balancing physique and lifestyle or
something like that and there's
just kind of same idea of what Mike said
maybe give you some perspective
yeah but ditch TLDR the perspective in
their lectures if you do compete you
should probably track your carbs and
fats exactly yeah and then how how how
laxed you are really is how lacks you
want to be with your your goals really
and that's a matter of lifestyle and
trade-off at that point number three
relating to above question I grew up
overweight maybe even obese so I
understand have a lot more fat cells
then I might otherwise have had does
that impact how I should build my
surplus in terms of fat / carbs wouldn't
be beneficial to prioritize one over the
other to keep fat cells under control is
that more in terms of surplus size as
far as I'm aware it's exclusively in
terms of surplus size may be wise to
here on the lower side when attempting
to mass media wise I don't think it's a
good stress it's probably not a bad
strategy in general if you're just prone
to being over fat but but just for like
an average Christy if you got your shit
in Condor control and you're not worried
about like job buying out all the time I
don't know I don't you don't have to be
unnecessarily restrictive either right I
mean yeah here's my thinking James let's
say someone weighs 200 pounds and they
go on the high end of our massing
recommendations which means they gain a
pound a week right let's say they do
that for 16 weeks at 16 pounds I mean is
that the end of the world to lose on a
fat loss phase no no and like and do you
see if this the fat hits you out of
nowhere also know like and have had a
pound of a week of gain which is very
fast you couldn't notice when you're
getting fatter you're gonna notice that
eight weeks you're gonna notice a 12 and
you can only slow down or do a mini cut
and get back to zero net fat gain yeah
doing
only a sum total of half a pound a week
may be better that means you've gained
only two pounds per month um but the
thing is also like at two pounds per
month
the real determinants of how fat you get
is how long you do that for you know the
size of the surplus per week unless it's
crazy really doesn't matter much it's
how long you know if you mash four
two years straight so it doesn't matter
how slow you go you're gonna put some
weight on if you can even measure how
you know month to month Wow
that actually is a cutie I can't see the
cat well she is really yelling up a
storm yes um so so yeah I think the real
a better answer we could give you is you
know if you're prone to fat gain you
pick a normal rate maybe even a slower
rate maybe normal rate is fine what you
should really do is the big good advice
is watch your physique every month or so
in the mirror
and oh there's the cat you're right
you're mine on camera James yeah she's
as soon as I fucking split the camera
this cat runs away ready yes Oh so
basically like our best advice I don't
think is to really care ton about how
fast you gain weight but don't disappear
and get fat like James and I must have
had about a trillion clients over the
years and people we consult that are
less clients and folks we just stay in
touch with that Lake will be like ask us
all these super precise questions how do
I mass rate of gain blah blah blah and
then we've all video you will hear from
them for one or two months and we're all
here for them for a year and a half
it'll be like hey guys I'm up 50 pounds
like what the fuck is wrong with you at
what point did you run off the real Zeke
so our best advice is don't run off the
rails gained 10 to 20 pounds and then
rein it back in by another 15 to 17
pounds and then repeat the process you
know yeah just don't knock some gain a
shitload of weight and those are the
people who typically like abandon their
diet template mostly altogether they
start off good and then it's just like
alright Chinese buffet pizza like what
you know they just say like Fogg what I
just need to eat cause it's Massie's and
they that's when you really start to
spiral so as long as you still
understand
wait you treat it with the same level of
rigidity that you would have cut like
you'll be okay the nice thing about
masters you can have those nice treats
and you can go out and have some fun and
it's not as devastating as when you're
on cut so you should still take
advantage of those things but if you're
prone to job hang out maybe keep keep a
little people keep the same level of
strictness when you mess yeah
[Music]
[Music]
alright so the man had exclusively hacks
Daniel hacker said we've talked about
cardio during the mass before would you
say a simple five minute cardio warm up
before training session would suffice as
enough no I wouldn't say that
six training sessions once a day
equaling 30 minutes of lists a week 30
minutes of list week is like you walk
you're a girl that you're dating to her
car twice right but yeah especially for
one of the things like with cardio is
like there is a duration component I
mean it's it's not just like a summative
thing where you just sum these like
minutes from a neat perspective yes that
that is that but I mean like from a
cardio perspective no that's not gonna
cut it I would say if it's that little
cardio just do more meat yeah I think
James what would you say a minimum of 15
minutes per session to get like the real
robust precession benefits I mean yeah
that that's really like a threshold and
that's I mean like that's assuming like
low to moderate intensity like you can
do like 10 minutes if you're doing
high-intensity and hit the minimum kind
of benefit dose but for for this like
you the only way to benefit from the low
intensity stuff is to do it longer but
that's the trade-off you got to do more
of it all right next question I've had
flat and incline barbell pressing for
the last two mesos twelve eight hyper
caloric period Oh hypocaloric period I'm
going to be doing three weeks of low
volume training one week D loaded in two
weeks at MB before starting a long mass
I'll still be doing them during low
volume phases these processes the
pressing doesn't feel stale but it would
have been 15 weeks albeit some of that
at low volume and I was doing those
presses shall I keep them in for the
first mass mezzo or swap them out for
flat and incline dumbbell presses them
last time I did flatter incline dumbbell
was 12 weeks ago and he's not pressing
variants before the cut
I know actress has momentum is awesome
so it seems like it would flow so
perfect to switch to dumbbells as I move
into a hyper core period there's get big
cars rather than have the bobble
precedent for likely just one mezzo and
swish into a mezzo two for the mass
however the barbell doesn't seem stale
so I'm wondering if there are PRS that I
could be needing on the table I mean you
can definitely really even PRS on the
table I think at this point it's one of
those like
if we went through the sort of guideline
of one tone which I just added in games
by the way in the book the guideline of
one to change exercises deletion or
placement in the book they'd be when it
would the conclusion would be like you
could go either way and you really could
what I would consider suggesting is to
simply switch grip widths on the barbell
pressing and not even go to dumbbells
but do still the barbells keep the
momentum train running but do the grip
book sold differently so they even have
kind of the best of both worlds of
variation but still similar to what you
were doing yeah that's a really good
suggestion so like kind of what are the
trade-offs here so like on the one hand
you could be setting yourself up for a
pretty robust like PR which is cool self
affirming and it may be a good indicator
that you've actually done a really good
job on your training which might
translate to better long-term goals when
you start massing and stuff later on
what could you gain from switching it
now what actually might be really nice
choose which the movements and benefit
from that variation because your MeV
goes down on the later mesocycle right
so you can start with the lower MeV and
expand out further as you go which has
its own benefits so it's really kind of
what you think is the most appropriate
at this course do you think it's worth
trying to set yourself up for a big PR
or do you want to ease into your next
phase a little bit and have that little
extra margin of excuse me a little extra
wiggle room to span that huge MeV it's
really noisy mike is there any way yeah
I will yell at my family for you mom I
think oh it's really noisy and we're
thinking sorry take that blood relations
yeah so no worries okay so murky able I
says hi Docs my question today is
regarding the mythical gray area between
oh my god I mean that was the section I
was just like editing not but like
that's also an hour ago gray area
between MV and MeV is there any get away
of estimating if you are in this gray
area it would be hard to define because
mev training will cause some soreness
and some pump but md is defined as the
minimum volume needed to maintain
current muscularity therefore the gray
area training would have the same
characteristics as a me training there's
my to finish in any measure a pump and
soreness will get you into any training
for advanced individuals taking entire
medical
um be Justin's current level of
advancement would take too much time
anyway
training fiber trophies so we get our
estimator to be useful to see if one is
wasting volume in the gray area or not
hope I managed to make sense of all
things always managed to make perfect
sense
mayor Chia I you know like I don't think
we have a ghetto estimator for the gray
area because the careers technically no
landmark but it's a very very good
thinking what I will say is this is why
it pays to occasionally run your so so
here's here's good news through the
course of your training all everything
at some point should run the maintenance
volumes right whether it's the
realization phases where you do means
for whole body or de-emphasis the
emphasis periods were just body power
body part or muscle group or muscle
group you do decent maintenance volume
training at some point mainus form
should come up the algorithm to figure
out maintenance volume is one of doing
as a cycle at a certain volume below
your MeV and see if you gained or lost
or maintained if you gained go lower if
you maintained go lower if you lost go
up and then stay and see if you maintain
again so basically until you lose
performance and muscularity and known
movements from a certain level of the
training then next time you do that
maintenance mowing you should knock it
down by one or two sets and try to
repeat it again it's a search for the
bottom so there is no ghetto algorithm
we have you know get a method that we
have figured out yet might give some
thought to that sort of thing but for
the time being I think getting to know
your real MV over time should be
something known the real good news is
that M V as you get stronger and better
trained the higher training level means
you need more stimulus to keep your
adaptations but the increase in strength
means that that stimulus is already
coming in from just heavier weights so
uh pretty much another way of saying is
the number of sets it takes to maintain
doesn't really change much from early
intermediate all the way into super
advanced so once you find your MVS they
tend to be pretty stable and once you
found them you could just go down to
them and avoid the gray area because you
know you
these and you don't hear me bees so just
don't be an idiot James yeah and so kind
of the the thing with the MeV is that
it's the the minimal point of measurable
like tangible progress and that was a
caveat that we were very like a
particular about when we started
defining those terms so the in micro to
describe this like you know you're at
MeV when you're actually making
performance progress that's a definite
cutoff so we have the ghetto estimators
but we also have a non ghetto estimator
which is always performance so if your
performance is going up you are most
likely at MeV right and so that's a
really easy thing to measure and define
anything less I mean after trying to
figure out what's less than that is a
matter of guests in check and trial and
error right with the MVS same idea and
all the steps that my car to describe
but I mean basically err on the side of
going lower than you think
and then the space between lower than
you think and what you have measured as
your MeV right because you've seen
performance increases that's that and
it's it's actually more simple than you
might think it's a good thought process
but there the application really only I
think I think advanced lifters like
people like advanced bodybuilders
advanced power lifters are probably the
only people who are really gonna find
themselves struggling a gray area anyway
right area most other people it's gonna
be like either on progressing or I'm not
and my maintenance volume is just it's
just tiny ain't either way but the thing
is advanced power lifters a bodybuilders
also have the wisdom of the years behind
them so they know their MVS or at least
they should like even pro bodybuilders
just do none no intellectualizing at all
of under lifting a lot of times you can
ask them like hey how much do you need
to train your shoulders for them to
really not lose size most of them be
like it's this much and most doesn't and
that's really not that much some guys
have such great genetics for like legs
or something Vail train legs again a
multiple body blew the train leaves once
a month when they're trying not to grow
their legs because anything cuz you know
they have like the evening train hard I
mean they could easily train him once a
week just really easy but they train
them hard once a month and that
literally just conserves all their size
for 12 months straight so if you're not
advanced there is not much of a gray
area if you're advanced you should have
so many mvs
estimations and any estimations under
your belt but you should know the
differences between the two yeah and so
just like it's the envy is kind of a
funny conundrum over time because if
you're just looking at a pure
dose-response relationship we would
actually expect the envy to creep up a
little bit over time right just from the
pure like all the dough stuff like goes
up right the longer you go the more it
goes up so we would expect it to shift
to the right like everything else does
but we also have the combination of long
term like motor learning so we have lots
of neural efficiency lots of familiarity
with movement patterns and we have long
term body composition changes right
which basically counteract a lot of the
effects of that dose shift that we would
see so what we see with advanced people
is they can basically do very little and
whatever they lose comes back
immediately if they lost anything at all
so it's kind of a weird conundrum where
on the one side training being advanced
means you're going landmark shift up but
just being alive and having trained for
a long time shifts it way back down it
probably a net maybe even negative in
some cases which is a weird conundrum I
just fully still don't feel to
understand it yep
all right onto YouTube yeah you know I
don't know live questions so YouTube
we're gonna do one this is really
something by the way folks we're gonna
probably bring the sports scientist back
every couple weeks but it'll be through
Skype Skype call format a ghetto version
of sports scientists everybody's been
asking about sports scientists yeah for
sure I just well you weren't
oh man James you were out of commission
Saturday night we watched the secret
episode that we never aired the one with
you-know-who and it was just dying we
just took this tube is the best was the
best thing ever
or any case just to take a little page
Oh sports scientist I got us I got to
respond to this because it's just
fucking hilarious
Paul Potter can you screen share it at
all
yeah we try those make sure every porn
yep
share screen we good yeah hope natty
fatty powerlifting yeah yeah we'll get
to we'll get to that take a look at the
highlighted Paul Potter comment this
definitely wins in some of the Year org
Oh Mike looks like a son Terran from
Doctor Who great content though Paul I'm
gonna rip on you a little bit this is
all a joke it's totally cool we're all
just fucking around so here we go great
content though means that looking like a
Santara from Doctor Who is a sort of
implied negative that like if the
content wasn't great this would be
definitely a downside and would fall
below average as far as media's concern
first of all second of all what the fuck
is a son torn from duh kind of insel
shit as ammo fuck you got no hobbies
kind of bullshit you watching well it
kind of you clearly have no friends what
are you talking about nobly no no this
would be my time to shine I'm usually in
all the nerdy stuff but I didn't ever
follow doctors motherfucker done left
you behind and nerd heaven that's right
you got not damn santarem listen wack
ass shit where's Markos where's Markos I
know dude I we got left behind in the
inside on this one okay that's right all
in good fun Paul thank you for your
comment alright so let's get to the real
questions I'm gonna start with this one
by Ozzy it's good to have mr. Osborn
himself get into this very fun so as
questions for gurus if I try to rip
through reps I can do way more than if I
do them systematically and there is
variance even if I try to do them the
same did I get ten reps because I sped
up a little type thing also getting a
psyched up dramatically changes reps
completed sure these things that
increase variability make it hard to
reliably treat rep count as a measure of
performance so it's hard to know if I'm
improving
thoughts thanks for all you do so I'll
take a shot at those first jeans and if
you want
clean up that would be great yeah here's
the deal what you need to do is first
and foremost reduce as much variance as
you can by nearly religiously
subscribing to the idea that you can't
you do your reps as systematically and
as perfectly as possible there is a
reason your technique sticklers there is
a reason you don't fuck around and arch
your back just a little on those curls
and just speed up a little bit or
whatever because you're not racing to
anywhere here's how rep counts actually
work you do the perfect rep then you do
the perfect rep then you do a shitty rap
by accident it's okay the next one is
the perfect rep you count as you go and
then you count at the end how many reps
you got and then you compare to your
past performance if you're a very mature
lifter you can look at your reps that
you got last week and try to hit that
goal but every single time while you're
doing rep you have to have a connection
with yourself - no I am NOT gonna
bullshit myself I am NOT just here to
fuck around I'm here to do perfect reps
mind muscle connection stimulus to
fatigue ratio and so on and so on and so
on
does that dedication won't help you
right away a lot it will help you summit
over the years of training it will make
your efforts much much much much much
more precise secondly getting psyched up
is a thing you should not be doing an
effort if you're training short of maybe
the last week and only a little bit
right so stop psyching up because
psyching up is really crappy for the
stimulus to fatigue ratio plain and
simple just a lot of fatigue for almost
your very little stimulus at it so stop
doing that if you want to psych up power
lifting school and you can psych up
there during competitions you you can
watch shad Leslie Smith videos where he
tells me not to psych up during training
so if you really like to psych up just I
don't know go psych up on your own spare
time it's not a good thing to do in most
kinds of training you know only some
kinds of competition that's the points
for exactly yeah you get just yell at
the dominatrix on the screen I think I
would never watch form like that but
anyway I mean so already if you do those
two things dedicate yourself to really
good technique and stop psyching up you
have decreased the variability
considerably
second of all
remember that our performance feedback
methods their systems or algorithms they
don't really care about one-time
performance so for example the
calculation that tells you you've hit
MRV is a two session in a row under
performance okay so you're supposed to
get 10 reps on the curl you got eight
reps last week and then later in that
week you got out of six reps when you
were supposed to get 10 now I got
something to do with it and if you
really don't believe that you're
underperformed because you really can't
say well I would much slower raps
because remember you were there for your
training you remember what it's like
right uh then you could give yourself a
third workout to see it if your third
workouts down in performance but look
it's not a fucking accident right then
you just DLO to repeat because you
clearly did hit MRV so yes variance is
totally okay because measures of
performance are not perfect but they're
not supposed to be and then you say it's
hard to know if I'm improving
now that really stood out to me remember
within an accumulation phase you're not
necessarily supposed to improve you're
probably supposed to put more and more
weight on the bar or are supposed to go
down for a net really close to the same
level of performance but you accumulated
a lot of fatigue and gained a lot of
fitness during that time once you drop
the fatigue in a knee load next
mesocycle you started a new normal at a
higher level of performance
now we're only asking you for one thing
you're a last mesocycle is it worse or
better than your current mesocycle now
if you can't tell to mezzos apart you're
for sure not improving it right like it
so that basically solves all the
problems remember performance math
summation is not supposed to be perfect
but if you really focus on your
technique
don't bullshit yourself with your ego
stop psyching up and take multiple
performance measures over the course of
the weeks instead of just like oh this
one session determines everything then
you start to get a really good they're
not perfect performance index that works
to auto regulator training James that
was a really great answer the only thing
I wanted to little touch on to here is
um it can be difficult getting the right
balance of arousal that is appropriate
for training but not to the point of
like what we call a psych up so that is
something that does take practice to
your credit I mean it's easy to say not
easy to do so it's something that you
should work on I think one thing that
might be helpful for you this and he
didn't mention this but this is
this is usually how this question comes
up what might be worth your time is to
use a psych up maybe at the end of the
mesocycle to figure out like do an AMRAP
set for yourself to really help you with
the RIR stuff I don't know if you're
using rir but that's usually how this
question comes up is like should I get
psyched up my reps are different and
it's hard for me to gauge how I are
that's one of the times where getting
psyched up and doing a true you know
very close to if not a maximal effort
safely by the way can be useful because
let's say you put 225 pounds on the
bench you've got fucking pumped up for
your set you got ten reps but that was
it you had nothing left
well now you know that that's your 10 RM
and now you know how to program your
bench press into the different loading
zones using different our IRS from that
point on so that's a really useful tool
so it just takes a little bit of
practice I would reserve those for that
purpose and that would be a only occur
at the end of a messy cycle and then
just practice on being kind of up but
not losing your mind and if you're
taking too much like pump up drink that
can influence it if you're like if
you're like me and sometimes you get
distracted and your dilly-dallying with
emails and work stuff when you should
just be focusing on lifting that could
go in the other direction as well so
just just work on it it's it comes with
time and practice while we're beating
this to death I think another good thing
that I personally do your first
mesocycle or sorry your first microcycle
of training try your best to do like
three or four RIR and write the reps
down in your next micro cycle of
training just match the reps that's your
goal tells you exactly how many reps to
do match the reps try to of course do
all the things we're up to high quality
so and so forth and if the RIR is like
sometimes one in sometimes for no big
deal and a little weight to the bar next
week and then match the reps again add a
little weight match the rocks when it
takes heaven and earth and all the sake
ups in the world but you cannot match
reps you're for sure over MRV then ice
time to D look so it gives you a really
unequivocal thing yeah because you know
instead of doing like eight reps one
week twelve another and then back to ten
and improving I don't know just do ten
ten ten ten ten right and then when you
can't hit tens anymore be very slowly
increasing weight and volume the entire
time then you're reached and because
your average are
our is within those only he wants then
you're good to go and everything else is
really nitpicky solid all right Benjamin
Turgeon says what would be an acceptable
one of weak to gain right after a cut to
account for glycogen and water
so say you meant to cut at 180 in the
days after you finish you eat it
maintenance and regain two or three
pounds let you speak like you're in
water Thanks remember my first answer
this question is why does it matter
you should be your weight should inform
your decisions in one to two weeks time
that's of a base time what happens in
several days is irrelevant
um secondly if you do all the right
things and don't binge like a piece of
shit then you'll be fum in either way
and lastly up to ten pounds actually
after our nasty enough cut is kidney
glycogen water if you would go so far as
to say is nothing really surprises in
the first week unless it's like fifteen
or twenty pounds it's the second week
that matters after the second week you
should be gaining that much if you're
still gaining a lot in the second week
from the first week to the second which
probably slow down your eating if you're
gaining from the second to the third and
it's like three pounds again that's like
like a general water so glycogen water
only occurs we'll probably about the
first week after the first week things
should really level out if they haven't
whatever you're telling yourself as
maintenance is not maintenance yeah and
then I'll be really obvious because the
first week or maybe even two weeks
depending on how long and hard you were
cutting for you'll see peaks and valleys
in your weight it'll be like up down up
down up down up down up down and then I
will flatline at some point right and
that's when you'll know what your yeah
it's no longer just water variation I
think for in term like I would say for
most intermediate females between zero
and five pounds is very common when
making the switch from cut to
maintenance and for most intermediate
males between five and ten pounds is
like I wouldn't I wouldn't I wouldn't
bat an eye if I saw that I'd be like
yeah that's kind of standard but like
Mike said if it's like 20 pounds and it
doesn't come back down with the
subsequent valley like yeah you're just
you just gone too hard yeah Menno Hensel
men's they asked him a story when I see
him in India in a couple weeks he had a
client story that Sheena client gained
some amount of fat in some time like it
was I think he gained
almost his entire cuts worth and he had
like a 20-week cut almost his entire
cuts worth of body fat back in two weeks
that's because he ends in Manhattan
track isn't take he was eating I think
15 to 20 thousand calories a day
all mine yeah we just flip that ghrelin
leptin switch and it just just went
straight to hell
yeah that's one of those like that's a
clinical level like eating disorder
behavior right that's like you you need
to be on supervised behavior at that
point like yeah that actually in dangers
your internal organs an acute sounds
like you can get a stretcher stomach to
a point of had meaning surgery like you
can rip us off ago tissue if you start
throwing up with that much food in you
I'm like the cardiac stress of that
rapidly apps the weight changes like
gnarly
blood pressures oh man alright to wrap
it up last question here Granick a.m.
which is sweet weird at 109 34 in this
last video does Mike say you could break
at this point where many nannies are at
the Madi limit or the point where they
are and they think it's the limit by
just forced feeding I think a higher
caloric surplus is not to better than a
lower what is to Mike experience in that
method fucking baller shit I wish I
could write like that is it it's
interesante I have never heard of the
method in the scientific community
everybody saline bulk East the optimal
justice very high man I'm wondering if
he's like this is like a letter someone
would write before they committed
suicide in the last days of the fuck I'm
just kidding
dot I also like that the last sentence
every word is capitalized amazing
amazing can Mike not everywhere almost
everyone's except for experience because
my experience is not a capital offense
so this is a very good question let let
us be very clear what James and I meant
by James remember the natty thing where
the LA McDonald question team up I was
thinking about like it's like the
integral
sign and like the natty being on the
bottom of any patience right Madi little
bit so here is the deal we're not saying
that you need to have a higher surplus
we're actually not saying that
force-feeding can occur from applying a
normal surplus for a longer or beyond
the point where your body wants to gain
weight anymore so if you gain from
usually gain from 180 to 200 and then
you cut back down okay why don't you try
getting from 180 to 210 extending the
same surplus just for longer and it'll
custom 200 210 you're gonna feel like
shit and you're gonna have to force-feed
because your body can get tired of
eating all that food your surplus is the
same it's only 500 calories or 300
calories but for that much longer just
to heat games you ever I know for a fact
I used to be you're coaching this
remember like a mass phase would end and
you're like I can't wait to stop eating
this much food oh yeah then there have
been no recent increases in the amount
of food but at some point your body's
like nope fuck you like it just stops
trying to eat that much it just can't
stand this anymore get this out of my
face that's why we always jokingly tell
people like massing is is almost equally
if not this equally stressful as doing
cut phases for a lot of people because
when you get to that force-feeding point
not to mention all the training that
you're doing it's awful and you feel
like shit all the time
yeah hundred percent so basically um you
know the we're not actually advocating
for a Haier caloric surplus we're not
advocating faster rates of game we're
advocating that if you've been to a
certain max body weight maybe it's time
to go a little higher and the next time
a little higher the next time a little
higher so instead of ending your cuts
attending your masses of 200 pounds and
cutting down to 180 maybe several years
after broaching that window you could be
ending your masses at 220 and and then
several years after that you still in
them at 220 but recapping lean or a
little beach time you could be holding
15 pounds more muscle than you thought
was your natty limit the way you find
your natty limit really is years of
highly organized effective training
we're years of progressions into higher
body weights oh you met is fat you don't
get any stronger you don't get any more
visible muscle and you cut back to the
same body what you always were in the
same condition you always were
if you have like four or five macro
cycles of essentially identical results
while pushing the envelope
you're a turn and you limit
congratulations right but most people
never get there most people will just
stop at 200 because they're at guys
don't want to get that much fatter well
I've gotten the fat much fatter numerous
times during my natty career and then I
would lean doubt then I was a little
heavier and then I would lean out that
was a little heavy leaned out of those
little having pretty soon out jacked you
know like 200 or whatever relatively
lean as an a/d and that was really cool
but it didn't get I get there by
force-feeding myself not a ton of
calorie my rates of game weren't very
high I just asked for longer I didn't
want a mask for longer but exactly when
your body's rebelling and telling you
hey this is too much that's probably
when you keep going that's probably true
for cutting it's right for passing how
much weight you put on the bar how many
reps you do how many sets you do your
body doesn't really doesn't like to
improve so sometimes it's a really good
idea to push the pace so he says in the
science community everyone says lean
bulk is optimal I agree I agree it's
probably more optimal just a little
leaner but don't push that too far on
the other direction I think a very good
voice I'll stop sharing now because we
don't need I think a very good voice in
the community against the extremes of
lean bulking lately has been Eric Helms
because you know there's that whole 10
to 15% body fat window and Eric's like
look if you get up to 17 18 20 percent
you're still healthy and you're getting
stronger like you're still getting
fucking muscle no don't be insane so I
think a lot of the people would say
ormally voguing they're just fat phobic
that's what I was gonna say god dammit
sorry James go ahead no no I was going
to say there's a difference between lean
bulking and fat phobia at that point and
the people who really advocate for like
the lean bulk are the guys who basically
spend ten years and never actually
change their body composition at all
right they just pretend mass they get a
little fluffy in the ABS to go
immediately back into cutting and never
and I've been we always I think women
get a lot of like bad press for
body-image dysmorphia and stuff like
that men are the worst men oh um oh my
god are you kidding me we are the worst
when it comes to that stuff we just
don't like to talk about it so I think
yeah the fat phobia is really the issue
there and Mike a my my mixing up
questions I thought we were talking
about this in the context of recom pain
am i worse that a different question we
were talking about it in the context of
so Lyle said that you only gain muscle
in your first five years or what I heard
okay and when he said if your recom
gaining yes that then you're done
getting most muscle within five years
but if you push the limits of your body
weight you can gain for much longer than
five years because pushing your body
weight artificially higher by
force-feeding yourself still at the same
rate just for longer does in fact add
muscle the hyper caloric condition is a
very very conducive to hypertrophy and
there's you know how do I put it another
way and fortunately although all the
people that come come to mind are on
drugs but it doesn't change drugs or not
drugs
I'm like somebody like Brian Shaw
somebody like Derek Poundstone who's a
strong man you know somebody like Ron
stone shake innovator that's right
Ronnie Coleman jay cutler etc drugs not
drugs it works the same way Jay Cutler
didn't get to 290 pounds in his
offseason with abs and veins by simply
taking a lot of drugs in training hard
and eating sort of just whatever to stay
at a clean bulk Jay Cutler eats so much
fucking food that he was asked and this
is on YouTube this videos on YouTube you
could check it out in time he's driving
his car I may ask him but what do you
think about like cheat meals and stuff
like that he's like I can't relate at
all because if I had a cheat meal
opportunity which I don't I would choose
to eat nothing I would just give him eel
I'm so fucking tired of eating I eat
5,000 calories on my cutting things like
I eat 7,000 plus out of my mass phase I
can't stand it anymore like that is a
person who's pushing boundaries that is
not custom because literally there's a
way of taking drugs and training that
cuz you know drugs make you hungrier and
they make you gain weight they're
anabolic for
and some people just take drugs and eat
and then they just grow and they say
yeah I got a lot of us test cycle it
really helped me put on muscle but it
didn't help me put on a lot of weight
like you done asshole
you the weight is up to you the drugs
facilitate that and sometimes they help
it in a roundabout way but you can also
just force-feed yourself and there's if
you have never pushed your appetite
regulation beyond a point of comfort you
can't say you've tried to gain muscle
you know you know they're real well
thought out attempt period totally agree
and then just to spin it back to the
question in the context so what we were
talking about was to get to the question
was people don't actually reach their
natty limit when they don't break the
boundaries of their comfort and their
comfort zone right so that was kind of
that idea was in order to actually hit
your natty limit you have to actually do
force feeding if people are left to
their own devices they will never
actually reach their natty limit just
because it's so uncomfortable
to get up to that level so I think
that's maybe where the confusion might
be lying so it's yeah force feeding is
necessary even to get to that natural
limit and then certainly with
performance-enhancing drugs - yep ooh I
think that's it that's it all right
uh are we gonna be on for Tuesday next
week normal time yeah absolutely
cool and then I'm gonna actually see you
on Sunday right the day of the Sun
that's right
I'm excited did you see my Instagram
post that I got from my brother-in-law
I have some God the Son God don't oh my
god can you please check Instagram real
quick it's like the third thing on my
Instagram all right let's see remember
they asked tech sacrifices to the Sun
gods or whatever it's an artistic I see
the the Yoda one right now my god dammit
just go on Mike's page there we go is it
a story or is it a like a post oh there
it is it's a post
ok facial expressions you guys stop
getting your hearts even they even the
guy whose heart it is is like
so creepy that would be sweet if they
did like a like a children's history of
the Americas and that was in it oh god I
think about that I've been like I've
been like so deep into like the like
audiobooks lately especially like the
really unpleasant ones like the Douglas
Murray like stuff worse is just like oh
I want to talk about that Douglas Mary
yeah I could listen in forever did you
did you ever listen to the strange death
of Europe I haven't but I've seen about
three trillion podcasts about that and
I've listened about trillion podcast
about his latest book the madness of
crowds which I can't wait to read I did
listen to both the madness was really
good I just finished the strange death
at first you kind of it kind of comes
off as like this guy just seems like a
like a pissed-off like white guy but
then he gets into all the statistics and
stuff and you're like hmm this is yeah
it's it's definitely a tough pill to
swallow I can I can sympathize for
people who didn't like it but it's
interesting
100% man mm-hmm all right well let's
wrap this one up and then I'll actually
see you this week which will be sweet
and I'll keep working on the high perch
free book in the meantime and you cool I
think we're still recording right yeah
so let's I stopped recording hippies
folks see you tomorrow