hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization in today's BS video
Edition is the claim that big Pharma is
evil
what is it up to now taking over the
world I imagine wait a minute am I
saying that big Pharma isn't evil yes
yes I am
so I better have some good reasoning
here we go
first
anytime
lots of Corporations do business all
over the world for decades you'll have
many individual instances of corporate
malfeasance
companies doing bad stuff
and there is no large industry I'm aware
of that has any exception
if 100 large companies is the sample
size and only one out of 100 does bad
stuff how many big corporations are
there in the world
oh way more than a hundred so you're
just going to see a lot of corporate Bad
actors even though the vast majority are
very good actors
so yes big Pharma companies have done
some fucked up shit before for sure but
that doesn't paint the entire industry
as bad right certainly you would not say
because some people commit crimes and go
to jail that all humans are fucked up
criminal pieces of shit that's nonsense
most people are great but some are
fucked up criminal pieces of shit that
does not paint all humans
number two
anytime large corporations with lots of
money
and interest in making more money are
very heavily regulated especially
unintelligently by governments they will
take a very keen interest in their
regulation which means that some of
those companies will be able to start
doing things like keeping out
competitors getting really cozy with
various government politicians to Curry
favor sweet talk The Regulators appoint
their own Pharmacy Yos to regulatory
bodies
not unique to Pharma at all okay if you
have a buy American sticker on your car
and you drive a Ford or a GM or whatever
the fuck and you say man big farmers
evil motherfucker do you know what kind
of backroom deals the big three fucking
car companies are doing same same it's
just big companies do that shit
sometimes to do it much more often with
unintelligent regulation a point I will
come back to you in a bit
number three
to flip the script so so far we're just
saying look
big Pharma is not unique in being bad
sometimes it does bad shit but does it
ever do good shit have a fun experiment
go out in the street don't actually do
this
take a one of those chainsaws that cuts
off the
branches of the garden little bushes
that you don't like Scott the video guys
there a name for that thing hedge
trimmer and just push that motherfucker
right into your leg
all of a sudden big Pharma is the only
fucking thing that can save you
big Pharma saves your life and it
probably actually has saved your life
before if you ever needed to take
antibiotics who the fuck do you think
made that shit grandma didn't cook that
shit up in her bathtub bitch busy making
meth I'm sure what's up Grandma your
shit is good by the way
big Pharma makes life-saving medicines
including simple shit like Advil you
ever had a headache you would just still
have a headache if not for I'm kidding
if not for big Pharma they make all the
shit that literally saves lives
so at least they're doing an
unbelievable amount of good
and people will say well yeah that's if
you're sick but what if not if you're
healthy they're trying to push drugs on
you first of all I've never had a drug
push on me by big Pharma in my life I
sure should fucking hope they would
motherfucker I'm a goddamn pincushion
for the shit and I'm never getting calls
from drunk companies but hey you want to
try our latest anabolic agent for some
reason the phone is silent as shit but
to that point they're working on health
stuff
and other related glp-1 agonists are the
best obesity fighting drugs ever they're
a new generation they're going to change
the world
thank you big Pharma genomic diabetes
cures a year ago they did an experiment
where they had a viral Vector that
changed I think a few genes or maybe
even just one in a group of I think like
five to ten people with type 1 diabetes
inborn diabetes they just didn't have
diabetes anymore and they don't and they
never will and that kind of shit is
funded exclusively by big Pharma and
made by big Pharma innovated invention
produced manufacturers sold
and through the competition of big
Pharma because this is one entity
there's like what the fuck is Big
Fitness it's a ton of competitors the
major pharmaceutical companies
ruthlessly compete against each other
bringing the prices of all those insane
drugs down all the time and in the
future you'll be able to have drugs that
cure entire swaths of disease and it's
coming because we already have drugs
that cure entire swaths of disease for
example high blood pressure you just
don't need to have it anymore because
big Pharma crushed that shit it just
ended the problem you take an
appropriate amount of high blood
pressure meds or blood pressure meds
they have basically no side effects
anymore you just won't have high blood
pressure anymore the shit kills millions
of people not anymore it doesn't have to
because you could just go buy the pills
and it's cheap as fucking don't even
know how they make money on it they cost
me like eight dollars a month to get
blood pressure pills how does it even
work doesn't the container cost eight
dollars fuck what I know
unbelievable stuff they're now using
immune system based cancer cures to zap
entire cancers out of existence and more
is coming the 2030s are going to be
unbelievable and guess who the fuck is
the tip of the spear for that shit big
Pharma Lil Farm is not up to the task
Grandma bathtub meth is not going to
fucking cure every disease big Pharma
almost certainly will eventually
here's the last deal on this
big Pharma is like most other large
Industries
generally fucking great I talk shit on
the big three earlier I love fucking
cars the Chrysler 300 that's my shit
it's got the video guy what kind of car
you drive back home
Dodge Challenger you give me a more male
American car than that I challenge you
challenge
corporations are fucking sweet
they mostly do amazing shit but they do
some fucked up shit on occasion what are
we supposed to do about that hate them
and write them off fuck big Pharma
they're greedy evil people no
we have some choices we need to make
sure we're applying intelligent
regulation
a whole other video I'll do on some
other channel
we need to make sure they're staying
Innovative which means mostly getting
the fuck out of their way but also means
we can't have the wrong kind of
Regulation
let's go after lies and fraud and Theft
and when they hurt people with drugs
that they knew were going to hurt them
100 let's fucking go after them hard to
make sure that doesn't happen
but let's not throw the baby away with
the bathwater because For the Love of
God
you may think big farm is evil but I
want antibiotics when I get sick and
when there's a fungus eating my fucking
feet
I want an antifungal and novor Norris
makes that shit so big Pharma all the
way
not perfect for sure can we make it
better for sure
do we want to cancel it and say it's
evil and bad lock that and if you do
take that hedge trimmer to your fucking
leg motherfucker and try to get out of
that without relying on big Pharma
please don't do that take care of
yourself see you guys next time