doctor pack here real doctor doctor
comes from the lantin word whatever
editor enter the word the word doctor is
derived from the Latin verb doser
meaning to teach or a scholar which
means to teach nice try Physicians we'll
see you again next year here with the
New Year's resolution that you can apply
whenever you want even if it's not
actually the start of the new year we
need this video to be timeless so if
you're watching this and it's not new
year Year's Eve or New Year's Eve is not
approaching you can still actually use
it to set new goals and reach New
Heights in your life if there's one
thing or actually two things that you
should be consistently doing for the
next as many years as you stay alive is
to consistently walk and lift walking
and lifting super super simple not
necessarily extremely easy to do for
everyone but still easy enough for you
to incorporate in your life to a certain
extent let's start and this is this is
almost like a sales pitch for walking
and lifting and I'll start first with
walking it's time to sell you walking
all right obviously walking super simple
super accessible you don't need any
equipment all you need is two legs
walking benefits all right let's start
listing and this is me selling you
walking lowering blood pressure improved
cholesterol levels
blood sugar control improved sleep and
better sleep
quality improvements in immune
function and potentially some
psychological benefits through social
connections you know if you're walking
with somebody else and potentially some
slight effect on uh depression and
anxiety but more
importantly longevity walking can allow
you to live longer if we look at any of
the scientific evidence and we have a
lot of scientific evidence looking at
all cause mortality as well as
cardiovascular mortality or cancer
mortality and walking we see that even
with 2,000 steps per day there is a
significant decrease in Alla mortality
versus much less than that there's been
some new metaanalytic data out that
shows that around 8,000 steps per day
maybe somewhat of a sweet spot as far
reductions and all cause mortality go
but if we look at other met analytic
data around the 10,000 steps per day
Mark seems to be bang on for most ages
it seems to be like a relatively fail
safe way for you to actually get a lot
of the benefits that walking has to
offer if we look at some of the data on
just exercise in general and more
specifically aerobic exercise if we want
to call it that or cardio as some
lifters call it when when we look at
moderate versus vigorous physical
activity for health guidelines show that
you can maximize you can actually
achieve the greatest risk reduction for
all CA mortality by either doing 150 to
300 minutes of vigors uh physical
activity per week or 300 to 600 minutes
of moderate physical activity per week
if you're hitting roughly 10,000 steps
per day or doing your best to average
that it's likely that you will be well
within the 300 to 600 100 minute range
as far as moderate physical activity
goes which allows you to be on top of
your health in a relatively stressfree
and easy to incorporate in your life uh
manner keep in mind that every little
bit counts as I mentioned even at 2,000
steps per day there was a meaningful
decrease in risk for all cause mortality
and even if you're just managing to
average somewhere between five and 7,000
steps a day you are definitely doing
much better than not doing any any form
of walking obviously if you're somebody
who enjoys running cycling anything that
is slightly uh higher intensity and you
have the the time energy and so on and
so forth and you want to do that you can
do that and combine it with walking or
do exclusively that if that's what you
love but obviously if you've clicked on
this video you know that we're about to
sell you walking personally walking is
also a great way to get to be productive
while also getting my cardio my health
work done so I live in a in a city where
I'm able to walk places and get errands
done go to the gym and so on and so
forth so incorporating if you're able to
incorporate walking in your daily life
like that let's say walking your dog or
taking a walk with your kids or going to
the supermarket or whatever you can sort
of kill two birds with one stone which
we're also selling by the official Dr
pack Stone in the description to kill as
many birds as you like to sum up overall
walking is easy to do doesn't require
any equipment only requires you to spend
some time doing it but you can
accumulate steps throughout the day by
making sure you're physically active and
it can do wonders for your physical
health and to a certain extent even for
your mental health it's an easy way for
you to stay on top of your Fitness game
and more importantly for individuals
that have not been exercising in the
past and who may be feeling intimidated
and want to actually get into exercise
walking is a great way to do that
walking does do require much
psychological preparation there's not a
huge level of discomfort unless you're
absolutely like trash as far as Fitness
goes and you can easily incorporate it
at least at low doses during the first
months of the new year or whatever don't
be the guy or girl who says I want to be
healthier I'm going to start running
because that's the thing everybody seems
to be doing when they want to get
healthier finding yourself in a position
where running is way too hard to sustain
you're not enjoying it you go for a few
runs you force them and then you end up
not doing it it because it's just way
too hard start walking get some of your
steps in do your best to get close to
the 10,000 steps per day Mark although
that it's not like if you get 7,000
steps in you're not getting any health
benefits we already covered that and now
we have walking that's one piece of the
puzzle the other piece of the mega
Health Uber human uh puzzle is Lifting
and yes I will be selling you lifting
very hard not just for increases in
muscle and strength I'm sure you you
already know that lifting weights is the
most efficient way for you to increase
muscle mass and strength obviously
lifting weights means doing some form of
resistance straining even if that's you
lifting your own body weight or using a
specific machine or free weights or
cables or whatever let's have a very
brief look at what the literature has to
say for lifting and health benefits so
any form of lifting compared to no
resistance training so any amount of
resistance training compared compared to
no resistance training is enough to
decrease the risk for all cause
mortality by 15% the risk for
cardiovascular disease by around 19% and
cancer mortality by 14% keep in mind
that that's any amount with risk
reduction peing at drum roll
please 60 minutes per week of resistance
training where we're looking at 27%
decrease of risk for all cause mortality
so we're essentially talking about an
hour a week off lifting being able to as
you've probably seen in this channel
already with our minimum dose videos if
you haven't links in BIO or somewhere
here I'm not sure check them out 60
minutes per week is enough to get you
solid strength and muscle mass gains and
maximize some of the potential health
benefits that you can get from
resistance training there's even a
classic paper called resistance training
is medicine resistance training is
generally a a Powerhouse as far as
health benefits go and it is arguably
slightly more important for people that
are aging than aerobic training itself
because you can get some of the benefits
of aerobic training from resistance
training especially if you're doing
higher intensity of uh higher intensity
sort of stuff where you're like not
resting as long and you're doing plenty
of resistance training but some of the
benefits of resistance training you
can't really get from aerobic training
for example increases in muscle mass uh
muscle strength and Bone mineral density
uh obviously compared to resistance
training however a lot of people don't
engage in consistent resistance training
and miss out on all the benefits that it
has to offer which as you can see don't
really need that much of a time
commitment so the best gift you can give
to yourself at any point is to start
walking more even a few thousand steps
more than you were doing before can
meaningfully improve your health and
lifting something a few times per week
hitting that minimum of 60 minutes per
week Mark you don't need to overthink
the details just make sure that you are
progressing and lifting more weight over
time as well as keeping things
relatively intense as far as your
proximity to failure goes so make sure
that you are pushing yourself during
every set and having to you know grind
out a few reps here and there to further
sell you both modalities combining
aerobic
and resistance training has a better
effect on all CA mortality
cardiovascular disease cancer type 2
diabetes obesities uh and metabolic
syndromes versus either of those
modalities alone and there's even data
on people with type 2 diabetes where
they looked at whether aerobic or
resistance training is better with
resistance training actually being
better than just aerobic training alone
at managing um blood sugar this this new
year or this new period just make sure
that you walk a bit more than you used
to before get your heart lifting in and
it's likely that you're taking a lot of
boxes as far as your Health and
Longevity go keep in mind obviously that
walking and going for hikes and whatever
it comes with a lot of other benefits
you will be fitter as a person and
obviously lifting will also make you
more jacked and stronger which are also
super cool just get your steps and your
lifts in please for the love of God
and that's why I'm a real doctor I just
saved I don't even know how many lives
please don't forget to like subscribe
hit the notification Bell see you at my
personal Clinic which is my house which
I hope I don't see you in and I will see
you all on the next video next week here
at your favorite Channel favorite real
doctor the pediatricians the Physicians
peace