hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's hypertrophy
myth is that you must train to failure
in order to grow your best and grow the
most muscles and experience the most
happiness let's talk about the myth
let's talk about some of the good points
it kind of alludes to the bad stuff that
makes it mythical and then some real
talk at the end to make sure we're all
on the same page so the myth is
expressed in various ways quite often I
will add
um the socials as at least Australians
say if you're Australian please confirm
that that's what you call social media
me I'd like to call it social and media
or s m for short
anyone no one let me know in the
comments if that's sunk in all right so
people will say
that if you're not going to failure
you're leaving growth in the tank why
leave growth in the tank all right
people say that failure training is key
especially in advanced lifters beginners
they can get away with whatever you
gotta go to failure if you're Advanced
okay
or failure training is especially a good
idea in beginners
because a beginner really doesn't know
how far from failure he is and needs to
be taught to go to failure within the
first several weeks of training so that
he doesn't spend time you know swimming
around rule mini Duck Pond where he
could be in the ocean catching these
failure growth waves or whatever
two other points Which Scott the video
guy and I just discussed comically
is in the same comment section in the
same video or Instagram post or even
better Tick Tock post or even better
fuck swipe post
you'll have people saying
that Natty's natural lifters have to
train to failure unlike those lazy
stupid steroid addict bucks that can
just get away with pushing the needle
into the ass
Maddie's have to go to failure because
they have to earn the shit the hard way
and in that exact same thread mere three
or four comments down you'll have
another
mentally
not outstanding individual or someone
who just charitably hasn't thought this
through saying that while only steroid
people can recover from training to
failure and that's not how nadish should
train naddies need to do reps in reserve
it is funny to me
that those two people can be in the same
comment section and it's kind of like uh
my fantasy is that I would like to see
those two people meet in real life and
uh well you know in a terrarium
and with a cheering crowd around and uh
Roman style gladiator weapons and just
just go to town another one of those
good fights yeah we should get like a
Roman cosmodrome thing to
really bring the gladiator shit back but
no MMA shit Fighters MMA fighters are
too good I can't relate to how they
fight I'm a regular people but
jilted regular people here's another act
where billing act fight to the death
same thing it's all for the crowd
vegan versus carnivore
sjw versus
Ultra Trump Maga conservative
Scott what else we got
pineapple on pizza versus no pineapple
pineapple on pizza versus everyone else
you get the idea
dinosaur versus mechanical spider from
Wild Wild West
all right fuck this video in the
comments below I'll get back to the shit
in a sec in the comments below type in
anything versus anything else and it
better be fucking good the most upvoted
comment will get to feel good about
being most upvoted what are we putting
in this fucking Mega terrarium
1v1 all right so anyway the myth is like
people should be trained in a failure
because reasons
now there are some good reasons if
you're intermediate or Advanced at least
some of the time you should be trained
at a failure or very close to failure
because it's the definition of hard
and
how do you know you're training close to
failure if you never really push it to
failure and test the boundaries
you really can't
so instead of pretending you're doing
two or three IR
but it's really six or seven rir you
want to maybe every message cycle or
every two at the very end of the
mesocycle in the last training week as
you've made training harder and harder
right before the deload you might be
interested in going really all the way
to failure to hey get a great stimulus
it's okay about the fatigue because we
get to rest the week after and at the
same time you're going to be able to
test the waters and like you know if you
got sets of 10 10 10 and you thought
they were two or one RAR and then you'd
go to failure and you get a set of 16.
yeah yeah sure it was seven reps away
from failure I've been lying to myself
that's why I've been growing like shit
so then later you can come back to that
workout and do sets of 13 or 14 to make
sure you really are as close to failure
as you are so great share testing so
there's some good stuff to go in close
to failure it's not all like train Lego
us all the time now here's the bad stuff
of trying to get everyone to train to
failure all the damn time first
beginners grow super well from far away
from failure training anyway
eight seven six five reps away from
failure is a great place to train
beginners for two reasons one their
thresholds for growth are so low they
get damn near maximum growth for barely
even trying that's the noob stage you
don't have to beat the shit out of your
joints and out of your mind and go into
psycho failure and having you know
vomiting blood between sets because you
can just get the easy gains why not get
them while they're there second reason
is that the most important thing you can
do with beginners short of training them
a little bit uh in a tough way to get
them gains is to help them learn proper
lifting technique and proper lifting
technique cannot be learned in an
environment in which you're pushing them
really close to failure because
especially with beginners and whom
technique is not ingrained yet their
technique will break down the closer
they get to failure so if you stop them
at three or four reps in reserve before
they start to be all wobbly or just as
they're starting to get wobbly you're
good to go they're learning great
technique and getting great gains if you
insist that they go to failure all the
time the last couple reps of bench press
turn into like the bar goes like this
and their one leg comes up when they do
this shit struggling for survival they
hit the fucking rat bounces off hit
their dick bounces off
that's not good training and it sets up
really poor habits and it'll get them
hurt eventually when they get strong
enough so we don't want to do that with
beginners for sure now
the second thing is that the body of
literature as a whole
it says that roughly two or three reps
in reserve is the best for growth over
the course of a training program
the body of literature as a whole is
conducted mostly on people who are not
very well trained or hardly trained at
all there's a term called recreationally
trained which means they've been
training for like two or three years
like three or four times a week there's
another term called untrained in which
like you ask them have you ever lifted
weights before and they're like once in
high school you're not great okay so
you're untrained
those are most of the folks we study and
how we develop that knowledge to say hey
two or three rir is really what uh is
the best and you can say well oh that's
that's shitty external validity how are
we applying this to people who are like
more Jack like us like me like you well
at least you maybe not me
but hold on a second we actually
underestimating it because from these
studies if it's two or three let's say
two rir is the best and zero IR failure
is a little bit worse
in reality you're saying but hold on
everyone's not going close to failure as
they think maybe the two IR people are
really a five RAR and the zero are
people that really to our IR
fine but the five rear motherfuckers are
still getting better gains bro explain
that shit so if you're saying failure
really is underrated and the studies
don't pick it up how the fuck if it was
underrated then the failure people would
for sure grow way more than the fucking
rir people because they would be at 2R
in reality the failure people the RAR
people be a five RAR and two are so much
closer to failure than five it would
have to make a big growth impact but it
doesn't
so holy shit there is just not really
any compelling evidence that training to
failure
is remotely needed in most cases close
to failure is a great idea at failure if
you're really insistent to go into
failure is a must you are saying a
dogmatic thing that borders on a
religious thing yes I know Dorian Yates
yes Midlands England yes JP all those
cool accents and telling you you're a
pussy amazing I love it I got all the
time in the world for that shit that's
when we put our feeling hat on and have
feelings when we put our take our
feelings hat off and put our thinking
hat on
um then we start to realize like wait a
minute none of that shit really makes a
whole lot of sense or at least a limited
amount of sense
here's the thing about failure training
the sfr stimulus to fatigue ratio of
failure training sucks the raw stimulus
magnitude of going to failure is the
highest it could be the raw amount of
growth you get in one session going to
failure versus not failure you get more
growth for sure the problem is you get
so much fatigue generated from going to
failure rather than just a little bit
before failure it's way more fatigue
than you get stimulus so you may get 15
percent more growth but two times the
amount of fatigue that fatigue spills
over into the next workout adds up even
more into the next week adds up even
more into the next several weeks adds up
even more and you end up having shitty
quality training and sort of just fall
apart it is not sustainable because it's
stimulus to fatigue ratio is not that
good
that's not ideal
if on the other hand your training
volume is a really low like you're
capable of doing 10 sets of too IR but
you normally just train with five sets
because you're like a hit person high
intensity training person yes going to
failure boosts your hypertrophy closer
to that 10 RAR or tart 10 sets a two-r
situation and then it actually does make
sense for you to go really close to
failure that's a shitty reason to do it
because you could just not be a hit
Advocate and be a normal fucking person
and do 10 cents like everybody else but
you could be in a situation in which
you're just too busy you have a lot on
your plate you can only train a few
times a week for 45 minutes at a time
you can only do a few sets per muscle
group then yes grind everything to
fucking failure and maybe even some
Force reps because you don't have to
worry about the fatigue you don't train
enough for a cumulative fatigue to
really be a huge factor and you need as
big of a stimulus from every set as
possible yes that is is true that is a
thing but if you training for optimal
hypertrophy
and you're doing as many sets as needed
it's better to do the average 2ri over
the meso with as many sets as between
your minimum effective volume and your
maximum recoverable more like three to
ten sets per session per
um per workout and not like just two or
something like that or one set to
failure or some crazy shit
um at the end of a meso it is a good
idea to go very close to failure and I
absolutely think you should do it in
most cases but every session that's a
bit of a stretch lastly do Advanced
folks need to go
closer to failure or to failure to grow
on the one hand maybe because they need
such a big raw stimulus magnitude
nothing else cuts it at that point maybe
so if you're Advanced you may be able to
benefit from going very close to failure
if not to failure more often on the
other hand for you you're so big and so
strong and so close to your genetic
ceiling as an advanced lifter that the
stimulus to fatigue ratio of going to
failure is even worse and then it's less
sustainable so maybe it's an argument
for you going further from failure
I have no idea which one of those is
true the literature is rather equivocal
on them so my personal current tentative
hypothesis and the way I train myself is
just assume it's about the same as for
intermediates I don't know that for sure
it's an open question let me know what
you think in the question below and
let's see if we can sift your comments
out from all the other stupid shit we
talked about today folks if you want
more sciency shit nerd shit uh subscribe
to our Channel there's uh sorry uh join
the member section it's just a little
bit of money and you get a shitload more
videos uh super consistent about that
we're never going to charge you for
these videos here on the main Channel
we're never reducing our main channel
frequency to rip you off I've heard a
couple guys being like yeah man I can't
believe they started charging for videos
no dumb motherfucker we did not start
charging for videos we give you the same
number even more videos than before for
free and then we also put in extra other
videos that you can charge for and where
you can pay for and if you don't want to
pay for them word up no worries you're
not losing on anything but if you really
want some more shit check that out like
comment subscribe tell your friends to
subscribe tell your enemies to subscribe
call Grandma hey Grandma how are you
great that's nice subscribe to
Renaissance periodization YouTube I'll
see you guys next time