FR of that miror you twerking it on the
dance of that miror you twerk it on
Twerk it on FR of that miror you
twerking it on The Dan flow that you
twerk it Twerk it on the flow twerking
it on The Dan flow Twerk it on The Dan
flow Twerk it
on hey what's up guys so I wanted to do
a quick video discussing fasted cardio
um and outline the current research and
basically where everything stands on
whether we should do cardio fasted
or whether we should eat before
training uh so first I want to look at
why it is that people think we should do
fasted cardio to begin with uh what's
the whole rationale behind
it and basically this idea comes from
the notion that overnight we'll deplete
our body's glycogen and so then when we
wake up if we don't eat we'll
preferentially use our body's fat stor
stes energy rather than the food that we
would have ate if we were to do it
fed now this fact has actually been
upheld by a number of studies which have
shown that the combination of lower
insulin um decreased glycogen uh
increased cortisol and increased
epinephrine allow for greater fat
oxidation when cardio is performed
fasted but the real question is can we
corroborate these results with
long-term chronic studies so does acute
increases in fat oxidation during the
cardio session itself allow for greater
fat loss over time now in his 2011
review Brad shenfeld noted that it's
shortsighted to look at how much fat is
burned during a cardiio session fat
burning must be considered over the
course of days and not on an hour toour
basis
so if we broaden our scope in this way
we'll find that many studies find that
fed cardio actually results in a higher
proportion of fat metabolism compared to
fasted cardio and it is worth noting
here that trabel in 2012 found that the
fasted group had Superior fat loss even
though weight loss was the same but it's
important to note that in analyzing this
study
uh the subjects were in Ramadan and so
the group that ate in the morning simply
just got to have an extra meal so their
caloric intake was 600 calories higher
every day than the fed or than the
fasted group so it would make sense why
the fasted group would have greater fat
loss over the course of the study and
another recent study by iwa Yama atal
found that uh fat oxidation both during
and after the fasted cardio was superior
to the Fed cardio but they also found no
significant differences in body weight
or body fat so this study of course had
its own limitations uh one of which was
the fact that we need to consider that
when we simply just measure fat
oxidation What proportion of this fat is
coming from intramuscular triglyceride
it might not necessarily speak to uh the
breakdown of adapost tissue over time so
in terms of the actual long term
24-hour uh or even longer term use of
fat it seems that most of the studies uh
are either in favor of um performing
cardio fed or they don't really have a
position and there was no significant
difference and the ones that did show a
significant difference again there are a
few limitations there in some cases like
the treli one some pretty big ones now
more recently Alan Aragon and some
others published a study that found no
significant difference in weight loss or
fat Mass losses in I think it was 20
young healthy women now this spurred on
a lot of discussion online uh but I
think that the main takeaway here was
basically that we now have further
support for the notion that fasted
cardio really offers no additional
benefit to Fed
cardio so now let's look at a few
criticisms from the other side so from
the people who say that you should never
do fasted cardio uh no matter what and
that it's going to be detrimental to
your gains and basically it's these
people who say that fasted cardio
results in muscle loss so yes it's true
that you're not going to be burning the
glycogen that you depleted after your
overnight fast but now you're going to
be burning amino acids from your muscle
um and this isn't really agreed upon
amongst the researchers either uh for
example lemon and Mullen found that
fasted cardio did result in Greater
nitrogen losses um while treli found no
significant difference in lean mass
between the fasted and the FED subjects
and in looking at the lemon and Mullen
study we need to consider where that
nitrogen is coming from it isn't clear
that it actually came from muscle itself
and we also need to question whether
acute increases in nitrogen loss during
a training session will actually um
extrapolate to increases in muscle loss
over time and this is especially the
case when you consider the fact that
most people who would even be doing
fasted cardio are on typically very high
protein diets and typically very well
structured resistance training programs
so a second criticism that you'll
frequently hear from the anti fasted
cardio crowd is that it results in
decreased performance or basically you
can't uh push yourself as hard or you
won't push yourself as hard if you don't
have any food in your system and while
this does make intuitive sense again the
literature is equivocal on this matter
um it appears to be the case that for
submaximal exercise fed or fasted
conditions might just have no bearing on
physical performance at all and I think
that this is an instance of individual
variability where you'll hear some
people say things like doing cardio
fasted first thing in the morning sort
of wakes me up and it energizes me for
the rest of the day
while other people really can't do
anything until they've had their
breakfast so before I conclude I will
mention that in the stubborn fat
solution uh by Lyall
McDonald um he presents a specific case
where fasted cardio might actually be
useful and he doesn't really reference
any of the controlled trials that I've
mentioned already in this video but what
he does do is he provides a mechanistic
BAS basis for doing fasted
cardio um in that it may help us Target
a specific type of fat that he refers to
as stubborn fat which is basically that
last bit of fat that's left to go at the
tail end of a cut um so the last little
bit to come off your glutes or your
lower abs or whatever and he basically
says that this type of fat is so
stubborn because of the preponderance of
Alpha 2 receptors on that specific type
of fat that lead to issues with fat
mobilization and blood flow actually
getting the fat you know away from that
specific area um and he thinks that
fasted cardio inhibits these Alpha 2
receptors and therefore sort of solves
these problems with mobilization and
utilization so to me it seems as though
we're in a place to conclude that fced
cardio should just be regarded as
another tool in the toolbx it isn't
something that that should be avoided
and quarantined at all cases or in all
cases um but neither is it something
that we should be encouraged or forced
into using um I think that ultimately it
comes down to a matter of personal
preference and what it is that you enjoy
and what it is that is going to allow
you to be more adherent with the
protocol over the long term all right
guys so that's all I have to say on that
I hope that this video was informative
and thank you for
[Music]
watching
[Music]
n