[Music]
in my last science explain video i
covered the most scientific way to train
the quads of course i think any complete
lower body regime must balance its quad
work with roughly equal hamstring work
strengthening the hamstrings is
important for injury prevention and
athletic performance so in this case
it's not just about aesthetics and as
always before we can understand how to
train the hamstrings most effectively we
need to cover their basic anatomy first
for practical purposes the hamstrings
can be split into a lateral or outside
aspect and a medial or inside aspect and
then a proximal or upper and distal or
lower region the hamstrings are made up
of four distinct muscles starting most
medially is the semi-membranosis with
the semitendinosus in the middle and the
biceps femoris sitting most laterally
which is itself split into a short head
and a long head which have slightly
different functions so the
semimembranosus and tendinosis both
originate at the pelvis and insert on
the tibia which is the big shin bone the
biceps femoris long head also originates
at the pelvis and also inserts below the
knee but on the smaller fibula bone just
lateral to the tibia these three muscles
are biarticular muscles meaning they
cross both the hip joint and the knee
joint and as such can perform hip
extension like in a deadlift and knee
flexion like in a leg curl the biceps
femoris short head on the other hand
only crosses the knee joint not the hip
joint and as such can only function to
flex the knee having no action at the
hip at all okay so based on this anatomy
with the hamstrings we have four muscles
that can flex the knee and three muscles
that can extend the hip so to train the
hamstrings most effectively for
development we need to be using
exercises that train hip extension
exercises that train knee flexion and
perhaps exercises that hit both at once
in my quad science explained video i
made a big deal out of the squat as
arguably the best quad builder and since
the squat trains hip extension it stands
to reason that it'd also be a good
hamstring builder right well actually
the squat is a really bad hamstring
exercise when you think about it
biomechanically it makes sense because
with the squat you're training hip
extension and knee extension
simultaneously so what this means is
that the hamstrings are shortening
proximally as the hips extend but
lengthening distally as the knees extend
so the hamstrings are being stretched at
one end and slackened at the other so
the net effect is that the muscle length
is more or less constant throughout the
squat range of motion leading to very
little tensile stimulus for growth and
this idea is supported by many emg
studies including a 2009 paper from
ebenetal which showed the squat to be by
far the worst exercise out of the six
movements tested for activating the
hamstrings now the deadlift is pretty
similar to the squat and that it also
trains simultaneous knee and hip
extension however since the hips are
much higher at the start of the deadlift
the knees are not as flexed and so the
hamstrings are in a better position to
contract and contribute to the hip
extension portion of the movement and
again this plays out in emg data where
we see that according to a 2002 study
from escamilla and colleagues both
conventional and sumo deadlifts lead to
quite high levels of hamstrings
activation and if you remember this
study from the quad science explained
video again while the squat sucked the
deadlift was number one for hamstring's
activation and while the stiff-legged or
romanian deadlift variations are popular
movements for isolating the hamstrings
research hasn't shown much activation
difference between these movements and
the conventional deadlift but with that
said i still prefer using a straight leg
for hamstrings emphasis because it
places a greater degree of stretch on
the hamstrings which may be important
for anabolic signaling other exercises
that train pure hip extension like the
lower back extension and reverse hyper
are also quite effective at hitting the
hamstrings and can be included in a
solid hamstrings focus program so i've
been talking a lot about hip extension
based exercises but what about knee
flexion well for the most part any
exercise i can think of that involves
flexing the knee is going to have pretty
high hamstrings involvement i'm not
going to make a big deal out of
nitpicking the differences between these
however one 2012 study looked at emg
activation for 14 different exercises
and found the slide leg exercise to come
out on top one thing i really like about
this exercise is that the hips are being
actively extended while you curl the
legs in and while it's a bit awkward to
do as they did in the study i think a
more practical alternative is brett
contreras gliding leg curl where you
fully extend the hips and curl your body
in toward a high plyo box while hanging
from a barbell another variation on this
i found to be helpful can be done on a
seated rowing machine where you put your
feet on the seat upper back on the floor
and curl the seat in toward your body
and i think the reason why these
exercises are so good for the hamstrings
is that they have to work to keep the
hips extended isometrically and to
concentrically flex the knees at the
same time the glute ham raise is another
exercise that hits both functions at
once so all of these are great i don't
personally have a strong preference for
either the lying or seated machine leg
curl and since emg activation is similar
between the two i think you should use
whatever one you feel working your
hamstrings the best or use both
periodically for variety what is perhaps
more interesting is that similar to the
quads with the leg extensions how you
position your feet during leg curls can
affect which region of the hamstrings is
targeted data from linen costigan showed
that external rotation or pointing your
toes out activated the lateral or outer
hamstrings more while pointing your toes
in activated the medial hamstrings more
one way i like to remember this is to
point your toes in the direction of the
hamstrings region you're trying to
activate a 2015 paper from schoenfeld
and others showed regional differences
in activation as well the lying leg curl
was better than the stiff leg deadlift
at activating the distal or lower
portion of the hamstrings while there
was no significant difference between
the two exercises for proximal or upper
hamstring activation this implies that
in order to fully activate the
hamstrings across their entire length it
isn't enough to only deadlift an
exercise that isolates knee flexion is
important to include as well and also
recall that the biceps femoris short
head doesn't even cross the hip so if
you only do hip extension based
exercises you won't be targeting this
muscle at all and contrary to very
popular belief the hamstrings are not
fast twitch dominant new data with
improved methodology has revealed the
hamstrings to be a pretty even mix of
type 1 and type 2 fibers implying that
both high and low reps should be used i
prefer to use primarily lower reps and
relatively heavier weight when doing
heavy hip extension based movements like
a stiff leg deadlift however going too
heavy is a very common mistake causing
the lower back and glutes to take over
and i think establishing a good mind
muscle connection and feeling a strong
stretch under complete control is
essential for optimizing this movement
high rep deadlifts are also fine but i
prefer to use the dumbbell variation for
more of the pump work since their
capacity for loading is lower anyway for
lead curls again high and low reps can
be used one recommended program might
look something like this you train
hamstrings twice per week probably on
lower body days and unlike day one you
do a heavy stiff leg deadlift for four
to eight reps and a light leg curl based
movement for eight to twenty reps on leg
day two two to three days later you do a
heavy leg curl based movement for four
to eight reps and a light hip extension
based movement for eight to twenty reps
and on either of these days you can add
in one more supplemental exercise
especially if your hamstrings are
lagging however be wary not to exceed 20
sets for the hamstrings per week as
similar to the quads and according to dr
mike izertel this is when most trainees
start running into recovery issues so
try not to be like the majority of gym
goers and neglect the muscles you can't
see when facing the mirror the
hamstrings are important to develop for
injury prevention athletic performance
and to give a much more complete
muscular appearance from the side and
the back and with these new scientific
principles in mind i hope you make the
most hamstring gains you possibly can
all right what is going on everyone uh
first of all i just want to say thank
you for watching the video and i also
want to quickly thank skillshare for
sponsoring this video in case any of you
guys aren't aware skillshare is an
online learning community designed to
help creators take their passion and
turn it into a full-time job it's crazy
for me to think that just simply
creating these videos has turned from a
hobby to
a full-time career for me now at this
point and i think that a big part of
making that step was just improving and
increasing my attention to detail and
especially when it comes to the editing
and the production value of this
information and i think that skillshare
really is the perfect resource for doing
this skillshare gives you access to more
than 17 000 professional classes things
to do with photography videography
business productivity web design
anything really that's going to help you
take your content to the next level so
i'd like to recommend two courses to you
guys the first is visual storytelling
with final cut pro 10 second edition
which has 37 classes explaining all the
ins and outs of my preferred editing
software which is final cut pro and the
other is fundamentals of dslr
photography which is another thing that
i think is really important for
increasing the production value on
youtube instagram or anywhere else where
you're sharing photos and video so a
premium membership to skillshare starts
at around 10 bucks a month however
skillshare is offering the first 700
people to click the first link in the
description box a free two-month trial
with access to all of the learning and i
think that in those two months you could
easily master a new skill like editing
in final cut pro
or you could take your current skills to
the next level from amateur to
professional so don't delay again the
first 700 people click that first link
and i expect a lot of people to click
that link um so make sure that you're
one of the first 700 uh thanks again to
skillshare for sponsoring the video
thank you guys so much for watching i've
got a back training science video on the
way i'm just putting together all of my
research for that video so you can be on
the lookout for that one probably next
weekend and if you guys can't tell we
are back in our canadian home right now
and it is freezing here compared to
florida right now but we're gonna be
here until christmas and then for the
new year and then we're heading to the
la fit expo and then back to florida for
a bit after that um so i think i'm gonna
do a couple vlogs while still here in
kelowna so maybe tomorrow or the next
day i'll film for that
so i've got lots of content coming be on
the lookout don't forget to hit the
thumbs up button and like this video and
subscribe if you're new and i will see
you guys next time