the problem with most ab workouts that I
see online is that most Fitness
influencers showcase these fast-paced
fat burning style workouts that truly
are a waste of time for the most part
that's because they don't actually get
the abdominal muscles close enough to
failure to stimulate meaningful
hypertrophy this is still good exercise
but it is essentially just another form
of cardio sure you'll burn a few
calories but you're not building your
six-pack instead to get your six-pack to
really pop you'd be much better off
doing Progressive overload training just
like you would for any other muscle you
do that by loading the ABS with weight
and you really only need two exercises
one weight loaded Crunch and one leg
raise that's it try to add a rep or some
weight each week this way the next time
you cut down your abs will pop much
better