[Music]
hey guys dr. Mike is Rafael here for
Renaissance period ization and i am the
one of the co-authors for the
renaissance diet 2.0 super advanced diet
book so we had the Renaissance diet 1.0
out for many years now it was a great
book when we wrote it but over the years
it has become a little bit outdated or
to put it better we have expanded upon
the ideas and clarify them to a
considerable extent the RP diet 2.0 is
now available for sale at renaissance
position calm the link is below in this
series of videos the link will be below
for the book for the entire time if you
ever curious the good news about this
book is that it is unbelievably
comprehensive look at everything diet
for performance and body composition the
caveat to that is that this book is
really meaty it's hundreds of pages long
and you may very well want to get
through all of it and for those folks
that labor through I promise it's worth
it we're real proud of the book you're
gonna learn a ton but for some folks who
might want additional resources through
video format we've put together this
video series on every single chapter of
the book and we're gonna go through and
for about five minutes per chapter which
isn't much because most chapters are you
know 15 to 20 to 30 to 40 pages long
there's 16 chapters for all of the
chapters of the book what we're gonna do
is give a five-minute brief synopsis and
the super important take-home points
we're gonna do that for additional
learning for you guys for review and if
you're not sure if you want to buy the
book and you kind of want to learn some
stuff about diet just watch all these
videos and if you're super curious about
anything or you're just curious
incrementally more and more as the
chapters go on or one chapter really
just gets you you want to read more
about it give some thought to purchasing
the book so you don't have to read the
book these videos will make independent
sense without the book but if you want
it the links in the bio so let's get
started
first chapter in the book chapter one is
the diet priority pyramid so where does
this pyramid come in all right well
here's the deal
we the goal of the book is to improve
our body composition which is how much
fat versus muscle we have alter our body
weight potentially gain weight lose
weight whatever you want and improve
performance in any variety of sports
every single kind of sport there is we
can use our diets to improve sport
performance that's the goal of answering
those questions
that's the books goal and in this
chapter we took a look at that goal and
we bump up into kind of a problem right
off hand that there are so many
different kinds of diets and diet ideas
and features of diets that attempt to
address these problems of how do we get
in shape how do we lose the most fat
gain the most muscle ultra our body
weight and get into the best performance
we can right so there's like no shortage
of diets there's a gazillion diets in
them some of them are mutually exclusive
almost in their supposition some say you
know God eat carbohydrates if you want
to perform some say you gotta cut all
your carbs if you want to perform so on
and so forth and some diets emphasize
different things some diets are really
about calories some are about counting
macros some are about nutrient timing
these intermittent fasting like you
don't eat for a long time or some or you
gotta eat seven meals a day so there's a
lot of contradictions a lot of
approaches but it turns out all diets
really only ever change about six major
classes of variable diets can alter your
calories how much food you're taking in
by the way separate chapters coming on
all of these they can alter your macros
how much proteins carbs and fats are
taking in diets can alter your timing so
even if they have the same calendar -
macros as another night they might tell
you to eat more meals fewer meals spaced
the meals differently so on and so forth
diets can ultra composition where are
you getting those proteins carbs and
fats are you getting the fats from nuts
or are they from oils or saturated fats
so on and so forth diets can alter the
kind of supplements you take
a popular not-so-amazing diet it's
called the HCG diet right and it
actually supplements HCG which is a
hormone and then you eat in a certain
other way so it proclaims that the
supplement is a really big help there's
other supplements you can take we're
gonna figure out later how powerful they
are or how underpowered they are and
diets can lastly alter your hydration
what kinds of fluids you're taking in
how often how much so on and so forth so
we have calories macros timing
composition supplements and hydration
altering all of those variables in
particular ways can get us to any and
every single kind of diet there is in
the entire universe of diets it's just
altering those six variables right it's
like if you alter how big someone's eyes
are or how big their nose is then no
shape and then the mouth position and
shape like that's like kind of you can
make any face you want from that it's
only like three or four variables and
all of a sudden boom you get all the
faces in the world just from altering
those to some degrees same thing with
dime now we can ask another question and
this is where the pyramid comes in are
those variables all the same importance
and in reality they're not it turns out
that some of those are way more
important on average to determining your
body composition how lean how muscular
you are and to performance than others
and they actually have a ring structure
right we'll get to why they have a ring
structure but first why does it matter
which ones are most important which ones
are least important we know for sure
some of them are way more important than
others so on and so forth we'll talk
about that in just a sec how they rank
up but why does it even why do we have
to ask that question why can't we say
well you know everything matters
everything is important right you know
if you had an you know a language
teacher in you know the seventh grade
and you asked the teacher you know
what's more important you know spelling
or grammar or sentence structure she
would look at you very perplexed and say
well all of those are important you
can't ignore any of them but it turns
out that in in complex dynamic systems
there are usually two every system very
important features and features that are
less important for example if you are
building a car
what can we consider is more important
to the car the fact that it has four
wheels the fact that it has some kind of
driving system like a propulsion system
an engine the fact that it has a
steering wheel of a kind of design that
you like or the fact that it has a
stereo system that plays the sound that
you know really makes the car enjoyable
drive well you know if you got to get
from point A to point B wheels are
non-negotiable the type of engine you
have may be important depending on how
you want to drive would you for sure
have to have one a steering wheel type
is a very very minor importance I mean
really care about it that much that's
just a preference and the kind of music
you listen to I mean geez you know
there's a lot of stereos that most
people just don't care about they just
don't make that big of an impact in
driving experience I'll tell you what if
someone says hey do you want wheels for
your car do you want a good stereo
system nobody's really gonna answer I
want a good stereo system and the second
part of it is if you're trying to do as
best of a diet as you can and you have
infinite resources an infinite time to
both learn about diet and to execute
your diet sure you can learn it all and
you can actually eat it all perfectly
and it doesn't really matter what's more
important or what's not almost none of
us have that we have jobs we have
families we have the real world and we
can't spend forever reading and learning
all this stuff that's why you guys are
watching this video cuz it's only a
couple minutes long so if we take that
into consideration we really need to
know what the most important stuff is so
we can get it nice and checked in right
if you want a car to take a package from
point A to point B you got a Missouri it
doesn't have wheels yes the said I'm an
engine yes can it be steered yes is it
rudimentary ly safe yes great
we'll take it right because you're
trying to get somewhere you're trying to
get to fitness and health with limited
resources you've got to know what the
most important things are what are they
well calories are the most important on
average and diet and body composition
for your diet for body composition and
for performance calories account for
maybe 50 percent of all the variants
huge huge part macronutrients are next
macronutrients might account for
something like 30 percent of all the
variants right so how much protein you
need how many carbs you eat how much
fats and the ratio is between them
account for a good deal of body
composition performance for example if
you're trying to lose fat
which you cut all your protein super low
you'd lose a whole crap ton of muscle
real real bad news
you can't just lower your calories and
be like Bob whatever I just eat whatever
just as long as it's the calories yeah
you'll lose weight but you'll lose a
whole lot of muscle and way too much of
it your performance is just gonna go
straight down the drain so with calories
and macros 50 or 30 we have 80% already
nutrient timing is a bit less important
it's at 10% 10% is a detail and if you
really just want to stick to the basics
a plan like intermittent fasting or if
it's for macros can take you 80% of the
way they're super cool not really doing
a super great job on timing so timing is
a bit more of a detail but 10% can mean
a big difference and if you're a
competitor 10% can be the difference
between going to regionals and going to
Nationals real real big deal then food
composition for health which is a topic
of another book we have understanding
healthy eating not this book this is for
performance a body composition for
health food composition where your food
comes from
is it super healthy food or not that
actually means a lot for health but
interestingly enough for body
composition performance especially in
the shorter term it doesn't mean much
right around 5% so if you get most of
your protein from soy protein maybe not
the greatest source or even combined
vegetarian sources which not super
graders if it's pure egg protein or you
know milk fractions which are super
super high quality you know for body
composition and performance it doesn't
matter a whole lot where that protein
comes from it is long as you get your
carbs not a huge deal
so composition is about 5% supplements
to not many people surprised but some
are also 5 percent and that's counting
every single supplement together
supplements just aren't a big deal right
hydration actually gets lumped into
supplements because hydration is so easy
to do right that we gave it a pretty low
priority ranking right so all of that
forms 100% together what we're gonna do
over the next couple of chapters is
navigate every single one of those
individual elements and try to put them
in context describe them what does it
mean to get your calories right what
does it mean to have good macros what is
that even
how do we do tie them properly and we'll
take it from there we have a whole ton
of chapters to get through but we'll get
through them logically
step-by-step and interestingly enough
we'll get not only through the
mechanisms of diet but also how to
adhere to
because one real big question is okay
now that we know what the ideal diet is
how do we get actually ourselves to do
it and stick to it especially how do we
get folks are helping with diet stick to
all these principles because it's one
thing to know how to back properly
another thing is get it done all
together you will have another chapter
after all this discussion about
adherence hunger management so on and so
forth
folks will see you in the next chapter
[Music]