I do like the slow Ecentric that works
all right and that ends at 17 R anyone
want to claim that all top Pros go to
failure
categorically either lying or making
things up I can't quite tell
[Music]
which hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength I am a longtime professor of
sport exercise science Brazilian Jitsu
Grappler and a competitive bodybuilder
but the number of rungs on the ladder of
competitive bodybuilding is incredibly
High I'm very very far down on that list
however there is one person at the very
very top of the list the greatest
bodybuilder of all
time the Haney no Ronnie of course no
still no what well my God who is it Dr
Mike stop stop playing with us it is
none other than Iris Kyle T 10 time Miss
Olympia winner technically speaking the
most dominant bodybuilder of History
let's take a look at how she's training
let's uh see if we can offer any polite
critiques and see if we can learn some
stuff 3 2 1 Iris Kyle unbelievable
absolutely phenomenal muscle structure
look at the striations in her glutes
definitely has some glutes that is not
easy to obtain and shows extremely low
body fat if I met her in a dark alley
Dan I would be scared
was kind of an odd comment I suppose
it's your general comment about all very
lean and muscular people that
potentially they have a lot of force
production they could but I don't know
odd comment moving on all right so let's
look at how we're
training one more one
[Music]
more kind of partial in the mid-range
very partial very mid-range not a lot of
stretch to the muscles not ideal I would
love to see most people go lower maybe
she has some injury limitations or
figured out that her stimulus to fatigue
ratio is best training like that um and
also make sure you have training
partners that wear insanely bright
colors ooh all right so that inverted
upright row grip is something a lot of
people just won't be able to do your
shoulder Mobility will not allow you to
do it in many cases but if you can pull
it off it's a great exercise it really
points your elbows up for you which
allows your side bels to really take
over the movement which is great also
look at the size of this girl traps holy
 what you store of them shits girl
but seriously this is a really excellent
version of upright Rose give it a shot
with light weight if it feels weird on
your wrists or your elbows or your
shoulders mess with the technique a
little bit maybe reconsider if it feels
good get you a watermelon flavor
training partner and get to town on
these shits OJ and watermelon Scot the
video guy that's what we doing
today 36 37 good 38 we doing ultra high
w
godamn so I don't know if they were
counting totals and then taking breaks
that could be the case but even if they
did 40 reps in one set and one go this
at the end of the world mostly what we
hear is sets of five to sets of 30 are
the most hypertrophic the most anabolic
rep range and that's not wrong but
difficult sets all the way to 40 and 50
reps in some contexts in many context
produce decent levels of hypertrophy and
this is just one feature of your plan
you do plenty of heavy training but also
you do this kind of thing then it's
totally fine it doesn't immediately it's
not like when you cross from 30 to 31
reps it's a total red flag there's
relative trade-offs here and especially
towards the end of a workout Ultra High
Reps like this if you really focus on
that burn can be
productive oh snap we got back and we
got Versa grips so a couple things why
would you use vers grips what the hell
are they they're like straps but better
they're made out of a new space age
material which scientists have not yet
been able to identify and I know that
sounds strange that even though they
couldn't identify it they would be
licensed by the government to produce
these things but it's one of those 1950s
weird glowing goop from the spaceship
kind of thing so thank you aliens for
the Versa grip and that crazy high
friction material in there means that if
you wrap it around any Implement War bar
your arm is probably going to tear off
before your grip goes which is a really
really big deal because what's our
number one priority of the gym to tear
our limbs
off no that's not not it to make sure
our grip is not limiting factor so our
shoulders and our backs and our legs all
the other muscles that we have are
pushed to the Limit and grip is still
steady and stable vers grips are
absolutely the way to go for this
they're better than straps they're
better than chalk and I think chalk and
straps are awesome and I love them ver
grips are just kind of Next Level give
some thought to getting them we have a
code here on the screen for you if you
want to save some money Link in the
description ha got your muff cuz that
was an ad read I'm sure you knew that by
now but ha in any case let's take a look
at Iris Kyle lifting a little bit more
[Music]
someone must be helping her or no yes oh
it's hiani yamagishi the best Japanese
bodybuilder of all time and Iris Kyle's
significant other husband maybe I'm just
not in the loop on uh bodybuilding
relations so but they are somehow
Associated heata is really nice he came
up to me once and spoke to me for what I
discerned was no reason at all and uh
shout out shouted out some mad respect
to me I was like he you're 10 times the
man that I'll ever be please consider me
irrelevant I began to cry and I ran away
he thought that was normal and never
spoke to me again not terrible technique
here I would like to see a deep hang
stretch at the bottom for that stretch
underload effect for that lengthened
tension and uh she's coming up plenty
high but I would like to see some
ecentral control on the way down and
some lower positions so being super
nitpicky here these are good pull-ups
the last pull-up I would recommend you
to slowly ride out out that Ecentric
pause at the bottom and then jump off
that gives you that last reps really
high level stimulus remember the last
rep is the one where you're closest to
failure it is probably going to be the
rep that causes the most hypertrophic
signaling you might as well do that rep
and milk everything out of it that you
can imagine you're eating a cake that
you're just like dude I need more of
this this is the greatest ever the last
piece of cake that you eat you're
unlikely to be like oh you're savoring
every bite you're chewing it you're
swallowing it and that last piece you're
like no leave people would be like I
thought he was enjoying that cake I
guess he just got bored and kind of
decided to finish it quickly no that's
nonsense you would eat that last little
piece you would savor every morsel of it
same in lifting that last WP now this
isn't a huge deal at all but if you want
to optimize your lifting just a little
bit more make sure you lift that last
rep as if you have another one after
slow controlled milking the Ecentric
full in of motion don't just pop off the
machine I do that all the time I pop off
the machine all the time and I could be
doing better all right got some chest
supported
rows this is good generally full range
of motion I would love to see Iris
extend out at the bottom super deep
stretch and then come pulse back up at
the top you can tell her chest is still
upright at the bottom and her shoulders
haven't sank down that prevents all of
the muscles of the midback from really
getting stretched like crazy in that
deep position for the scapular
protraction and it does prevent them
from hypertrophying as much as they
could if you have Iris Kyle back
genetics you don't need to worry about a
goddamn thing if you have your back
genetics try protracting it'll
help a lot of short rest breaks kind of
10-second breaks and then going this is
my training and this is awesome I didn't
know Irish KY trained like this but I
also didn't know where babies came from
until yesterday Scott the video guy
explained it to
me it's very physical
I wish I hadn't heard
[Music]
it these are good reps there's a person
doing upside down crunches behind her
with no hands and and and that person's
rushing the Ecentric also how's that
I'll critique anybody God damn it I'll
critique myself my parents my sister my
dog that random person bring them all
[Music]
on damn she's really putting in work man
tons of myia reps here this is a smart
training strategy so here's what my reps
basically are you do a set of 10 to 20
reps taking the muscle pretty close to
failure can be three reps in reserve can
be all the way to failure doesn't much
matter you rest 5 to 10 seconds and then
you hit that again for another 5 to 10
reps you rest another 5 to 10 seconds
and then you hit that exercise again for
another hopefully 5 to 10 reps what that
allows you to do is spend a lot less
time training but allow a lot of the
volume to be in high proximity to
failure more of that volume is now
closer to your muscle breaking point and
potentially stimulating just as much
gains of straight sets do for that same
amount of total reps completed but you
can complete the total reps in a much
shorter time arguably saving in the
systemic fatigue of having to be in the
gym for for goddamn ever so this is a
really really cool way to train it's not
Superior to straight sets it does save
time with probably no trade-offs on the
other end so it is cool for that how do
you keep my reps together how do you
program them how do you keep keep them
consistent how do you log them well I
wish there was an app for that that
actually just has a new function install
that takes care of mys and my matchet
for you maybe I'll have a a Daydream and
think about real hard what that app
is training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same holy handle all right all right
what do I say that's not
here this a grotesque gigantic handle
it's fun it's cool for strongman or
whatever or 8ot tall people with 30 in
Long middle fingers but I just I don't
get the oversized and whatever
company made that you guys are great
I've seen you around it's really
hardcore but God damn and the handles
are so thick what is exactly the point
of thick handles on on rolling
implements I just got to talk some
all due respect folks vers grubs come in
real clutch there but but with thinner
handles and Versa grips could be even
better all I'm
saying this is very good technique for
the cable row she's not doing some kind
of crazy momentum she's just arching
back getting that PE contraction and
then notice she's milking that Ecentric
she pauses and then lets it slide down
really slow I can't tell if that was a
warm-up set or not Scott was that
working weight or was that just like
okay well it's one of those ifb Pros
never can tell how far they are from
failure type of
videos all right do doing some lat
prayers so this is a good technique we
want the lats hit as much as possible at
their lengthened position at their
stretched position so what I would love
to see you guys do when you try this is
to bend your hips even further such that
your chest and your hips are roughly at
the same level basically parallel to the
ground and at the very top you get
maximum tension for your lats at the
maximum stretch when you come back down
you'll notice it's actually really easy
you might have to come up a little bit
just so your face doesn't get scra by
the cable but then just come up only far
enough for the cable not to hit you and
then as you reach back out and Arc back
out you're going to bring your whole
chest down and your face can go back to
normal because the cable's out of the
way if you do that that's probably one
of the better ways to do this exercise
this is a fine way but uh when you're
coming up with the bar and your body
Rises up you're no longer applying
tension to the lats at their most
lengthen position which means you're
losing some degree of optimality for
muscle
growth so she's kind of kind of throwing
the weight down which I usually hate on
but in this case it's a little bit smart
because she's riding that eccentric a
ton so she's using getting to reps with
weights she normally would not be able
to on a strict concentric to be able to
ride out that strict Ecentric and yes
you get excessive fatigue from throwing
the weight down like that and using
other muscles in your body not just your
lats but you get probably a little bit
less fatigue per the stimulus on the
Ecentric so if you get more Ecentric to
make up for this the stimulus to fatigue
ratio might work out just fine for you
definitely something to try as a more
advanced lifter when you have the basic
standard technique really really figured
out then you can incorporate a little
bit of this kind of concentric momentum
to milk that Ecentric load now if you do
the concentric momentum but the Ecentric
you drop really quick anyway you're just
around at that point you must earn that
concentric cheating in a sense that
momentum Generation by going real slow
on the Ecentric on the way back up
notice how slow she's going that's the
way to do this right little bit of a
throw on the way down slow and
controlled hand
strength all right I need one of these
uh Better
Bodies pant
outfits damn Scott what's up with that
watch yo I'm saying that Olympia money
hit damn girl got a Lamborghini on her
wrist I'm feeling that 100 and her Under
Armour looks like she's about to
get on the space shuttle goddamn
astronauts outfit I love it you can tell
she's pausing at the top of some of her
leg curls that definitely really gets
the Mind muscle connection going can let
you feel the tension in your hamstrings
unfortunately pausing at the top seeps
away your energy to do more reps and the
most muscle growth promoting part of the
rep is actually down closer to the
stretch of the muscle it's almost like
let's say you went to an amusement park
with just like a super awesome uh
girlfriend she's new girlfriend you're
the new boyfriend and you're just having
the most amazing time you have8 hours in
the amusement park any amount of time
you spend on the checking your
DMs while she waits outside is
definitely technically time at the
amusement park technically with her but
you're not there spending it in the best
possible way the best possible way to
spend that time is be on that roller
coaster that's not that scary and just
make out while it does Loops Scott you
ever made out with anyone on a roller
coaster before uh consenting person that
you knew beforehand oh then no then no
um in kind of the same way yes at the P
contraction is a place to spend your
hamstring curl time and it's a fine
place it does grow muscle just like
checking your DMs in a shitty porta
potty and Cedar Point can be a way to
exist but uh better to be making out and
having Young Love somewhere in a a
little corner of the park and better to
be spending more time in that lengthened
position really exaggerating the entric
or even spending a second or two at that
bottom stretch waiting until you go up
again for the concentric gently touching
your butt with that pad and then coming
back slow under control very nitpicky
but nonetheless you know what I'm saying
Young Love Is in the Air why do I keep
saying young that makes me seem like an
old creep wait accurate folks if you
like how this is going there's still
more video to come but if you want the
extra super unrated uncut Edition it's
in our members area give some thought to
joining there's tons of other videos
there all the time maybe you'll see you
there
got some forc reps going help on the
concentric notice there's no help on the
Ecentric very good this is a great way
to train and then she's doing some
bottom end partials too sort of ah the
vertical leg press is back the vertical
I press is one of the worst possible
pieces of equipment to design as you can
tell it minimizes the range of motion
that the quads can exert at the KN which
is what black pressing is for it is a
fine glute exercise in reality but it
ALS so rounds living out of your
lower back for any given amount of
stretch that it puts on your muscles not
ideal not even
close all right we got some uh hack
squats can't tell if this is a work set
or not I guess it might be very good
ental control decent depth you guys
notice her feet are up really high on
the platform for Quad emphasis I'd love
for folks to bring their feet down a
little and in just a little bit with
their toes turned out that usually hits
your quads a little bit better than this
St and this isn't a terrible stance just
again got to be nitpicky or I don't have
a job to do on this channel they all
works they're all work
sets all right ifbb work sets never can
quite tell if it's a work set or people
just moving around thank you genetics I
do like the slow Ecentric that
works way to milk that
out all right and that ends at 17 R
anyone want to claim that all top Pros
go to failure
categorically either lying or making
things up I can't quite tell the truth
all
right
folks couple things Iris Kyle 10 time
Miss Olympia
Champion she is completely free from
being able to be criticized because once
you win everything 10 times once you win
anything at all certainly the Miss
Olympia and certainly 10 times people
like me talking that uh it just
don't matter I just want to remind
everyone that I'm wholly irrelevant
however we can learn from Champions if
we don't have their genetics we don't
have all the tools they do in their
toolbox but we have the desire we have
modern science we can look at what they
did and what they do and see if we can't
take a lot of the good lessons away and
use those and maybe optimize on the
margins and try some stuff even that
they didn't try that could be a little
bit better more of a controlled Tempo
more of a deep stretch and getting
pretty godamn close to failure in most
sets would be a super smart idea and
give that some thought take away what
you will from Iris Call's training
there's tons more of it on the internet
go check her out check out her social
media and this is like a living legend
of the sport you win something 10 times
in a row man that's a whole that's a
Whole Decade of you just being the
must get old or some like that
anyway I've talked to Iris in real life
a few times and she seems really sweet
so if you're in Las Vegas she does have
a gym go check that out and
um yeah yeah I give this an iris Kyle is
an immortal goddess out of 10 and I'll
see you guys next
time all right that was fun right here
is another video that maybe you should
click on Maybe not maybe not give it
some thought