[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here who am I again
professor of exercise and sports science
at Leman College in the Bronx in New
York City in the world you know the rest
and also co-founder of Renaissance
periodization and co-creator of our
suite of hypertrophy apps and training
apps and I do have an admission to make
for you today to you today it's an
uncomfortable admission but I think in
today's trying political
times fence sitting won't work anymore
it's time for me to take a
stand and I'm going to take a stand by
admitting something to you that is
uncomfortable for me to admit because
every day I fight against
it I
am
mortal was tough and I am not a God now
I'm doing everything in my power to
engineer my way towards Godlike
immortality why do I tell you
this because Among Us Walk The Immortals
not just the blade Trinity vampires I'm
sure they're around too vampires hello
but true Gods Heroes men of whom
word spreads in only one of two ways way
number one Whispers I heard he's here
jealous Whispers coming rumors is he
real no way and the other way is
screaming at the top of the lungs during
and by said female in an orgasm
experienced by her to the very thought
of this God and or if she's very lucky
direct physical
experience Mike what the are you on
about bro oh but you already know cuz
you saw the thumbnail didn't you there
are men and brave men and capable men
and strong men and there are gods and
kirakos grizzly is a God and not just
because he's Greek but that doesn't hurt
you guys remember Hercules I don't
either cuz the strongest man ever from
Greece is kakos Grizzly Scott the video
guy roll that shit so we can just do one
thing together as our little YouTube
family bask in
awe let's do
it oh my God yes oh
God the scale says full you see folks
that is because how do you weigh godhood
you shudder at its presence you drop to
your
knees men from Fear women from the kind
of inability to contract their lower
bodies I assume is concomitant with a
full bodied orgasm ladies turns out this
is a dating tips episode if you are a
woman of reproductive age and hey
Grandma don't tell anyone I said this
but you too you're going to want to take
notes because I'm going to tell you how
to make yourself most
available to I was going to say a man
like that's not true a god like krio
ghost Grizzly so more dating tips ahead
first if you find yourself a man that
steps on the scale in the shit short
circuits I'm not Beyonce but throw a
ring on that shit the rumor is that that
was a 200 kilogram scale and I think he
was like 212 kilog when he stepped on
this 212k that's like pushing 470
lbs it's not a man we speak of I love
everything about also his body
composition I'm no sport
scientist but I would say he looks to be
about 8% fat I'm in a conversation for
10 to 12% for you naysayers but like
anything north of 145 you're out of your
mind and honestly just jealous I
understand I understand look again
seeing this kind of perfection is
difficult to wrap the head around you've
been lifting a while think you get your
swoll on you're kind of your little
fucking small te your pecs are kind of
popping you're like damn dude I'm on my
fucking steroids I don't even know about
it and then and you hear the mere
mention of kirakos squizzle and you
realize you haven't trained at all
you're child you are a child and so am
I look at me I'm
Kiros I
mean big titties even if you're a
straight dude which ass sure I
am you can't resist the shit and
obviously he's jacked and his beard is
on point at
100%
I can do this I can do
this yeah hell yeah I don't know what
the that is but it looks dope I imagine
it to be a shrug done in a way that is
designed to maximally inconvenience the
setup notice that he has Tape clear tape
packing tape around that number of 25s
these are 25 kilo plates by the way it's
real weight too you can tell because the
bar is bending and he's got little
chains there for extra weight on top
he's zering it which means he's holding
it in the kind of the crevices of his
arms and he's doing a little bit of
shrugging pecs popping shoulders juicy
face at bloat 100 there's this debate
like what is masculinity that debate is
over you're looking at it you want to be
more like a man you put a picture of
kaka's grizzly up in your bathroom which
you should already replace the picture
you already have up with him just the
new laminated version and every day
before youing walk out of that bathroom
that you brush your teeth in and shave
in and touch your body in the shower to
you tell yourself Mr kiakos I will not
let you down and I will try to become
much more like you with every single
thing I do starting with Ceda jerser
shrugs some of you may be asking well he
seems quite tired from that how come I
thought he was a god ooh good one folks
but you're not that clever Scott you
grew up Christian yes sure Scott what
did God do on the last day after he
created the heavens and the Earth and
man he rested my guy God's rest folks 40
chess kirakos is playing with you with
you pussies out
here you know we're all fighting demons
in the gym and because he's a god he's
fighting like the devil I assume or mult
multiple the Devils um sometimes you got
so much shit in there and I don't mean
clogged arteries uh I mean demons that
even a hard set of well frankly whatever
the that was just isn't enough to get it
all out of the Soul so after you rack
you got some shit in there still and
what better to do than Primal
scream that guy's like yeah I have no
idea why I'm celebrating what what
happened did that range of motion exceed
one inch
finally okay honestly that flexibility
is dope I can't do that shit he's
somehow incredibly obese at 470 lbs and
also wildly athletic
what oh damn I also hitting the
bodybuilding poses in it when I would
just say now listen I've been really fat
myself before comical body fat
percentage is well
[Applause]
Godlike because you could say to
yourself if I were this fat there's no
way I would hit bodybuilding poses
because it would be embarrassing and I
understand you as a mortal human cuz I
am too unfortunately that makes sense in
your head logically except what to be
embarrassed about if you can never
die
good morning with bar dump for no reason
recking
it partial bent R deadlift
combo oh whoever made these videos is
having a grand old time now TBH unless
this pick is enhanced he looks like he
like of course he's body Fat's very high
but you know you don't get traps like
that from body fat and uh delts and pecs
and and arms kiro's got some muscle
under the that mother and I mean George
Clooney is good-looking but this real
men as we say in Russia oh yes nothing
like bar carries oh and I love the angel
wings someone is having a lot of fun at
kirakos is neither expense nor benefit
and you know like they got one thing
right he's a angel right can you imagine
you're like you're some little kid and I
don't know man this is going to get dark
real quick but like your parents are
fighting in the other room and you pray
to God and you're like please send me an
angel to help me out of this and I just
want to be in a safe place where I feel
safe and get a good night's rest amen
and then like the door busts open open
and kirakos is like you pray for me yes
I am kirakos and you're
like why yes sir he's said tucks his
angel wings through the door feathers
fall everywhere he's like come with me
if you want to you know I don't know
whatever in any case you're going to
have a good time
holy shit now like full stretch pull-ups
with a little athleticism coming up over
the bar with the chin at 400 plus pounds
is impressive like a real talk kiriako
Grizzlies lifts are insane and weird and
probably not very effective for the
amount of fatigue they generate and
excessively laborious to set up the gym
situation to have him
done he's big and strong and athletic
and it's a trip like God damn it you're
not supposed to be able to move 400
pounds like that why don't you go to
Walmart next time pick someone out who
weighs 400 should be easy and be like
hey how many pull-ups can you do they're
going to be like ah yeah come on man
that's not nice kakos he's your
man there is no avoiding hard training
if you want to grow but if you want to
grow the most your training needs to be
hard and smart RP hypertrophy app will
make sure you're progressing on track
monitoring and adjusting your workout at
all times so for all that work you're
doing you can be sure you're getting the
best
results yes I have an explanation for
this don't worry I'm still a scientist
most people understand that weights are
inanimate objects and that they can
don't understand your emotions because
if you scream at them nothing's
happening ah but maybe that's true maybe
it's just that the weights do understand
at a requisite minimum intensity of
screaming and kirakos has screamed hard
enough directly at them that the weights
usually are like what huh uh and this
time curius is like ah ah and the waight
like oh no yeah that listen handshake I
know exactly how you feel thank you
kirakos for letting me the weights know
what you're feeling on the inside and
he's like yeah respect I just want to be
on the same page you guys know people
dog whisperers they can talk to dogs and
shit kirakos is a weights Whisperer
that's why he's the strongest thing
that's ever
been oh he's also seems to be yelling at
the heater behind him and maybe at the
collars too sometimes you just got to
let it out uh ladies imagine
that kakos Grizzly exists and I want you
to remember that for a second I want to
reach out to all the ladies who watch
the channel the three and a half of you
that are our fan base and I want you to
be truthful with me right now not even
me in this in the quiet and peace of
your own home ask yourself a question
are you having the kind of sex that you
want to be having like is the sex you're
having like oh thanks honey that was
great you're so sweet little kiss and
then turn to sleep or is the sex you're
having a cosmic karmic experience a full
body clasps and releases that leaves you
drained and confused and in the shower
for 30 minutes just staring at the
bottle of shampoo barely able to
ambulate on your own two legs wondering
how can someone put out such good godamn
loving well if it's not the second
variety there's a problem with an easy
solution the problem you're having is
your sex is mystical and the reason is
because you are not having the sex done
to you by kirakos Grizzly ladies uh
let's all close our eyes together and
imagine that chest hair rubbing up
against your face as you gasp for the
tiny little bit of air he decides you
get to have to keep you just awake
enough to just disintegrate into a pile
of pleasure beneath his
474 rhinoceros likee pounds am I erect
you ask yes and I have been for this
whole video hey guys if you desperately
need more videos of kiro's grizzly and
you've already run through all his other
stuff and you need my incisive
commentary to go along with it we've got
an Extended Cut so that could be cool if
you were a member just saying hit that
subscribe button SL membership button I
don't know which button just do
it
pause ladies I'm making a hard sell I
know this entire time you're like but
like what about his apps like I need a
man with abs bitch look at him doing
crunches girl can you do crunches
weighing 470 I didn't think so that
guy's got abs his abs got abs and those
abs have abs unfortunately there's about
a phone book thick layer of body fat
between that shit and the skin but
nonetheless he's out here working there
is an unbelievable amount
of ASMR value there's something
cathartic and soothing about watching
karakos Grizzly just
exist he he posted these videos these
are all from his channel that he posted
personally or whoever his team his team
team I think he ate a few members of his
team I like the bunny hops it doesn't
seem like he's trying to get Max
altitude it's like a sumo squat jump
also partial
curious you know like uh you pray to God
back in like the Greek days with the
Greek gods real and shit like whatever
3,000 years ago and like sometimes
they'd be like yeah yeah yeah here's a
good harvest but sometimes they were
like ah sorry this volcano blew up and
killed everyone in the village uh the
gods have been described as Mercurial in
nature um that is the perfect
description for kirakos Grizzly um what
sense can you make out of these little
mini squat hops well let me ask you a
question um
what sense can an ant make of a design
for a quantum computer none it's orders
and Orders of magnitude outside of it's
cerebral capacity to understand so when
we try to understand what curioos is
doing and you you think oh I'm going to
watch a Dr Mike video we're going to
laugh at kakas together he's so silly he
does these silly things we're silly he's
not silly there's a method to what looks
like Madness to
us oh yeah I thought I had full range of
motion on my upright
gross holy shit this is called front
raises overhead 10 * 100 kg I mean look
it's an absurd lift for seemingly no
purpose first point second Point by the
way 100K is basically two plates on a
side less like 225 it's 220 if I see a
mother man handling to above head height
220 225 in the
gym I'm not that guy kirakos could pick
up a grown man and just throw his ass
aside
that the guy that his crew is amazing
the guy behind him is like yep it's just
another day another day another dollar
you know how we tell you on this channel
to control The Descent to get the most
muscle growth apparently we're
wrong that's the reason the clap is
incredible there must be some sarcasm
baked in these
guys Christmas colored weights let's see
what what going
on oh we've seen this exercise before
this is kind of not so much load for
kirakos uh he's had even more before on
their hanging the gut really comes in uh
handy for this trust me I have a gut
these lifts are easy when you have a gut
if you don't you're not really a man so
who gives a
shit
yeah
yeah not a terrible movement for various
forms of athletic development his his
profile view from the side there is
sexual my
God oh my
God I didn't think the shit could get
any more absurd behind the back momentum
wrist curls with straps on again I
reveal my mortality in small
brained with the question of why there
must be a reason I simply can't
comprehend oh yeah lowbar
partials he's like okay okay I'll go
down a little bit further than the third
of the way down on this last rep dump
Victory hey that's like Ronnie Coleman
used to
do the way I would describe his lifting
is if you wanted the minimum muscle
growth possible for the most joint pain
possible and the most inconvenience and
lifting possible this is how you would
do it again you because you're not a god
like
yakos is he wearing jeans no no those
are sport
[Music]
pants this is where I'm supposed to
grade it
right you guys ready for my grade
out of
10 whatever I say next will be the end
of the video consider
that my statement out of
10 God is
real see you next
time if you guys like that video YouTube
thinks you're going to really love this
one over here so give it a click and go
down a fantasy khole of endless YouTube
videos
he