go and do the challenging things that
actually get you to your goal not just
random challenging shit half these
workout videos just random nonsense
that's hard
[Music]
hey I'm Dr Mike Israel for Renaissance
periodization and I'm the creator of the
RPI pertrophy app I'm a professor of
exercise and sports science at Lehman
College in the Bronx and I will be
looking at a workout video today of Mr
Henry Cavill I think it's Cavill that's
how I say it and he is training for The
Witcher let's put some Sport Science
criticism in and by the way it's all
jokes of all banter no offense meant
let's get it started
by the way I've seen every single
episode of The Witcher my wife and I
loved it
and
I wake up every day and I tell myself
I'm the straightest man that's ever been
born and it's all lies Henry Cavill my
God my God man I don't even know what my
name is
Swoon warning I started with faster
cardio and then I did a weight training
in the United States it's programmed in
the United Kingdom it's regime by word
how fancy this is my trainer Dave rienzi
Dave looks like he trains bro maybe this
will finally be good and really with all
this network he's doing a key Foundation
movement we're going to incorporate as a
Romanian devil that guy's not British
what the fuck is going on he's doing a
four second negative with this and then
a two second pause at the bottom so far
I like it checking all the boxes no key
here is just maximizing time under
tension so he's able to fatigue the
muscles more but not over stress his
nervous system and his adrenals what
they're talking about is the level of
systemic fatigue and exercise imposes
and the stiff-legged AKA Romanian
deadlifting thing uh this is one of the
most fatiguing exercises you can do if
you really wanted to train the glutes
and hams there's a bunch of exercises
like light curls and lunges you could do
to get just as much hypertrophic effect
muscle growth and not nearly as much
fatigue so curious but uh as an aside me
being really pronounced I haven't
utilized a hip Circle above his knees so
basically with incorporating that he's
activating his glute medius and really
keeping the glutes activated and fired
the whole time that's cool mind you if
you're doing it with
a stiff knee you end up mostly training
the hamstrings just a little bit the
glutes but uh whatever good stuff keep
your core tight thanks Men's Health so
the next exercise we're utilizing here
is a hyperextension two back to back
hamstring exercises
and both of them hip hinge eccentric
heavy some redundancy me being pedantic
his technique actually looks very good
when it comes to the posterior chain and
the kind of stunts I have to do anything
which is based upon one leg movement
where a knee can have a bad injury if
you don't have that glute medialis
engaged or that posterior chain this
stuff is what saves me this exercise is
good for making you generally strong and
will reduce your general injury risk if
you are a stunt person the logic there
specifically wasn't that great but uh
she was you know so far we've done a few
of these the best video in a while that
I've seen for celebrity training pausing
at the top for two seconds is cool
unfortunately it's the least muscle
growth prone position of the entire
movement so you're wasting a lot of
energy it can help you get a better mind
muscle connection with your glutes but
again this is mostly hamstring exercise
anyways I digress ooh obliques time and
muscle you almost certainly never need
to train with this especially this helps
with one endurance when I have to do a
fight scene over and over and over again
with a sword if I'm using the real sword
real weighted sword it's very heavy and
requires lots of endurance to do them if
you really wanted to train for endurance
with a sword you would instead use
something that has gravitational weight
which means a dumbbell that you can grip
like this and then you can do lots of
movements like this to build up
endurance you can hold it out for a
while that's really good you could hold
it at multiple different positions
that's really good and you can actually
do Dynamic work with a progressively
heavier dumbbell or for longer periods
of time and then eventually that makes
you really good at lifting the sword
using a cable machine with this baffles
the fucking imagination Men's Health
says keep your hands directly in front
of the middle of your chest uh good for
what
I don't know
this movement can be made in every way
better by making it dynamic stepping
forward and then rocking back from here
all the way to the end and slow and
controlled with lots of weight for sets
of 10 to 20 reps
you will get bigger all sorts of core
muscles and your ability to swing a
sword will improve you know by you
swinging weight around instead of just
fucking standing there this really did
start off good
so far not so great for more challenge
do this in a kneeling stance
why would it be more challenging because
you physically can't use your feet to
grip on the floor making you weaker in
the exercise without actually
challenging you yes guys listen
ah do not go to the gym to get a
challenge you can challenge yourself
anywhere do your taxes that's hard
challenges should have a purpose you
want a challenge to make you more mobile
you want a challenge to make you
stronger you want to challenge to make
you grow more muscle figure out how you
want to challenge yourself and go and do
the challenging things that actually get
you to your goal not just random
challenging shit half of these freaking
workout videos just random nonsense
that's hard
shoulders finally irrelevant muscle
group here is a variation of side
laterals and front raises so each
repetition is actually three repetitions
he's starting out in the traditional
side lateral for the first rep then he's
coming a little further forward for the
next one and then everyone gets fancy
all the time why don't these Hollywood
trainers just do fucking basic exercise
it works better than everything
it's a fine exercise needlessly complex
I would like a lifter to focus on one or
two movements at a time probably just
one and when finished with one movement
go on to the next and there's a reason
for that that way you can really Groove
in on doing an excellent job on two
fronts technique and effort but if you
have to do things that are really
complicated you spend more mental
bandwidth thinking about what my next
step is in not as much mental bandwidth
on how good my technique is and how hard
I'm working which is really the whole
point of being in the gym this really
helps with the sword fighting aspect uh
swords are typically very very heavy
it's very true what Henry's saying you
want absolutely the strongest side delts
in front delts you can have with sword
fighting and rear adults too the best
way to do that would be simple exercises
like lateral raises and G even overhead
presses upright rows but this is a fancy
a little too fancy this exercise we're
performing here is going to be a
dumbbell curl alternating from a static
hole Yeah for the sword work in
particular again it's what this really
helps with is my forearms folks static
holds are gigantic fucking waste of your
time unless you're trying to get good at
static holes if you're trying to build
muscle for Hollywood roll
you're much better off doing Dynamic
movements
probably with both arms at the same time
you can even alternate them but the
static hold is just a good way to waste
energy
if you want to get really good at static
holding something heavy so you're used
to holding a sword it's probably good to
just do that by yourself with a heavy
dumbbell and take reps at a time of 20
seconds or 30 until you get tired put it
down wait another 20 seconds pick it up
and do it that would be better than
poisoning a perfectly effective bicep
exercise by putting static holes into it
if you have a particularly powerful
horse whether it be a stallion or
anything else Henry Cavill on a horse
like a romance novel in real life
good advice for Men's Health Pinky's up
try to fight the Earth's rock at the
waist or lean backwards very good well
everyone well that's it and uh what
we've shown you I give this a 7 out of
10.
the detraction points are from the
needless complexity
and sometimes just downright poor
exercise Choice with the whole static
cold situation
but
the way that they did they glued ham
raise
the Romanian deadlift
curls were okay minus the static hold
the lateral raises were fine minus the
complexity
indicates to me that
there's something going on that's
effective and that's very good
the first thing
the second thing is
man Henry Cavill really did explain that
everyone is their own person and needs
to train on their own time and have
their own goals and not compare to
others which I think is really great and
again it tells me only one thing Henry
Cavill is my dream man
I've been Dr Mike and I'll see you guys
next
[Music]