Patrick uses elevated split squat to
work strength at an in range of motion
you need to work slow and have isometric
holds for up to 5 Seconds at the in
range of motion yes because that so
often happens in sport lifting in the
strength conditioning contest especially
for American football should be done
more dynamically than it is hypertrophy
training so he should be getting into
that bottom position and springing back
up because in reality that's what would
happen in sport he's not building
resiliency by pausing at the bottom for
5 seconds that doesn't build resiliency
at all it actually makes you less
athletic by practice it's not a good
idea you have to challenge folks in the
weight room to move with very high
velocities High Force Productions and
yes bounces out of the hole You're
Building resiliency right he's going to
get bounced off a know lineman at some
point by accident you know when he's
playing the game better get used to it
now