if you slow down towards the bottom and
pause take a second and then come up not
only does it summate even more
metabolites it burns the out of
your quads it's really quite terrible
but also it reduces the amount of force
that occurs from the transition the
transition from Ecentric to concentric
that phase technically is called the
amortization phase especially if you're
doing Plyometrics but the more
plyometric likee your movements look the
quicker the amortization phase is the
higher the peak forces are and this is
from direct Force platform testing that
I've actually conducted myself in the
past so the absolute highest amount of
force in a squat for example is seen Bar
None with essentially everyone that
we've ever tested in the bottom of the
squat in that little Peak that's a good
thing because that maximum Force at the
stretch grows a shitload of muscle but
it's also a bad thing in context because
close to a show that's the absolute
highest peak Force you'll ever supply to
the body in that point and it is when
the tissues are stretched maximally
those two things added together means
the probability of injury in a relative
sense is much higher than it could be