I literally thought it was a cat I was
like did they leave their cat here it's
a big-ass room
how did it get in here this is a
fireplace so what we need is like a
trail of food well that's a big squirrel
I told ya I'm like wrap yourself up in
like as much clothes as you can possibly
font and then just go over and open the
door he's probably not gonna come out
because he'll probably want to hot all
right you're good man you're protected
no I want to put on some sweats though
there you go open the door get this door
shut there you go there you go now
that's perfect
yeah see there's no cracks right I don't
think so I can't really tell there might
be a little gap but behind the cupboards
but it's like so so small yeah I guess
he's done
Jabra thank you no thanks to you go on
subscribe to this means you wanna go to
Whole Foods so yeah when I'm on the go
I'll usually have alpha mean in the
morning instead of coffee 84 servings
and you basically get caffeine and
theanine in here so it's a good little
energy drink and a little quicker then
having a coffee in the morning that
appletini flavor
[Music]
guys we're here in LA we decided to come
here for a couple days after past
competition how you feeling man guys
just telling me he ordered uber eats at
like midnight last night smashed him
alpha mean did some work and this was
after we went for a whole bunch of sushi
so he said he's looking mighty full over
here I've been trying to convince rashon
to compete 2019 muscle mayham and i
think he's gonna do it the plan is for
him to do a six-month bulk and then a
six-month cut or maybe like an eight
month bulk four month cut depending on
how he's looking and stuff but I'd love
to be back at the muscle mayhem again
next year
brooding on a song maybe maybe you could
have like the dynamic duo coaching
package like Pat and I could both kind
of kind of go coach and you'll just
bring the ultimate package to the stage
he's actually got a really nice physique
I think you just need to add a little
bit more width and you could do I think
really well a men's physique so I'd love
to see it half man let's do it
so right now we're actually on our way
to Whole Foods I didn't want to mess
with the stove too much I still have a
feeling there's a squirrel in there
somewhere
so we're gonna go to Whole Foods get a
quick bite to eat and we're gonna go hit
some legs they don't have
breakfast at Whole Foods but funny get
some protein
like you never boots man
mac and cheese so
this is the best mac and cheese
interesting it literally is so expensive
they say that curry sauce is to be on a
little bit of the flavor there we go
number one you guys nobody got here is
chicken some more chicken potatoes
broccoli these green peas are green
beans with no nuts are my that's my new
favorite thing at home
a pre-workout meal yeah
I think after this I may run to the
barbershop skill
check in with you guys looking for a
beer traumatic women using the key to
walk is yeah gonna be like moving like
30 minutes like two minutes like they're
okay I wanna go wait I don't think I've
ever actually like lid down this much at
a barbershop before how they do in that
way
[Music]
dignity
it's pretty good I can like do it myself
but it's hard to get this part back here
right side on ya so much easier to just
get a pervert
gross
quick pre-workout mix-up but I actually
like it so I've been doing high-volume
mixing with the Alpha me just because I
love this appletini flavor and you don't
have it in prolific so I've been mixing
the appletini alpha mean with the
paradise cooler high-volume that's a
really good combo because this is just
there like non-stem pump product which
is great for training at night and this
is basically just a stimulant product so
if you mix them together it actually
works quite well of course that is what
prolific is so if protic is stimulant
plus pump but if you do it this way you
get the peple team flavors are great
I'm so scared of swirls
so here in one scoop there is 125
milligrams of caffeine so I'm gonna to
scoop it so over here I want four to six
grams of l-citrulline so I'm actually
gonna two-and-a-half scoop this so I've
got a big hypertrophy focused leg day on
the menu for today so I'm gonna sip on
this call it uber and I'll check in with
you guys over at the G
[Music]
alright guys were here at Equinox gym
Santa Monica but I think my man Stefan
for hooking me up in the max tuning ever
forward over here I love it anyway we're
gonna hit a leg day today so I'm
actually starting out with box squats so
it's my current programming what I've
been doing is I'll have one hypertrophy
or strength focus squat day where I'll
be in in this block that's six to eight
rep range and now today I'm actually
doing five sets of two on a box squat
which might sound really random but I'm
basically doing that to help hone in on
my technique the Box really helps me
focus on the mechanics of the lift and
also allows me to work in kind of more
of a dynamic effort reps own and so I'm
basically gonna power off of the box as
explosively as I can and that's a way of
made it for me to kind of manage my
fatigue where I'm not either going very
high rep or very heavy everytime we're
gonna get warmed up here now do some leg
swings do some dynamic stretches a
little bit of foam rolling and then
we're gonna hop into some squats little
risers because you can set the box of
perfect height sometimes the benches
aren't great but I basically wanted to
be right at parallel so I'm gonna get
rid of one more box I don't normally do
pop the box we're just starting a new
phase and I kind of wanted to manage my
to achieve a little bit better rather
than doing like Astro grass squats every
workout and with these it really forces
me to like control a lot on the negative
and then on the on the positive I can
explode out but I'm only having to do
doubles is so much easier on the rest of
my system than having to do like sets of
six or eight you know
anyways getting the cat right yeah the
ultimate thing with powerlifting they
say if I could just give you like one
bit of a token advice it would be your
success in powerlifting will be a
function of you doing it long enough
without getting injured that's the best
thing I can say like this don't snap
yourself up and you'll get you'll get
there you know and then mechanics
obviously yeah yeah the best thing you
can do is make those linear needs linear
strength gains progressive overload
workouts workout to workout you've been
doing it for six months come a year
maybe eighteen months you're not gonna
be able to do that just like Body Glove
right yeah but I feel exactly and then
once you get to that from week that's
when things will get a little bit more
complex okay and you'll want to start
undulating stuff so basically you might
want to have one strength focused a one
speed day or one strength day one her
first few days something that you're not
going and doing the same in taxing the
exact same systems every single workout
and then you can get into like more
volume accumulation which will be more
important but for now you don't need to
worry about that as long as you make it
strength gains we're gonna right all
right what's going on everyone
we're just here on the deck outside
Equinox what we're looking downtown
Santa Monica super nice here excuse if
there's a little bit of wind we actually
just got told that we weren't allowed to
film in there which is understandable
more of a commercial gym but they let us
take a couple clips on a cell phone so
I'll put those clips up here they won't
be the best quality but hopefully
they'll make do I'm just going to take
you guys really quickly through the
workout started off with box squats we
did five sets of two with three I ended
up putting on 335 for this workout
that's why did 315 my last speed workout
and that's something newly that I've
kind of introduced not a regular part of
my programming but where I'm going so
high volume on my other squat day I like
to put these in just to get that extra
technique training in without really
taxing my system too much and I also
like to switch it up with a variety so
I'll occasionally throw in front squats
or back squats that's just a squat
variation to really hone in my technique
make it a little more quad focus to so
I'm next was supposed to be machine
squats or hack squats but they didn't
have that machine here so the closest
thing we had was a leg press and I did
those for three sets of
and revs on my second set my belt
actually dug into my rib and I think I
bruised my rib because it was actually
really painful so if you're tempted to
wear a belt on a leg press I wouldn't
recommend it I only did it because my
lower back was starting to feel a little
bit tight when for that extra little bit
of range of motion on that last rep of
my second set and it really hurt so
don't do that
but other than that yet 10 reps onto the
leg press then we moved on to some
Romanian deadlifts with a dumbbell we
did three sets of 12 reps and here I
focus on getting a little bit more range
of motion then I'd get with a barbell
and just really getting that stretch on
the hamstrings setting the hips back and
lowering the dumbbells straight down
with the center of the dumbbell being
centered over the mid-foot the whole way
and with this exercise you want to focus
on not going too heavy to the point that
you really lose that mind-muscle
connection with your hamstrings because
it's so easy for your gluts or lower
back to start to take over with those
next we did three sets of 15 to 20 reps
for me I ended up actually doing 15 then
like a two second pause and then I
banged out another five now so a bit of
an extended set on these and then for my
last set after that I did a set of
walking lunges for I think it was 20
total strides just to really burn out
the quads and the glutes to kind of
finish everything off and then as a
so-called finisher exercise we finished
with cable pull through to really hit
the glutes this is one of those
exercises that I actually hate to do but
I know it works so well same thing goes
for hip thrusts it's just a basic hip
extension movement you really want to
get a really good stretch on the glutes
at the bottom so really let the cable go
through your legs so that you're almost
horizontal been a while since I've done
these so if my form is horrible you can
let me know and then at the top you want
to really squeeze your butt cheeks
together like you're trying to pinch a
coin or something between the between
the cheeks pause and yeah so this
exercise is a lot like the hip thrust
but it requires so much less setup than
the hip thrust so I like to throw this
in at the end
for this one we just did two sets of 10
to 20 reps and then we called it a rat
so now what's the plan bro I think we're
gonna go hit up the beach maybe yeah
Venice Beach so our Airbnb is like super
close to Venice Beach so I think we're
gonna go we should buy a basketball and
go hoop down at like Muscle Beach or
something you down it's a wrap for us
I'm gonna grab a quick post-workout I'm
gonna show you what I got here when it's
out in the Sun it melts so good but I am
sponsored by PE science but this is
seriously the best frozen bar I've ever
had I would get like I would eat this
even if there wasn't protein it's so
good have you tried that you've tried
the yeah they're dope the raspberry
one's my favorite good night Vaughn
always shad don't hide away Dennis eat
yours
basketball showdown slowed down so we
got to get basketball let's do 15 bucks
for this better than nothing I wonder if
they'll be a better spot clothes closet
farther down maybe I'll just get this
guy right here can you get that down
all right game time
Oh
[Music]
thank you thank you thank you so much
yeah my pleasure man yeah me too I'll
see your next video
whoa
oh he's tough guy sorry I'm gonna go
one-on-one first two three oh yeah
respecting with that
[Music]
is that it yeah
Oh
[Music]
oh that's a double oh you better edit
that barely bro right right now I'm
gonna expose it honest so guys I think
we're gonna call it a tie for this one
of a score of 1 to 1 Sean says we're
better on even playing field
basketball players and let's go to
conclude the ball so now I think you
guys so much for watching don't forget
to check out my last short a vlog from
tak over here I don't forget to
subscribe put the button right over
subside right here and see you guys in
the next one