[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization and today we are going to
learn how to and critique how not to do
walking dumbbell lunges this video will
be the last lunge video we probably do
in a while you might ask question what
about barbell lunges what about standing
in place lunges a lot of these
criticisms carry right over to the other
variations of the lunge so this video is
going to be super super solid let's take
a look first thing we're gonna talk
about real quick is the purpose of doing
a walking lunge it's fundamentally in
hypertrophy to grow or stimulate growth
in the glutes the adductor complex that
whole area Sartorius included and the
quads probably in that order
now there are different ways of doing
lunges that target some of those muscles
more than others but more or less most
of the time it's going to be an exercise
that really prioritizes the glutes but
it absolutely carries some stimulative
volume for the inner thigh musculature
as well as some volume that's decent and
should count towards your weekly volume
and will produce some hypertrophy for
your quads
let's with that take a look at mistake
number one
[Music]
all right mistake number one in the
lunge it's not necessarily the worst
mistake is just the first one we picked
is not performing a full range of motion
by not going all the way down so what
does that look like give us a little
demo here some folks think they're doing
a lunge they sort of go down halfway or
third of the way or even more and then
yeah you know something's happening good
enough it's good enough but like that's
not exactly the greatest lunge in the
world remember muscles grow more when
they are stretched through a long range
of motion more motor units are recruited
if you are looking for any added benefit
of functional transitional strength to
other movements like real life or
exercise or anything else or sport doing
for any emotions probably a really good
idea in it for sure
boost hypertrophy so what is it for you
motion for lunges well you could do
weird deficit lunges where you need the
sense actually below the plane of the
ground but the very bare minimum we want
lunges properly done with the knee
either touches the ground or comes very
very close the good thing about touching
the knee to the ground as it tells you
you're going deep enough more or less
every single time we for sure don't want
to bang the knee into the ground super
hard though that's really bad right it
could lead to instability it could lead
to direct injury or just bruises just
annoyance right or other people are
pissed off cuz you're making so much
noise with your knees in the gym but we
want a gentle touch which automatically
means we're gonna be controlling the
descent so give us a shot of what that
looks like knee touches the ground every
single time gently perfect and come up
and all the way down gentle touch and
come up and one more all the way gentle
touch and come up that's it that's
mistake number one fixed another mistake
in walking lunges is no range of motion
consistency for the repetitions remember
range of motion consistency means first
of all fundamentally we're doing the
right range of motion every single time
if you do the right range of motion
every single time and your bodies are
the same it's gonna be the same range of
motion every single time but it's more
than that it's a matter of tracking how
do you know if you are imposing a
certain degree of stress and stimulus on
the body if all the reps with different
sets and you can't even compare two
different sets or two different workouts
you say well you know I've never lunged
with the forty pound dumbbells for
twenty steps straight before and someone
couldn't be like well snap just like
some of them were like halfway down
somewhere a third somewhere full how do
you know it was better than last week
when you did eighteen maybe last weekly
you did eighteen you did more range of
motion on average and you actually got
weaker week to week then maybe something
you're doing is off right we want
consistency every rep should look almost
identical so a quick demo over the bad
way to do this is go ahead first lunge
maybe looks great knee gently touches
the ground yep and then come up and the
next one's kind of that one was hard
sort of not really and the next one
looks maybe a little bit better again
but not all the way down and then let's
say the last one looks like total dog
shift we go down like a third and come
up on screw that my knee hurts right
perfect so we don't want that to happen
we want every lunch to look almost
exactly identical something like this so
every single time we have a standard all
the way down
gentle touch and come up and a gentle
touch and come up perfect and all the
way down one more time
awesome those are for sure three reps of
lunges you can count them like that you
could track your pre ours you can see
when you've hit your maximum recoverable
volume look if you did with the 40s 20
lunges like that last week and this week
you can literally only get to 19 until
you fall over
something's up your fatigue is probably
too high and you know for a fact you've
underperformed because you have a
baseline for performance the next
mistake in lunge execution is taking too
short of a step two things happen that
aren't so great if you take too short of
a step one is you can actually get a lot
of shear force in the knee which if
you're not used to can be uncomfortable
it can reduce force production and thus
it's just not something that you can
overload safely for a long time and
second of all we might not actually be
recruiting all the muscles that were
trying to target
we're not stretching the adductors out
anymore we're not stretching the glutes
out of tongue if we do a real short step
and ends up being like sort of like a
weird one-legged squat the thing is
people a lot of times don't lunge with
nice long steps because long steps are
 intimidating and I don't want to
lunge all the way over there I just kind
of want a stutter step and give myself
credit give us a look at what that looks
like he said yeah yeah it sort of kind
of feels weird and all of a sudden you
know we could just be doing squats but
we're doing that essentially squats one
leg at a time right these are terrible
but not the greatest thing in the world
the correction here is that we want to
lunge in a normal way but hold on we'll
do a two for one mistake special what if
we really overcorrect
in do super long lunges some people like
to tackle it take like the the super
long step world's longest step like
there's lava between you what ends up
happening in that case and we'll show
that in a second is a lot of instability
again and a reduction in force
production listen folks if you want to
train for flexibility that's a whole
different thing if you want to train to
be a circus performer with the world's
longest lunge or something like that
like you know we had the elephant you
guys saw the clown now the world's
longest lunge maybe not so impressive
that's cool but that has nothing to do
with hypertrophy training we want to
make sure that we're not lunging so far
that we lose our footing and that the
ballon
becomes more difficult than the actual
execution to the target muscles give us
your longest lunge ever what the hell is
going on I mean that's really impressive
right but are we producing as much force
as possible
no and watch her hips as she does
another one it's kind of like a fight to
stay stable during the movement because
we don't have a solid base anymore so
really the question is what is the ideal
step for lunges it's going to be
different for everyone but we'll give
you sort of a two factor approach a nice
long step so you feel a great stretch in
your glutes and your adductors and in
your quads but at the same time not so
long that you're super unstable you want
to have a nice solid footing on the back
foot and a completely solid footing on
the front and feel stable anything more
than that is too much give us a look at
what that looks like
just nice long steps perfect no
overthinking about a metre of step
length or roughly a yard is where most
folks should start and then experiment
from there that's it next mistake is an
uncontrolled eccentric or descent in the
lunge poses to specific problems for us
one the eccentric phase of muscle
contraction is very hypertrophic it
contributes to muscle growth the purpose
of lunges for hypertrophy is not just to
get the reps done it's not like a you
fall into each rep like I did 20 well
did twenties nice but did you expose
your muscles to the stress of 20 yeah
I'm a concentric you did but on the east
centric you essentially let gravity do
the work we're not here to do that we're
here to let our muscles slow down and
fight gravity as well as accelerate
against it we want concentric we want
eccentric as well and also it causes a
bit of instability if you go down really
fast and when the loads get high high
velocity rebounds with high loads
especially if you're nice and strong do
increase injury risk to some small but
significant extent you want to stay nice
and safe and get the full benefits
you're gonna be going slower control so
the wrong way to do it hit to lunch
steps for us we whoa what the hell is
going on and gravity accelerated that's
a hell of a drop and I've seen a whole
lot worse the right way is to do nice
controlled and it does not mean you do
these things for 30 seconds on each step
but nice controlled eccentric for most
people that's a two second or so descent
give us a shot at what that looks like
control all the way down gentle touch
and then control all the way down gentle
touch that's it next mistake is tilting
forward on the lunge this happens a lot
of times especially when you get to low
position and it's time to come up some
people will tilt forward so that they
can use their back their posterior chain
their hamstrings more the thing is those
muscles are not the target of the
walking lunge the target are the quads
the glutes and the adductor muscles and
other muscles of the inner thigh those
muscles absolutely get a break when you
tilt forward those why the hell are we
giving our target muscles a break that's
not a good idea the purpose of the lunge
and in fact the purpose of every
hypertrophy exercise is not just to get
the work done it is to get the work done
by using the target musculature show us
what it looks like when people sort of
collapse in a lunge and they sort of
tilt over when they had every good
intention and they tilt over and then
one more rep and they tilt and come up
yeah look you can do more lunges like
this but you know you don't grow muscle
from check marking that you did lunges
you grow muscle the most from doing
proper lunges so what we're gonna really
focus on on these corrected reps is
keeping the upper body upright and still
can you brace sure if you want can you
let your ribcage flare it probably
doesn't matter unless you're lunging 800
pounds but you want your entire body
this segment to stay relatively upright
and resist the temptation to come down
especially on your way down so go ahead
super upright posture and back up even
when she comes up her upper body stays
upright and level as opposed to dunkey
forward perfect that's it
[Music]
alright next mistake isn't so much a
mistake it's a very optional thing that
has some pretty significant downsides
that people a lot of times think is
mandatory and it's absolutely not it is
carrying the leg through on each step of
the lunge so go ahead and show that what
that looks like
people lunge and then they go all the
way through with the leg and all the way
through and one more all the way through
perfect and they think that if they stop
the leg here reset for any amount of
time and keep going that that's somehow
cheating but in reality there's a huge
benefit to that because all you have to
do with the rep is come up once you can
use heavier loads this single leg
position and swing through is nice and
athletic but in hypertrophy training
we're trying to get jacked we're not
training to be the world's best your
lunge circus performer a lot of times
you can't use as much weight and if
you're really getting close to failure
especially what you should be if
you're training hard then it becomes
much easier to lunge cool stable let the
lactate go a little bit and then keep
going as opposed to swinging the leg
through it doesn't have anything to do
with I portray fie it's mildly
destabilizing if you like to do it that
way it's perfectly fine but try doing it
where you when you come through you stop
the leg and then you go and you might
find better results more reps with
better technique give us a shot of what
that's really gonna look like nice lunge
and then a step and then a nice lunge
and then stability and then one more
nice lunge each rep is a step easy to
count folks give this a shot the next
lunge mistake is letting your grip limit
you if you use dumbbell lunges they're a
great exercise but the thing is at some
point your glutes quads and adductors
are going to be way stronger and we more
endurance than your grip it's gonna
happen to almost everyone when they get
to a certain level of strength and for
some folks they're already at that level
of strength if you just use regular
dumbbells with no straps or no verse or
grips or anything like that you're going
to get in trouble an easy solution
to that so to speak is to switch to
barbell lunges because the bar just goes
on your back you don't have to worry
about it but some people don't have
space for barbell lunges some people
don't feel the barbell lunch is the same
way no big deal
here are three potential solutions one
at least get chalk on your hands
to at least get some straps if you don't
have chocolate even if you do straps are
better the ultimate solution is of
course as always you I'm a shill for
versa grips folks try versa grips by
them they're incredible your hands will
no longer be a limiting factor one last
thing if you find that you're lifting so
much weight that you start to feel
really fatigued in your traps and you
start to bowled over despite your best
efforts and your biceps and your
forearms even with the grip are starting
to kill you and you're sort of feeling
it you're in your quads and glutes and
your adductors but really you know
you're stopping sets because of the
collapse it's probably time to start
thinking about switching to barbell
lunges because the dumbbells may have
exceeded their utility for you at that
point remember we want for hypertrophy
the target muscles to be the limiting
muscles in the move when you're doing
lunges the reason you can't do another
one should be like your glutes are done
not that you're so bowled over and your
traps are on fire that you have to stop
even though your glutes have a couple of
reps left so dumbbell lunges are awesome
and for many people that work for their
entire career but if you're getting to a
point where you can no longer stay
upright and your grip and your yoke for
lack of a better term is limiting factor
give barbells a shot because you'll get
more out of the lower body which is the
target next mistaken lunges is going
either a little bit too heavy or a
little bit too light okay remember
there's a hypertrophy range above which
in repetitions or below which in load
there's not as robust of a response for
the muscle growth stimulus from training
so if you can do more than gee you know
30 to 40 lunges in one set without
having to take a break for the lactic
acid leave
you probably need to start loading them
heavier so a lot of folks can get a lot
out of bodyweight lunges but I've seen
relatively high level people that are
very strong do bodyweight lunges for
like straight
sets of like 50 or 60 or 100 that's cool
that gives you the burn it's a little
bit more endurance work and it's not as
hypertrophic it's a good idea to put
enough weight in your hands or on your
back to limit each set to like Oh 30 to
40 reps at most okay so that's the deal
what about too heavy too heavy is a
thing with lunges because remember
lunches are relatively dynamic move and
you have to take these long steps your
center of mass and your positional
control is now relegated to a relatively
thin line and there's a lot of balance
that has to go back and forth having
really heavy dumbbells helps the barbell
can sometimes help but it's
fundamentally not a very stable exercise
if you're doing lunge reps and buy reps
we mean steps of less than oh man you
know 10 to 15 at least on a first set
you might be in a position where you're
not producing as much force with your
gluts adductors and quads as you could
be because when your body detects
instability it actually caps your
maximum force production do you think
what the hell how do I fix that well if
you do higher rep lunges then your body
doesn't worry about max force production
because it's just the fatigue and the
close to failure stuff that gives you
all the growth is there a benefit to
training the glutes quads and adductors
with maximum force production of course
it's a great way to do it other
exercises are better than lunges hip
thrusts and glute bridges of different
kinds various deadlifts and sumo squats
and all the other quad exercises you
like are way better for the heavier
ranges lunges the best save for the
intermediate ranges and the lighter
range is not so light that you can do 40
or 50 plus reps but right in that Oh 15
to 35 15 to 30 rep range is super ideal
for walking lunges of any kind
the last mistake in walking lunges and
in fact lunges of any different kind is
not feeling the target muscles work and
or be the limiting factor so for example
if you are doing lunges and your target
is the glutes and every single set of
lunges ends with your quads on fire
your glutes feeling totally fine in
between sets you're moving your glutes
around there's no cramping nothing weird
they feel totally fine but your quads
are barely movable you can call it a
glute exercise because of biomechanics
but fundamentally your quads are taking
most of the work in most of the stimulus
nothing wrong with that the only thing
wrong with that is if glutes are
actually your target how do you fix this
well that doesn't mean lunges are bad
for you it can be a loading range thing
sometimes with heavier lunges the glutes
really start to be a limiting factor and
get great work with a lighter lunges
sometimes quads own winning factor
sometimes it's the other way around
different techniques for some people
really long steps really engage their
glutes
for some people slightly shorter some
people can do a lunge out to the side a
little bit that really hits the glutes
some people with a straight line how do
you know what's right for you you have
to experiment and look for those raw
stimulus magnitude checklist points do
you feel tension on the appropriate
muscles especially with glutes because
lunges are done relatively high rep do
you get a burn in the glutes towards the
end of each set that's really good what
about a pump do you get a glute pump if
your quads are just veined out and
pumped all the hell but your glutes feel
like whatever gee it's probably not the
greatest glute exercise relative to how
much it hits the rest of your leg when
the lastly disruption this is an easy
one with lunges if you do lunges
properly in a way that targets your
glutes what you're gonna do is as soon
as you're done with a couple sets of
lunges you're gonna do like the stand
there glute flex where you just sort of
pop your glutes together and you're
gonna be like holy sometimes you
get a little mini muscle cramp so go oh
my god something's not wrong you try to
bend over your glutes are opening up and
sort of crackling and you're like huh
holy crap I really did something or you
try to go for your next lunge like set
number three and your glutes are pulling
apart like something's wrong that's a
really really really good sign that your
glutes are getting hit if you feel none
of
but your adductors are pumped like crazy
your quads are pumped and they feel
super tired super fatigued then maybe
you need to alter your technique or
alter the lording to explore if lunges
of all different kinds just straight up
never really work for you they never
really hit your glutes all that much
forget about them don't do much doom for
quads and a doctor's stick to other
exercises for the glutes there are no
magic exercises do what stimulates you
what doesn't fatigue you too much so
when you're doing your lunges make sure
you don't have a ton of joint pain and
discomfort
make sure your RPE is not crazy high in
proportion to how much effect you get
for the muscles all of that taking into
account the stimulus to fatigue ratio is
really high if you can sort of work
lunges into your program to have a high
stimulus to fatigue ratio do them
they're super awesome they're not
magical if you don't like them
 them do something else folks see
you next time from the next technique
video
[Music]