hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization how do you get giant side
delts you can have cap ultra cap dalton
barn door delts no wait hold on it's
barn door back cannonball delts that's
what i was thinking of how do you get
that well
if you really want big side delts you
might have to create a program to
specialize them to prioritize them and
guess what that's what this whole video
is about how to do that before we get to
that we have to ask the question of why
specialize because you could just train
everything normally and your side delts
would get bigger which is true however
maybe you want your side adults to grow
a ton in relation to everything else
like you like how everything else looks
but you just want really really giant
cap delts
totally fine and then that's why you
specialize
another reason to specialize is if you
just want your side delts to catch up to
the rest of you
you might have to reduce the training
that you do
for other muscle groups that you have
more energy and stimulus to put into
side delts so that's two good reasons
why specializing
might be better for you than just
training everything because if you just
train everything normally and your side
delts either aren't as big as you want
them to be or aren't as big as they
should be based on how big everything
else is specialization is the answer to
both those problems now you can train
everything normally and train everything
super hard
and you can actually get a lot of great
muscle growth training everything hard
all the time
however if you want to specialize extra
it's going to take a little bit more
resource and that is totally okay
but if you specialize for four five six
seven muscle groups at the same time
you're doing a hundred and twenty
percent of what you would normally do
for them that adds up and it's too much
systemic fatigue the question is how
many muscle groups is too many to
prioritize and a lot of people ask hey
how many muscle groups can specialize at
once the answer to that is as many as
you can recover from and only you know
that by experimentation as a beginner
you should be able to focus on
everything and get a great result as an
intermediate you realize that when you
lean into some muscle groups you can't
train the rest of your body super hard
so you have to lean away from another
muscle group so maybe you can specialize
one at a time by putting one on the back
burner
at first
at some point you specialize two or
three muscles at a time you might have
to take three or four muscles and put
them on the back burner because
specialization is that difficult for you
but that's when you're more advanced so
that's just something to consider so if
you ask yourself the question of well
you know how much of my muscle can i
specialize on how many muscle groups
kind of specialize at the same time i
would say start training normally
increase how much you train for one or
two muscles and see if you can handle it
if you can handle it increase for
another two or three muscles and if
that's too much then you know you have
to start pulling away at some other
points
all right the basics of specialization
we're saying we're going to specialize
our side delts what does that actually
mean because it doesn't just mean train
them super hard
you could be doing that in a bunch of
different contexts this means something
a little bit extra it means a couple of
things first you're going to choose
exercises that preferentially hit your
side delts because you could train your
shoulder in a bunch of different ways
only some exercises are really for the
seidel specifically
another thing is different modalities
for example my reps are a great way to
hit the side delts you may choose my
reps because normally if your side
adults are fine and they're growing like
the rest yeah my wraps are really
painful and annoying you might just do
straight sets for side adults because
everything's fine they're growing fine
but if you really want to focus on them
you might have to do the things that
work the best for them even at the
expense of a lot of fatigue and well to
be quite honest literal pain myo-upside
delts is brutal you might
put the little my rep in there in order
to get them to grow as much as possible
because you said hey i'm specializing on
these i'm very serious about side adult
growth you have to do some uncomfortable
things in addition to that
as usual but even more so in this case
you have to choose the rep ranges that
preferentially stimulate the target
muscle
if you have trained side delts for a
while you may have a preference that
okay it sets a five to ten for me at
least that's a five to ten too heavy it
just hurts my shoulders doesn't do a
whole lot
sets of 10 to 20 is really great and
even sets of 20 to 30 just fries my side
belts out like crazy so for me i'm going
to choose those higher rep ring just
because i know they're guaranteed to
blast my side delts in a specialization
program i'm not taking any chances or
risks if i think oh maybe sets of five
to ten can work i'm gonna save that for
a regular program where i don't really
care about my side adults and if i'm
doing that for side delts actually works
pretty well next time i specialize i'll
try it but whatever you know about your
body and whatever you think works now
that's the stuff to throw at it in
specialization the stuff that for sure
works
next is the idea of prioritizing as far
as when you include these in your
program
i've said this in a bunch of these kinds
of videos but this is
super important with side dots a lot of
people say i need to bring my belts up
and they start with front delt exercise
or they do all of chest right all of
chest all the pressing then in front
don't move and they'll do a side delt
move like one move at the end of their
program for chest come on now your
body's the most tired then if you want
very serious approach to side delts
you should train them first or very
early many of the days in the week in
which they appear
that's kind of weird who the hell like
so if you have dealts and buys you do
delts first if you have chest and delts
you do delts first and the question is
well won't that interfere with your
chest training it absolutely will
but you don't care about your chest
right now you just want it to stay at
least the same size maybe grow really
slow you care about your front are your
side dolls
because you care about your side delts
you will put them first or very early
and every day in which they appear
strange a lot of times you throw them in
the back but here's the thing if you're
struggling with big side notes how can
you be confused about why they're not
big if you're literally back burnering
them all the time you want a front
burner them that means they go first
it's kind of strange but it will
absolutely
qualitatively you will have a very
different experience train them it'll be
better quantitatively you'll be way
stronger lifting way heavier loads for
more sets and more reps because you
won't get tired because you're fresh and
then your side gels will just get more
growth off of bigger stimulus
frequency and this is a huge point for
side delts when i say in these other
lectures oh if you want bigger quads you
have to raise your training frequency
for quads
okay yeah that's a thing but you can
only train your quads so many times a
week hard and they actually recover
maybe two or three
four time a week quad training is kind
of insane most people can't pull it off
for a good reason they won't recover on
time doing everything correctly
for side delts
they are mechanically positioned in such
a way that you can't damage them a ton
and that means that they are impervious
to a lot of fatigue but also means they
require more input more sets
to actually get a good stimulus
not just more sets but potentially more
frequency they recover faster
so for side delts you can get really
great results training them twice a week
but if you're serious about bringing
them up three to four times a week is
better and actually in the sample
training program which we're going to be
giving you guys in just a few minutes
here you'll see that actually yeah they
are really pushed four times a week hard
you think what the hell i can't train a
muscle group four times a week side
delts you probably can because they
probably recover pretty
fast lastly
if you want the best possible outcome
for side delts
you could think about reducing or
removing some other kind of muscle group
training in order to make that happen
for them if you're doing a lot of real
dumb training and a lot of front delt
training your shoulder joints can just
get sore
and then a lot of side delts on top of
that can make the problem worse take the
synergist muscles the other muscles the
side delts use which is luckily not a
whole lot maybe reduce them maybe reduce
the volume of delt training you're doing
in general the volume of back training
do less trap training so now your side
delts have a free and clear path to just
be trained as hard as possible
right
overall volume for your program might
drop not a ton because side delts don't
fatigue you systemically a lot but you
at the very least will have to do side
delts first in your program a lot which
means all the other muscles get trained
second and by definition can't get as
much of a stimulus so if you're ultra
serious about getting your silence as
big as possible at least consider
reducing other stuff in your program you
can try to keep the other stuff the same
and add more side notes on top and that
might work if the systemic fatigue
allows it but if you suspect that could
be a little much reduce everything else
you'll think yourself later
all right
actually constructing the specialized
plan what are we going to do frequency
we're going to go to three to four three
or four times a week because we're
serious and because our adults probably
will recover
exercises
this lateral raise movement is the core
of
side delt activity there's lots of wonky
exercises you can use my bet is that
various
iterations of the lateral arrays are
probably a really good idea
you can consider a lot of upright rowing
and face pulling as well
in my experience those aren't as good of
side delt stimulators but they can
provide more volume and a little bit
more variation
set numbers at the beginning of your
plan will be somewhere in the two to six
range whatever gives you a decent pump
and a good sense of fatigue sometimes
with side delt that's closer to six than
for two because the exercises are not
that hard
loading in reps you want to use rep
ranges again they give you the best
stimulus to fatigue ratios you're doing
sets of three with side delts and you're
like oh man it just hurts my shoulder
fuck that stop doing that if you're
saying yourself look okay if i was
completely honest
sets of like 20 to 25 reps would be the
best for me because they burn and pump
like phrasing i make crazy gains but
like i don't know that's just like
doesn't seem that heavy and i'm a wuss
and i end up using the 15s i don't want
people to see me do that i'm gonna use
the 20s and 25s and do sets of 15. it's
not as good but at least i can use heavy
weight because heavyweight's good that's
all bullshit
you got to use the stuff that gives you
the best in mr fatigue so if you
actually get in crazy pumps crazy
soreness crazy disruption crazy gains
using ultra high wraps and you're just
embarrassed about the weights stop it
doesn't matter nobody gives a shit you
just have to use the modalities and the
rep ranges that are best for you
in addition
if you are going to do some higher reps
and some lower apps try to do the low
reps earlier in the week where you're
fresh you can do low reps only fresh and
get a good benefit higher reps you can
do even when you're fatigued and they
still give a decent benefit
all right
progressing through the plan
yeah you built your first plan great
now what do you do generally you add
sets if needed if you're recovering way
on time
and if the amount of stimulus per
session isn't enough add sets here's an
example
you start with five sets of lateral
raises and in week one you get a sweet
pump or they get really tired and your
adults feel really weak until the next
time it's time to train them great five
sets next week too because that checked
all the boxes but next week those same
five sets the pump's not that great you
could have a better pump for sure it's
not as good as last time and in addition
to that let's say you did the five sets
you walked away
instead of being recovered just on time
for your next session you honestly like
you recovered hours if not days before
that session like a day before you're
like man i could have got trade doubts
right now
that tells you that next week that same
monday that you did five sets and then
five sets maybe it's time for six or
seven cents because you can do more and
you should do more because if there's a
recovery window that's open
put some volume into it to actually get
some growth
for reps in reserve
start at around three reps in reserve
and by adding a wrap here and there as
you progress adding two and a half to
five pounds to the bar or to the
dumbbells as you progress
what's going to happen is your rars are
going to start to fall right you're
going to be adding some load adding some
reps things are going to get harder
you're going to start it roughly three
reps away from failure and slowly over
time it's going to get to zero
deload repeat that's how the mesocyclone
is constructed
all right
sample plan again
huge caveat this is just a sample
i'm not saying this is the plan you have
to do this is not the be all and all of
plans
there are many ways to skin a cat all of
the cat hates
to the extent that it's conscious good
god
just an idea of what to do but if you've
been looking at programs if you wanted a
side specialization routine and you're
done with all the theory you're just
like i just want to know what to do
here's an idea to try and feel free to
modify this as you like
so monday wednesday friday saturday
that's four seidel sessions you know
integrated into your normal workout of
course so remember i'm not saying just
come to the gym and do this i'm saying
come to the gym and do this first and
then after you're done let's play monday
you're done with those two exercises you
can do the rest of your back or chest or
legs however you want to do it probably
truncated because you can't do it all
week one
lateral raises three sets 10 to 15 reps
three rir
then we do barbell upright rows okay
because the lateral raises have
pre-exhausted our side delts barbell
upright rows will now be again the
limiting factor much more likely to be
side delts you'll get a much better mind
muscle connection doing these upright
rows after than before in my experience
wednesday you do super rom laterals okay
super crazy range of motion and after
that you do cable upright rows again
same concept great stimulus
friday you do cable y raises which go
like this right whichever way you want
to face the machine in a route if you
face the machine in and you do cable
raises away from the machine it tends to
hit your side super well it also hits
your traps a lot if you face out of the
machine again the side delt stimulus is
very good hits traps less
some people want only side delts and
they don't want bigger traps some people
are like well hell yeah if i can get
exercise to grow my traps and i don't
have to do a bunch of shrugs it's a
win-win so whichever one of these you
can do you can do either you can do both
friday cable wire raises for two sets
higher reps now sets of ten to fifteen
notice we never did any sets of five to
ten in this example not a good idea
saturday cable y raises again but this
time my rep style and it sets 15 to 25
reps real nasty burn on that day that's
what week one looks like
week five or whatever your week
pre-deload what would that look like
again hypothetically you don't have to
aim for these you shouldn't aim for
these
but by auto regulation you might get to
something like six sets of lateral
raises
very close to failure because remember
the rir falls and the number of sets
generally tends to rise on average
instead of two sets of barbaros you're
up at four so that monday is now 10 sets
of side delts man something's got to go
from that right and we don't start at
that because it's too much to start with
but we progressed to it over time
wednesday we went from two sets of super
arm laterals to six
six sets of super arm laterals in the 10
to 15 rep range you won't even feel your
side dots by then cable upright rows
finish the job with four sets up from
two notice we're raising
the amount of sets we do in our best sfr
exercises most so super arm laterals
generally hit the sides out better than
cable upright rows on average so we go
from two sets of those to six sets
adding four sets multiplying by three
cable upright rows go from two sets only
to four sets so still a rise but not as
big we wanna put more of our effort into
the better exercises friday cable y
raises go up to six sets and on saturday
the maya reply races go up to four sets
now notice it's not six sets why
wouldn't it be because on those
saturdays we want a little bit of extra
recovery on that sunday in order to hit
it hard again monday if we were to just
toast everything saturday it would screw
up the next week want a huge stimulus
early in every week and then a little
bit less at the end a little bit of
fatigue reduction and then boom another
stimulus just like that so we can keep
going week after week after week
that's the sample program feel free to
do it
next question is how long do i do it for
well a serious attempt at specializing
the muscle should be done probably for
about three mesocycles in a row
three roughly four to six week periods
of accumulation and deload change the
exercises a little bit
you can increase the rep range a little
bit store train a little bit more high
reps with every single mesocycle you can
even try increasing the frequency so you
could do
two to three shoulder sessions side delt
sessions in the first mezzo three to
four in the second and g four to five in
the third totally unsustainable but
that's okay because after that you take
an active rest phase can you do just one
mezzo and see how it looks totally but
generally speaking the amount of muscle
you can put on a just one mesocycle is a
little small
you also can't tell if your rep strength
improved that much or if anything looks
different because just not that much
time so both from an analysis
perspective and a causative perspective
it's probably a good idea to do several
mesos so if you're real serious you're
trying to look i want bigger side delts
flat out i'm tired of the small side up
bullshit
i would say three mesocycles in a row
focusing inside delts is better than
just doing one and being like ah i did
it i did what maybe some people won't
notice
after you've done this progression of a
whole block of training
probably a good idea to really reduce
fatigue all around active rest or a low
volume phase or both options there
and then
you sort of have a few choices you can
repeat that whole thing again and do
another specialization block three mesos
four side delts
tough
but if you really still want side notes
to grow more that's totally fine of an
option you can go back to normal
training where you're not specializing
in anything or you can pick another
muscle group watch another one of these
videos that we've made and specialize
another muscle group altogether the
choice is completely up to you
and so far you have that choice we have
some stuff to help you get those choices
executed better what is that stuff first
we have an exercise video library all
this by the way is in the description
below exercise video library so you can
get a lot of good ideas about how to
train your side belts and every other
muscle
also that includes instruction
muscle group training guide so side
delts if you want to get real scientific
with how you train them really
meticulous that's all described
if you're a bit more of a beginner to
this stuff and someone that's like what
the hell is rir our hypertrophy made
simple video is a real good place to
start it's a video series describing
every element of hypertrophy training
give that a look it's in the description
it'll clear up a lot of stuff and make
you more advanced kind of instantly
lastly stuff that's not free so that's
all free hypertrophy book uh basically
it's a tour de force describing
hypertrophy training
i co-wrote the book i think it's great
maybe you disagree if you want to pay
some money for it it's worth it if you
really want to understand the stuff in
depth and be able to construct programs
not just for yourself but for other
people
and lastly we have these things called
the custom training templates you go you
pay us money it's like 100 bucks and you
get a six-week program that you can
reuse and change all the exercise in at
least three times so it's 18 weeks of
training for 100 bucks here's a really
cool part
if you choose hey i want to specialize
on side delts
the thing automatically designs a
structure just like we saw here and then
once you pick your exercises it is a
side delt specialization program built
by you to exactly how you want it
and then the auto regulation everything
works in concert so that
you can think about as much of the stuff
as you want to
but the program takes care of the rest
so all you have to do is pick the
exercises come in and train hard do the
ratings accurately and the rest of the
thinking is done by the program we can't
say it's guaranteed growth but it's our
best effort
as a company as rp to give you the best
growth that you can
if you're looking for something like
this and links in description give it a
buy remember i uh i need more would rich
people buy
i need a 747 airliner just for myself
pool on the top level dance club on the
bottom maybe some seats uh that kind of
stuff isn't free so please buy more
templates so i can fly around the world
uh and uh have fun with my supermodel
friends and then i wake up and realize i
have no friends and life is rather
pointless see you next time
you