now before you say this guy's full of
 i progressively overload and i
think it's the way to go
i'm not here to argue with you if it
works for you keep doing it just for me
never work that well so if you're
watching this you feel like you're
busting your ass but you're not getting
the results you want and you're focused
on what i would deem the wrong thing
which is how much weight you can lift
it's not going to work for you either so
first things first it's important to
understand that progressive overload
does not automatically mean lifting
heavier weight that's technically not
what progressive overload is lifting
heavier is one possible method of
progressive overload and yeah for
novices and most intermediates it
definitely should be the primary method
that they focus on so that they can
build up an overall size and strength
foundation but
regardless of that they're still not the
same thing progressive overload
basically just means that you are
overloading the muscle so you're
training it hard enough to stimulate a
growth response and that you're doing
that in a progressive fashion over time
so that you can stimulate further and
further gains now that could mean
lifting a heavier weight but it could
also mean uh doing more reps with the
same weight it could mean making a given
weight more challenging by adjusting the
tempo or the angle of the lift which is
what ryan mainly focuses on in his
videos it could mean performing more
volume using advanced techniques like
rest pause
drop sets cluster sets forced reps
cheat reps those are all methods of
progressive overload as i've mentioned
uh many times before and ultimately
progressive overload is what drives the
entire muscle building process from the
ground up you have to overload the
muscle in some way and you have to do it
progressively over time if you don't
create sufficient overload then growth
doesn't get stimulated and if you don't
do it progressively then you're just
going to plateau and get stuck in one
spot so even if you are doing the style
of training that ryan shows in his
videos with the lighter weight higher up
more isolated approach you still have to
overload the muscle and employ some
method of progression to continually
build new muscle and ideally it should
be some type of method that you're
actively tracking and that you can
quantify in some way and
this might just sound like semantics but
in my opinion if people have the idea in
their head that they don't need to
progressively overload that they should
just go into the gym and train
intuitively with different exercises all
the time depending on how they feel that
day without tracking anything and
without worrying about the load on the
bar very often unless they're fortunate
enough to have really good genetics or
they are
pharmaceutically enhanced in some way
they're probably going to end up running
around in circles and progressing a lot
slower than they ultimately could be now
advanced lifters who have already built
a good portion of their muscle and they
know their bodies and their strength
levels really well they might be totally
fine with that type of instinctive
training approach and again if you add
peds and genetic factors on top of it
then that's also going to play a big
role uh ryan's open about the fact that
he's on trt which does have a pretty
significant muscle building advantage
versus training naturally so that is
something to factor in but yeah if you
do fall into any of those camps then you
probably don't need to listen to what
i'm saying here but for the typical
natural novice to intermediate lifter
which is going to make up the vast
majority of people watching these videos
instinctive lightweight training without
tracking load or striving for
progressive weight increases that is not
going to be the best approach in my
opinion and i don't think very many
experienced fitness coaches would
ultimately argue with that i would say
that ryan's training style is definitely
the more outlier approach
at least as far as natural lifting is
concerned let's first talk about how
most people progress to the sets of an
exercise let's use standing dumbbell pro
for example now walk to the rack do an
easier set and they'll go okay i'm going
to go up they go up one gets a little
tougher maybe they go up again let me go
 that's too heavy either keep that
same weight they drop back down and
that's their
exercise to me that's all wrong so yeah
i totally get the point that he's trying
to make here and i agree it really is a
terrible approach to just going to the
gym and start swinging heavier and
heavier weights around purely for the
sake of it and ego lifting like a
complete tool either to try to impress
people in the gym who ultimately don't
care how much weight you can lift anyway
or because you think that that is the
best way to grow i've done videos
talking about this many times before um
your chance for injury will go way up if
you do that and you'll just be making
the exercise less effective overall
so
if you are someone who's really far on
that ego lifting side of the spectrum
and you're just aimlessly stacking on
the weight without considering how your
technique is being effective then ryan's
advice may very well be what you need to
pull yourself back to reality to clean
up your form take the stress off your
joints and to
maximize the tension on the muscles that
you're actually trying to target but at
the same time ultimately
the example that he's giving here is of
someone who
isn't applying weight increases in the
correct way so we can't take that
example and then say that progressive
overload or lifting heavier isn't
effective it's only ineffective if you
don't apply it properly i think a better
way to look at is after that first set
instead of just unconsciously thinking
okay i need to add more weight instead
just think of how can i connect this
exercise better or how do i make sure
that this is the best exercise for me to
do so keep in mind that progressive
overload doesn't mean that you have to
constantly go heavier
from set to set within a given workout
as far as adding weight is concerned
it's really just an overarching way of
saying that you need to gradually
increase the load on your exercises over
time okay slowly over the course of
weeks and months and years in small
gradual increments while maintaining
proper form if you increase the weight
and your form takes a significant hit as
a result of that then yeah you need to
slow down and you need to keep working
with the previous weight before you try
to go back up again but i honestly don't
know of any truly successful lifters
particularly naturals who actually built
significant muscle mass without building
up a basic strength base on the compound
lifts first and foremost it just doesn't
happen in the real world except in a
small percentage of outliers who are
probably going to grow no matter how
they train but that is the exception
it's not the norm and it doesn't have to
be this black and white thing either
where you're lifting uh very light
weights and focusing completely on the
mind muscle connection or you're maxing
out with sloppy form and aimlessly
chasing numbers in reality the best
approach is gonna fall somewhere in the
middle it's not gonna be found out at
the extremes but i still think it's a
good idea to always test different
angles tempo mechanical disadvantages
range of motion because you never know
what you're going to connect with that
day and for me connection is everything
it's not like your physical anatomy you
know your bone structure and your muscle
insertions are magically going to change
from day to day and it's this moving
target where
one week a barbell curl is going to
activate your biceps effectively and
then next week all of a sudden it stops
working and you have to recalibrate and
find a different biceps exercise and
figure out you know how many degrees to
twist your pinky and the precise
geographical coordinates to position
your elbow at and you know which exact
cable attachment to use for that
specific workout to get your biceps to
wake up from their deep sleep i can
figure out you know what's the best way
i can act on that particular day because
it changes all the time if an exercise
activates a given muscle effectively
today there's no reason why all of a
sudden it's going to stop activating
that muscle next week or next month or
next year assuming that you're using the
same form and the same technique uh
experiment with different lifts in the
overall picture yes but you don't need
to be doing this on a constant workout
to workout basis most people are going
to be far better off to just find a
solid set of lifts that hit all of the
basic movement patterns and that work
well and feel good for them and then
stick to those lifts for a consistent
period of training in order to master
the technique and progressively overload
them that's going to be a better
approach than just constantly bouncing
around in the gym switching from one
movement to another and only making
minimal progress on each one and by the
way if you want to cut through all the
conflicting information out there and
just get yourself onto a solid
structured step-by-step program that you
can follow including the weekly split
exercises sets and reps all mapped out
based on your current goals and your
condition then you can head over to
shawnell.com custom once this video is
over just fill out the form there and
i'll send you back a free training and
nutrition plan to get you onto the
proper path without wasting any of your
valuable time or effort you can click up
here or use the link in the description
box below also this is a long term play
because you can't lift heavy for years
it's only a matter of time before
something gives out so yeah there's
definitely some truth to that if your
primary goals are hypertrophy related
then just trying to go heavier and
heavier and heavier indefinitely forever
that's not always going to be the best
approach because you might eventually
reach a point where the cost of adding
more weight might not be worth it for
your joints and where it would be more
practical and more effective to just mix
in other methods of progressive overload
like i mentioned before but i would say
that that depends on the specific
exercise because you can add weight to
bigger compound lifts for a much longer
period of time before that's going to be
a concern whereas for smaller isolation
movements it could be an issue sooner um
and this also applies much more in let's
say the late intermediate to more
advanced stages of lifting and i think
that's a very important piece of context
that needs to be mentioned the vast
majority of people watching these
youtube videos are nowhere near strong
enough yet to where adding more weight
is going to be an injury risk or where
they're going to lose the connection to
the muscle it takes a long period of
sustained proper lifting and consistent
strength gains until that might become
an issue that's why i'll never
understand why some people say why can't
he just do regular exercises why is he
trying to reinvent the wheel same reason
you don't use those waterbed style
dumbbells or the plastic ones with the
concrete on the inside when you drop it
it cracks in half
because they suck i mean it's
one thing to say you know hey
traditional exercises obviously were
great because we have a pretty much
endless amount of real world evidence
that they do most people throughout
history with impressive physiques built
most of their muscle that way but i
think these new modified versions are
better
that would be much more reasonable but
it's a very different thing to just
outright say that traditional exercises
 suck you know squats deadlifts
free weight presses overhead presses
pull-ups rows proven exercises that have
been the bread and butter in the
majority of successful lifters programs
for probably the past 100 years
exercises that through basic progressive
overload have put more muscle on
people's frames than anything else in
existence and to say that these
time-tested lifts suck i mean
that's just a pretty obvious
exaggeration again if someone thinks
that there are more effective variations
available then i'd say that's fine but
to say that conventional lifts suck is
just obviously not true they were
effective enough in ryan's case that he
put in the years of consistent heavy
compound training necessary to be able
to deadlift 585 for touch and go reps
and bent over row 375 and do full range
of motion leg presses with 11 plates
aside okay no one gets to these kinds of
numbers through lightweight isolation
training it takes years of heavy intense
training to move that kind of weight and
it doesn't look to me like he was
lacking in muscle mass back then either
now maybe he did a mix of heavier and
lighter training but heavy compound
lifting clearly played an important role
there if he got up to those kinds of
numbers and maybe he really did switch a
hundred percent over uh to the
lightweight high rep approach over the
past year and he really does firmly
believe now that that's what's best if
so fair enough you know people are
allowed to change their uh beliefs over
time but to say that progressive
overload and heavy compound lifting
sucks and that it never worked for him
that just doesn't add up when you
consider his previous strength levels
and his muscle mass and the previous
recommendations that he gave really not
that long ago not to mention the endless
real world evidence that it does work
extremely well for the lifters who do
apply it properly once you lose the
ability to purposely engage the muscle
you're trying to work
because you're obviously trying to get
that weight off your back the
benefit of adding weight doesn't
outweigh the loss of control i would say
that i agree with the general point that
adding weight at the expense of form is
a very bad way to approach your training
and for a wide variety of reasons proper
technique should always be considered as
an absolutely primary factor during your
workouts before anything else but that
doesn't mean that progressive overload
doesn't work or that the load on the bar
isn't something that you should pay
attention to it just means that as you
build your size and strength up and as
you do increase the weights you need to
do it slowly and patiently and you need
to make sure that you're maintaining
proper form with each increase high rep
mind muscle isolation work can
definitely be included in that it can
provide its own unique benefits
especially depending on the muscle group
and i do include it in my workouts as
well but it just shouldn't be the
primary focus or the only style of
training that you use so thanks for
watching guys if you enjoyed this video
don't forget to grab your free training
and nutrition plan for me over at
shawnell.com custom on the
supplementation side of things you can
also visit
realscienceathletics.com to check out my
research-backed no bs supplements that i
personally formulated to help fully
streamline your fitness program and
maximize your muscle building and fat
burning results without all the regular
bs hype and gimmicks that are so common
in the industry nowadays we've been
getting tons of positive feedback on
these products lately and i really
appreciate all the support and you can
use coupon code youtube15 to save 15 off
your entire first order you can follow
me over on instagram for more tips and
updates and as always make sure to hit
that like button leave a comment down
below and subscribe if you haven't
already in order to stay up to date on
future videos thanks for watching and
i'll see you in the next one
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
you