cheat reps are stupid no seriously they
are here's a really messed up part it's
probably less stimulative rep for rep
set for set because it usually misses
the highly loaded stretched position
look when guys cheat on the bench they
usually cut the range of motion and they
usually as soon as the bar gets nice and
low they hip out of it to make sure that
another muscle takes over when you're at
the bottom of a bench you want your
chest to take as much of the tension as
possible really expand I very rarely
have seen someone cheat and actually get
to a full extended range of motion
people who cheat with pull-ups by doing
the the fuck your way up the pull-up
thing you guys know when you're like
jumping through mid-air they almost
never go down all the way for a big
stretch could be less stimulative and
more fatiguing oh my God it's the end of
the world