using a full range emotion might be
harming your muscle growth here's what
to do
instead we back coming at you soon to be
Dr Milo wolf here with wolf coaching
today we're talking about range of
motion which as it just so happens to be
is actually the topic of my PhD in our
metanalysis we looked at three studies
comparing a full range motion to using
lengthened partials or doing partial
reps in the lengthened or stretched
position of an exercise the three
studies that were included in this
analysis at the time were a study by P
and colleagues a study by work Housen
colleagues and finally a study by goto
and colleagues what did we find well
using a full range of motion actually
resulted in less growth than using
LinkedIn partials by about 5 to 10% now
since then there have been more studies
specifically there's been two more
studies one has been published and
that's a study in the Cavs by casano and
colleagues and one has not yet been
published and that's a study by mayo and
colleagues in the study by casano and
colleagues they compared doing full
range motion calf raises about 50째 of
plant flection to doing lengthen
partials or doing the bottom half or
bottom 25째 of plant reflection to doing
shorten partials or the top half of the
rep they measured calf growth at two
different sites what did they find well
at one site both full range of motion
and lengthened partials did
significantly better for hypertrophy
than shortened partials but at the
second site lengthened partials actually
outperformed both a four range of motion
and also shortened partials so once
again this study broadly lend
credibility to the idea that actually
doing length and partials could increase
your growth to a greater extent versus
just doing full range of motion the
second study as I mentioned earlier is
one by my own colleagues and I want you
to take this one with a bit of a grain
of salt the reason for that is it has
not yet been published does that mean
the findings are invalid no but it's
worth keeping in mind that it's not
published yet and therefore you might
want to wait until it's been published
to take these findings as being Rock
Solid in this study by mayo and
colleagues they compared doing a full
range motion to doing length and
partials on the multi- hiip machine in
the full range of motion condition they
went through about 90째 of hip extension
whereas in the length and partial
condition they went through half reps
from the full range of motion of hip
flexion to about halfway through hip
extension so just getting the 45째 that
are most lengthened of that hip
extension movement so by doing these
partial reps they were able to on
average train the hamstrings glutes and
adductors at longer muscle lengths
compared to in the full range of motion
condition what did they find well The
Group performing the multi- hiip
exercise with lengthened partials grew
the glutes more and grew some of the
hamstrings more compared to just doing a
4 in motion on the multi hiip so again
when you combine these five studies you
do see that overall actually doing
lengthen partials seems like a pretty
promising strategy to increase your
muscle growth relative to full range
motion and yeah doing full range motion
might actually be hurting your muscle
growth now you might say well wait a
minute we only have five step studies
isn't it a bit too early to jump to
conclusions and part of me agrees with
you however a bigger part of me
disagrees with you and here's why we
have plenty of data in other fields of
study like for example comparing
shortened partials or doing partial
repetitions in the shortened position to
doing lengthen partials again partial
repetitions in that stretch position of
an exercise and very consistently for
example in this body of evidence you do
see that lengthen partials are better
for growth compared to shorten partials
the same applies to the isometric train
literature where doing lengthened
isometric contractions almost always
results in more growth than doing
shortened isometric contractions so the
general principle across a variety of
bodies of evidence that lengthened
training is better than shortened
training for muscle growth is super
consistent so even though we only have
four published studies comparing length
and partials to a full range of mo
motion and one unpublished study I still
think the results are very consistent
within this body of evidence and overall
it's worth definitely paying attention
to In fact when you combine all of these
Bodies of Evidence we have something
around 20 studies which is a pretty
compelling amount of evidence now why do
lengthen partials result in more muscle
growth than a four range motion it is
not super clear yet some people might be
very quick to say it is definitely due
to an increase in fasal length by for
example ccog Genesis the reality is we
just don't fully know yet what we do
know is that we typically see increases
in muscle hypertrophy and muscle
thickness more so at more distal areas
of a muscle group that could be related
to differences in activation where for
example more length and work could
recruit more distal areas of a muscle
more it could be related to passive
tension where the more you lengthen a
muscle fiber the greater the amount of
passive tension it will experience as
passive elements like Titan and other
elements get more lengthened the one
thing that seems pretty clear is that
the increase in hypertrophy is likely
mediated by a difference in average
muscle length being trained so length
and partials don't grow more muscle just
because you're doing partials versus a
full range of motion and for example
being able to use more weight rather it
seems that lengthen partials allow you
to grow more muscle because they on
average train your muscles at longer
muscle lengths compared to a 4in motion
as a final note on the possibility of
fascal length changes I would be a bit
skeptical of this a lot of the rationale
around length and training being mostly
beneficial as a result of increases in
fasal length those rationals mostly stem
from very old animal studies whether or
not this is actually applicable to a
humans and B in the context of
contractions lasting only a few seconds
versus many of the animal studies
employing stretch protocols lasting
weeks and weeks is pretty unly so
whether the findings in animals in
long-term stretching actually apply to
the applied practice of lengthen
partials is a lot less clear so before
you run off and say it's fasal length or
it's Cog Genesis just be aware there are
likely some differences there and it's
not worth jumping to conclusions just
yet now I'd like to talk about a couple
aspects of incorporating some of this
lengthened work specifically first I
want to discuss lengthen partials versus
lengthened supersets lengthened
supersets which I haven't mentioned in
this video yet refer to doing lengthened
reps or lengthened partials at the end
of a full range Motion Set so let's say
for example every rep for the first 10
reps and you get a full range motion now
after the 10th rep you're getting too
fatigued and you can no longer get a 4
in motion doing lengthen super set would
mean continuing the set but this time
just doing half reps roughly in the
lengthen position as a way of extending
the set there are three reasons why I
would generally recommend lengthened
parols over lengthened super sets number
one lengthened super sets can quickly
result in you using a very high rep
range let's say for example you pick a
weight you can do for 15 or 20 reps
usually for your LinkedIn super sets you
do 15 reps you get pretty close to
failure you might be able to get another
five or 10 reps just doing partials in
that length position after those 15 reps
now what we do know is that once reps
per set get much above 12 or so most
people become a lot less accurate at
gauging how close to failure they're
training and so if you're going much
above 12 reps by doing a lengthen super
set you might be shooting yourself in
the foot as far as making sure that
you're training sufficiently close to
failure on each set the second reason is
that there is a minimal shift in terms
of the average muscle length being
trained let's say you're doing a set of
15 reps and after 15 full range of
motion reps you're able to get five more
length and partial repetitions that will
not shift the average muscle length
being trained very substantially
compared to just doing Linkin partials
exclusively for the whole set and so if
the mechanism involved or the way that
the extra hyper is achieved is via
changing the average muscle length being
trained during the set to being longer
and a lengthened super set doesn't shift
that by as much as doing exclusively
lengthen partials you likely wouldn't
see as much of a benefit when using a
len L superset versus using a lengthen
partial approach the final reason why I
wouldn't recommend lengthen suers sets
over lengthen partials is because they
simply haven't been researched yet
because they haven't been researched yet
we can say with quite as much confidence
whether or not they would be helpful in
helping you grow more muscle as we can
for length and partials length and
partials have four or five studies
behind them now comparing them directly
to for Ranger motion lengthen suets or
essentially doing reps at the end of
your set just in a lengthen position we
just don't have any evidence on that yet
and so we can say for sure whether or
not it's beneficial now to finish off
this video let me give you a few
recommendations first when transitioning
from doing for example exclusively for
range Mo motion to incorporating more
and more lengthen partials try and
transition relatively gradually if you
transition all at once you might
increase your injury risk ever so
slightly and it's worth being a bit
cautious with how quickly you transition
as a rule of thumb take at least a few
weeks if you're going to switch all your
training from Full range of motion to
length and partials second
recommendation I would incorporate
lengthened partials rather than
lengthened suers sets for the reasons I
mentioned earlier takeway number three
lengthened partials will likely increase
your growth compared to doing a full
range of motion but it won't be a huge
difference it might be somewhere on the
order of about 5 to 15% compared to just
doing four range motion if you have
hybrid goals let's say for example you
have four range motion strength goals
like you're a power lifter but you also
want to grow muscle you are likely
better off using four range of motion
for the most part we know that strength
and performance adaptations are rang of
motion specific so if you want to get
better at the powerlifting squat to
parallel depth you should most likely be
squatting to powerlifting depth pretty
much all the time or close to all the
time so if you have both hypertrophy and
strength goals but there's a bigger
impact on your strength if you don't use
that specific range of motion compared
to if you use a full range of motion it
only slightly reduces the growth you see
you're probably best off mostly sticking
to the range of motion that you want to
get stronger or better at likewise for
sports goals like let's say for example
play baseball you play basketball you
play football you probably want to be
specific as well so mostly train through
ranges of motion that are specific to
your sport and the tasks that you
perform within that sport finally if you
have any pain or if you're injured just
be cautious there is some research
looking at training at either extreme of
the range of motion either at the very
lengthened end or at the very shortened
end and people who have pre-existing for
example lower back pain sometimes report
a greater amount of pain when training
in these components of the 4 range
motion and actually in these cases you
might be best off employing a middle
partial where you avoid the two extremes
of the full range of em motion or either
extreme if that seems to be particularly
painful anyways that's the video if you
like the video please comment like
subscribe I will see you guys in the
next one
peace