welcome back Dr Milo wol today with you
PG and sports science reacting to
another scientist's takes on Fitness now
as I understand it Andrew hopman's
expertise lies within Neuroscience I
haven't actually listened to this
podcast basically ever but I know that
he gives out information when it comes
to Fitness as well and as that lies more
so in my priew I thought it'd be
interesting to see what he has to say
about Fitness and see whether or not I
disagree with it given that my expertise
Falls more squarely within that field
without further Ado exercise scientist
reacts to Andrew ruberman right now
there are a lot of reasons to want to
get stronger and I should just mention
that it's not always the case that
getting stronger involves muscles
getting bigger there are ways for
muscles to get stronger without getting
bigger however increasing the size of a
muscle almost inevitably increases the
strength of that muscle at least to some
degree reasons why most everyone should
want want to get their muscles stronger
is that muscles are generally getting
progressively weaker across the lifespan
so when I say getting stronger it's not
necessarily about being able to move
increasing amounts of weight in the gym
although if that's your goal what I'm
about to discuss will be relevant to
that but rather to offset some of the
normal decline in strength and posture
and the ability to generate a large
range of movement safely that occurs as
we age as I mentioned at the beginning
in the episode we just tend to lose
function in this neuromuscular system as
we get older and doing things to offset
that has been shown again and again to
be beneficial for the neuromuscular
system for protection of injury for
enhancing the strength of Bones and bone
density so there are a lot of reasons to
use resistance exercise that that extend
far beyond just the desire to increase
muscle size so far so good lifting
weights does Stave off sarcopenia which
is one of the many unfortunate
consequences of aging and is generally
associated with worse Health outcomes
and lifting is a very effective means of
preventing sarcopenia sarcopenia
essentially being the age related muscle
wasting disease equally and I'm not sure
what he's about to claim here but just
because you're trying to stay off suenia
does not mean that you necessarily need
to deadlift 500 lb or 600 lb or 800 lb
like the health related benefits of
lifting weights even as far as
preventing copen go likely don't have
much to do with you going from a 300 lb
deadlift to 600 lb deadlift and have a
lot more to do with you being able to
lift 300 lb in the first place you don't
need to be a freak of nature to be
healthy is what I'm trying to say and I
think just some lifting goes a long way
when it comes to longevity I have a
whole video on Lifting for longevity
somewhere up here with just an hour or
two of lifting a week you do see some
pretty meaningful improvements in health
so it's worth keeping in mind that you
don't need to be a freak and you don't
need to relentlessly pursue greater
strength numbers and greater strength
numbers and ultimately the way I
logically wrap my head around this sort
of idea is that your survival doesn't
really depend on your ability that lift
500 lb or even 400 lb or even 300 lb it
mostly is contingent upon are you
generally healthy are you able to get
through most of life's daily tasks
without struggling too much as you age
are you preserving that capability to
the greatest extent possible those boxes
are kind of ticked you don't need to
worry about anything else as far as
lifting goes so yeah if someone comes to
me says I want to lift for longevity I
don't put them on a program to maximize
their rft I put them on a program to
generally gain some muscle and get
stronger but once they've reached that
there's no need for them to go to the
gym seven times a week so there's an
important principle of muscle physiology
called the henan size principle and the
henan size principle essentially says
that we recruit what are called motor
units motor units are just the
connections between nerve and muscle
from a in a pattern that staircases from
low threshold to high threshold what
this means is when you pick up something
that is light you're going to use the
minimum amount of nerve to muscle energy
in order to move that thing likewise
when you pick up an object That's Heavy
you're going to use the minimum amount
of nerve to muscle connectivity and
energy in order to move that object so
it's basically a conservation of energy
principle now if you continue to exert
effort of movement what will happen is
you will tend to recruit more and more
motor units with time and that process
of recruiting more neurons more lower
motor neurons if you recall from the
beginning of the episode These lower
motor neurons are in our spinal cord and
they actually dump uh a chemical a
cocolin on muscle cause the muscles to
contract as you recruit more and more of
these motor units these connections
between these lower motor neurons and
muscle that's when you start to get
change es in the muscle that's when you
open the gate for the potential for the
muscles to get stronger and to get
larger if that's what your goal is and
so the way this process works has been
badly misunderstood in the kind of
online literature of weight training and
bodybuilding and even in sports
physiology the henan size principle is
kind of a a a foundational principle
within muscle physiology but many people
have come to inter it by saying that the
way to recruit high threshold motor
units the ones that are hard to get to
is to just use heavy weights and that's
actually not the case as we'll talk
about the research supports that weights
in a very large range of sort of uh
percentage of your maximum anywhere from
30 to 80% so weights that are not very
light but are moderately light too heavy
can cause changes in the connections
between nerve and muscle that lead to
muscle strength and muscle hypertrophy
what he thinks he's saying what he's
saying here I think are different here
uh he's essentially going against the
claim that heavier weights generally
lead to earlier recruitment of higher
threshold motor units which is true the
higher the first production requirements
the earlier your highest threshold motor
units will likely be recruited so that
is true but equally way he's trying to
say here I think is that when you
fatigue your body will inevitably have
to recruit those higher threshold motor
units as well so I think I agree I'm
just not har Cent he's expressing
himself correctly now I'm sure the
powerlifters and the the people that
like to move heavy weights around will
say no if you want to get strong you
absolutely have to live heavy weights
and that might be true if you want to
get very strong but for most people who
are interested in supporting their
muscular such that they offset any age
related decline in strength or an
increasing hypertrophy in and strength
to some degree there really isn't a need
to lie about the henan size principle
which many people out there are doing
and claiming that you absolutely need to
use the heaviest weights possible in
order to build strength and muscle so
I'm going to explain all how all of this
works in simple terms damn who hurt you
Hobie I didn't realize people out there
were lying about henman's size principle
all thing to be lying about um but yeah
I agree if you're just concerned about
staving off sopia and generally age
related declines in size and strength
totally you don't need to lift 90% of
your max all the time with that being
said with him earlier mentioning
increases in bone mineral density as a
result of lifting it is worth noting
that those adaptations to my knowledge
are relatively strongly related to the
weight you're lifting and so higher
intensities heavier weights are
meaningfully responsible for increasing
bone mineral density and making your
bone stronger in a way so I agree for
the most part it's just worth knowing
that the research from mineral density
is Divergent with his recommendation
here everybody has
imbalances in how muscles can
grow how well muscles can grow or how
poorly or how challenging it is for
their muscles to grow now many people
who are afraid of like getting too bulky
for instance are afraid of lifting
weights but I think the research shows
now that everyone of pretty much every
age should be doing some sort of
resistance exercise even if that body
weight exercises in order to offset this
age related decline in muscle
contractile ability muscle strength Etc
improve bone density there's nothing
good about getting frail and weak over
time and people who invest the effort
into doing resistance exercis of of some
kind whether or not it's with bands or
with weights or with body weight really
benefit tremendously at a whole body
level at a systemic level as well as in
terms of muscle strength agreed I think
specifically as you age and as you risk
of having sarcopenia increases lifting
is definitely a good idea I don't think
everyone needs to lift although I do
think that there is probably a benefit
to be had as far as muscle strengthening
activities and Bone strengthening and so
forth goes but I agree by L so bless you
can just kind of march across your body
mentally and see whether or not you can
independently contract any or all of
your muscles so for instance if you are
sitting in a chair or uh you're standing
see whether or not you can contract your
calf muscle just using those upper motor
neurons sending a signal down and
deliberately isolating the calf muscle
okay if you can contract the calf muscle
hard to the point where that muscle
almost feels like it's starting to cramp
like it it hurts just a little bit you
know it it's not going to be extremely
painful nor is it going to have no
sensation whatsoever chances are you
have very good upper motor neuron to
calf control and chances are if you can
isolate that what they call that brain
or mind muscle connection and you can
contract the muscle to the point where
it cramps a little bit that you hold a
decent to high potential to change the
strength and the size of that muscle if
you train it properly now if you have a
hard time doing that chances are you
won't be able to do that if for instance
you focus on your your uh back muscle
like we all have these muscles called
the the lat the latissimus dorsy muscles
which basically are involved in chinups
and things like that but their function
from a from a more of a Kinesiology
standpoint is to move the elbow back
behind the body okay so it's not about
flexing your bicep it's about moving
your elbow back behind your body if you
can do that mentally or you can do that
physical movement of moving your elbow
back behind your body and you can
contract that muscle hard chances are
that you have the capacity to enhance
the strength Andor size of that
particular muscle because you have the
neural control of that muscle
man I this might be entirely out of my
perview so if I speak mistakenly here my
bad I'm putting it up front that this is
not my expertise but I haven't seen any
research linking uh an individual's
ability to contract a muscle to their
growth potential in extreme
circumstances like in the context of
paraplegia or something like that I
could certainly see it playing a role
but in the context of an untrained
person not being able to contract their
lats just standing there does that make
them less prone to growth I don't think
so and in fact as long as you're
exposing your muscle to tension
throughout one of its functions like for
example for a lat that would be
something like a lat pull down or what
have you as long as you're actually
exposing it to tension and Performing
one its functions it will grow I can say
that I've seen any research suggesting
or confirming what he's saying here it
just seems like a very weird thing to
harp on as one of the only things that
you mentioned about lifting weights and
in fact even the importance of the man
muscle connection is something you need
to focus on during lifting is not super
clear yet as far as enhancing
hypertrophy the one study we have
looking at hypertrophy from focusing on
the mus connection as opposed to an
extrinsic Q or an external Q rather like
focusing on getting the weight up simply
so in this study by rat shonfeld they
compared two groups one group focused on
feeling the muscle it was the Q used was
squeeze the muscle and the other group
they focused on getting the weight up
the Q used was get the weight up they
performed the same training program
there was greater hypertrophy noted and
one of the muscles measured for the man
MUSC connection group and does were
muscle groups measured and in terms of
strength outcomes differences of
anything leaned in favor of the group
focusing on the extrinsic CU of Simply
getting the weight up so overall not a
slam dunk in favor of the Minos
connection and so it just seems weird to
me that he's harping on this so much but
maybe I'm mistaken there if anyone knows
of any research please do comment down
below letting me know everything about
muscle hypertrophy about stimulating
muscle growth is about generating
isolated contractions about challenging
specific mus muscles in a very unnatural
way if you whereas with strength it's
about using musculature as a system
moving weights moving resistance moving
the body the specific goal of
hypertrophy is to isolate specific nerve
to muscle Pathways so that you stimulate
the chemical and signaling transduction
events in muscles so that those muscles
respond by getting larger so there's a
critical distinction in terms of getting
stronger versus trying to get muscles to
be larger hypertrophy per se and it has
to do with how much you isolate those
muscles muscle isolation is not a
natural phenomenon it's not something
that we normally do when we walk we
don't think okay right calf contract
left calf contract no you just generate
those rhythmic movements and of course
there's no reason for them to get
stronger or larger in response to those
movements let's say you were to do a
kind of strange experiment of attaching
30 lb weights to your ankles and you
were to do those movements well if you
weren't specifically Contracting your
calves in each step there's no reason
for the calves to take on the bulk of
the work and you would distribute that
work across your hip flexors and other
aspects of your musculature your whole
nervous system seeks to gain efficiency
it seeks to spread out the effort by and
large I agree strength is specific and
it involves the coordination of multiple
muscle groups at once to execute a task
whereas hyperr is ultimately just about
exposing a muscle to tension and leading
to a molecular Cascade of events that
causes hyper so they are distinct
adaptations though generally as I
mentioned earlier making a muscle larger
will also make it stronger it's all
about trying to generate those really
hard almost painful localized
contractions of muscle now of course how
much weight you use in order to generate
those contractions will also impact
hypertrophy but I think most people
don't really understand the Mind muscle
connection it sounds like a great thing
but it's actually one of the things you
want to avoid if your goal is simply to
become more Supple or to become
stronger you want to do the movements
properly and safely of course but it's
the opposite of hypertrophy where with
hypertrophy you're really trying to make
that particular muscle sometimes two
muscles do the majority if not all the
work whereas in moving Force loads in
trying to generate activity of any kind
like lifting a bar or doing a chin-up or
something those so-called compound
movements that involve a lot of muscle
groups if there if your goal is to be
better at those you want to avoid
isolating in any one particular muscle
now I know this probably comes across as
a kind of a of a obvious duh especially
to the um folks that have spent a lot of
time in the gym aimed at getting
hypertrophy but I think most people
don't appreciate that it's the nerve to
muscle connections and the distinction
between isolating nerve to muscle
connections versus Distributing the work
of nerve to muscle connections that's
vital in determining whether or not you
generate hypertrophy isolated nerve to
muscle contractions versus strength and
offsetting strength loss which would be
distributed nerve to muscle connections
I think Andrew is making a common
mistake here uh which just kind of
dichotomize or categorize specifically
in discrete Fashions strength
adaptations and hypertophy adaptations
whether you focus on a mus connection or
not you will see hypertrophy whether you
focus on the outcome of the movement or
an external queue like for example get
the weight up right you will still see
hypertrophy and strength adaptations
these things tend to happen
simultaneously can you preferentially
elicit an adaptation in strength versus
hypertrophy by training in a certain way
or by focusing on a certain queue during
the movement yes potentially
specifically with regards to the
movement and the repetition ranges used
and the intensity used you can certainly
preferentially Target strength versus
hypertrophy but to make them seem as
though they are these very distinct
disperate adaptations that rarely occur
alongside each other in fact focusing on
one makes you lose out on the other one
it's not very true there's a lot of
information saying that you need to move
weights that are you know 80 to 90% of
your one rep maximum or 70% or cycle
that for 3 weeks on and then go to more
moderate weights there there are a lot
of paths as um as some people say there
are a lot of ways to add up numbers to
get a 100 you know there's a near
infinite number of ways to add up
different numbers to get to 100 and
what's very clear now from all the
literature that's transpired especially
from the literature in this last three
years is that once you know rough your
one repetition maximum the the maximum
amount of weight that you can perform an
exercise with for one repetition in good
form full full range of motion I'll be
in touch Andrew mention full range of
motion on your podcast again and we're
going to have a problem in the 30 to 80%
of one rep maximum that is going to be
the most beneficial range in terms of
muscle hypertrophy and strength so
muscle growth and strength and there
will be a bias if you're moving weights
that are in the 75% 80% range or maybe
even going above that 85 and 90% you're
going to bias your improvements towards
strength gains this is true and if you
use weights that are in the 30% of your
one repetition maximum or 40% or 50% and
doing many more repetitions of course
then you are biasing towards hypertrophy
and what some people like to call muscle
endurance but that's a little bit of a
complicated term agree and disagree
agree that if you're lifting heavier
closer to 80 or 90% of your m you will
see greater strength adaptations the
recent pre-print by Swinton and
colleagues looked at this and generally
the the heavier you lift the better it
is for maximum stength for hypertrophy
you're not biasing hypertrophy more when
you go lighter uh you see the same
hypertrophy if you take a set to failure
whether you're lifting 40% of your max
or 80% of your max you're not getting
any additional hypertrophy by going
lighter I'm not sure if he meant to say
that or if I'm misunderstanding but I
just wanted to mention it and there's
all sorts of interesting nomenclature
that's popping up all over the Internet
some of which is scientific some which
is not scientific about how you are
supposed to perceive how close you were
to failure Etc but there's some very
interesting principles that relate to
how the nerves connect to the muscles
that strongly predict whether or not
this exercise that you're performing
will be beneficial for you or not for
individuals that are untrained meaning
they have been doing resistance exercise
for anywhere from zero probably out to
about 2 years although for some people
it might be zero to one year but that
those are the so-called begin ERS
they're sort of untrained for those
people the key parameter seems to be to
perform enough sets of a given exercise
per muscle per week okay the same is
also true for people that have been
training for one or two years or more
what differs is how many sets to perform
depending on whether or not you're
trained or untrained so let's say you're
somebody who's been doing some
resistance exercise kind of on and off
over the years and you decide you want
to get serious about that for sake of
sport or offsetting age related declines
in strength the range of sets to do in
order to improve strength to activate
these Cascades in the muscle ranges
anywhere from two believe it or not to
20 per week again these are sets per
week and they don't necessarily all have
to be performed in the same weight
training session I will talk about
numbers of sessions so it appears that
five sets per week in this 30% to 80% of
the one repetition maximum range getting
close to failure or occasionally
actually going to full muscular failure
which isn't really full muscular failure
but the inability to generate a
contraction of the muscle or move the
weight in good form I'll go deeper into
that in a moment but about five sets per
week is what's required just to maintain
your muscle so think about that if
you're somebody who's kind of averse to
resistance training you are going to
lose muscle size and strength your
metabolism will drop your posture will
get worse everything in the in the
context of nerve TC muscle connectivity
will get worse over time unless you are
generating five sets or more of this 30%
to 80% of your one repetition maximum
per week five sets is probably a decent
estimate for this sort of thing I
wouldn't State as a hard and fast Ru I
think you can probably maintain muscle
and even fewer than that for some people
3 to eight sets maybe even 3 to five is
probably fine typically we observe
maintenance of muscle with reductions in
training volume of like 70% in the
literature which will be close to this
about five set figure he mentioned that
going close to failure was important for
both hypertrophy and strength maybe
he'll come back to this but for
hypertrophy it is reasonably important
uh for strength probably not so much for
strength it's predominantly the amount
of weight that you're lifting that
matters long term you'll still probably
want to take some training close to or
two failure for hypertrophy as it means
to increase muscle size that would then
potentially increases in muscle strength
but hey ho now that's just to maintain
and then there's this huge range that
goes all the way up to 15 and in some
case 20 sets per week now how many sets
you perform is going to depend on the
intensity of the work that you perform
this is where it gets a little bit
controversial but I think nowadays most
people agree and Dr Galpin confirmed
that 10% not to be confused with the 10%
uh we discussed earlier but 10% of the
sets of a given uh workout or 10% of
workouts overall should be of the
high-intensity sort where one is
actually working to muscular failure now
I say not true muscular failure because
in theory you have a concentric movement
which is the kind of lifting of the
weight and then you have the Ecentric
portion of muscle contraction which is
the lowering and Ecentric movements
because of the way that muscle fibers
lengthen and that sliding actin mein
that we talked about before you're
always stronger in lowering something
than you are in lifting it but the point
being that most of your training most of
your sets should be not to failure and
the reason for that is it allows you to
do more volume of work without fatiguing
the nervous system and depleting the
nerve to muscle Connection in ways that
are detrimental so we can make this
simple perform anywhere from five to 15
sets of resistance exercise per
week and that's per muscle and that's in
this 30 to 80% of what your one
repetition maximum that seems to be the
the most scientifically supported way of
offsetting any decline in muscle
strength if you're working in the kind
of five set range and in increasing
muscle
strength when you start to get up into
the 10 and 15 set range broadly we the 5
to 15 set range is cool the 10% rule is
entirely made up I have no idea where
you got that from but there is no
research the effect essentially
generally when you closer to failure You
observe more hypertrophy does that mean
you should be doing exactly 10% of your
training to failure and the remainder
not to failure I don't know I don't
think so I think it's lacking Nuance but
he's ultimately communicating to a super
wide audience of mostly people with no
idea about lifting so I think it's fine
could be better but it's fine okay if
you have muscles that you are very good
at generating Force within it's going to
take fewer sets now how many sets you
are going to have to determine that it's
going to depend for those of you that
are using like 50% of your one
repetition maximum because you're doing
a lot of repetitions you might find that
three or four five sets will maintain
the muscle you might decide to do that
once at one point in the week and then
do it again right so if you're going for
10 sets a week you can divide that among
two sessions you can do that all in one
session the data really show it doesn't
matter there are some you know
differences in terms of whether or not
you're trying to generate maximum
intensity within a workout or whether or
not you want to spread that out but in
general resistance workouts of any kind
tend to be best favored by workouts that
are somewhere between 45 minutes and 60
minutes and generally not longer than 60
minutes because that's when all the uh
things like cortisol and some of the
inflammatory Pathways really start to uh
create a situation in the muscle and in
the body that's not so great for you so
it's not a hard and fast rule you know
that the axe doesn't drop at 60 minutes
I'm glad he mentioned it's not a hor
fast rule but he just kind of uh was
very alarmist about sessions last
lasting longer than 60 minutes there's a
million ways that a session could last
longer than 60 minutes and still be
better for hopy and strength development
so don't worry if your sessions take
longer than 60 minutes that's one thing
I have to correct is that there is no
compelling evidence to make the
statement I do want to mention something
very important which is that everything
I'm referring to here it has to do with
full range of motion okay and you might
ask well what about the speeds of
movements this has actually turns out to
be a really interesting data set for
generating explosiveness and speed so
for sprinters or throwing sports or for
people that want to generate a lot of
jump power it does appear that learning
to move weights as fast as you safely
can especially under moderate to heavy
loads can increase explosiveness and
speed and most of that effect is from
changes in the neurons it's not from
changes in the muscle it's from changes
in the way that the upper motor neurons
communicate with the lower motor neurons
and generating a pathway a neural
circuit as we call it that is very
efficient at gener generating Action
potentials which are the electricity
within neurons to trigger the muscle now
of course there are events that happen
from nerve to muscle but the takeaway
from that enormous literature frankly is
that if you want to get
faster yes it can be beneficial to get
stronger but if you want to dedicate
resistance training specifically to
Jumping higher to running faster to
throwing further and these sorts of
things that learning to generate force
with increasing speed is going to be
beneficial on the flip side of that for
people that want to get stronger it
appears that the slowing down of the
weight as things get harder is a key
parameter in recruiting those high
threshold motor units so let me phrase
that a little bit differently think
about a set in the gym or think about a
set of push-ups or a set of pull-ups
initially you can move very fast if you
like if you want to generate hypertrophy
the goal really is not necessarily to
move super slow but to isolate the
muscle and therefore not to use momentum
rather than lift weights as they say
challenge muscles if you want to get
stronger you're going to be Distributing
that effort over more muscles and more
of your nervous system for generating
explosiveness and speed it's very clear
that learning to generate forces quickly
and to move heavy or moderately heavy
loads quickly is going to be beneficial
because of the way that you train the
motor neurons and of course changes in
the muscle but this could look different
for different sports and obviously so
you want to make safety Paramount if
you're injured you're not going to be
able to train at all for sport or for
any purpose that is and so what this
would involve is something like 60 to
75% of a one repetition maximum and then
in a controlled way moving that as
quickly as one can throughout the entire
set and certainly not going to failure
because as you approach failure the
inability to move the weight with good
form the weight inevitably slows down
and so it's really only for purposes of
hypertrophy that you really need to be
concerned about how quickly the weight
is slowing down however if you're trying
to get faster more explosive and
generate more speed and jumping power
throwing power things of that sort you
never really want to use a weight or get
to a portion of the set where you're
moving the bar very very slowly and I'm
sure as I say that some of the exercise
physiologists and advanced trainers out
there will come after me with pitchforks
which is fine I'd love to see the
literature that shows that low gear slow
movements with very heavy weights can
indeed improve
uh explosiveness and that may in fact be
the case but the data that I was able to
access uh was essentially as I described
just a moment ago he's very defensive um
yeah I agree with him by and large here
like I think if you're being you're
trying to be specific to your sport of
choice and your sport of choice involves
lots of high-speed explosive
contractions in your training in the gym
it makes sense to be specific to that
training as well anyways that is going
to wrap up my review of Andrew
huberman's um advice on lifting weights
let's put it that way unfortunately this
podcast didn't feature his famous
description of uh it gives you a lot of
pop and hop as well presumably a
tremendous amount of hop and presumably
pop okay too so but it was actually
pretty solid memes aside I think this
was mostly solid information some of the
finer points he may not be perfectly GL
up on but by and large pretty solid I
would give him like a six or seven out
of 10 I don't think much of the advice
given here was super practical I think
some of it was made up like the 10% rule
about train of failure but by and large
it was correct and good enough for a
beginner whom he is most likely
addressing ultimately with his podcasts
about a variety of topics some of which
you might know more about and some of
which you might know less about that is
a video if you enjoyed the video please
comment like subscribe let me know who
else you want to see me react to If
you're looking for a coach check out the
link above and I can become your coach
and I'll see you guys my subscribers in
that next one peace