come on come
on
good back Flor yes
slow
slow folks we are here live uh in a
sense it's live for us isn't it
technically from Orlando Florida and
iron religion gym where iron is the
religion so you're all converts now God
bless and we have two things to say to
you one is this is Mr Jimmy house
Jimmy's going to be training back and
this strong as hell you
think you're strong nah what's your best
deadlift well actually just the other
week Jer and I deadlifted together
that's rare footage but I did pull 800
lb cheater deadlift at Barb overgate on
the Kabuki on the Kabuki bar but it was
800 lb on the L drug free drug free
out of here him out of here anyway
gimy allegedly is drug free but listen
on a serious note Jimmy's going to train
back and when you can pull 700 lb for
reps on back your grip will not last
which is why today he will be using the
great Versa grips product now it used to
be the case that vers grips didn't know
who we were and would ignore all of my
pathetic begging for a sponsorship uh
the versagrip company theyve ignored all
my calls and emails for me versus are
absolutely critical I'm not a branded
partner they said you Mike but
recently they were like oh oh Dr Mike
yeah yeah yeah vers grips so now we are
officially RP and vers grips intertwined
so to speak and uh we are going to do
back Jimmy's going to crush it and we're
going to tell you all about how vers
grips are amazing and there's a lot to
tell so let's get to it
yes first up is the prime row you're
going to notice that we have the pin
setting relatively High most of the
weight high up a little bit of the
weight on pin number two this is going
to give us the ability to get a huge
crazy loaded stretch just like the
scientific literature says is pretty
close to Optimal and then at the top a
nice PE contraction to really feel it
out this machine gives that amazing
amazing ability to have an awesome
loaded stretch for that raw stimulus
magnitude and an incredible mind muscle
connection at the top very rare that an
lets you do both the prim R is kind of
superior if you ask me and I do own one
at home in my very own home gym so not
all Bs yes sir yes sir yes
[Music]
sir yes good nice and slow nice and
slow chest reach over reach over reach
over and
rack yeah D two two cual here like
don't reach over the pad the way you
reach over the pad and don't lean off
the pad like this both of is
yeah okay like you are literally just
training the back more through more
range of motion by doing both of those
things now with the with uh this
happening that just causes everything to
squeeze a little bit harder at the top
by doing this yeah it's just you're
leaning back and you're hitting
everything and then you're starting from
this position instead of this position
which leads some more of a stretch too
cuz you're coming from this fully
contracted position through that full
entire range of mo
and most people will like keep their
chest here and like go like this and
then stop here because they don't want
to round their shoulders over the pad
you're literally training through more
range motion it's completely okay and
you're hitting everything in the back a
row is for the entire back okay yeah
it's not for targeting the lats it's not
for whatever else you hear it's for
hitting the entire
batt what is so good about vers grips
why are they better than
straps vers grips are made of a material
that I'm not sure what it is and I
frankly don't understand I'm not
sufficiently intelligent to understand
Material Science and it's just not in my
bandwidth so whatever magic Space Age
material the thing with Versa grips is
as you wrap them in all you have to do
is apply enough pressure to hold the
grip down your wrist will snap off
before that thing moves in almost every
exercise Versa grips stay super tight
and that means that you can have huge
huge benefits for your training reach
over big chest reach
over hold
W yeah I will say with straps like
traditional straps I can feel my hands
and forearms still tire out yes this one
even at the fingertips you can still
hang on crazy yeah it's awesome remember
muscles grow as they get closer to
failure a little bit more so your best
growth occurs close to failure if your
back was five reps away from
failure but you failed with your hands
then you're really telling yourself well
I'm training with you know one or two R
but it's really six or seven R because
your back isn't the five reps you're
just not discovering you throw on Versa
grips and all of a sudden you're getting
way more reps of the best most effective
kind of reps the ones close to failure
that's humongous Mike do you like do you
like to rotate your hands any like more
so this way at the bottom or keep them
Palms down three options one neutral the
whole time two is overhand the whole
time okay and three for me is just
whatever feels natural which a lot of
times starts like this and ends up like
this that's I kind of felt too some for
me it's like a 45 feels really great so
my my best preference here is just
whatever feels natural really okay yeah
I F I I like that one the twisting one
oh yeah it feels really good yeah
awesome hold it pull come on come
on
good
[Music]
ni
hell yeah that'll do
damn
out looking pumped already yeah yeah
just another day in the drug free
life anyway assistant pull-ups yeah
let's do it comment down below if you
want Dr Mike to do his first ever blood
test on the channel I volunte yeah yeah
why wouldn't I be qualified for
that
we have assisted pull-ups these are
critical it is critical rather that you
do them correctly you can absolutely
just do them as assisted pull-ups in the
sense that you just do the pull-up and
it helps you do more
apps but because of the lighter weight
it's a good idea to take advantage of
the fact that you can change your
Technique your Technique can be more
controlled especially get up to the top
with a normal explosive pull control
that Ecentric Ultra slow get a super big
stretch feel it in the lats and then
come back up and crunch your elbows back
and behind you as far as you can sets of
oh 8 to 15 reps here let's get to it
slow deep stretch deep stretch deep
stretch and then fasten the way up and
then you can be a little fast here and
then slower yeah that's perfect
okay we trying to basically MK that deep
stretch position
last one come on all the way all the way
good good
good all the way down all the way down
all the way down hold it good
R why or do you value this over as a
traditional LP pull down oh it's not
necessarily valuing it over it it's just
variation for variation purposes yeah do
you like this it's more pullup volume I
love this yeah cuz I mean I'm a fan of
pull-ups to begin with they're great for
your back so we did a row first and now
you're moving on to a secondary vertical
pulling exercise you're pretty fatigued
from the rows so we could have done a
pull down that been fine too um
especially for variation purposes I
think this is a little better I like it
more um up to you for sfr wise like if
you like lap pull Downs hell yeah if you
like this hell yeah if you've been doing
lap pull Downs for like three mesa
Cycles this might be a good variation
I've done them both in the same uh uh
session before it's just really what you
feel better what gives you better pump
better my muscle connection those I like
that cuz I've never actually done these
with the intent of actually like
building muscle or anything just always
been pullup you know that's
cool these are
great good
stretch because you have the vers grip
cinched in all you have to do is just
gently grab them to keep them
close you can have a huge
connection with your your actual pulling
muscles or your shoulders whatever
you're doing so the Mind muscle
connection is maximized and you can work
on maximizing your Technique because
when you're on your barely the tips of
your fingers technique mind muscle none
of that you're just trying to survive
this allows you to maximize number of
effective reps maximize your Technique
and maximize your mind muscle connection
those things all help you train in a
huge huge huge
way
all right folks we are going to do an
interesting High pull with a cable this
machine is quite rare you won't see it
everywhere in the gym and it kind of
combines some of the awesome features of
a row with some of the awesome features
of a horizontal pole there's magical to
it biomechanical to it or whatever
doesn't expose your lats more it's just
a really awesome variation so you do a
bunch of rows you do a bunch of vertical
pulls that's a lot of variation it's
great also but sometimes something right
between the two is like pretty dope what
we want here is quality this is not an
exercise where we he ho the weight of
crapo place our feet in big rounded back
at the bottom Big Stretch big pause
slowly Centric all the way in and then a
nice quick contraction all the way up
you can pull this high if you want with
a high bar we've got a low and close bar
so we pull it to the tummy no wrong
answers give it a shot come on two
more
[Music]
[Music]
one more Jimmy yes sir hold for two
whole seconds at the bottom and at the
top hold slow release as if you're going
to do another
[Music]
one
C beautiful thank you
guys so if I was going to replicate
something like this at a normal gym what
would you put together you got nothing
man just be one of these machines I mean
technically you can lean back on a pull
down M probably couldn't leverage as as
much weight I assume correct because you
don't have your feet in Fr position you
can do something with it jar you ever do
that not with it no not really I'll just
use a I use a highy r they literally
have hammer high let me see that like
Jared should have said it come on come
on come on Mike Mike Mike m that's what
happened u high high high roll r r
there's machines for this bike yeah for
technically yes there are machines made
for it
[Music]
Jesus there are absolutely fake versions
of vers grips for pretty cheap on Amazon
I don't know if they work why cuz I want
that real does it cost a little bit
extra for the real thing for vers grips
yeah yeah but vers grips last for
years I've ripped straps deadlifting
before I never ripped a vers now they'll
wear out like everything else but it
takes a long ass time it's worth every
 penny and there's two types of
people people that haven't trained with
vers grips before and people that know
which one are
[Music]
you yes
slow
slow
slow slow and crack but don't let go of
reversal hit
it Big
[Music]
Stretch oh yeah one more hold this one
for three whole seconds at the bottom 1
2 3 and
[Music]
slow rack perfect wondrous of course of
course for that one last question how
would I gauge let's say for that given
drop set how do I gauge when it's time
to drop in regards to like how much of
the rep I'm completing in the concentric
if it's essentially 100% of the rep and
you're confident in your Technique being
on video you're good that last rep that
you're like no this isn't the whole one
that's your last rep until you go and do
it the drop okay same thing for failure
calculation okay if it's for sure not a
good rep it's over you can also try
another rep until look okay this one's
going to be good two bad reps in a row
definitely it's over I like that e vers
rips now what do you think so in
comparison to your traditional strap the
biggest difference that I noticed is I'm
not feeling the fatigue in my hands my
forearms and I'm able to carry through
say a dropset like that and I can
literally if I wanted to just open up my
hand like this and just slowly focus on
my back that was probably the set where
I noticed the benefit the most simply
because I could literally open my hand
and the friction of the Versa grip
stayed within the bar so I like that a
lot with the attachment crazy huge
pleasure having you on likewise guys
stay drug free yes do you heard any
words of wisdom stay drug free that's a
great stay drug free Versa grips they
work we're not bullshitting you guys if
you buy them and you're upset I don't
know I don't run the corporate policy
morally wrong with morally wrong with
you grips are King know when to kneel
see you guys next
time