a little over a year ago i made my first
ever science explain video and it was on
back training since then i've updated my
opinion on some things and i'd like to
improve and expand on that information
so before we get into the best training
techniques for the back let's cover some
basic anatomy first for our purposes
here we're gonna split the back up into
four main muscles the latissimus dorsi
or lats the trapezius the rhomboids and
the erector spinae or spinal erectors
the lats contribute mostly to the
appearance of back width they have two
main functions which are to adduct the
arm or basically bring the arm in closer
to the body when it's out to the side
and to extend the arm or basically bring
the arm in closer to the body when it's
out in front so to hit the lats most
optimally we should be performing
exercises that train shoulder adduction
and exercises that train shoulder
extension the traps contribute mostly to
the appearance of back thickness and
while their individual functions are
highly varied the upper traps mainly
function to elevate the scapula like in
a shrug while the mid and lower traps
primarily retract the scapula like in a
row the rhomboids are split into a
rhomboid major and rhomboid minor but
both have the same main function which
is scapular attraction so for the most
part these muscles will be targeted with
the same basic exercises that hit the
mid traps the spinal erectors of the
lower back extend all the way up the
spine to the skull and function to
extend the entire vertebral column so
let's start with the lats i found that
similar to the glutes many trainees have
a tough time feeling their lats working
and this is because their biceps or
traps can take over and performing a lat
pre-activation movement like one-arm lat
pull-ins or cable pullovers is helpful
to engage a mind-muscle connection and
get blood flowing to the appropriate
muscles and this has been supported by a
growing body of research including a
2009 study in which snyder and leet
showed that specific coaching cues such
as palpation of the lats and thinking
about engaging the lats was able to
increase their emg activation during a
lat pulldown here my favorite cues are
to think about pulling in a straight
line that would split the body into a
front and a back half to laterally
crunch into the direction of the pull
and similar to in the study palpate the
lat muscle and feel the contraction as
it happens for the cable pullover i like
to lean slightly forward drive my elbows
down not back and tuck my elbows in
tight to my sides these are intended to
be light sets not taken to failure with
a focus on slow and controlled reps with
mindful contractions after two to three
sets of pre-activation it's time to get
into the training proper now to make
this more applicable in coaching circles
generally back movements are split into
two categories vertical pulls and
horizontal pulls and we'll cover
vertical pulls first and our main two
options here are the pull-up and the lat
pulled down and while a lot of people
put the pull up on a pedestal a 2013
study from doma and colleagues showed no
difference in lat activation between the
pull-up and pull down with equal
relative loading one notable difference
was that the biceps were more active in
the pull-up implying that if you're
trying to get some indirect bicep work
in the pull-up might be your better
option but if you're trying to isolate
the lats and reduce biceps involvement
then the lat pull-down could be better
overall these are very comparable
movements for hypertrophic purposes in
my eyes so what about grip and hand
position well first there doesn't seem
to be a big difference between pull
downs to the front and to the back of
the neck as three studies independently
showed no difference in activation
however one 2002 paper did show pull
downs to the front to have a slight edge
and since this style of pulldown puts
the shoulder in a less vulnerable
position and generally allows for the
use of heavier loads this is the
technique i recommend while the
differences were small a 2014 paper from
anderson and colleagues supports the use
of a medium grip defined as 1.5 times
shoulder width over both a narrow or
shoulder width and wide grip at two
times shoulder width and they based this
recommendation on the observation that
there was a trend for higher activation
during the eccentric phase for not just
the lats but also for the traps and
infraspinatus and that generally heavier
loads could be used with this in-between
grip and finally a 2010 paper out of
pennsylvania state university found that
lat activation was higher with a
pronated or overhand grip than with a
supinated or underhand grip the v-bar
attachment is a personal favorite of
mine and i do like to include it
periodically since it allows the lats to
be trained through shoulder extension
with a vertical pull and this is despite
the fact that signalr allen colleagues
found the pronated grip to yield greater
loud activity than the neutral grip but
taken together i think if really looking
to optimize your technique on lat
pulldowns pulling to the front of the
neck with a medium pronated grip is
likely to maximize lat recruitment
granted these findings are based on
averages and if you feel one variation
working your lats better than the others
you may want to go with that instead so
what about horizontal pulls most people
seem to believe that vertical pulls hit
the lats and as such develop back width
while horizontal pulls hit the traps and
rhomboids developing back thickness but
this isn't really true since research
indicates that rows yield the same or
perhaps even greater lat activity than
lat pull downs and with even more trap
involvement so to get the best bang for
your buck a row is a must to be included
in your routine for both thickness and
width a chest supported t-bar row has
been a staple in my own training because
it allows for more lower back support
than a freestanding row one 2009 study
found that the inverted row was better
than the bent over barbell row at
activating the lats and an earlier 2005
study showed that the seated cable row
was better than the bent over barbell
row taken together these studies might
indicate that lat activity is greater
with exercises that don't involve
stabilizing the lower back granted the
bent over barbell row is a classic
movement for overall back development
and it will thicken up the erectors in a
way that chest supported rows simply
can't on their own for rows i think
periodically using a variety of grip
positions makes sense and given the lack
of activation data for grip positions on
rows i would use a grip that feels most
comfortable to you or vary your grip
periodically for variety borrowing from
the lat pull down research i think a
slightly wider than shoulder width
double overhand grip is best and in my
coaching experience doesn't run the same
risk as a double underhand grip for
biceps injury dumbbell rows are nice
because they allow both sides to be
worked evenly which can be helpful in
preventing or fixing asymmetries but one
limitation with the dumbbells is that
your overloading potential will be
limited to the heaviest dumbbells in
your gym the rope face pull is another
tried and true exercise for rear delt
and trap development in my own training
i like to do this exercise two different
ways one can be thought of as a high row
where you pull the rope to your eyes and
squeeze your shoulder blades together on
each rep this is meant to target the mid
traps and rear delts the other way is
performed using external rotation and
scapular elevation this is meant to
target more of the muscles of the
rotator cuff as well as the rear and
side delts and while it's great for
shoulder and postural health it won't
beef up your traps much so what about
the upper traps well i'd recommend
watching my neck and trap science
explain video for a full breakdown on
that but very quickly i think that doing
barbell shrugs with a slightly wider
grip is better for maximizing upper trap
recruitment since a landmark 1994 study
found that because of the orientation of
the upper trap fibers they can't
effectively elevate the scapula when the
arm is in neutral however this wider
grip can be more awkward to do for some
and it will limit the weight you can use
so if doing heavy power shrugs using leg
drive and momentum you can use a closer
grip and when doing higher rep strict
shrugs use a slightly wider grip
deadlifts from the floor will train the
traps and shoulder stabilizers
isometrically and they're great for
building a muscular lower back but
because they involve so much leg
musculature i consider deadlifts to be a
lower body exercise to make it more trap
focused you can perform rack pulls or
block pulls to reduce the range of
motion and maximize the load placed on
the erectors and the traps now since any
program with squats and deadlifts will
recruit the spinal erectors to a very
large degree i don't think isolation
work here is required however if you're
unable or unwilling to perform these
compound movements adding in a weighted
lower back extension is a good idea in
terms of fiber type both the lats and
the traps appear to be predominantly
tight too or a fast twitch dominant
implying they may respond better to
heavier loads while the spinal erectors
are more type 1 dominant implying they
may respond better to lighter loads
granted i still think using a variety of
rep ranges for every muscle group is
best for maximizing overall development
specific volume and frequency
recommendations will be individual and
are made in my back hypertrophy program
but a training frequency of two to three
times per week is likely to optimize
development for most and if your back is
a glaring weak point on your physique
can prioritize it by training it early
in the week after a rest day and spaced
apart from your leg days by at least 48
hours to ensure total body recovery
adding in three to four quick sets of
wide grip pull-ups on non-training back
days such as at the end of a leg workout
is another effective strategy i've used
to help increase total weekly volume and
while generally speaking the back can
handle a pretty high workload be careful
when handling volumes higher than 25
working sets per week for the back since
according to dr mike isrtel that is when
most trainees start running into
recovery issues and i hope that with
these new scientific principles in mind
you make the most of your back training
in the new year and beyond all right hey
what is going on everyone uh first of
all just want to say thank you for
watching the video i hope all of you
guys had a very merry christmas just out
here now for a little walk and i don't
know if you can see but it snowed so
much here in kelowna the last couple
days but yeah i just want to say thank
you guys for watching the video i have
two quick important announcements um so
don't click out of the video just yet
first is i'd like to thank squarespace
for sponsoring this video squarespace is
an all-in-one creator website platform
and they allow you to custom create your
own website they have beautiful designer
custom templates and 24 7 customer
service so if you'd like to get started
on your own website or building your own
online store you can go to
squarespace.com forward slash nippered
and if you use the offer code nippered
at checkout that'll save you 10
off your first purchase second i finally
released my back hypertrophy program i
know a lot of you guys have been asking
me about this one so it's now finally
available on my website like most of my
programs i like to think of this more so
as a training manual than just a program
so it includes all the scientific
information to do with anatomy and
exercise science included in this video
plus some additional stuff especially to
do with periodization and programming
that i wasn't able to get into in the
video so this is an eight week training
program plus a one week deload the back
is hit three times per week so two of
those are pretty high volume workouts
and one is more or less a mini
supplemental workout and there are over
20 exercises included in the training
program so there's a ton of variety
including some exercises that i don't
think i've really ever shown on the
channel or i haven't really seen
anywhere else so if you guys would like
to check it out it'll be at the first
link in the description box below and
i'm going to be selling it for 19.99 for
the first week of launch and then after
that it's going to go up to 29.99 so
make sure you grab it while it's still
on sale if you guys are looking to take
your back muscular development to the
next level in the new year i'd recommend
checking out this program and i just
want to thank you guys so much for
watching the video i have so much new
content planned for 2018 and i'm really
excited to get started on it leave me a
like if you liked it don't forget to
subscribe and i will see you guys in the
next one