what's the worst exercise for quadricep
growth in my opinion it's the leg
extension the leg extension is
essentially a shortened partial and when
you look at the evidence shortened
partials often cause up to 20% or so
less growth compared to something like a
lengthen partial so what are better
exercises for Quad recept growth well if
you want a compound exercise try to
Smith machine squat if you usually find
you can't get as deep of a stretch in
your quads because you can't go very low
in the squat try putting your feet a
little bit further forward and that
might allow you to go deeper as far as
isolation exercises go leg extensions as
I mentioned not ideal Instead try the
reverse ntic curl the exercise is
already functionally a lengthen partial
where lift gets harder as you lengthen
the quadriceps and you don't really get
to a short muscle length at all and so
it is a lengthen partial and in all
likelihood based on the evidence we have
around five studies now comparing
lengthen partials to 4 in of motion and
nine studies comparing lengthen partials
to shorten partials the reverse n curl
will cause more hypertrophy than the leg
exension so give the Smith machine Squat
and the reverse nle a try in your quad
training