hey folks dr mike israel here for
renaissance periodization
today's video
in depth dive
is about the importance of controlling
the weight not your body weight the
weight you're lifting
as you get stronger
especially much stronger let's take a
look at what we're talking about here so
let's first talk about the relationship
between strength gain as you get
stronger and injury risk
initially probably for a few years
as you get stronger your risk of injury
declines why because first of all this
is a good thing
why
you can generate more stability when
you're stronger
and your connective tissues get stronger
too
you can generate enough counterbalancing
forces to make sure that no
excessive force is put on one part of
your body or something like that
to give a really crazy example
i believe it was found that one of the
number one reasons why old people
fracture their hips
isn't from the literal concussive force
of the fall of them hitting the ground
it's because they slip and they try to
base out and put the other leg out and
the fact that they exert a lot of force
putting the leg down on the ground
actually ends up breaking their hip
holy crap
if you train with weights the very
opposite of that happens for a very long
time everything gets stronger bones get
stronger connective tissues get stronger
technically the bones are connective
tissues tendons ligaments etc your
muscles get stronger all as well your
injury rate goes down probability of any
one time you're getting hurt in the gym
or even in other physical activity
however
as you get really strong your injury
risk starts to climb back up a little
bit why this is pretty counterintuitive
but once i explain you might be like
that makes a little bit of sense
first
your muscles are now so strong they can
produce enough force to tear themselves
how many pectares fully vulsions have
you seen of 45 year old women who just
started training two years ago
what that may have like never happened
maybe one person in the world that's
ever happened to
how many low weight class power lifters
or not very good power electrics have
you ever seen tear their pecs it's
incredibly rare what about super
heavyweight power lifters and gigantic
bodybuilders
more common why because their muscles
get so big and strong they can generate
such insane forces that parts of them
start to collapse
if you're really weak gee whiz you know
the world can hurt you but you can't
really hurt yourself all that much
factor number one next factor your
tendons have the capacity to get bigger
and stronger but they generally don't
scale up as fast or more completely as
does muscle strength you take one
individual who has relatively untrained
tendon and untrained muscle
and their muscle is not so strong and
their tendon is not so strong
you take a well-trained individual their
muscle is very strong and their tendon
is also very strong great right the
muscle's not going to pull the tendon
off by itself same chance when they were
untrained as when they were very well
trained because while yes your muscle
got really strong the tendon got strong
enough to compensate if you get really
really big and really really strong
your muscles can get very strong but
your tendons are just extra strong not
very super extra strong so the muscle
strength to tendon strength disparity
tends to grow when you get exotically
big this compounded by the fact that
many people use anabolic steroids to get
very big and they actually increase that
probability sometimes just through
independent mechanisms of some of them
capping how strong your tendons can get
and even sometimes making them weaker
under special circumstances while the
muscle gets gigantic and strong but even
for drug-free folks
you get really big and strong and all of
a sudden your tendons are like we're
attached to what it can generate how
much force good god i imagine a tendon
is a little guy that holds your muscle
to your bone he's like jesus christ what
did i get myself into yeah it sounds
like mickey mouse i suppose so
at some point your muscles get so big
and strong they sort of start to leave
your tendons behind a little bit and at
first it's not a big problem but after a
while you know max bench max squat huge
you know super high force pull up yeah
your muscles are strong enough to maybe
have a slightly higher probability of
pulling the tendons off the bone not
very good
next one
is
when you go off track when you get out
of your groove
small weights cause small forces when
you get off the groove so if you're
doing a dumbbell press with the 50s and
you go like that
not a whole lot happened and it's you
know some amount of force to structures
that weren't used to getting it but this
just the absolute amount of force isn't
that high
if you're a dumbo bench in the 150s and
you lose one track
that can break some stuff
okay that can definitely break some
stuff and then you're in for a world of
hurt so when you're using big weights
the risk doesn't just rise relatively in
your strength compensate for it it
actually rises absolutely and your
strength can't compensate for it as much
as we would hope
next one
is that when you train and you're very
very big and strong you can generally
impose more total tissue damage than
when you're weak okay weaker people lift
weights they get sore and then they heal
in two days and they're fine
strong people lift weights they get like
unreal crazy psychosore if they want
and then it takes a while to heal that
muscle the volume of muscle you're
healing is huge
so that every time you almost heal and
train again the amount of residual
cumulative damage
is higher than you would see in someone
who's smaller and weaker so as you add
that up together over the multiple weeks
of an accumulation phase you get in a
situation where like after four weeks of
hard training a super big super strong
person and they're so pre-damaged
that they're vulnerable in a bunch of
areas and injury starts to be a much
more realistic concern whereas a weaker
person not they can't impose that much
damage on themselves and thus they're
not as at high risk right
so these are facts right big facts as
you young youtubers say
and
they're a problem for us because of one
very specific thing it's precisely those
of us that have tried to get as big and
strong as possible that care the most
about not getting hurt
and now we've pulled ourselves into a
situation in which we have a higher
injury risk than we would like precisely
by doing exactly what it is we wanted
which is get as big and jacked as
possible and as strong as possible
so
being that we're not going to abandon
the idea of getting jacked because just
because we're scared of injury we want
an action plan or a series of things we
can do
that reduce our probability of getting
hurt though but allow us to continue to
get even more jacked and even stronger
let's take a look we have eight
recommendations you need these are
things you can put right into the
intellectual bank if you forget him you
just watch the video over again take
notes if you want but this is something
you can do and start to thread into your
lifting more and more and more as you
get bigger and stronger
and eventually it'll reduce your
absolute chance of injuries go over your
career
or reduce the magnitude of the injuries
so you won't have these psychotic super
traumatic injuries just like sort of
mini ones that aren't a big deal
and it'll super help you in that regard
because you
won't have to be like damn i wish i
never tore my pack
of course everyone whoever tears their
pack says that you want to be the person
that you know he turns 45 and starts to
do more cardio and goes to sort of the
uh coach greg to set way and shrinks
down and lives a beautiful life with
family for you know 50 additional years
and you can look back and say yeah i'm
really glad i never had a peck tear
that's much better
you guys watching this now most people
have never had a peck tear quad tear lat
tear so on and so forth we want to keep
it this way so here are some tips on
your way to getting really jacked and
really strong but i wish somebody told
me because i would have for sure done
them and i wouldn't have pulled half the
muscles i pulled here we go point number
one
warm up more extensively this doesn't
mean frivolous extra warm-ups you foam
rolling your dick right which i heard a
little canary flew up and told me it
doesn't feel that bad sometimes it feels
good a bad boy for doing it who cares i
mean the canary actually stood there and
watched me for a while while i did this
very strange interaction
hail satan in any case warming up is
awesome
you don't need to do more warm-ups
but
you could do enough warm-ups to where
you really feel warm and potentiated for
your next big set which means
instead of doing let's say you're
squatting 400 pounds instead of doing
135 for 10 25 for 6 315 for 4 and then
going 405 for 10 or whatever
maybe throw in a 405 or 425 for a double
very low chance of injury but you get to
handle the weight you get to settle your
technique with the big weight you get a
nervous system boost out of that which
means your technique on the actual works
that's going to be more stable maybe if
one day you feel like you're like i got
a little wait is there scar tissue in
there what's going on take an extra set
to warm up take an extra set to feel it
out
that will help because here's the deal
one of two things may happen in an extra
set you might do it and it gets really
like it's slightly heavier let's say
you're planning a set of 15 on like you
know heavy machine flies and you do like
you put the working weight in there you
just do a set of four and you're like by
the fourth one it really feels bad
you're like i'm doing something else i'm
gonna take a mini d load fuck that but
if you feel it out it feels great you're
good it's like red light green light
right so
if you're weak
er
politically correct weaker look you know
you can warm up plenty or not that much
and you're probably fine like if if a
woman comes into the gym
and she's started training you know half
a year ago and she's like i don't want
to warm up i just want to start
deadlifting 135 it's really a stupid
idea but you're not going to be like oh
here we go injury city should probably
be fine right if a woman comes into the
gym
and she's like a high level power lifter
she's like i'm just going to go cold and
deadly 405. i'm going to be like uh
jamie are you out of your fucking mind
like
you
what
so
take the quality time you need to warm
up explore the territory more if you're
like not so sure if your muscles are
ready if there's something going on
huge huge huge benefit so here's the
thing you spend 30 more seconds or two
more minutes out of your fucking day
doing this and it could be the
difference between a career ending
injury or a career stalling injury or
just a giant two-week nuisance versus
nothing at all easy trade-off
point number two
start your mesocycles at conservative
loads and conservative sets
okay last time it took you eight sets to
blast your pecs but you did a deload
week don't start at eight start at six
or five you'll get a great workout and
you can add sets later and finish the
next one at nine okay a lot of guys and
girls get really psyched up like yeah i
did eight cents last time took a d load
let's start with nine don't do that high
elevations of volume from a low volume
base which was your deload tend to
predict injury quite well you don't want
to put yourself in that scenario what
are these magic gains that you're
getting in the first session that you
can't just get on the second third and
fourth okay
lifting weights properly is about a
building process not an instant
skyscraper process right
and what about loads well look you use
the loads that are manageable for the
reps that you want without getting super
close to failure too early you got to
just ego check yourself you're like okay
i finished the last week of accumulation
at 365 for sets of like eight or
whatever in the deadlift and i ideally
would just clearly want to start at 365
again or even i don't want repeated
weights i'm gonna start at 375 for sets
of eight in this first week of the meso
but i figure if i do that i'll just burn
myself out towards the end and really
risk injury because i'm just pushing way
too hard maybe i'll just start at 355
355 365 75 85
that whole mesocycle goes through its
course and you've added 10 pounds to how
much weight you were lifting with very
low risk of injury you could have added
20 with a high risk of injury i'll let
you figure out which one of those is
best right because listen over time
there's plenty of time in your career to
add weight to the bar but injuries zap
that time away so you gotta make the
trade off
number three really start managing your
psych ups when you weigh 120 pounds you
can bash your head into a smith machine
and probably not get hurt because your
neck is so tiny it doesn't matter
when you're gigantic and super strong
you can pull your own muscles off the
bone you have that power
you don't want to use it so psyching up
should be something you don't do
regularly now you can get zoned in but
don't go psychotic and think of all your
traumatic childhood memories you can
pepper that stuff in maybe in the last
workout of a mesocycle specifically an
isolation lift like if you're doing high
rep curls and on the fourth set you need
to psych up look you're not going to
hurt yourself doing high rep cable curls
that's a 20. i'm like out of here if you
were gonna get hurt doing that you would
just got hurt one way or another feel
free to psych up but if it's like
week two of heavy deadlifts and you're
like
i wouldn't do that if there's six plates
in the bar i wouldn't do that right
really really not so such a great idea
in addition to that in this whole sort
of umbrella of managing your psychops
never ever lose technical control
there is a way to psych up in which you
still do the technique properly which
means you minimize your injury risk
if you psych up so much that your
technique breaks down you're asking for
it you're simultaneously providing the
destabilizing emphasis of poor technique
and the grotesquely higher than usual
forces
like if i had to design a way to get
hurt i would do that i would say the
opposite of all these is how you get
hurt don't warm up start a meso with
psychotic loads and 50 trillion sets
psych up and lose control and don't even
know what technique you're doing bad
news
number four control the eccentric which
doesn't mean doing this
for ten fucking years it means you know
at least like two or three seconds then
boom and then two or three seconds and
then boom and just control don't just do
this when you drop your bench don't drop
slowly lower it you don't have to pause
we'll get to that in a sec
but at least stop for a split second oh
and then go don't go blind boing boing
right if
you start controlling your eccentric you
will lose reps okay
if you can curl 95 pounds for a set of
10 quote unquote normally
like that you may only be able to curl
it for 7 if you control eccentric
thing is the time under tension is the
same slash maybe even higher with the
central control
uh you know like god probably doesn't
look down at you and judges you for not
doing ten reps god's probably like hey
uh that's seven reps is excellent okay
and nobody else in the gym gives a shit
so it's literally just all you now i
know you used to do 95 for 10 and
cleaning up your technique hurts your
ego and you're like man i hope nobody's
judging me sorry god god doesn't care
neither is anyone else you're doing a
good job and then within three or four
months you're going to be currently 95
for 10 the right way super low injury
risk and you get more hypertrophy so
this is one of these that checks the
boxes controlling the eccentric not only
does it decrease injury risk it probably
enhances hypertrophy benefit somewhat
win win win win all around
people
want the maximum number of reps per set
for some goddamn reason and they'll
start really on you know doing
uncontrolled movements you're like i
gotta get 15 and if i do this i'll only
get 13.
how about this get 13 put the bar down
rest the normal time and just do another
fucking set
if it's stimulus you want a stimulus you
need
the pretty decent analogy but it falters
at various levels but a decent analogy
for this is
if you're at like an only can eat place
and you're stuffing as much food into
your mouth at one time before you
swallow or hold on
all right time to do this again like why
don't you just chew normal you can
always fucking take another bite
nobody's kicking you out for two hours
like the other guys like everything's
just fucking one set last set do your
set as if it's your last if you start
doing senses if they're your last
motherfucker they're gonna be your last
more often than not
so don't do every set like it's your
last control the living shit out of it
if you don't get the reps you want or
the total volume you want or the pump
you want rest
focus and do another set and then if
that doesn't work do another fucking set
what are you supposed to do is one set
to failure all the time like you know
what i'm saying arthur jones been gone a
long time it's 20 21 right the future is
multiple sets
so
does that help your ego no of course not
but listen you know if you let your ego
lead you almost certainly get hurt
number five
consider pauses
at the very least don't bounce out so if
you're doing machine chest press you can
do this
boom control
boom those are pauses you can also do
this it's totally fine down
up
down touch up what i don't want you to
do is this
bang the machine is clean and people are
like is that guy trying to kill himself
is this an intervention time because one
of those reverses of direction right
here is when massive forces are
generated and they tend to at massive
forces and very long muscle lengths and
tendon excursions yeah the probability
of injury is higher than it should be
and what benefit do you get out of it
you can do more reps and you know that
girl that's into like psychotic dumbass
lifters it's like oh my god he's crazy
like i want him sure you know if you
want that girl great just do whatever
dumb rich piana shit you want to do in
the gym and then you're golden but if
you were in this for the long haul you
want to get as jacked as possible
make sure to consider pausing pause
squats mentions those are great but you
have to pause just make sure that the
change of direction is gentle no dive
bombing that's a really stupid idea
number six
controlling the concentric
this is one when you get real real real
strong and you're really really really
concerned with injury like you're coming
close to a bodybuilding show like within
the last month or so you don't normally
have to do this you can normally do this
all the time it's not a problem
but there's even some kind of injury
risk
reduction that occurs from doing a chest
press on the way up like this
versus like
like that you could go faster but you're
not you're intentionally capping your
concentric speed
what is the downside of that well yes a
little less motor unit activation on the
faster twitch side but they get tired
they get activated anyway so it's real
up for grabs there you're not going to
become as good at athletic pursuits like
if you want to if you're training for
wrestling or judo or soccer or something
you want to move fast in the concentric
but you're probably a bodybuilder or
powerlifter and last time i checked they
don't time your power lifts so moving
slow is totally fine you don't want to
be snail slow but controlled concentric
can absolutely further reduce injury
like i said you don't have to do it all
the time like you're two weeks out of a
bodybuilding show i don't want to see
you in the gym you're like
that idea because you might get hurt if
you're a bodybuilding champion it's very
everything really controlled you can
even get really close to failure and
then it slows it down for you that's
totally fine
notice none of these that i say don't
approach failure if you really injury
reverse you can and you'll very much
reduce your chance of getting hurt but
you're also going to reduce your chance
of success because a lot of the success
a lot of the stimulus comes close to
failure none of these things really
interfere with success they're all good
things because we still want to get you
jacked right
number seven
add loads and add sets more gradually
you desperately in your very core of
your being want to add 10 pounds to the
bar every squat session
but you're not an idiot and you're
already super strong
you just add five and someone could say
could you add 10 today yeah maybe i
could but where is it that i'm going
like i want just enough weight to have a
gradual more stimulating effect so that
that's continued to be challenging if i
can accomplish that with five pounds
great if i can accomplish it with 10 but
i'm like i have to psych up more i have
to move the bar a little faster and my
injury risk goes up just a bit because
it's more psyching more bar speed and
it's a heavier load watching every load
you know like maybe it's not a great
idea and even for power lifting one
power left i gotta put weight on the bar
listen like if you put five pounds on
the bar every week for three years
you'll be the strongest lifter of all
time some stupid shit like that like
that's just a lot of weight to add
so i really don't think
that great progress in power lifting or
strong men
or any physical sport bodybuilding
included occurs from adding big
additions to individual workouts week to
week to week they occur from consistency
a great underlying adaptive potential
and the ability to add at least very
small loads over time but they can be
very very small and they're safer in
addition to that sense
if you got a great pump and look a
little bit sore could you have a
slightly more optimal stimulus maybe if
you added a set next time maybe maybe
the answer is maybe
but that also increases your chance of
injury exposure to more total volume
it's more pulsatile etc etc
if you don't add a cent until you do a
workout you're like yeah i mean i
i really didn't get a huge pump and i
know for sure i'm not going to get sore
or three or four days later you're like
i never got sore my packs then add a set
a little bit more conservative
go hard on each set go under control
it's high quality work adding sets
should occur if you want to do a sort of
algorithmically in a decision tree the
answer to do i add sets should be
checked yes when it's like yes for sure
if it's maybe just say no right just
like mcgruff the crime dog said about
drugs i think i'm getting my 80s mascots
mixed up
just say no to adding sets if the
question is answered with a maybe like
you ask yourself and you look at all
your stuff that you know about how to
add sets you're like should i have a set
i don't know then just say no right if
you're super advanced if you're super
active or super strong
because when your body is adapted enough
the answer will clearly be yes you'll be
doing something you're like i don't have
a pump i'm not going to get sore for
sure i had another set then add one but
like that like oh i should add another
set uh people think that's like the
winning mentality in the gym they think
like winners are the ones that say yes
to afghan adding a set like no they
fucking don't winners are the ones that
hang around and have good genetics and
don't get hurt
you didn't choose your genetics you sure
as hell can choose to hang around and
doing this shit you can choose to get
hurt much less so lastly tip number
eight is take time to deload and take
active rest two
cool thing about deloading is it
actually potentiates future performance
if you never deload you don't get nearly
as good as if you deload quite
frequently every four to six weeks even
take a whole week of easy training right
and one to two times a year you should
take like two weeks out of the gym just
disappear go to the lake with your
family and friends be a normal human
being and then when you get to the
cottage at night you turn on the you
know the light in the bathroom and you
look at your deflating physique you can
cry you can just okay to cry you can cry
therapeutically good news your physique
will go rock it back up within two weeks
of training to the best you've ever been
right
active rest is about thinking long term
versus short term you want to bang away
in the gym you don't want to take active
rest you're going to hate it
but you do shit you hate all the time
how many of you love to brush your teeth
you wake up in the morning oh my god
what the fuck are you talking about
brushing your teeth is annoying you do
it because you know for the long term
it's good because you don't want shady
gentle health and also for the medium
term when you know that guy asks you out
finally at starbucks and you're like
and he's like ah he just literally dies
right there from your dragon breath so
you don't like brushing your teeth but
you do it because it's a good idea you
don't like taking deals and active rest
but you do it because it's a good idea
because you are a dedicated athlete that
makes the right long term decisions
so that everyone down here in this human
charade of mediocrity can stay there and
you can slowly casually ascend to become
a living god
when you do
don't kill the rest of us see you for
the next video
you