thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
[Music]
all right welcome everyone to a new
episode of myth-busting where every
Monday we're going to take a look at
some common fitness or nutrition idea
look at where that idea got started and
then figure out whether it's true or
false based on the most recent
scientific evidence so this week we're
going to be looking at the idea that if
you diet on too low of calories too low
of a caloric intake then your body will
enter starvation mode and prevent you
from losing any further weight and just
in this video we're gonna take
starvation mode to mean something like
just a really really slow down
metabolism it's worth pointing out that
this isn't actually how it's typically
used in the medical literature where it
generally just refers to deprivation of
food to the point of death or suffering
so moving forward just remember that
we're using starvation mode to refer to
an adaptation that the body puts into
place to prevent you from losing weight
when you're sort of starving yourself
with a very low calorie diet so first
where did this idea come from well I
think it's most likely that this idea
comes from one of two main lines of
dieters reasoning and the first
basically goes that people just
generally really don't like to diet on
very low calories and so they're more or
less looking for a reason for that to be
a bad idea so people have basically come
up with this idea a starvation mode so
that they get to eat more food while
dieting are related and perhaps slightly
more charitable interpretation is that
people are in fact dieting and some
cases on very low calories but still
don't see the weight loss they're
looking for so they'll encounter a
weight loss stall or in some cases
notice that their weight spikes despite
being on low calories and so if you just
imagine that you're eating say fifteen
or sixteen hundred calories every day
and you notice that your weight loss
completely stalls
that's certainly realistic or a
plausible explanation for this could be
that your body has sort of switched on
starvation mode and that's now
preventing you from any further losses
in body weight um so where did this idea
go wrong well the common sense argument
against starvation mode is that when you
look at people who are in fact starving
they tend to look emaciated very low
body fat percentages and they don't ever
really seem to
counter a point where they start gaining
weight or stop losing weight and it
seems to be the case that most people
who posit starvation mode as a deterrent
to weight loss are people who are
dieting in the first world without a
whole lot of results but I don't think
of this observational or anecdotal
evidence is quite enough so let's take a
look at what the scientific evidence has
to say so the first study done on this
topic which I don't think would pass any
ethics board nowadays I was the famous
and hugely influential Minnesota
starvation experiment carried out by
Ansel keys and colleagues in 1945
basically the researchers took 32 men
and put them on a semi starvation diet
meaning they were in a 55% caloric
deficit for 24 weeks now 55% is a really
big deficit just for some context I'll
typically put clients on a 15 to 25
percent caloric deficit for weight loss
depending on their goal so 55 percent is
pretty huge and they went from an
average of about 3400 calories to about
1,500 calories per day and then follow
that same 1,500 calorie diet for 24
weeks straight so about five and a half
months and at the end of the 24 weeks
the researchers didn't find that any of
the subjects had entered starvation mode
and stopped losing weight or stopped
losing body fat but they instead found
was that all of the subjects lost a ton
of weight with the average weight drop
in 25% of their starting body weight so
for a 200-pound guy that would be 50
pounds of weight loss and most of them
ended up at around 5% body fat and this
is what some of the subjects ended up
looking like at the end of it all but of
course there is quite a bit more to it
than that their metabolisms did slow
down by quite a lot throughout the
course of the experiment and I think
that this is where there is a hint of
truth to the sort of starvation mode
hypothesis where the body will slow down
some of its metabolic processes in
response to a very strong caloric
deficit and in fact by the end of the
study the subjects had experienced an
average drop in metabolic rate of 40%
now of that 40% drop about 25% was just
due to a reduction in body weight alone
so there's less metabolically active
tissue requiring
fuel requiring energy so all else being
equal bigger bodies tend to burn more
calories and smaller bodies tend to burn
fewer calories but that still only
accounts for 25% of the metabolic drop
and so the other 15% is due to an
adaptive metabolic slowdown and I think
this is the true metabolic slowdown seen
in this literature I mean it's made up
of a metabolic component known as
adaptive thermogenesis so after we
account for losses in body weight we're
really only looking at about a 15% drop
in metabolic rate and I think it's worth
noting that these subjects got to 5%
body fat before seeing even this level
of metabolic slowdown and out of all the
literature I've scanned from this topic
this was the biggest metabolic drop that
I've seen and it's worth noting that
even this wasn't enough to prevent fat
loss overall and it was still sufficient
enough or the metabolisms were still
high enough to allow them to get to 5%
body fat
now most of this adaptive metabolic
component is thought to come from
decreases in non-exercise activity
thermogenesis which basically includes
any form of activity that isn't formal
exercise i'm so things like fidgeting
your fingers bobbing your head to music
or just getting up to walk around or
whatever so apart from losing
metabolically active body mass the main
reason why your fat loss begins to slow
down later in the diet is because your
levels of meat down regulates so you may
notice you're a little bit less fidgety
or you tend to move around a little bit
less and this is in large part
subconsciously regulated in the brain
and it also happens to be very
individual one 2014 paper found that
need can vary up to 2,000 calories
between two individuals at the same body
composition same gender and age meet
also and very large part explains the
differences you see amongst individuals
in response to the same diet in a 1999
study Levine and colleagues gave
subjects in excess of 1000 calories per
day for eight weeks and at the end of
the eight weeks the amount of fat gained
varied from just 0.79 pounds all the way
up to nine point three pounds that's
more than a tenfold difference among
individuals in response to the exact
same caloric surplus and offers of this
paper it should be a very large chunk of
this to individual variation in levels
of meat so the bottom line in terms of
practical application is that as someone
seeking fat loss you want your levels of
meat to be as high as possible so there
are things you can do consciously to try
to drive it up a little bit so you can
do things like Park a little bit farther
away from the grocery store make an
effort to get your daily step count up
and so you come here a step tracker and
be a little bit more accountable in that
way but in my opinion because this is so
largely subconsciously regulated and so
individual I think past a certain point
this isn't going to do a whole lot to
expedite or further your fat loss goals
now one thing that does seem to help
quite a lot though is to diet a little
bit more slowly on the very aggressive
very low calorie crash diets tend to be
associated with greater reductions in
need and the more slow steadier approach
with more of a moderate caloric deficit
a 2013 study titled weight loss weight
management and adaptive thermogenesis
found that NEET down regulates more the
faster and harder you diet if you try to
cut very aggressively your body becomes
very efficient with how it expends
energy and it decreases need to try to
decrease your energy expenditure thus
decreasing your overall weight loss but
this isn't the only reason I'd recommend
dieting a little bit more slowly other
research has shown that it tends to
preserve muscle mass better and in my
personal experience it tends to be
associated with less of a severe post
diet rebound or post diet weight regain
so we've talked about meat but I don't
think that that alone can explain why so
many people tend to see these weight
loss stalls or even weight gain in spite
of doing very low calorie diets so I
think that there are at least two other
factors in addition to the adaptive
metabolic slowdown component that can
explain this and I think importantly
explain this better than the sort of
starvation mode hypothesis on the first
is that in general people are
notoriously very bad estimating their
caloric intake and energy expenditure in
2006 ma Jabir and colleagues showed that
65 women take
a 7-day log of their calories
underreported caloric intake by an
average of 37 percent so that would be
like saying you ate 1600 calories when
in fact you made about 2500 calories and
that's an enormous difference and this
is a trend that's been shown over and
over again and the scientific literature
and I think it's worth pointing out that
it may not be intentional under
reporting it could be the case that
they're just not getting accurate
tracking information from say eating out
too frequently or maybe they're
forgetting about things that they ate
earlier on in the day and just
forgetting to report that but in any
case the end result is still the same
and then the second major factor that
could be causing a weight loss stall
despite being in a caloric deficit has
to do with water retention and I find
that this is especially the case on
diets that tend to be associated with
higher stress so if you're retaining
water for one reason or another that
mean your menstrual cycle or high levels
of stress then that can be masking your
true weight loss on the scale or you are
in fact losing body fat because of the
caloric deficit but the subsequent
retention of water is sort of disguising
that and most of these changes are acute
meaning that if you are just patient
enough with the diet over enough time
then you should see that water sort of
come out and that usually happens in the
form of a swoosh so you'll see your body
weight suddenly drop three or four
pounds
despite being installed for a month or
in some cases and more and there's a
whole body of literature to do with this
that I'm not going to get into in this
video when it comes to things like water
retention the rule of refeeds how to
negate some of that but there is a book
that comes very strongly recommended by
Lyle McDonald and Stephanie and I have
just started reading this it's fantastic
so we would like to check that out and
read more about that I will have that
link down there in the description okay
so in conclusion your low calorie diet
isn't putting you in starvation mode and
there's no evidence for that all of the
scientific literature that we have and I
think instead there are three other
better explanations for why your weight
loss may be stalled despite being on
very low calories the first is that you
may be eating more
you think research shows that people are
really bad at estimating their caloric
intake and they very often tend to
underreport it in some cases by quite a
lot a second has to do with variables
like stress from the lack of sleep maybe
excessively high fiber intake or really
any other factor that could be causing
water retention
that's masking your true fat loss and
finally your diet may just be too low in
calories and that could be suppressing
your levels of meat and reducing your
total daily energy expenditure overall
now bringing this full circle
despite the starvation mode not being a
real thing
I still don't recommend very low calorie
diets in practice because they tend to
cause worse metabolic adaptations and I
tend to cause more muscle loss and in my
experience they also tend to cause worse
post diet rebounds and practically
speaking for fat loss you generally want
to be somewhere in the 15 to 25 percent
caloric deficit range or if you're going
by body weight weight loss goals you'll
want to be losing something like 0.5 to
1 percent of your body weight per week
so that's gonna wrap this one up guys
this myth I can say is officially busted
there isn't any evidence of starvation
mode but for all that you may want to
avoid very low calorie diets for other
reasons I hope that you guys found this
video to be very helpful and before we
go I really want to thank Squarespace
for supporting this video from in case
any of you guys aren't aware Squarespace
is an all-in-one website platform and
they allow you to custom create your own
website and Squarespace is the platform
that I've been using for the last few
years to run my own website in my own
online store
Squarespace has a beautiful designer
custom templates and have amazing 24/7
customer support if you guys would like
to get started with your own website or
your own online store you can get
started at squarespace.com /a Nippert
and that will save you 10% off your
first purchase thanks again guys so much
for watching don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you liked the video if you
happen to be new to the channel don't
forget to subscribe
and
see you guys all here next Monday