[Music]
structure and flexibility the RP diet
app builds a structure of eating that
creates the results you're looking for
but has the flexibility to let you scan
your favorite foods and follow your
preferred diet philosophy the digital
diet coach in your pocket is more
powerful than ever so let's build a
better you with the RP diet app
and folks welcome back our pd+ weekly
webinar dr. james and dr. mike here
answering a whole bunch of questions
this week Mike how we doing we are doing
good good good let's get into it yeah
yes sir let's do it okay Oh
[Music]
it automatically fullscreen yeah all
right so Jesse Erwin starts us off
hello doctors each fan of your work I'm
a doctor currently working in psychiatry
whoo
crazy people there was a signatory
episode of except they didn't hear last
night we're watching reruns but it's a
sex murder show which they called James
SVU see sex murder show penis so we
crystal I literally I come home or like
sex murder she's like yep just are
watching but anyway those two okay I was
undertaking powerlifting training for
the first to go in five years of my
lifting career got to 30 squaw 145 bench
225 deadlift at 100 bodyweight nothing
impressive and after two or five years
of lifting that's a that's a really
impressive
yeah that's not shabby at all I looking
to switch things up to bodybuilding very
seriously over the next two years or so
and my job in psychiatry has a tendency
to be 8:00 to 5:00 Monday through Friday
because of this I'm looking to embark on
twice daily training I don't know how
that supports twice daily fail did my
career plan is to periodized frequency
across the max three metal cycles before
we sensitizing thereafter I wish to
train quads hams back packs to X first
mezzo 3 X second mezzo I like that it
corrects it to meal goods by I didn't
see that for X third mezzo biceps
shoulders traps informs and a little
increase from Florida five to six if
this full body volume increases
effectively exponentially throughout the
medal cycles I hope to Train six times
per week there's a won nine times mezzo
two and 12 times mezzo 3 a few questions
that I find difficult articulate without
example so I've provided examples of the
questions
hello if they are too convoluted to make
any sense my apologies or I apologize
thanks heaps must be Australian yeah so
Wow man that really is fucking loud
that's crazy
I got a directional microphone that
doesn't have no direction yeah maybe
next time I'm over I'll help you look at
it sometimes you have to just pick the
right setting and whatnot oh it is
settings most of them do we'll figure it
out okay all right so I am currently on
week okay question one I'm currently in
week one a week three of measure one and
I started implementing this what are you
thoughts on starting with a minimum
number of sessions for a block and auto
regulating additional sessions based on
total set number per session
I started this mother with six sessions
and once the session reached a certain
threshold I would smooth the session
there were greater than 20 cents per
session for operati and 12 cents per
session for lower body I still have that
session in p.m. for the following weeks
so this is not a cycle a number of
training sessions has gone six six eight
and will be eight again in week four
next buzzer I'll start at eight and
progress this auto-regulatory model and
so forth any advice and why or why not
this is a good thing to do I mean it
gets fine on paper make it very
difficult racking it might really fuck
with your schedule but if you can pull
it off I think it's okay what do you
think James yeah I tend to agree with
you on that one Mike because I think
like just from an auto regular
autoregulation standpoint that's fine
but in terms of like habit formation
keeping a good schedule and being able
to track your progress on your lifts
like basically anything that you had
done in the first session and that you
now move to a second session becomes
very difficult to determine if you're
matching reps per the same rir and
things like that because this is just a
completely different condition so I
think from an auto regulation standpoint
it's fine I would say that like what
what is probably more important is your
ability to maintain consistency across
like you're lifting conditions and that
just adds like a really big element of
variability so I'm not a huge fan of
that but I don't see any like major
flaws any big problems outside of that
yeah yeah question 2 I've attempting to
follow the art piece up regression
algorithm each week the first math
cipher works ago I'll be doing 12 sets
of back work on both of my pull days in
the final week of mezzo six six vertical
six scores on all six sets and five to
ten and six seven ten to twenty my back
seems to have a large memory many
people's backs yeah that's normal
maybe because I only minimally trained
it while doing powerlifting SBD maybe so
it's not that strong powerlifting silent
but deadly yeah in subsidy in subsequent
presence I khals with the aim be to
match or exceed that set number on those
course firing days absolutely now that
progression should be completely on a
regular yes
so like below the number of sets listed
represents the sets last week max
training mezzo mezz a one twelve sets
twelve sets mezzo to child to thirteen
fourteen additional day as a three
twelve to fourteen twelve fourteen match
previous corresponding the add
additional day is the above what I
should be aiming for or as the aim of
the progress a total number of sets pre
even if the corresponding session
decreases something like below mezzo
1:12 says twelve sets total 24 mezzo to
ten sets since at six total twenty six
as a three eight sets instead success
success all twenty-eight so what will
end up happening is much more like your
second example than your first because
as you increase the frequency remember
the amount of time you're going to get
to recover for the next session is going
to decline so you will not find that you
can regulate but the set progression
algorithm will straight up just
determine that for you so you really
don't want to progressively
just head another podcast where I talked
about this in depth you don't want as a
rule to add sense you only add sets
according to the separation algorithm
you need to tells you to add sets or
chosen not to add sets in the you reach
a point where it says hey look don't add
any more sets you know your performance
is sort of like you know barely hanging
in and you're just or you're not
resource isn't recovering on time then
you do not add sense so just don't do it
and that could happen at six sets or
five sets per training session who knows
right and then he says for the second
example he says I feel like this a pilot
progressive overload as the heavier
first and second base volume decreases
throughout the motorcycle even though
the total backside number
increase does not lightly progressive
overload at all progressive overload is
just sum of all stressors is the best
way to look at it not every single part
of your program has to get harder yeah I
mean like I think what's important when
sometimes maybe we don't articulate this
as well as maybe as we should but the
idea of a progressive overload comes
from things like the volume intensity
and frequency all of which are
accumulating and combining to hit some
kind of threshold of in this case
stimulating muscle growth it doesn't
just mean it comes maybe a lopsided
distribution of those things but it's a
combination of all of those things that
could contribute to it so you don't have
to see a computer increase in one of
those variables in order to satisfy
progressive oh yeah and then he says
final thought should I limit my first
amount of cycle in the future so I can't
each vac session at 8 sets or a lot for
the rest of world on a particular day
know if you like trading 12 sets might
be too much for one session depends on
what the auto regulation says it might
not be if they're very stimulating then
they will cause lots of fatigue and you
won't be able to progress so yes that's
the case just make sure you start nice
and low at close to your MeV and I'm not
the regulation take over and then he
says however I feel my performance
doesn't drop off outside of the desired
rep range
well maintains good form for those lost
on sets so remember perform we don't
measure performance drop off within rep
ranges we don't really care about that
performance drop is determined by week
to week to week
if week to week to week you're doing a
certain number of sets you performance
is not declining and you're not like
violently sore you're probably getting
great hypertrophy so I would not worry
about that yeah I agree and I think it's
mean it's good to have like kind of a
tentative framework for how some of
these things are gonna pan out
especially if you have experience
running similar mesocycles or similar
blocks so it's it's good to have like an
idea of how this is gonna look but
ultimately a lot of this does come down
to auto regulation so I mean like you
can plan until you're you know blue in
the face but ultimately like you're
gonna have to be responding to what is
actually happening in training and
that's something that we try to talk
about in developing an annual plan for
sports it's like it's a good idea to
have a framework for what you're going
to be doing for this year but who the
fuck knows what's actually going to end
up happening until you're in that
moment right so it's good to like again
have a structure but then ultimately
auto regulations what's going to take
over and making a lot of these decisions
so like spending hours and hours and
hours trying to map this out explicitly
is probably just a waste of your time
because you're going to be using the set
progression now we're on them to figure
it out anyway yeah I keep trying to fuck
like find a position for mine that's not
in the camera view but then I just can't
get it to like set properly when cuz it
flops over or it's like in the way so I
just I try to put it in the corner so
it's not too obstructive but still
getting good position can you hear me
louder an hour now
about the same what about now
I'm saying okay anyway sounds good
though sounds fine
yeah recommendation okay lock question
three if the recommendation would be
that twelve to fourteen sets in the
final week of the motor cycle is fine is
what are you thoughts on breaking up a
single body part across the base on
those larger back sessions doing six to
seven sets or one back exercise in the
morning six to seven of the other
bachelors at the p.m. this would
effectively me and I'm trained back six
times for four days per week or or would
it be best to keep that session together
and do accessory bicep children traps in
the PM as their own session thank you so
much if this made any sense I'll be very
happy made lots of sense um splitting up
training any more than four or five
times per week is probably just gonna do
very little to no good and it might
aggravate some injuries and stuff like
that so yeah and specifically the
question it's kind of is like why why
are you doing that is there like what
are you seeking to gain that you would
not gain just doing all the back stuff
in that one session and then maybe
moving some of your accessory work to a
later session you know what I mean so
it's like what do you what do you think
is gonna happen that's not already
happening right then and there
I guess you can have a higher
performance on the back movements but
performance doesn't always correlate
with hypertrophy because you want to
sequester metabolites you want acute
fatigue to go after in session
in this way you're sort of just doing
more submaximal sessions than actual
session yeah I think if you were in like
a strength or power sport like
weightlifting that might be a good
option because the intensity is more
important but in bodybuilding kind of
stuff man I think you're just needlessly
I think you're seeking out frequency for
its own sake rather than using frequency
to solve problems that you're
encountering you know if that makes
sense so yeah that's probably not the
best mindset so like if there's a
problem that you're encountering that
altering the frequency can help with
then by all means go for it but if it's
like if you can just do your normal back
workout in one one session like why not
just do that
it just seems needlessly difficult Alex
busy is out I said hi this is related to
Shaun's post from last week about
straight subs oh no I'm a new personal
trainer I work at a barbell dumbbells
only gym that has a prescribed workout
and promises results I just started
reading up on hypertrophy of IRP and
juggernaut books as well as trying RP
templates on myself since I started to
work there I want to adapt the
programming to comply with what I
understand the science to say basically
we do straight low rep sets and increase
intensity over another cycle and pretty
shy so arguing about the veracity of the
program is harder for me than just
tweaking it to maximize positive results
I want to sneak volume increases by
cutting into rests doing two minutes
instead of three and maybe favoring
dumbbell exercises after one or two
barbell moves since I find them easier
to warm up quickly and not so heavy as
to necessitate long rests I've also been
assigning homework to supplement the
limited workouts they can offer people
thus I might be able to have clients at
a set at sets over motorcycle my fuck
trying to fit a square peg in a round
hole
I think assigning the homework if your
your bosses say it's or paying is fine I
think trying to reduce rest times unless
the rests are too long reducing rest
times can backfire by causing less
hypertrophy because they're not as
recovered so I'd be very careful about
doing that if you have clients standing
around after a minute and being like I'm
ready to go and you still rest three
minutes yeah going to to is probably
going to be awesome you
working great but if at two minutes
they're like I know guy it's time to go
they're like oh can't I rest another
minute you're like nope time ago then
you might be not getting as much of her
yeah I agree and we understand like
you're a year you have some
constrictions that are job related so I
would say the homework might be a better
option because now you're kind of
flirting with altering the structure of
your program which seems to be a little
bit more rigid based on your job so you
might get you know potentially in
trouble I would say if it allows for it
you could consider using supersets like
that's Mike usually recommends in kind
of personal training settings it sounds
like that's probably not on the table
but if it is that would be a good way of
getting more stuff per unit of time
I think the homeworks the way to go yeah
besides are out paper trophy where can I
read about maximizing hypertrophic
effective straight-sets or maximizing
the hypertrophic effective Shore
workouts jeans Krieger probably is the
place to go for that just keep in mind
too like I'm not trying to do back to
bash or question here but this is like
an oddly specific thing like where can I
read about that it's like you're gonna
have to piecemeal together a lot of
indirect things there's not gonna be
like a book or an article that says how
to maximize the high particulate
hypertrophic affective straights that's
you know what I mean
I'm not trying to like put your question
down but just keep in mind that's not
like a searchable type term you're gonna
have to look at a variety of things and
kind of make your best decisions based
on like a conglomerate of information
yeah an into sure that the upcoming
hypertrophy book does have a distinct
section with literal recommendations so
that will be in there but shorter than
he says also while I have your attention
for the four-day male physique template
with likes focus should high rep hands
and high rep quads in Meza one stick to
the 10 to 20 range for all other
exercises I'm doing six to ten reps I
didn't know we had a high rep I think he
just typed in the percent matter he type
in the load that using 410 RM and then
the loads are determined after that yeah
the calculation does kind of put the put
reps into different kind of general rep
ranges but you don't have to
worry about that real explicitly on the
MPT it's done for you okeydoke who's
next
Brandon Armstrong my past few questions
have been long in playing so here's a
short one
what do you guys thoughts on training
caspere had mer trophy and for strength
for performance purposes like running
and jumping with either worth the gains
that may be attributed those areas for
hypertrophy definitely oh I think he
means training camps for hypertrophy and
for strength for performance purposes
like me bigger and stronger
um I think James you're the expert here
my good hypothesis is minimal um yeah
there there is there is some case to
some calf training stuff for like
minimizing ground contact time and
keeping like the elasticity and rigidity
of the foot on context so that as you
are like doing something like a sprint
you don't like mush when you step you're
able to like really spring off of each
step really a heart but I think that
more comes from the actual sprint
training itself rather than the
hypertrophy training that you do to try
to make your house bigger I don't you
know honestly I don't know if there's
any merit in jumping at all there might
be I think that's gonna be overshadowed
by the hips and leg strength sprinting
may be sprinting you add those so there
was a good problem sprinting shank mass
is correlated negatively to running
performance yeah um I think if you ever
get a dragon around yeah I think weak
calves like if you if you if when you
like do any type of running movement if
you really like pancake your foot down
in every step because you can't control
it yeah there's a case there but most
athletes don't find themselves in that
position like if you run around enough
in your sport you probably get enough
calf training to not have that problem
so I I don't I don't see a huge case
that could be made I could see a case
but it's not a very strong one
dr. Mike just ripped a big fart I saw
the way you leaned over can you hear me
yeah I just I saw you like you muted the
mic and leaned over so it looked like
you were trying to rip a big fart can
you hear me now yes yes but whatever my
switch from the super pickup all right
fictional funkiness asks I'm sure this
hasn't been covered but I couldn't find
it how long does a maintenance period
need to be to ensure that delayed
hypertrophy takes full effect I wouldn't
call it delayed hypertrophy or a recent
cessation but I think the consensus is
like somewhere in the three to four week
range if you start to make arguments for
a maintenance period of less than two
weeks it's probably down Hittle two to
three we have time for but there are
some other things that psychologically
wise diet break wise its joint recovery
wise they need of a benefit from
slightly longer you know I know the
phrasing wasn't super super great on
that but what he might think what he
might be talking about is like like for
your set point to rise up to your new
heavier weight that might be kind of
what he's leaning towards unless I'm
reading too deeply into what do you
think about that yeah I wonder I just
still think about three or four weeks
yeah I think that the end results the
same but I think that I think maybe
instead of delayed hypertrophy like um
you know like post mass settling point I
think is what we're getting addends
probably around the same Doug shmore hi
doc scan a mess with the focus doesn't
say arms and calves and puts all the
other large muscle groups down to low
ranges of their MeV is a run longer than
the typical nozzle length that's due to
this due to less systemic fatigue if so
the approximate length he there would
absolutely be no way to count the
approximately that the important thing
is that the local MRV is don't need to
be hit or hit at least once on d loaded
so it really just depends on how you
progress locally and a lot of times if a
muscle fibers and there's a muscle is
more fast which then I'm actually just
can't progress for as long as a muscle
of slower twitch in recovers
but but I don't think there's a reliable
thing we could tell you on that that's
exactly what our regulations yeah I
agree
um the thing is like you don't really
want your mesocycles to be limited by
systemic fatigue you want them to be
limited by the local fatigue for the
muscles that you're emphasizing and so
that's a good problem to have so you at
that point you just go based on
peripheral MRV rather than systemic and
that's that's the ideal situation so
that's good yeah but that'll still limit
you and we're not sure how much
depending on like your arm genetics or
whatever yeah and like you know like you
might overreach on your calves and that
might open it it might take like two or
three days to get kind of back to normal
versus like other muscle groups might
take eight days nine days you know so
it's it's hard but just do your vessel
yeah mark Conway says hi Mike and James
UK superfan again more specifically our
from Newcastle on England so I'm afraid
we don't say very much here James our
usual way of greeting each other is to
say our eat her eat her eat Hori is in
alright so it's actually more of a
question than a greeting out this
information enhances both of your lives
that's alright very much so thank you
first of all thanks for a lot for
answering
last week's question I'm finding my
hamstring seems to be handling five BMP
team in bed over forty PL templates for
have about that excellent
sweet when find a template is going
great and I'm loving the extra volume
however when it came to Saturday workout
if I'm a shoulder was clicking during
kind of oppressed so just a man in those
sets my shoulder was fine performing
this exercise early in the week the
clicking isn't exactly painful it just
cause discomfort as off-putting
tonight I found I had the same clicking
during the incline dumbbell during the
warm-up sets I just in the angle of the
bench from 45 to 35 clicking went away
once I warmed up my question our coaches
are what could be causing the clicking
usually it's just joint structure is
rubbing up against each other I like
tendons a lot of time to is just like a
tendon going over a hard bony protrusion
and just snapping down like yeah is it a
sign something is wrong absolutely not
unless it comes with pain that is
increasing in magnitude with every rep
every set and every week if it's not
totally fine Jimmy advice I go renting
it you may not have to prevent it at all
but just picking an angle like you did
or
making a different grip width or
something is usually a really good
solution Bowen surgery it's right you
need to redesign your body they had a
good go to South Korea have them take
you apart finish due to muscle tightness
that's not know you recommend
implementing any foam rolling no because
no anyway all the best thank you both
advance mark yeah it just like it if it
creeps you out just pick another grip
birth or something and try to do it for
a while it probably would just lead to
nothing and then the clicking you just
won't bother you anymore or sometimes
you just click for a while then it goes
away
yeah it's nothing nothing to be overly
alarmed about all right the Michelle
carama says hello dr. Mike dr. James how
are you we are well doing good thanks
buddy
my current muscle cycle is nine weeks
week one twelve sets MeV and then we can
- so there's other sites there's a
progression in volume but there's a
mystery progression in our mystery 433
progression where Chris rokosz already
my question is why should i progress on
our ER for best results while i'm adding
one set each week as you can see the
number of sets is for muscle group per
week uh Michelle do not add a set per
week use the RP set progression
algorithm it's on our hypertrophy guide
in the volume landmarks article do that
instead starting at twelve is fine and
then do that and let your sets naturally
expand into what they're supposed to be
don't throw actively order them because
you may get into a situation where
you're addicts that's not quickly enough
too quickly
anything in between as far as our AR I
would say our er should start at three
or four that you did and depending on
how many weeks are doing it should just
gradually descend to zero or one so if
you did an eight-week Mezo it would be
like for our for our three are three or
two 2 and then 1 1 something like that
or or 3 3 2 2 1 1 0 0 something like
that right if you do a four-week
mezzo it would just be one week for each
and everything between those everything
between I will say nine week sounds like
a clusterfuck and I wouldn't try it
another cycle that James and I and the
last webinar actually the past couple of
said that the literature
theory supports pretty growls and
motorcycles over over eight weeks of
accumulation is really just a road to
nowhere and you're gonna get no better
results doing more than that
as a matter of fact I'd just be creeping
along training some maxima for too long
and getting results
yeah I was gonna say the same thing like
deliberately adding only one set for the
purposes of expanding your Mezo cycle
out to be that long is probably not
worth your time in fact you I would
argue that you could have two mesocycles
from MeV to MRV in that same amount of
time you know yes all right another
question beside my body milling I also
trained Street workout yellow rooms and
talking shit like that oh my goodness a
street street workout and I do a lot of
hard exercise that's like front lovers
muscle etc cool this is a style of
training that we use the street workout
so a lot to build muscle and not working
on skills and tricks I set circuits high
rep workouts for example ten circuits of
20 pull-ups 30 weighted dips 50 weighted
pushups weight you do 10 of each of
those 10 circuits oh wow so that's times
10 that's insane that's officially
stupid we'll get to why I mean if you
could if you could do 10 by 30 way to
dips like holy fuck man you need to get
your ass to the gym and do dips with 180
pounds of stand yeah my first ooh I
don't think I could do one set of 50
unweighted push-ups but I mean yeah not
tonight not for tit for tat but I'm
saying that's like a crazy feet but we
can't do 50 pushups I definitely I can
probably do 30 weighted dips if I start
fresh and that's the limit I can't do 20
pull-ups so I'm out of that workout all
right all together I'm set number one
and then he says now my first question
is does progressing with circuits number
is the same as progressing the number of
sets I mean I'm going from a novena
Marvy but at circumstantially yeah
totally so you might want to start with
a circuit of one of these fucking things
and auto regulate how many of them you
can actually get through before your
performance drops there's no fucking way
you're gonna be able to do tenth
circuits of a shit up fuck
and not decrease performance no fucking
way I don't I want to see someone
actually do this way people are doing it
I'm a little skeptical myself there is
an important distinction here that he
said somewhere that I'm trying to find
here we go
in this style of training we used in
Street workout we want to build muscle
not working on skills and tricks so
that's an important distinction because
if you were working on skills and tricks
you would not use a volume progression
at all at least for some of these things
you would mostly use an intensity or as
a proxy for specificity progression
where you make them progressively harder
and you develop higher levels of mastery
as you go but if you're just trying to
develop basically the work capacity to
execute those skills then yes you could
use a volume progression but it would
certainly not start a 10 and I don't
even know if it would end at 10 is early
because that's you if you can do 3 sets
of 20 pull-ups I'm having a hard time
imagining anything that you can't do at
that point if I cry right that's what
I'm saying like it's so it's kind of
like at some point there's probably
diminishing returns where you're just
doing a lot of I mean but seriously it's
like if you can do 3 sets of 20 pumps
like what pull what pulling movements
can't you do same thing goes for like
two two sets of 50 pushups like what
can't you do
you can certainly breakdance at that
point right like there's nothing so you
are I don't know so I'm just I'm just
thinking like at some point I mean 10
seems like 10 10 of that is overkill to
me and then my second question is does
bodyweight exercise have high as so far
versus gym exercises no no no these
aren't these are gym exercises pull-ups
weighted dips and weighted push-ups are
things you do in the gym that's just one
of the many different kinds of exercises
and the SF ours are individual bullets
weighted dips unweighted push-ups for
most people for very good SF ours but
there is for some people their dog shed
like some people their dips just destroy
their elbows in the rest of our socks
and for them a machine did or post a
badge should be way better so I'm
speaking actually can can make a general
statement jeans we'll see if you agree
to this
uh-huh make sure I couch this
appropriately on a first level of
examination theoretical basis gym
exercise I should have a higher SFR than
exercises done anywhere else because the
gym is specifically designed to enhance
the SFR lifting that's why it exists
because you can control the load first
of all which a body weight you can't
control load actually use specific
movement patterns which body weight
added so yeah imagine like stone loading
versus barbell rowing like stone loading
has mostly axial and systemic fatigue
and barbell who has mostly local you
know like that stuff so I would say the
gym is the best place to workout I also
would say that if James and I were
training a street workout guy like a
parkour person who did freerunning I was
thinking more like reached like santa
monica street performer guy you know
like where they live is over even even
that i would train those people and I
would James and I probably do this we
would probably further hypertrophy of
strength work get him into a gym for
their exceptionally high risk and high
output technical work send them to a
gymnastic studio to be trained by
gymnastics coaches and then for their
very specific street workout tactical
application but we would work out in the
street on the implements in which we are
performing in the blocks of training
would be structured such as the
following uh geom work would predominate
in the first third of the block and
slowly descend gymnastics work would
predominate in the second block being a
little slice on the first and lesson the
sand blast and then street workout
specifc training would rise throughout
the time and predominate the last block
upon which you would have a big street
workout performance doing is things that
you've never done before that's how I
would do it James any disagreement with
that no no and like some some of the
stuff like in the first meso it might
just be like working on choreographing
some basic sequences right it might not
even be actually doing the whole floor
routine yet it might just like oh this
looks cool like this you know mezzo 2
might be like okay now we're working on
some of
sequences that we had choreographed and
we're doing it in the association in
like the studio so it's a so now we're
kind of practicing so you know this
looks and then the third one maybe
you're actually doing it out in the
street like you're going to be
performing it in public you know so
there's definitely like a skill and
tactical progression in intensity that
you can use that would be a treat and
remember most street street performers
won't be training like this because
they're not sports scientists they're
just people that are good at the craft
if you had an Olympics of street
performing within two years the Chinese
would have redeveloped the model teams
and I just talked about they will win
every single Olympics and street
performing and people would wonder why
is it different than back when we used
to have fun you know it's so funny too
because like the best country in the
world for breakdancing is South Korea by
a long shot
what do they do they just systematize
the fuck out of it like they train they
literally meet up to train they're not
just like people having fun they have a
team and a schedule and it's like man
they took all the fun out of
breakdancing well you want to win like
you will train yeah and unfortunately
when you want to be the best at
something it's often not fun so yeah I
think people used to train for boxing
and you used to train for box and just
by throwing some gloves on and fucking
around with a guy's menu world champ
nowadays you have training camp you know
and you have ten coaches and go
nutritionists and all those things right
so I'm saying this because a lot of
people say like yeah but none of the
higher level street performers do what
you're saying it's yeah when they do it
they'll be better yeah it's just not and
again it's like it is a third of a
thought experiment where it's like we're
just throwing ideas out of like what
could be done it doesn't mean that
people are actually doing it but we I
would be if I were a betting man I would
say that you take somebody who's already
a super high performer and put them
through like a scientific process of
doing it they'll be even better right
and that's the idea under some fakes a
lot of doctors you're absolutely welcome
Michelle Quran thank you for the
questions all right khalid be
[Music]
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses given me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works uh hello doctors like James
is a background I viewed RP I'm really
loving the physique template and I'm
enjoying learning about all sorts of
hypertrophy related stuff from you guys
Romeo RP is an observation on my part
ever since I started period as my
training by increasing volume and the
dealer I service see great results
awesome then I saw some of dr. my
accounts on YouTube and I knew that
applying these concepts be the best way
to optimize my training my question is
the following I'm currently a day 1 week
4 of a 5-day male physique 2.0 template
I'll even have to know which one it is
kissers but we'll get to that
um actually this form I'm sorry there's
full body arms or shoulders chest and
back and I'm not quite sure what to make
of my performance the last two sessions
wondering if I have already hit Miami
MeV and what to do about that here are
the details
I started akan at about 10 cents for
muscle group and I have been raiding
everything consistently as one okay I
hope you were rating it as one because
you really didn't feel the workouts a
lot and I'm not very fast
yeah not arbitrarily doing Brenda a
friend of mine is doing the male
physique templates right now and he's
like I'm doing like six and seven sets
of everything and I'm like he's like I'm
sore all the time he's like what are you
rating housing she's like zero or one
I'm like start rating at a zero for the
love of God while on oh my goodness -
sorry I mean a side track I picked up a
new client and this person will remain
anonymous but they were doing one of the
templates and they sent me the last
mesocycle and it was like eight sets ten
sets per exercise and I and I just was
like I'm doing the training and I sent a
very friendly reminder just like you
know when I see stuff like this seems a
little off so I would I would encourage
you to revisit your technique let's use
some pauses some controlled eccentric
sand you know just gave the normal kind
of run down my muscle connection and the
person got back to me like you know what
I thought that seemed a little weird cuz
I was doing like 10 cents for muzzle
group at some point I was like yeah man
it's super weird should not be that I
just I was on a podcast just before this
Lewis
every failing store was like must be
from Germany or Austria or something but
I actually referred to you on the
high-volume stuff he was talking about
that raising sat volume maybe isn't a
good idea if you haven't really focused
on the quality of the exercise and I was
wholly an agreement yeah elaborate on it
I told about that what I learned from
you is the James Hoffman skeptical Iver
I like when my colleague James sees like
you're doing three sets per week
he doesn't immediately go man you have a
crazy high Murphy he's like let me see
you do a better okay and that's a truck
I feel you're not - oh well they do
right you know like you've seen like
when I trained people like with lag like
LED press or hax water there's watts for
the first time ever they're like oh I
can't feel my quads oh yeah you're like
how many set squad she's nearly 15 like
you can call those sets but yeah and a
lot of that's just like learning -
because like sometimes people are
familiar with reps and reserve you know
sometimes they're just like not
necessarily been coached on technique
very much you know so it's an easy
mistake to make absolutely sure okay now
I saw I started 10 cents per muscle
group and I've been reading everything
assisters one night about 20 sets Ross
grew forearms I added more sets on top
of the template as I'm used to higher
volume for them okay
typically 2:15 twice s bicep and tricep
for week after our volume intense that's
per week bicep and 10 per week tricep
from 3 from our PE plus the seven I know
okay so wait sorry was he saying in week
one he was doing 10 sets per muscle
group per week or per per gram per week
okay okay which is and now I'm at 15 per
bicep and 15 verse I self using my sets
using the RP autoregulation
are now 5 and I have added one more cent
per week Armas added ok cool
my progress has been great at least 1 2
3 I was adding more sense as well as
more reps on all exercises
interesting however on day 5 of week 3
and d1 of week 4 I struggle to finish
the sets I had to do 35 sets into a 5
week 3 compared to 28 in day 5 week to
my performance at the beginning of the
workout this great and that means you
did not hate your
I match to did better than my last week
despite the added sets also I was not
sore doll and he must have good workout
that's another very good confirmatory
sign sounds like he just got tired at
the end of that work yes so however by
the time I got to my last two exercises
left hold on there does until match my
performance and then he goes into the
details that's that's absolutely totally
fine for the last exercise okay so he
says he'll match my performance um I was
not sore and my performance was great at
the beginning but perhaps lately the
sufferer does it got tired towards the
end do they come on to falling perhaps
to the extra arm sets I added on my
program definitely helps I've also
struggled today my performances not all
good and we created 12 sets of chess
team playing 13 bla bla bla bla bla bla
bla today incline 13 12 10 9 7 so if we
used a pure mathematical approach you
actually did not reduce your performance
so you're fine actually it's just you're
getting tired all the same weights is
last week I have haven't reached ma V so
MeV is not detectable landmark with a
performance it's just MRV so the term
there's MRV should I deal oat or as a
slight drop in performance ie my flat
bench performance expected so I'm doing
more volume so the way we calculate
performance drops and James and I are
were considerably on this for an
unrelated project talk about some other
time
James knows what I'm talking about but
the right way to calculate her muscle
remember V is using the first exercise
because the second exercise is poisoned
by the fatigue in the first the fatigue
of others and so it doesn't matter so
like if your chest is overreach you'll
suck in the first exercise yes yes what
you're experiencing is you are getting
into your per session
MRV you're exceeding you're within a
intra session of Murphy that is the
first sets aa effect the ability to do
the later sense and that happens when
you do these crazy high volumes that
you're doing cuz your Plus morning
everything you basically reach the
situation in which maybe your systemic
MRV in your muscle group RV is so high
on a weekly basis oh you have such great
recovery but you're actually exceeding
your work capacity within a particular
session which can
your recovery abilities here your
capacities here this tends to happen
with fat power lifters in an unrelated
sense you know you've seen it before
where they're like I recover great how
many sets can you do squats like ten
three one and then I throw up Soho
five three one that's just you do five
reps up that's what I thought it was
right so you're not in that camp because
your capacity is great but it's not as
great as your recovery clearly because
most people would have hit him hour be
by now doing that money's nuts the thing
is you're in a bit of a conundrum I
would train each set harder next time
you do the mesocycle get closer to
failure
really focus on your technique to blast
the muscle and don't press the plus one
as much press the zero more plus one
every now and again but mostly press the
zero and they auto regulator to keep the
sets constraints you'll run into this
problem so that keeps your workouts more
high quality and less fluffy and
secondly I would start to suggest that
you look into a six-day week session or
even if you have the time split your
work because you might be in a situation
where a total ability to do work
it's just not something you would train
him to six days which brings back to
this is not at all what you're asking
mr. toll arias related comment I
remember someone was a very upset at Rp
for not making a two-day male physique
template that covered the entire body
and it was like oh sorry listen oh no
wait it was no it was as well why did
why isn't there an advanced to day and
three day male physique template I was
like yes I remember the advanced cannot
progress on three days of training with
unless you want to train for five hour
early and if it's a two day program it's
gonna look like the beginner program
anyway because this is yeah you know and
we do more exercises right look you know
James all those IB pros that train twice
a week yeah but the fuck are you talking
about
you're just running into that situation
it's totally fine but there's you know
train a little bit harder less volume
per session ah that would be the second
best solution the first best solution
would be to increase the number of
sessions it's whatever involved yeah so
that was a really good good feedback
from dr. Mike so I know I know you
didn't Ness I think we have concluded
that you didn't mean to
say and maybe you're probably meant to
say MRV but in a technical sense you are
actually correct you probably were
training at ma vie for a long period of
time you actually haven't hit your MRV
yet so you got good news you are in a
bit of a conundrum as mike said but the
more that you kind of find these things
and the longer you stick with it your
work opacity will actually start
building up over the next couple
mesocycles so your recovery ability
might be up here and your work
capacities here now what each measure
cycle you go it kind of goes up a little
bit more over time and you'll be able to
tolerate more and more and more so I
think if you do the things that dr. Mike
described I think you'll be in good
shape and just do your best for now I'll
give you if you really start to notice
like even if you have a little bit more
gas in the tank for the muscles that
you're training but by the end of the
session you just wiped out just treat
that as a zero look if you already are
noticing on like week three or week four
that you're like by the end of the tail
end of the workout you're just out of
steam like don't plus one and even if
you think you could have done more bench
or more squats in the beginning at some
point like there's a reasonable cutoff
point where the systemic is becoming
limiting and trying to cram more in just
as a gap instead of plus wanting it just
go closer to failure than you normally
would have and more reps than you
normally would have basically like just
know the plus one will add volume look
at your current workouts are you doing
this week and think can I really do more
voluminous without a performance drop at
a degradation in quality and lasts
sensibly yes then I have only five if
you are recovering need even recovering
you're like there's no way I'm gonna do
more volume just don't hit the plus one
hit zero and then try to get a little
slightly higher better PR is not the
next week yeah and you'll be at ma vie
for very long so keep in mind ma vie is
like a big like big section under our
kind of curve of volume landmark so no
harm there even if you don't actually
truly hit MRV just leaving like a very
marginal fractions of percentage points
on the table at that point so you're
still doing fine e and-a h r v ee oh is
that like a Marv a Harvey
alright one of my justice quick aside
one of my most annoying things I've ever
heard is remember this this used to be a
mean but people said all the time back
in like
2010 2009 that debt dare internet or the
duh duh Internet's like the spelled
wrong T Internet's with a Z the thing is
is that there is nobody who's ever said
that
so here mocking someone but it's like
mixing in 1930s hillbilly with the year
2009 like shut up you're not clever you
have no actual real life friends fuck
you damn tell us what you really feel
yeah some of the Internet's the internet
lingo definitely goes over my head maybe
that's because I think inside jokes of
inside jokes of memes or it's like to
you I might be okay boomer version of a
millennial we're like okay you're like
the old old gen millennial like you're
the fuckin old guy already I'm like
alright I don't even know what what is
okay boomer mean it means ok boomers
like when you win there's like you know
somebody like our parents age and
they're just not getting something that
you're talking you're like I don't
understand why we don't have free
college and they're like because that
means it lowers the value of college for
everybody and they're like okay boomer
you don't get what I'm saying you know
what I mean like you're too old to
understand you're too out of food so
okay boomer is something to use when you
can't actually explain yourself because
you're fuckin wrong it's stupid or or
you think that the person is like
irreparably out of tune right the gotta
cuz you again can't explain yourself
yeah yes so that was like definitely
like a recent one that I think is really
funny because it's also kind of true
because you know what I mean like like
like it's hard to get like that
generation to like not be racist for
example you know like they'll make more
like understand that Facebook videos of
Trump or not to be sent to anyone and
not to be shared right and you just try
to say like look times have changed you
can't say like you can't call things gay
when you mean that they're stupid
pressure just casually like be racist
right and it's just not acceptable
and they look at you like what no that's
where it's like okay boomer like I'm
just your you can't be helped it's fun
everybody's experience like your grandpa
your dad or says something yeah dude you
can't say that I I have much more
trouble explaining to people why certain
things that actually make other people
feel bad or not a good idea that I do
struggle with people who are like like
my dad
emails me spam like
here's an article about the election
from a Russian website now my dad are
you fucking out of here - go away I'm
opening that he's like why not I'm like
don't open that it's like really I'm
like this are you gonna get fished are
you out of your fucking minds
yeah now you're getting targeted ads for
whatever bullshit they you know he's
like really why and I'm like okay that's
actually quite a nuanced explanation for
like what's okay to share what's not
yeah so I do like that one makes me
chuckle yeah the honorable P says dear
Mike and James apologies in advance if
you've covered similar questions already
question one how can you break the
plateau when it comes to max weight you
can use forgiving movement binstock it
gets stronger that's it alright and
that's the webinar how can you break the
plateau when it comes to max weight you
can use for a given movement then stuck
at 10 kilograms for 12 reps with the
Arnold press force that's it can't seem
to go have you laugh without failing
after 5 or 6 reps can I just say that I
hate the Arnold press as a movement is
that the rotating the Mel thing yeah
yeah the rotation is oh yeah so I mean
it depends on what you're training for
if you're training for strength and
there's definitely like a series of
strength related like face potentiation
moves you could use across a block of
training to help you get there if you're
training for hypertrophy um
the bigger question is like do you
necessarily need to be getting big PRS
on some of those movements I would say
like Arnold presses or shoulder presses
like it's good idea to be hitting PRS
periodically but it's definitely not a
deal breaker I would say maybe switch
the movement it might be a good time for
some variation switch to just like a
standard shoulder press or a barbell
seated shoulder press get some variation
in there and then the next time you come
back to it you might be surprised to
find that you're stronger than you were
before
yeah that's my recommendation D load
spend a metal cycle not training
overhead pressing very hard spend a
couple months of cycles using another
exercise for overhead pressing gain some
weight and then come back to the Arnold
press and do 2 or 3 muscles so if
progressively heavier weight and then
you'll deal owed for all when you need
to in within those mezzos and then after
that you're are gonna be long the way
yeah so remember from high perch be
training the goal is not necessarily to
get stronger
stronger is just a happy accident of
getting a more muscled question to a
seizures yes you just trained
productively in that strength will come
question two related question when it
comes to isolation movements for example
face poles and lateral raises if I go
heavier than a certain weight my
shoulders hurt and I can tell that my
form is not good I have therefore
maintain the same weight for several
monthly cycles in order to maintain
proper form however the Muffit programs
do not change in volume in terms of sets
of reps so my question is whether I need
to up the volume since I can't seem to
go heavier whether I should do something
else in order to break my strength
Plateau ah there is there's a problem
thank you in advance for potties for a
long time so um really really huge
recommendation here is to make sure you
at least increase in repetitions adding
sets is another thing altogether because
it's just trying to get your electron
landmarks first sure progressive reps so
basically what ends up happening is that
your reps in reserve should fall from
around 3 to around 0 through each master
cycle and if you're using the same
weight for the same reps your reps in
reserve probably rise for a while and
that's not good yeah it's like you start
with youth 3 reps on the tank second
week you should not have 4 ops on the
take you might have 3 again you should I
have like two and then the next week you
it's ok to have two it's ok to have one
but it's not ok to have 3 again probably
it's probably not a for sure not ok for
so as you're lifting as you gain
strength and ability you should decrease
the AR AR to continually challenge and
the way you do that if you don't change
the weight is to increased repetitions
that's the key and if it's tough to
increase rep sometimes you can increase
sets that's what not going to be a cause
of a lot of progress it's gonna be very
delayed progression but certainly should
also be increasing sense as well yeah
and again not to be pedantic but like um
it really depends on ru tree and this is
something that gets confused a lot
that's why we have to bring this up it's
like are you training to be stronger and
hit bigger numbers or are you training
to be Jack the more muscular right so
like if you cannot progress in weight
because the weight is limiting to pain
and the technique of the exercise then
it's time for a new exercise and that
you need to be doing something where you
can increase the weight if you want to
be stronger
you just want to train to be more jacked
and hope to see the numbers go up over
time as a as a result of that then what
dr. Mike said is like the the spot-on
recommendation so kudos though for
recognizing that pain and technique were
in a not good place and not trying to
push through it so that's definitely the
first move I would say if you're if the
exercise is really limiting and it might
just be time for a different exercise if
you it's like if you if you're having a
hard time progressing on stuff because
your technique is falling apart it's
causing you pain pretty good case for a
new exercise not I was sure yeah okey
doke time for YouTube YouTube you to be
[Music]
good we're good Hof entry says should
this be viewable to the public yes will
exclude that one yeah Tico Rodriguez
says dr. Tony huge I know who that is um
not a doctor right away but a real small
guy is he huh no but he's jacked
he's like an anabolic expert who lives
in like the Philippines and everything's
legal there so he talks about it all
time mm-hmm dr. Lee huge says
arachidonic acid of the best kept secret
body buildings it increases inflammation
and muscles he also sells a supplement
so is probably biased that's not
necessarily the case you don't have to
sell things to be biased and them
selling things does not mean you're
biased what is your opinion I've looked
at the literature of arachidonic acid
and I've used direct outcasted
extensively in my youth it doesn't do a
fucking thing as far as I'm concerned
total bullshit sorry I have not used it
but my understanding and looking it up
was the same I'll just I'll just answer
those this question yes George P says
hey just one question Mike are you nanny
or not deposit following a channel for
three years I want to know if you have
been on gear or off love Eddie amazing
George P what he would he not be amazing
if he wasn't Madi before your answer
that that's what I want to know
pedestrian so first of all I don't offer
my physique to anyone I offer my
knowledge and knowledge either true or
not regardless of my physique
try it yourself
get out secondly yeah if I answer that
question me in a certain way would
automatically the evidence of a federal
crime so George the Louisville fucking
god it's not something you ask somebody
but
Amil jörgen son actually answered it
correctly just listen to almost any
provide for our episode you will get
your answer a winky face no George yeah
and just to be very clear folks like
that's not it it's just like one of
those that's one of those questions you
just don't ask right because how can the
person not potentially incriminating
answers right like I in the several
countries it's legal like in the United
Kingdom is decriminalized if I lived in
the in the United Kingdom boy but I
talked about a lot of different stuff
yeah it's like asking like hey are you
racist like how are you supposed to
answer that even if you are racist you
know what I mean it's like mmm and being
racist actually isn't illegal you don't
go to jail for that shit I just go to
scumbag
alright nickel says do you need it this
is a great question uh do you need 48 to
72 hours of rest between training or say
muscle to failure is that a myth it is a
myth it's a whole cloth almost just made
up from a few really believe in this
read studies it depends on the volume of
training and the amount of damage the
muscle takes and it's structural and
architectural elements and a bunch of
other stuff so for example if you do one
set to failure of bicep curls
can you productively train bicep
Sandoval in matter again in 30 seconds
the answer is yes like also in a day the
answer is still yes also in two days
right if you do 10 sets of quads have
squat and then in regular squat you may
not be recovered until 96 hours later so
you know you will recovered when two
things happen one of them is the most
importance the one is secondarily
important the secondary important was
you're no longer experiencing delayed
onset muscle soreness preceptive
dysfunction of the muscle wasting
muscles feel normal again and second
much more important is you can match or
exceed your prior performance that means
you've recovered and that occurs really
depends on the exercise the muscle group
and the most thing it depends on is how
much volume you did in a particular
session you do one set you could train
every day you
do 10 sets you make only be able to
train twice or three times a week so
you'll know when you're recovered based
on experimentation for yourself and it's
not a very difficult thing to assess and
there's also kind of the messy topic of
you could actually still potentially
present an overload when you are under
recovered in the sense of training like
days back-to-back not necessarily on the
weekly scale but if you were to say like
I did biceps on Monday and my biceps are
still sore on tuesday can i still
actually have an overloading session on
tuesday uh yeah it's feasible it can't
happen so it's not it's not a cut and
dry thing where it's just like okay you
need 48 hours of rest between its it's
very variable yeah all right Huffman
tree is an actual question which is
actually very good and this will be our
last question for today yeah when
assessing performance for the set
progression algorithm for set progress
algorithm for the set progression error
my brother right the first time how much
should be placed on the first work set
and how much on the other ones I've had
this interesting situation where I went
something like eight seven seven five
the first week then nine six five five
the second week and so on and so forth
in other words my first set performance
improved with the target area but my
leadership performance deteriorated what
does this really tell me that I started
judging rir well so everyone sucks jjr
to some extent
and then I was also in just fluctuations
in performance between workouts that you
can't help I would say that the most
eloquent way to some games and I again
have been putting a lot of intellectual
stock into this problem and probably the
best way or one of the better ways of
doing this in a reliable fashion is to
take an average over all comparable sets
so for example eight seven actually you
know what I'll just pull up a fucking
calculator and do this right now
that's how straightforward this is so
guvo can you guys see my a ship mmm-hmm
calculator
so let's do this so see if it's works
eight knobloch eight fuck plus seven
plus seven plus five and turn 27 divided
by four equals six point seven five rep
average at whatever weight sweet so six
point seven five remember that number
and we will do this and then we have
look at Marta for us but we didn't have
to remember the fucking number and then
we have 92135 92136 92137 and you're
like well clearly I was not overreach
cuz it another week and I still and I
got stronger so I would definitely you
know so you don't you have to do the
math like this no you could just sort of
look at your stats you like an average I
think that's like just about the same
right yes and I said this before sorry
real quick James um MRV tends to be
pretty clear like you're not going to do
an average of
point seven five and then an average of
six point two five it's gonna make six
point seven five minutes could be like
for like it's usually a big drop-off
yeah and like just the other thing you
can you can use this like okay your reps
never fell out of the you know five to
thirty rep range in fact they never even
fell out of the range that you are
operating in five to ten so it's like
okay you're still having productive
training there
usually you would see something like the
next week would be like eight four two
two something like that that would be
indicative of like MRV where it's just
like you just you had a one set and then
the rest was just you totally shit
yourself yeah and also because you're
trying to match your reps week to week
the perception of effort on those reps
that you don't make is like God like
you're like yes dude like I can't one of
the reasons that your ups fall so so
massively is because you need to hit
nine reps in that first set and then
eight in that second one you hit eight
in the first one or like fuck I gotta
hit eight and you do hell and high water
and get six the reason your next set is
three you could if you just did normal
rir you could have hit five on your next
one the reason it's three is because you
poured everything into your first reps
because you literally didn't recover and
there's no way to have the performance
not catch up to you like you're done and
it's obvious yeah so Mike and I have
been in a separate project have been
trying to figure out like what is a
reasonable threshold where you can
definitively say that you are
underperforming and we really haven't
come to a strong consensus and the
consensus that we came to was guess and
check for now and see how it turns out
so it's it's one of those like it's not
it's not like a hard line thing at least
for now we don't really know when you
say this like this is definitively your
cutoff point so for now I'd say guess
and check use your best judgment and
usually when you see like massive drops
on those reps that's the best indicator
and when you feel like shit when you
feel the bar wake feel on your back
feels absolutely terrible when you're
rir is going through the roof to try and
get anything remotely close to what you
were doing the last week those types of
things are probably your best indices
yeah when by the way guys when James
says guess and check what that means is
you do your
one workout then you do the maximum and
let's say like it's about the same
performance within one about but it's
like down a little bit
well it's just down by one rep on
average let's say if it's down by like
to represent average like you might want
to just call it there especially based
on how you feel that's where that
feeling comes sounds like if you're
buried alive and your reps are falling
your pit MRV and like by two reps it's
very likely that you're falling outside
of your goal rep ranges sure sure but
then you know if it's within one rap or
even within two James when he says guess
and check means just go to the next week
of training train again and see if the
fall continues if you rise back up to
week one so like weeks two was down but
week want with three is back up to week
one you're golden you're normal um if
you could fall again it's time to cut it
off because you don't want to get in a
situation where your training multiple
weeks on end it's just a little bit
losing performance each time that is
technically like you just have a really
great recovery week to week but you hate
you're a Barbie the now you're just
floating in the shear in the mordoor
zone seriously that lives literally
Mordor like there's two zones you want
avoid apéritif unit training what is
between your maintenance volume in a bit
of effective volume which you get like
some fatigue but almost no stimulus and
then the other zone is ma the average is
here MRV is here and your rate here for
like a really long time when you pass
your ma the average you get to MRV this
should take like one to two weeks if you
manage to stay here for longer than
usual slow learning we'd a combination
of ungodly tough and stupid yeah
by the way James check this out what you
got oh it is okay boomer you'll have to
listen to it yeah it's funny I don't
think you should say that to people but
I do think it's funny when it comes out
for sure well I was good when we had a
bunch of good questions on there super
good super good guys thank you as always
for asking these awesome questions and I
wish all of you
warriors death oh yeah that's good are
you going are you going to Miami this
weekend or is that folks come see me in
Miami this week I'm gonna be giving a
talk at water Palooza
at 11 a.m. on Saturday Oh
out nutrition myths I'm basically gonna
be tangentially insulting a fuck out of
a bunch of oh so you're gonna be Bob if
you're in the Miami area yeah and out
however my wife just contracted the flu
so I might just be having the flu there
but I will show up to speed my fucking
words unless I'm hospitalized depending
with money job then I'll try to speak
from the hospital all right we're gonna
wrap this one up folks thanks again for
sending in your good questions we
appreciate it very much
make sure you subscribe to the RP
YouTube feed if you want to keep getting
updates and all our P related things and
we will see you next time
ace