hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization news flash there is no
team called team no days off and I'm
going to talk to you today about why
rest days are Mega important for you to
get the most results so I think I have a
total of seven points for you today
Point number one is to Define what a
rest day is here's the definition as I
use it and we'll be using it throughout
the rest of this lecture
a rest day is a day on which no weight
training occurs for the purposes of most
of the people watching this channel who
weight training is kind of their sport
it's their hobby if their activity some
cardio is
okay if it's easy cardio if it's just
activity and getting your 10 to 12K
steps a day that's totally cool still
counts as a rest day extra cardio is not
a good idea and it doesn't make that day
count as a rest day anymore but we'll
get that in just a second now I'm a big
fan of rest days I think they're
important I think that training seven
days a week is generally fucking stupid
and you should do at least one day off
why so that leads us to point number two
of what are the actual advantages of
rest days what are the benefits first
your muscles do not grow in the gym they
grow outside of the gym taking an extra
day after a crazy hard week of training
is a day entirely dedicated to muscle
growth that sounds pretty good to me
just on paper it sounds fucking sweet
second there are two types of fatigue
that your muscles and your training can
take on one is local fatigue like your
biceps are sore two is systemic fatigue
your whole body and brain are a little
bit fucked up and they need to cool that
system off and drop the
fatigue when you train biceps one day
the next day you train chest and triceps
the day after you train legs your biceps
locally are healing the entire time
you're doing chest and triceps and legs
because they're not being fussed with
perfect but what about the system your
whole body sure shit isn't healing
because it's being demanded to work very
hard on both when you train your biceps
and your back chest and triceps and legs
it's just boom boom boom so taking a
rest day is a unique kind of fatigue
reduction because it brings down
systemic fatigue that Global fatigue
that feels like oh man fuck I never want
to train again when it's high enough and
when it's low enough feels like Dragon
Ball Z lightning bolt energy flowing
through your body you're just ready to
go crush the gym you want to feel like
that second way you're going to want to
bring your fatigue down which means
you're going to want to take rest
days next psychological fatigue
reduction that lightning bolts feeling
is physiological in nature but there is
a whole other Spectrum on the on the
psychology and the psychology is
affected by two things one physiology
affects psychology when your cortisol
stress hormones your fight ORF flight
hormones are up and your testosterone is
down from too many days without rest too
much systemic
fatigue just those hormones alone and
other nervous system processes on the
physiology side actually make your brain
think differently and alter your
psychology directly that's definitely a
thing that happens but there is another
side of psychology the purely
psychological side that reveals Itself
by the fact that going to the gym and
going and really really trying
sit on a toilet and try just as hard eat
more fiber people it's 2023 or four or
five whenever the fuck this video comes
out hey Scott the video guy why don't we
just do like a video dump of 500 videos
that we record in advance all in one day
one every minute every minute see if you
can keep up so psychological fatigue is
something that can accumulate when the
grind of having to try hard all the time
is just like oh my God I need a mental
break because a mental break is awesome
you're relaxing you're recovering for a
day maybe two of pure rest but then at
the end of that second day you're like
bro I don't need to relax anymore I need
to shoot energy waves out of my fucking
hands and then back to the gym you go so
time for muscles to grow systemic
fatigue goes down and psychological
fatigue goes down which is all lame and
whatever it's pussy bullshit to fucking
think about fatigue but to think about
another way you're preparing your body
and mind to go psychotically hard that
next week so you go hard hard hard hard
hard and you accumulate fatigue
throughout the week you take one two or
three rest days at the end of the week
and the fatigue comes right back down so
you can fucking reload the Cannons of
gains brothers and sisters and you know
properly site them of course that's the
good technique part and then boom fire
off for a whole week straight get really
tired and repeat the process over again
I Believe In The Lion King they call
this The Circle of Life The Lion King
was a movie about training right Scott
the video guy abely that's what I got
out of it hold on to that buffal bro for
real and like mandrels and shit like
that I don't want to get in the
motherfucker faces untrained you feel me
have all that red ass you know I don't
know where we got with that one they do
have red asses though fellas you feel me
I ain't lying all right what do you want
to avoid on rest days go could find Dr m
you talk me into rest I'm a fucking
bitch like you now I need to rest all
the time not a warrior Android how do I
rest properly and what do I want to make
sure that I avoid and screwing up my
rest day couple things
one doing more
cardio or more mental work like your job
or your school than usual to make up for
the fact that you're not actually
training with weights really
hard people do this
and I totally understand where they're
coming from you fucking grind every day
you do some fucking work you do some
fucking school you do some fucking heart
training you feel like you've earned it
you go to sleep with a smile on your
face you guys like that that's my my my
uh fake Russian smile technically the
Russian smile looks like this so we have
nothing to be happy about but a fake
Russian smile is and your eyes stay the
same but your mouth
moves look at my eyes I don't know any
happiness in any case you smile you go
to sleep you wake up repeat I love it
hashw workk hardplay hard dope makes for
a great Instagram story but some days of
all the stuff you do you need to bring
it down because recovery occurs when
you're under less total stress of every
kind because remember there's
psychological impact to recovery so if
you do more work and more school you'll
just be Delirious from that you'll be
very accomplished in the short term
congratulations but your fatigue will
continue to sumate over the many weeks
and then you'll fucking fall apart into
pieces and have to pull back on training
all this other bullshit instead be smart
when you take a recovery day try to make
sure that at least a few other parts of
your life are on easier mode as well
don't make up for it even if it's just
going to work like normal just normally
go to work you get out at 500 you go to
the gym from 5: to 700 you grind at the
gym you come home and you I don't know
look up hentai that's what I
do oh hey Scott shut the fuck up I know
you're able to attract actual females
you don't need to look at adult films
but some of us were lonely and the
Japanese wuss make it so nice am I
saying that right fellas you hit me up
in the comments in any case if you
instead go you know what my wifeu wifeu
will be 7 P p.m. anyway but I'm not
going to the gym today because it's a
rest day I'm G to stay at work for two
more hours your boss will love you your
landlord will love you any proper
Zeppelin owning billionaire trillionaire
like myself will love you but you're not
actually recover recovering as much as
you could because instead of actually
recovering you took the training and the
physical stress of it and sometimes the
psychological d-stress of training and
you put in more psychological stress of
work so I say don't have to take the
whole day off of work although that's
pretty cool to do if especially if it's
a weekend that's really good because
that'll bring down even more fatigue but
even if you just go to work and leave at
the normal time those two extra hours
because you're not training just go home
and well I suppose get into the hentai
early and just sit there because you
have nothing else to do no friends not
even any hope of making any this is an
autobiography icing and heating people
think recovery and the again at all is
voodoo nonsense ice and heat do not
actually help heal you they prevent to
some extent or delay to some extent the
very recuperative processes that in the
short term make you tighter and more
sore but in the long term make you more
jacked and all this other great stuff so
icing and heating is cool for athletes
to use the day before the morning of a
game so they never feel tight to begin
with from all their practice or the game
they had the other night but for all of
us who are gym monkeys I shall call us
we are cool with being tight and sore
and letting those inflammatory processes
mediated by the immune system actually
heal us and make us more jacked so don't
go over there and start doing fucking
cryotherapy and heating and shit the
exception is if one of those things
really psychologically relaxes you if
you're strange and you're from northern
Europe and you go into the Finish SAA
because that the only SAA that's really
work in the swedes they don't know what
they're doing now you notice my Finnish
and Swedish accent is the same because
to my untrained stupid American ears
they are the same can you tell someone
from Indiana apart from someone from
Missouri well those states are further
apart than Finland and Sweden
motherfuckers in any case my uh
digressions into verbally assaulting the
northern Europeans are just better than
us and everything uh aside if you love
The the
sauna and it's super relaxing for
you amazing thing to do on a recovery
day but if you're in the sauna like I am
and you're
like f I'm gonna die of fucking heat
stroke in here why the fuck am I here at
least there's naked dudes oh gotta
scratch my knee sorry to look at and
they're nice they're naked they're dudes
checks both of my boxes unless that is
something that turns you on just don't
go so remember heat and ice at a
physiological level doesn't do dick for
you that on a recovery day so if you're
doing a recovery day if you're doing
sorry if you're doing a rest day and a
recovery day we'll get to what that
means in a second you don't need all
that shit just be easy sit on the couch
take walks eat food
Etc
and what I would stay away
from not as a matter of course not as a
matter of
principle
but I
suppose if you're very serious about
your training training Ultra serious and
this training cycle is super important
to you maybe you have a competition
coming up or something like that I would
consider avoiding activities that are
fun but not relaxing and restful and
easy you know 50 Cent can be in the club
and still be jacked but the rest of us
are mere mortals and not like 50 Cent by
the way my dog shit 50 Cent impression
is incoming and when I do it it's
probably gonna suck but it's not the
worst 50 Cent impression in the world
and I gotta tell you how do I sound like
50 well fuck it I'll just I'll just do
pressure ready Scott video you
ready B me in the
[Music]
club anyway that's what he sounds like
really really pretty good how do I do it
50 c never opens his mouth because he
had a shit wired shut I don't even
understand how I talk so if you're going
to do a 50 c impression my wise words to
you just keep your teeth closed the
whole time and you're well on your way
you're about halfway there so
yes it's fun to go to the club and to
grind on everyone I'm talking about fine
ass bitches I'm talking about bitches
that look pretty fucking good I'm
talking about bitches that everybody
needs love I'm talking about the bitches
that didn't even know they needed love
with consent I'm talking
about dudes listen it's 2023 whatever
you're into it doesn't matter who you're
grinding on you're moving your hips up
and down you're groov into the music I'm
Jewish so I I have an inability to dance
or even understand how dance would work
in a muscular coordinated manner but I
assume it's difficult and the difficulty
of that makes you sweat makes you sore
makes you tired don't do it if you're
very serious in that training phase so
rest day means I know this sounds crazy
rest
strange all right Dr Mike if that's even
your real title you told me what not to
do but what are some tips of what to do
on a rest day well easy there kind
viewer a couple of tips first get as
much sleep as you feel like if you feel
like sleeping for 10 hours rock on sleep
is amazing it is recuperative it's more
powerful than any steroid in the
book
next eat as much as your diet allows
which means if you're on a mass ging
plan and you're a lot of 500 calorie
Surplus you better be taking that shit
if you're on a fat loss phase you can't
eat a ton well eat as much as you can
definitely don't skimp on the
shit a common question that I get is
look if I have times when I
have training days and other days which
are rest but my Renaissance pration diet
from the RP diet coach app available in
the Apple Store and the Google Play
Store and it's for money too and my
Butlers they like
money it takes my rest days and it
lowers the calor calories but it keeps
my training with higher calories is that
okay it is totally okay but an advanced
tip
is if you're
training
hard you're
training six days a week maybe even five
days a week on some occasion twice a day
on some of those
days it's a really really good
idea for you to think about elevating
your off day calories especially on a
bulk
to the same as your training day
calories because then you get some extra
calories in the mix and you really
really really allow for that recovery
because some people when they're not
training they'll take the calories and
drop them like crazy that's okay if you
want to lose fat but if you're just
eating some proteins and Trace fats on
your rest day yes you're resting but
you're not recovering as much as you
could so it's a real good idea to
maximize calories if you train a ton a
ton like five six plus times per week
with two a days yeah on your rest day
like I train six days a week my rest day
has as many calories as any other
training day that I do cuz I'm beat up
and I need that
shit
lastly try to do as much relaxing stuff
as you
can watch
Netflix great idea hang out with friends
chilling on a ton of crazy movement
don't go running around the park or
anything like that if it relaxes you
massage is a great
idea Nuru Massage is an even better idea
do you guys know what Nuru Massage is do
not Google it at your work computer
Scott why are you
giggling I was goingon to say some shit
that's private Scott but one of our
friends who's not here was you know what
I'm saying I was gonna talk that shit
but I shouldn't right we maybe knew
someone who might have gotten one I've
heard of people that I've known who have
got newu massages a newu massage is just
like any oldfashioned massage Mass you
see except the person that's doing it to
you is female of reproductive age and
appearance entirely naked and completely
lathered head to toe in massage oil and
she uses both her hands and the rest of
her body to massage you and I believe
all of those massages really just kind
of end in one way with a happy customer
that is give it a shot it's probably
dope but what would I know just seen a
few people on the internet do it and
websites you're not allowed to type in
at
work for real for real though
compassionate touching
cuddling all the way up to
Etc somewhere in there is just regular
massage has a very big effect on
reducing fatigue huge effect so if you
can get some cuddles in that's a really
good idea so find you someone you can
cuddle with and no
joke
petting and cuddling with pets has a
profound measurable relaxing effect on
most humans at least the humans that
like to do it so if you have a kitty cat
or a little bulld doggy this is me
playing with their flaps you move the
flaps uh then that's actually uh helpful
for recovery so you can pick up your
bulldog and set him on your lap and he's
like and you're like who my big man
helped me recover who's the big man and
they don't ever say anything back um but
that's how baby Talk Works to pets which
I do in every conceivable moment and if
you ever meet me in real life and you
have a pet on you I will absolutely do
baby talk to
it now that's rest days but there's
another kind of day I wanted to talk to
you guys about which is
related there's a rest day where you
don't fucking train and then there is a
recovery Training Day you do train on
that day but it's recovery style
training
training whose purpose is not generally
to elevate your Fitness characteristics
to make you better at stuff directly
training that has the purpose of
increasing your ability to recover it
potentiates further
recovery generally
speaking while there are many different
ways to skin the
cat you guys ever think about how that
actually looks it's fucked
up the template I like to start with as
a thought exercise at least with
recovery days
is to take 50% of the load 50% of the
weight off the bar only do 50% of the
Reps you normally do half the Reps and
only half of the sets as
usual if you think about it someone
who's benching 200 pounds for four sets
of 10 is now doing two sets of five with
100 pounds holy fucking shit that is so
much easier it's so easy in fact that
that it just barely potentiates through
blood flow and stretching and moving and
activating the nervous system it barely
potentiates it's like uh mini rehab mini
physical therapy just a little bit of a
dose of exercise to super boost the
recovery process while not adding any
fatigue and actually subtracting so the
biggest quintessential critical thing
for Recovery training is for it to be
very very easy if it is remotely
difficult it's a bad idea you should be
resting
instead recovery days do uh recovery
training does a couple of really cool
things during multi-day rest periods if
you rest generally for more than about
two or three days your body actually
starts to recover slower because your
metabolism is like fuck that I guess
we're done with sport if you do a little
bit of light movement and training
during a 3 to four day rest period you
can actually have better faster and more
complete
recovery in addition
just that minor workload and moving
through going through the motions can
save a little tiny fraction of muscle
from going away these are tiny fractions
but over months and years of training
they can add up and because you're still
training with the exercises during
recovery training and because the
exercises are so easy very far from
failure very low much lower reps M many
fewer sets much less load you're
actually able to focus on technique
meticulously so recovery training still
Tak your Technique very seriously and
then it's an extra opportunity to
improve your Technique while your
fatigue comes down very very very cool
when should you use these a couple
there's there are more situations that
I'm going to list but I'm going to list
probably about 95% of all the situation
fall into I think basically three things
one when you otherwise have multiple and
this I mean three or more days off in a
row so if you take a recovery half week
you take a D Lo you take an act of rest
well yeah all the training days on those
are recovery training days roughly half
of everything and super
easy if you are just taking two days off
from the gym don't take your second day
and go in there and do stuff if it's one
day off don't you dare go to the fucking
gym if it's three day off 5050 maybe the
middle day that second day you can go
and do recovery training but if it's
four five six days off yeah you should
probably get your ass in there and do
one or two recovery training sessions
that's a good idea next it's a really
big Advantage these kinds of days when
technique optimization is a big factor
for hypertrophy trainees such as well
maybe you and definitely me it's not a
big deal hyfy technique is not that
complicated also you get a shitload of
practice because you're doing tons of
sets and Reps all the fucking time but
if you are a weightlifter or a
powerlifter or if you're into SNM which
means strongman then you have an
opportunity to do all the events and
lifts very light and maybe even for a
little bit of speed and that promotes
recovery and it improves your Tech
technique so to a bodybuilder if given
the chance between a recovery day and
just a day off many times they'll just
take the day off because they don't have
a lot of rest days to begin with anyway
and because technique doesn't matter
much so one of the upsides is a little
bit not as big of a deal but for people
who are powerlifters weightlifters or
stra man competitors or just
recreational strength people strong men
and strong woman I think women just
still call The Sport strongman it's a
bit of a archaic
term if that's the case
man recovery training is actually
fucking great because it drops your
fatigue so you can get crazy heavy
training after but also makes you more
technical so that when you go to that
crazy heavy training you're even more
fluid and everything's really good and
lastly you can use these when you taking
away pre-planned hard training days and
replacing them with recovery training
days if you had just rest days planned
like you plann two rest days days and on
the second day you're like man I want to
go to the fucking gym I didn't have any
fucking thing planned here and I'm not
supposed to be at the gym fuck it I'll
go do a recovery training session that's
not the worst thing in the world but
it's kind of fucking stupid because you
really two or three days in a row just
rest and let the body relax the utility
of a recovery training session doesn't
really show itself until you do rest for
a couple of days that's when it really
makes a big difference and if you're
layering in more training than you're
supposed to to be if you're supposed to
train five days a week but now you're
adding an extra recovery training
session on that sixth day to quote Dr
James Hoffman one of the world's experts
in recovery training and RP
coach you do not recover by adding shit
so if your sixth day was supposed to be
hard but you're like way too fucked up
to do it replacing it with recovery
training great
idea five days was the plan six was
supposed to be rest but you're like man
fuck rest I'll sleep when I'm dead
brother dope but you're going to be dead
real soon because if you go and do
recovery training it's just probably a
waste of your time at best and at worst
it actually marginally adds fatigue
because of the psychological fatigue of
going to the gym and experiencing all
that
bullshit
otherwise outside of the circumstances
probably take a rest
day now there is a feature to this
discussion more advanced of timing your
rest days generally speaking if you're
training hypertrophy and strength you're
going to take somewhere between one and
three total rest days per week which is
if you train four days a week you take
three rest days five days a week you
take two six days a week you take one
seven days a week of training is not a
serious approach to training if you're a
hardcore athlete you want the best
possible results you should be training
at most six days a week I really do
think that because again this whole
fucking lecture about how rest days are
important so you need at least once per
week when you're constructing your plan
let's let's say you train five days per
week you have a choice you can either
intersperse your rest days or you can
take them contiguously which means they
line up or adjacently one one up to
another so you could do Monday Tuesday
rest Thursday Friday Saturday rest and
then come back or you could do Monday
through Friday training and then
Saturday Sunday rest contiguous adjacent
days and then Monday back to training by
a small margin I think most of the time
and I mean like
6040 contiguous training days sorry uh
definitely training days contiguous
adjacent rest days if you have more than
one are usually a good idea at least two
in a row at one point during your week
you can drop a lot of fatigue in one day
you really can with a great night of
sleep but two rest days in a row get you
Jazz the fuck up for psycho training
like none other there's something
special to that and if you're a
bodybuilder hypertropin is not that hard
you might be able to do just one rest
day or not even do the contiguous ones
maybe five days a week but you split it
up no big deal but you're a strength
athlete you're a strong man you're a
powerlifter I highly
recommend taking two days off in a row
it can be a GameChanger at least try it
and see how you
feel now within all that context whether
or not you do the contiguous days there
are a few timing options you can choose
from and they both have their upsides
and downsides one intelligent way to
take a rest day let's say you're a
bodybuilder is before your big priority
day or days let's say that you have two
rest days a week and this mesocycle fuck
this whole training block three
mesocycles in a row Like Chief four to
six months of training you want big back
gains you were at the club and you were
like hey I noticed you from across the
room but she's like I'm going to cut you
off she had my exact tone of voice she's
like when you came over here I thought
you were fucking hot but then you turned
around to look back at your friends and
I noticed you have the back of what
looks to be a literal vagina and I'm not
interested in you talking to me when you
come back to me when you B to fucking
meat on your godamn spine and then she
takes a
shot and fucks off you're like first of
all that bitch was rushing for sure
second of all damn her voice is weird
but she was so so hot she had these
horns on her head from growth hormone
abuse are they still there
Scott yes I love
him you need a big back you're like fuck
that I'm never getting dist at the club
like that I'd have fucking knocked a
motherfucker out but I would hit women
but I'd also can't knock her out because
my back's not big enough what are you
going to do we got two rest days a week
a smart thing to do is to take take your
rest days before your big two back
training sessions of that
week Tuesday you train back Friday you
train back odd but Monday and Thursday
are your rest days which means that you
show up Tuesday and Friday for back
training you can't fucking wait to rip
the bar into pieces you're fed you're
rested and you're going to put every
fucking ounce of pain and brutality and
embarrassment and just never having
become the person you were supposed to
be
that fucking worked out for
me and I'm gonna take all that shit and
I'm G to put it in the goddamn weights
very good idea another compelling idea
also
exists instead of taking the rest days
before your training to gear up for it
take the most important training for you
in that bezel cycle which is in your
case because you got dissed at the club
the back and put it put the rest days
after the back training you get in the
gym tired not tired
grind but then you get a day off after
what do you do during the day you
fucking rest and you sleep and you relax
and you eat what happens to your back it
grows and grows and grows because you
will not see higher growth rates in any
muscle in any time during the week other
than the time directly after training it
especially that day after that's when
you get a ton of growth you might as
well line it up because if you do
another workout that day there's some
interference it could not be large but
it will absolutely be interference so if
you're really serious about bringing up
some kind of muscle group that you've
been uh offended about at the club by a
female Russian speaking woman then
either taking a rest days or rest day
before that big priority muscle group or
after they're both fine options ideally
it would take before and after then
you're training like twice a week and
that doesn't make any fucking
sense lastly there is another compelling
case where you take your off days on
weekends why because weekends generally
for all of life stress work school your
parole officer keeps calling you shit in
my life that I have to deal with on the
weekends it happens less so the weekends
are already a low stress time why not
maximize the fuck out of that by taking
those as rest days you're working like a
dog Monday through Friday anyway so if
Thursday's your rest day you're at
fucking work the boss is yelling at you
you're at school your professor's
yelling at
you show up to your parole officer she's
yelling at you and then she's like have
you been a bad boy she's got handcuffs B
is pretty dope Scott the video guy when
you were on parole for that one crime
series of crimes crime spree that we
won't talk about did you ever get SNM by
your female poal
officer be with her baton a lot oh I see
you're like look I'm not into the
seduction part I'm into pain just beat
me with your baton mercilessly she's
like oh okay having fun you're like yes
in any case that's gross folks this is a
family channel
okay you got to ask you know what I'm
saying so weekends are awesome because a
big cool down and they take that rest
that you're trying to remember the point
of rest is to recover and they maximize
your ability to recover concentrated
loading consolidation of stressors into
one part of the week consolidation of
rest into another Sport Science approved
it sounds like I said a bunch of things
and you're like well certainly I have to
hit one of these if I arrange my rest
days you could not you could say chest
is really important and you train your
chest Tuesday and Frid Friday and on
Monday and Thursday you're training legs
and back together and fucking Wednesday
and Saturday you're training shoulders
and arms like crazy it's like okay well
you'll just be tired on both sides for
your chest good job and then it turns
out that you take your off days some
fucking way or other than that that's
not the weekend and then so like you
fucked up everything you can totally
fuck up most of this or not all of this
so if you have priority muscle groups
try to rest either before or after and
and if you don't try to rest in the
weekends no this is minor stuff it's not
mandatory but if you want to make a
little optimal is kind of program then
download the RP hypertrophy app link in
BIO no description description I can
YouTube but for this stuff think about
your recovery to maximize it to try to
do the best as you
can and that's it folks that's all I
have go rest and come back and don't
watch any of our videos until you're wel
arested doctor's orders see
that