even if let's say the World Turns us
upside down and every piece of evidence
we have now gets overturned by another
20 studies worst case scenario you made
the same gains and you made an educated
bet based on the current evidence which
makes sense especially in the context of
I want to get the most gains possible
bro it's an extra half a second of doing
this yes like just do
it hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength and I am here with one of my
esteemed colleagues Dr Pac who only has
the name Dr pack and no other name in
the world but his actual name is Greek
and thus not pronounceable to the rest
of civilization do you want to say your
whole name for fun for sure it's patrios
anakis korakakis which is pronounceable
but very intimidating very intimidating
it's a very long Greek name dare I say
kirakos Grizzlies in some small sense he
has a unique surname though kulak
because it has some uh its Origins are
from the when Greece was the Turkey
Greece part some of that origin it's not
a common name so I think his is is is a
bit less Greek ask so you're more Greek
the more you know than the more the most
Greek man of all time it's difficult to
be more Greek than kago very difficult
what is also difficult apparently is
doing something with optimal technique
and uh Dr pack is has just co-authored a
study on what is the optimal technique
and and we want to talk about it cuz it
sounds right up our alley folks pack
tell us a story what's going on for sure
so we recently published a narrative
review and for those that don't know a
narrative review is essentially a
peer-reviewed blog post in the sense
that it's our take on the current
literature and we reviewed the
literature on optimal technique for
maximizing hypertrophy gains now the
reason we opted for this type of review
is because in order to do a systematic
review which is is usually considered
you know one of the best uh types of
evidence in the scientific world is
because in order to do a scientific
review you need to have studies
exploring the topic directly exploring
the topic that you want to review but in
the case of exercise technique there
isn't much out there MH there there was
literally no definition of what
technique means in general and we
essentially wanted to lay the base for
future research and also see okay based
on the current scientific evidence what
would be what would be a rough Direction
some guidance for optimal technique when
wanting to absolutely maximize gains
gains being hypertrophy hypertrophy
specifically and what did you guys find
roughly speaking so we identified a few
different components of technique range
of motion Tempo exercise specific
kinematics and that was it more or let's
go through each one range of motion what
did you find for sure So based on the
Cardon literature although we cannot
confidently say at this St stage that
you should perform partials at long
muscle lengths exclusively for all your
training what seems to be relatively
clear with some terms and conditions is
that the stretch position the lengthen
position of a muscle putting your muscle
in that lengthen position is beneficial
for hypertrophy and you should ensure
that whatever range of motion you're
using you are emphasizing you're placing
some emphasis in the on the length and
position of a of a muscle
excellent all right so you said range of
motion the last one was kinematics ex
specific kinematics and Tempo Tempo what
did you guys find on Tempo so I was
coming in from when I started doing the
review um I came in from a place where I
was like okay slow Ecentric fast
concentric when looking at the direct
literature things are not super clear
and it does seem that as long as you
control your entric and you don't let
the weight freefall a wide range of
tempos can be ployed as long as you're
within 2 to 8 seconds for the entirety
of your repetition so both concentric
and concentric Tempo combined now there
are studies that show that a slightly
slower Centric leads to marginally more
growth for some muscles than a faster
Ecentric but then vice versa there's
there are a couple of studies that show
the opposite you know slower concentric
leading to more growth so overall
although more evidence and more research
is needed we're not a 100% sure it does
seem that as long as you are you know
keeping things relatively controlled you
could go a bit faster in the Ecentric a
bit slower in the concentric based on
your preference although as we will
speak uh in a bit based on the range of
motion recommendations there are cases
where a slower Centric in my opinion at
least and this is also you know coach
pack just aside from research or p in
practice may make more sense so that you
can get that nice stretch okay and then
exercise specific kinematics what did
you guys find generally tough General
topic to research super and surprisingly
or non-s surprisingly when it comes to
like exercise specific modifications
like oh slightly Point your um thumbs up
on this exercise or whatever Point your
feet more outwards when you're doing a
squat or whatever there isn't much if
anything on how on whether those things
actually make a meaningful difference
for hypertrophy there is one study on
the calves where they looked at pointing
your feet inwards outwards and so on and
so forth and they did see differences in
hypertrophy based on on on that but for
other muscles and other exercises there
simply isn't much same to an
extent with uh with injury where things
are not very clear in the sense you know
we we did some flexion rows yesterday
some old school Bros will tell you yeah
bro don't round your upper back it's bad
for you'll die cuz you'll die and as
it's there's not much direct evidence to
confidently say that this particular
alteration in technique as long as it
feels comfortable it's painfree and
you're not doing anything crazy that it
will lead to uh to injury and overall
another thing that we're missing is
evidence on strict technique
specifically and what strict really
means versus loose verus loose lenient
technique there's one modeling paper on
the use of external momentum mhm but I
mean you cannot Place much stock on a
modeling paper and as it stands I would
argue that the use of external momentum
and loose technique I do not see any
pros um any big Pros on why you do that
aside from enjoyment but that's a bit
you know on the reduction side of things
enjoyment is like yeah you we like
things that's nice but we're talking
about effect exactly yeah so so far let
me try to summarize the what science
definitely has to say about technique
and then I'd love to hear two things one
did I get it right and two what does
coach pack think about any extra
layering or extra caveat extra advice
for people looking at their technique so
part one is when you're doing most
exercises in most contexts the Deep
stretch under lots of tension don't miss
that much else beyond that we're not
really prepared to say true yes the next
one is uh dude I'm blanking out every
every single time with the middle one
Tempo Tempo um any differences that
exist between concentric and Ecentric
speeds uh are not going to directly
impact short-term muscle gains measured
in the course of weeks MH and then
lastly exercise specific kinematics are
pretty straightforward and there's not
any compelling data that as long as an
exercise isn't causing you grotesque
pain that some exercises are of
categorically off limits and some kind
of techniques are categorically off
limits than others yes so that means
there's a lot of open room for prancing
Around The Meadows for coaching because
science hasn't infected this world of
ours yet with its certainties what does
coach pack say about what to you in the
gym if someone is doing looks right on
versus someone's doing you're like look
man you should think about your
Technique being better yeah for sure um
so it's context dependent if I see the
average Joe who just wants to build
muscle and strength and they're taking
those few basic boxes and they're not
skipping on Long muscle lengths they're
not necessarily emphasizing them and
doing their best to get a deeper stretch
but they're not cutting Rong short full
range of motion chest press machine down
up controlling the Ecentric not
necessarily spending 4 seconds or
whatever just like the most vanilla
based basic set you could ever imagine
if I see that and you're somebody who's
trying to get jacked and strong but
you're not absolutely trying to maximize
gains even if that's an educated beted
totally fine now in the context of a lot
of people that you know watch this
Channel and consume our information who
want to make every educated bet um if
you are skipping the if you if you're
avoiding training at long muscle lengths
or at least not emphasizing them sure do
I think that you're missing out on a ton
of gains probably not but it's good gym
etiquette you're not the time
requirement to do so is an extra second
and I do not see a reason why not to do
it unless there's an extreme level of
discomfort where then you can
potentially opt for other exercises for
the Ecentric uh and concentric duration
of a repetition as coach pack I'd say
that super slow accentrics are not
necessary but in the context of
maximizing muscle growth if you are
trying to get a nice stretch there are
exercises where you have to slow things
down to emphasize that lengthen position
so I do think there is some Merit to not
just going okay as long as I control the
Ecentric and I'm within 2 to eight
seconds based on the literature that has
limitations I'm good therefore I will do
that and I will try and make a point by
not slowing down the Ecentric feather
because yeah I don't want to do what
people tell me I I do think there's
Merit to doing so in some exercises
depending on the exercise setup and so
on like a lat pull down or the rose we
did yesterday um over over all though it
as coach pack gym etiquette appropriate
technique etiquette is something that I
try to convey to most people regardless
of what your goals are again I don't see
much of a reason to be sloppy with
things unless again you're the guy who
says yeah bro my life is 13 times better
when I don't care and I just do whatever
but overall keeping things relatively
strict yes if we were to have an
academic debate about it I can not show
you a bunch of studies and be like this
is definitely better theoretically but I
in practice I don't see a reason why not
why you shouldn't keep things strict
without losing your mind about slight
deviations from what strict is when
effort comes into question when things
get hard it doesn't matter if you
slightly rounded your back during that
last rep or you slightly arched less
because you're at the final rep and
you're like pushing with everything you
got that's another thing that people
that I think based of of this review
people can take a step back and be like
okay it's not the end of the world if it
didn't look exactly the same uh if my my
reps at the end of a said didn't look
exactly the same as the first reps again
as long as you're taking Tempo and range
of motion recommendations I love
it this is one of these situations in
which there's so little formal
evidence that on the balance of science
has confirmed confirmed this and there's
no need for Bros to weigh in or coaches
to weigh in versus it's mostly Bros and
coaching and science doesn't say a lot
it's much more that second
one but at the very least it tells us
something informative about people who
would
claim
that
you must get exercises Ultra
specific in very specific movement
patterns or else or else yeah can claim
that from a in perspective but cannot
yet claim it from an empirical
perspective people who would say that
you have to do slow Ecentric for direct
muscular benefit versus something like
variation which is something we talk
about on the Channel versus something
like injury prevention which you know
like fast entric is greater risk of
injury now I'm not saying it's a huge
risk but it has to be higher risk
because velocity increases risk of
injury very predictably and so if
someone's like no this Ecentric speed is
superior because science not yet fellas
not yet and on the luckily we have a
little bit more data on the rang of
motion side and it's like look if you
the way I see it is this if you're
missing out on the Deep stretch you
better tell me a convincing story as to
why you're doing it because if you're
not getting that deep stretch you're
clearly losing out on potential Gams
yeah yeah and and it's a case of even if
let's say the World Turns us upside down
and every the every piece of evidence we
have now gets overturned buy another 20
studies right worst case scenario you
made the same gains and you made an
educated bet based on the current
evidence which makes sense especially in
the context of I want to get the most
games possible bro it's an extra half a
second of doing this yes like just do it
yes I love it pack that was really
instructive if I want to see more of
your beautiful face is there a place on
YouTube where I can maybe subscribe to
your channel to see it over and over on
YouTube and other platforms but on
YouTube If you just YouTube Dr Pac
there's a Channel with myself Dr Pac
real doctor no gimmicks as i' like to
claim what do you think the executives
at Big Pharma are doing right now
they're trying to get the infamous whom
should we call a real Dr paper actual
paper actual yes actual paper they're
trying to get get it retracted and the
conclusion of that paper is it's like a
letter to the editor sort of paper Jesus
when phys Ians or dentists ask us who
should we call who are the real doctors
we say we because we are the ones who
teach that's the actual conclusion
something along those lines and so
they're just Physicians and dentists
we're
doctors I mean if we're being pedantic
and that's doctors we have to be
pedantic God bless the phds I love it P
thanks for coming on the channel see you
next time folks give him a subscribe a
follow a love a like and uh he does have
another platform which she posts much
more intimate things give that a Google
we can't say it out loud see you next
time