[Applause]
[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at how to improve
core strength and development of the
abdominal muscles using the plank and a
few variations on the same basic
movement pattern but before we get into
that let's have a quick look at the
anatomy and biomechanics involved first
so with the plank we're performing anti
extension where the muscles of the core
contract isometrically to maintain a
neutral spinal position you can think
about it this way if you were to let
everything relax your midsection would
drop down and your lower back would go
into extension so to keep the back
neutral the rectus abdominis or 6-pack
muscle the transverse abdominis or TVA
and obliques will all contract
asymmetrically to keep the spine from
hyperextending so even though the plank
is an isometric exercise meaning the
muscles aren't lengthening and
contracting through a full range of
motion like they would in a crunch or a
leg curl I still like to include it in a
training program because the
improvements in core stability seen here
will have a high degree of carryover to
heavy compound lifts like squats and
deadlifts also I think that for the best
total core strength and development
using a combination of weighted spinal
flexion exercises such as crunches in
both anti rotation exercises like the
half kneeling pal off press and anti
extension exercises like the plank is
best also several researchers have
theorized that it is core muscle
endurance rather than maximal core
strength the best combats spinal
instability and lower back pain so
static core endurance exercises such as
the traditional prone plank would be
beneficial for this and even though it
isn't usually thought of as a muscle
building exercise planks can be very
effective at stimulating hypertrophy of
the abdominal muscles as long as
progressive overload is being applied
which I think is the key thing that many
people miss and we'll get to that here
in a minute
so for the traditional plank you want to
assume a push-up position on a
comfortable surface positioning your
elbows directly beneath your shoulders
so that your upper arm makes a roughly
90 degree angle with the floor and you
want to lift yourself up onto your toes
so your full body makes a straight line
from head to toe to engage the ABS more
you can think about pulling your elbows
back toward your body to
she ate that spinal anti extension
contraction in general I recommend
holding this position for three sets of
twenty to forty second holds and once
you're able to do that quite easily
which i think is a reasonable fitness
standard as a beginner you have a few
other options to continue applying
progressive overload the first option is
to simply extend the whole duration
however this can make training both long
and boring so I almost never recommend
it you can also add external resistance
by stacking weights on your lower back
and glute area however this can be a
pain to set up especially if you're
alone and even with the extra weight on
there it can be fairly unchallenging as
you get more advanced and I'm also not a
big fan of these two overloading options
because they don't inherently improve
muscle recruitment patterns on the plank
itself so let's take a quick look at
what the EMG activation data has to say
on this so according to independently
published results from Bo heck bare
hands and bus keys the plank ranked
pretty evenly for the upper abs lower
abs and obliques it's not outstanding
for either but it's pretty well-rounded
when compared to other popular ab
movements but that's probably because
the traditional front plank is actually
a pretty easy exercise as of 2016 the
Guinness world record for a plank hold
is eight hours in one minute so it isn't
really surprising that you wouldn't see
huge muscle activation levels with the
standard plank and in 2014 a study led
by dr. Brad Schoenfeld found the same
basic thing the traditional front plank
wasn't outstanding at activating the
core
however modifying the plank in two
important ways led to significantly more
activation of the upper abs lower abs
and external obliques the first
modification was to extend the lever arm
essentially moving the elbows forward so
that they're at the level of the eyes
because this is increasing the distance
from the hips to the elbows the abs are
going to have to contract harder to
prevent the spine from extending the
second modification is to squeeze the
glutes hard to pull the pelvis into
posterior pelvic tilt the best way to
think of this as if you were to do a
bikini pose where you pop your glutes
out you'd be performing anterior pelvic
tilt so you want to do the opposite of
that by pulling your glutes in which
according to the paper will create force
coupling of the hip extensors
so the glutes and hamstrings and the
abdominal musculature which will have a
strong influence on core muscle activity
so
again I generally recommend holding this
version of the plank for 20 to 40
seconds for three sets and once you
reach the top end of that you can make
two more adjustments to make the plank
even harder first you can bring the
elbows in closer together just going to
narrow the base of support further
increase in core stabilization demands
and you can cue to simultaneously pull
your elbows toward your toes while
pulling your toes toward your elbows if
you perform this correctly the natural
tendency is for your hips to want to
shoot up into the pipe position however
because you're keeping your glutes
squeezed and maintaining that posterior
pelvic tilt your butt will stay down and
your core will start burning like crazy
now personally if I do all of these
advanced cues at once
I'll start shaking within 10 or 20
seconds now another good option you can
do alongside the plank is an AB wheel
rollout according to a 2008 study from
yudice and colleagues out of 4 abdominal
exercises tested including the crunch
supine double leg thrust and side bridge
the AB wheel exercise came out on top
for the rectus abdominis 6-pack muscle
and when you think about it an AB wheel
rollout is essentially a sort of dynamic
range long lever plank for the abs are
contracting hard to prevent the spine
from extending or dipping down so one
way to get progressively better at
planks is to progressively increase the
range of motion on the rollout over a
training cycle so you want to stop the
range of motion once you feel like
you're no longer able to maintain that
neutral lumbar spine position and then
gradually over time as your core
strengthens you can increase the
distance that you allow the wheel to
move forward also keep in mind that AB
wheel rollouts are an advanced exercise
so don't be discouraged if you have to
start out with a shorter range of motion
and keeping a neutral spine position on
these is always much more important than
going all the way down just for the sake
of it so when it comes to the plank I
would say the most common beginners
error that I see is having the hips too
high this is a lazy way of doing planks
and it totally takes your core out of
the movement now the simple fix here is
to keep your glutes squeezed to pull the
hips into a more neutral position
another common error is essentially the
opposite of this so allowing the hips to
sag down putting the lumbar spine into
an extended position and this is another
lazy way of doing the plank also
potentially more dangerous and the fix
here is to crunch down on the ABS more
or you can use the cue to pull your
elbows back to where your toes
while pulling your toes up toward your
elbows to pop the hips back up into
neutral when it comes to the rollout a
common error is to pull the wheel in
with your arms rather than your abs
remember that you want to initiate the
movement using your core having the
wheel and naturally come in as you
crunch your abs more intentionally so
guys that is all that I have for the
plank I hope you guys found it to be
helpful I don't yet have an AB
specialization training program but it's
something I am hoping to bring to my
website sometime soon down the road in
the meantime I'd recommend checking out
my ab science explained video or a
complete look at ab training and if you
guys are interested in taking your
overall training including ab training
up a notch I'd recommend checking out my
9 week upper lower size and strength
training program that's designed for
intermediate to advanced level lifters
or if you're newer to the gym in your
first year or so of training I recommend
checking out my fundamentals program
which is set towards developing a solid
strength and size foundation first I'm
so thug Rams linked in the description
box below if you guys are interested and
I'll put a button to my programs over
here next my head don't forget to leave
me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
[Music]