[Music]
okay welcome everyone to the technique
Tuesday finale so far in this series
we've covered more than thirty exercises
that I am a fan of exercises that I
think would be smart to include in any
complete training program depending on
your goals and in this video I'm going
to share 10 exercises that I'm not so
much of a big fan of and that I think
most people with muscle and strength
building goals probably shouldn't
prioritize doing in the gym now I should
say up front that this generally isn't
how I approach my training I actually
don't think that there are many if any
inherently good or bad exercises just
better and worse choices depending on
the goal and I think this quote from dr.
Brett Contreras summarizes my view
perfectly injuries in the weight room
have more to do with poor form than the
exercise itself exercises our tools
you're the carpenter a good carpenter
never blames his tools and then in the
same article he points out that with
enough knowledge of biomechanics and
Anatomy you can easily make a case for
why every exercise in the book should be
avoided I'm so that isn't my purpose
here even the exercises on my list might
not be completely useless in all
circumstances and I don't think any of
them are inherently harmful it's just
that
they aren't the ones that I'd broadly
recommend so if you find some of your
favorite exercises on this list that's
okay
you still might be able to modify them
in the ways that I suggest or you could
use an alternative or just continue
using it if you find it working well for
you I'm so with that out of the way
let's dig into my top 10 least favorite
exercises with number one being my least
favorite on the list okay so number 10
on my list is gonna be the standing
dumbbell external rotation this one is
really common in beginners and it isn't
so much that it's actively harmful it's
just not effective so the whole point
behind external rotations is to warm up
and strengthen the rotator cuff and I
love doing them as a prehab drill when
done with cables or bands as they
strengthen the external rotators such as
the rear delts and infraspinous however
when you use a dumbbell while standing
gravity isn't being applied properly
gravity is pulling the dumbbell down in
a sagittal plane while external rotation
is happening in the transverse plane in
other words the dumbbell is a having
absolutely no tension
against external rotation so holding the
dumbbell like this only adds tension to
the biceps and unless you're trying to
isometrically work the biceps you might
as well just do bodyweight external
rotations with no dumbbell but in my
experience it's much more practical to
just do these using cables or bands
number nine on my list is the
above-the-knee rack pole now I should
say I really don't hate to be above the
knee rack pole but I do think there are
more efficient ways to accomplish what
some people use the exercise for now if
you're using them to build deadlift
strength I think you'd be much better
off using a lower block pole that's
gonna have more carryover to the actual
deadlift itself and if you're struggling
with block outs
I think the hip thrust is better for
building glute strength as it loads the
glutes much better in full hip extension
I would agree that it can be effective
for heavily overloading the traps
isometrically
however taking the traps through a full
range of motion by doing shrugs or cable
shrug ins could offer the same benefit
without the need for loading up as much
weight and the main issue that I have
with this exercise is slamming around so
much weight can damage gym equipment so
unless you have access to a private gym
or bring your own bars I don't think
it's the best gym etiquette okay up next
is the cable squat and other exercise
that applies tension in the wrong
direction here the cable is pulling you
forward into the machine
meaning it's mostly challenging your
balance without adding much if any
attention to your quads or glutes
ultimately I think this exercise amounts
to a bodyweight squat that trains your
balance a little bit now I will say that
it can be useful for teaching the squat
in beginners as it forces you to stay a
bit more upright but I'd say past the
rank beginner level I really think
people should graduate on to a squat
variation that loads the movement
pattern axially such as the barbell back
squat front squat goblet squat or even a
machine squat or hack squat would be
much better for applying an overloading
stimulus so since we're on the topic of
squats number seven may come as a
surprise to some people and it's the act
to grass squat I found a lot of people
who get passionate about lifting take on
this idea that unless you're squatting
as deep as possible it doesn't count now
I should say it isn't that I think that
there's anything necessarily wrong with
going very deep on squats if you can do
it safely but I also know that many
trainees simply won't have the mobility
or the skeleton to do so and if they're
squatting for muscle and general
strength building purposes a parallel
squad is perfectly acceptable of course
if you're a competitive power lifter
you'll have
get your hip crease below the knee joint
in order for the lift account in
competition but for people just looking
to build size and strength I think the
risk to reward ratio really starts to
escalate the deeper you get below
parallel plus most often when you squat
deeper than your Anatomy allows you're
not actually taking the knees or the
hips through any extra range of motion
anyway and more often than not you're
just gonna end up rounding the lower
back which only increases risk of injury
so I would say squat as deep as you
comfortably can and I'll link some
resources in the description box below
that might be helpful in determining
what your squat depth should be okay up
next we have the hack squat machine
shoulder press now this exercise it
makes the list mostly just because I
don't think it's necessary I mean if you
really feel this in your shoulders and
that's fine but I find most convoluted
uses of machines that aren't designed to
be used in the way that you're using
them probably aren't adding anything
that a more basic variation would
already accomplished and the same thing
goes for the shoulder press machine
shrug when you stand on the seat and do
shrugs I mean there's just so many other
ways you could set this up using
dumbbells cables a track bar or a
barbell and I'm definitely open to being
creative and experimenting but this one
is just really uncomfortable for my
shoulders it locks me in and it much
rather just do a dumbbell press or a
machine shoulder press that was designed
for this purpose okay number five on my
list is the landmine t-bar cheat row
with a really upright posture you guys
will remember from my videos on rowing
that to maximize the range of motion for
the lats you want your torso to be close
to perpendicular to the line of pull so
by sitting all the way back and keeping
a very upright posture you're really
reducing the range of motion to no
advantage other than just going heavier
and I would say that's a trade-off that
I don't think is worth it if your main
goal is building size and avoiding
injury now granted I know many
bodybuilders have built impressive backs
doing sheet rows so it isn't so much
that there are a useless exercise it's
just that from a cost-benefit
perspective you probably get more out of
reducing the weight leaning more forward
and maintaining better control up next
we've got curling in the squat rack the
others isn't really an exercise itself
but I do still see a lot of guys doing
these in busy commercial gyms and I
think it's really bad at gym etiquette
because you can easily set up a barbell
to curl anywhere in the gym but you can
only set up a squat in the squat rack
and this is especially bad if you're
loading up way more weight than you can
handle
with good form but with that said if
you're in an empty gym or there's
clearly a bunch of squat racks open I
guess there's nothing wrong with banging
out a few curls but if you see someone
roll up with their lifting belt and knee
sleeves I'd be respectful and take your
curls elsewhere okay number three on
this list also might surprise some
people and it's the front raise and it
isn't so much that the front raise is
bad or dangerous it's a fine exercise
it's just almost guaranteed to be
redundant in any typical bodybuilding
program most bodybuilders
already have over developed front delts
relative to their side and rear delts
and many new lifters tend to focus on
muscles they can see in the mirror a
couple this with the fact that any
horizontal and vertical pressing in your
program is already gonna heavily tax the
front delts adding an extra isolation
work for the front delts and the best
case is gonna be redundant and in the
worst case it could exacerbate existing
imbalances so the fix here is pretty
simple anytime you go to front raises
and do side raises or bent over or
reverse flies instead to create more
balance across all heads of the deltoid
alright number two on my list of least
favorite exercises is the behind the
neck pull down in the behind the neck
press now I'll start by saying that I
don't think everyone who does this
exercise is gonna end up in the hospital
an hour plenty of trainees who have the
mobility to do this movement just fine
and it's actually never given me any
problems on the few occasions that I've
experimented with it however when it
comes to the behind the neck lat
pulldown I'm aware of at least one study
showing it to have lower lat activation
compared to simply pulling to the front
and when it comes to the behind the neck
press just because you can force the
shoulder to perform pure abduction that
doesn't mean there's any advantage in
doing so and I actually think a
traditional OHP combined with a lateral
raise would be more effective um so they
aren't my favorite because they tend to
lead to less overloading they're awkward
to perform for most lifters and they
tend to impose an greater injury risk
for most people and most importantly
they just don't seem to offer any
noticeable benefit from a hypertrophy
perspective so unless you definitely
have the shoulder mobility to do these
safely and you really find your delts or
lats responding well to them I think
it's much smarter to go with pull downs
and presses brought to the front okay
and the number one exercise meaning it's
my least favorite exercise on this list
is the BOSU ball curl or the BOSU ball
squat now first of all I'm assuming most
viewers of my channel wanted
muscle in gained strength so while these
might have some application in some
scenario for the vast majority of
lifters you're gonna get much more out
of the curl in terms of biceps growth by
doing it on a stable surface since
you'll be able to overload the biceps
more control the movement better and
create a better mind muscle connection
and the same thing goes for the squat
now I would say most people using both
Suh balls are probably using them
because they're supposed to be more
functional
however as pointed out in this 2010 ec
SM article from Brad Schoenfeld it's
misleading to characterize an exercise
as either functional or non-functional
for example for a trainee who's very
unfit a routine including only
non-functional machines would in fact be
very functional in terms of helping them
carry out their everyday activities
so clearly the functionality of an
exercise exists on a continuum
regardless of 2010 position stand
concluded that from a performance
standpoint unstable devices shouldn't be
utilized when hypertrophy strength or
power is the goal as force generation of
power and velocity are impaired so in my
opinion these unstable surface exercises
should be avoided by most trainees going
for strength and size since they hinder
performance while increasing risk of
injury and with that we're gonna bring
this part of the series to a close I
think this has been my favorite series
so far to make because I just find that
technique really captures both the art
and the science of training so I really
appreciate you guys who've followed
along since the beginning so my plan
from here is to get the science applied
series going again take you guys through
some full-body workouts from my new
program which is coming soon and then
sometime in the new year I'm going to
launch an advanced technique Tuesday
series or I'm gonna cover some more
specialized training techniques that I
think you guys are really gonna enjoy
and I'll put a link to the full a
technique Tuesday playlist over here if
you guys want to check out all the
30-something exercises that we've
covered as always don't forget to leave
the video a thumbs up if you enjoyed it
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one
okay alive brother squeeze on that
section yeah look dude try one more time
go
[Music]
sooner - yep