prce FR of that mirror you twerk it on
the dance of that mirror you twerk it on
Twerk it on FR of that mirror you
twer twer twer
twer all right so this is our
pre-workout meal uh I usually just fry
up a bunch of spinach and ham in the
pan uh in mushrooms and then I'll put it
together into a scrambled egg
concoction and I don't know if you can
see it but there I got some cheese
grated up on top uh two slices of quinoa
bread with a tablespoon of peanut butter
on each and this is a mixture of
Oats uh Cream of Wheat whole whole grain
Cream of Wheat and almond milk and my
coffee yeah so after our breakfast we
weren't quite done so we got the
chocolate cheap chocolate cheesecake dut
from Tim Horton's the honey crer and the
Oreo yeah so this is my first time
deadlifting in many months um because of
my back injury I wasn't able to squat or
deadlift uh throughout my whole prep for
the muscle
Mayhem so this is actually my first time
pulling anything over 275 cuz I did
attempt it a few times
uh yeah in at least probably 3 or 4
months and it actually felt really good
so leading into my prep for the Arnold
Classic in merch uh I'm feeling good my
back is doing a lot better uh we're
still going to take things fairly
conservatively and focus on bench for
the first uh
phase but definitely my back is doing a
lot better and these are just a few
pull-ups that I thre threw in after my
deadlifts just for fun this is me
squatting I'm actually supposed to be
doing 4 second negatives but um since
time speeds up when you're doing uh slow
negatives um it's actually ended up only
being about two in this set I think I
increased it to three in later sets but
it is really hard to go this slow as you
could see in the last in this squat here
I have a little less flexibility on my
left side which is why I uh squat deeper
kind of on my right and there's a little
bit of an imbalance there uh my ankle my
left ankle is really tight and and my
left hip is a little bit tighter too so
we're actually working on that through
use using CA squats in my program and
it's an rdf squat development phase that
Jason of the strength guys wrote me he's
my coach and uh Jeff as well so this
whole phase is centered around uh making
me break bad habits uh in my squat form
and just completely like kind of
Reinventing how I squat to make it uh
more biomechanically
advantageous
um so yeah and and my squat is actually
my lagging lift so if I can bring up my
squat uh then since my bench and my
deadlift are pretty good for my weight
class I should my total should be pretty
competitive at the Canadian Nationals
which is what I'm training for I always
forget the number that I'm on with the
slow negatives because CU I'm counting
so many different uh Tempo Parts in my
head but yeah so we just finished our
workout squats and deadlifts and now
we're at the Thai
restaurant so should be
good that's a red
curry Jas and
rice shrimp pad
tie lemongrass chicken and he said that
we were going to eat all this after the
show so here we are eating it so what
are we going to get birthday
part
new all the way back there um can I get
one scoop of the peanut butter cup and
one of the brownies we just finished up
with Ty and now we've got birthday cake
and it's called gooey mooy it's like
toffee and that's underneath that's on
the bottom right there so that one but
you can't okay so that one is toffee
bits and like burnt sugar ice cream and
like caramel cups you can't even see it
now caramel CLE and then what's the
other one and that one is coow crisp or
something yeah and it's like it's
chocolate ice cream peanut butter cups
and crunchy crisp or something chocolate
bar it's the number one ice cream in the
world so according to we have no idea
who no it's dig yeah Reader's Digest
number one in Canada Jeff's taking a
pick of it so Ben and& Jerry's is 10th
on this list so just so you know cows
beats Ben and Jerry's by 10 places you
Americans your Cold Stone and it was
founded in
Pei but we're I haven't never tried it
this is my first time trying and then
this is our lovely view of the hellofax
waterfront that's the hellofax fairy
system oh that birthday is really
good garlic
fingers pizza with a bunch of on it
I don't that's Donaire and then that's a
pepperoni like Fifth Avenue Pizza so
it's called yeah and so we're going to
watch that new Jim Gaffigan special uh
stand up routine and we had to get food
if you know anything about Jim Gaffigan
stand up it's all the food all right I'm
out