[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization today I'm going to do a
recipe from my second 100 recipe
cookbook called the Renaissance feast
this is hands-down my favorite fish
recipe of any of the recipes in any of
my books I love this so we're gonna
start out with a beautiful piece of
salmon and we're going to go ahead and
season it salt and pepper you guys know
I love salt so I'm going heavy on salt
and we're going to mix up foreign
jhamora malade Dijon mustard so there's
already sweet and spicy happening here
and some extra virgin olive oil mix it
up really good you got to kind of
emulsify that olive oil get it in there
and it starts to like thicken up can't
see the oil anymore just a uniform
yellow color with chunks of the orange
that orange marmalade also is a no sugar
added so it's just the orange the rind
no sugar in there we don't eat that okay
we'll put this on the fish spread it on
here really good this is the glue this
is the glue that's gonna hold on the
topping that we put on this all right so
the next thing that we want to do is mix
up our crumb topping I'm gonna do it
right here on the plate so I've got
chopped pecans some dried parsley and
this is what I always do with dried
spices I actually taught my four and
six-year-old to do that cuz I'm always
having them help me in the kitchen is
when you use dried spices put it between
your hands and wake up those dried
spices break them apart in your hand and
that releases all of the you know flavor
that's been trapped in this dried herb
that's been in a jar and your cupboard
for who knows how long so we get that in
there and then we are going to Zee
this orange right into our topping if
you use as much or as little as you want
I'm just kind of mix this together
we've already seasoned our fish we have
our glue on now I'm gonna press this on
it's gonna make this amazing crunchy
coating press it in so it stays really
well again you're not gonna flip it so
nothing's gonna happen to it we're gonna
throw it in a 400 degree oven for 15
minutes I'll show you what it looks like
when it comes out so let's add the skin
on so I'm gonna try to take this off
again this is our pecan orange salmon
from Renaissance peach
that was the second big cookbook so I've
done two cookbooks of 100 recipes each
two cookbooks that are a little more
specialized at 50 recipes d big finish
squeeze fresh orange juice on this moist
crunchy it's sweet I really hope you
like this as much as I do it's my
favorite fish recipes
[Music]