all right hey everyone uh so in this
video I'm going to be discussing
periodization for bodybuilding uh so
essentially how it is we should go about
interpreting the research on
periodization and then applying that to
our bodybuilding focused training and
programming um so I want to kick things
off just with a quick definition um so I
will say that there doesn't really seem
to be any universally recognized or
accepted definition of periodization um
but it seems to me that most of the
experts in the field are just sort of
construing it really broadly to me um
how it is you plan your training or
organize your training over time
basically this term periodization kind
of originated in the 1950s with a guy
named Leo matveev uh he was a Russian
physiologist um and he sort of coined
the term to mean what we would today
refer to uh as linear periodization so
essentially increasing intensity uh and
decreasing volume uh over time and and
since then since the original model was
proposed um there have been a whole lot
of studies done on periodization uh
there have been a bunch of different
spins put on the original model um and
it's just gotten a whole lot more
popular so I think the first question
that we need to ask ourselves is is
periodization actually important does it
actually work is the question even worth
talking about um and I think that the
answer this question is yes uh I believe
that the majority of the studies that
have looked at periodization have sh
known a positive effect of periodizing
your programming um on strength and
hypertrophy and just as one example of
this uh there was a review article that
looked at 15 different studies and what
it found was that 13 out of the 15
studies uh showed a positive effect of
periodizing training um and out of the
two studies that didn't show any effect
of periodizing your your training they
were both short in duration and on
subjects without much training
experience um and as we know subjects
who are kind of new to training uh can
really respond to anything and so any
sort of non ridiculous routine is
probably going to yield results for them
despite all of this evidence I think we
should still be slow to conclude um or
shouldn't be so quick to conclude uh
that it is periodization per se uh
that's doing the work here um it seems
plausible that there could just be some
other factor that happens to go
alongside with periodization um that's
actually the
significant factor here and just in
support of this uh there was a review
paper written in 2012 by John Kylie uh
where he stated that due to complicating
logistical constraints experimental
designs have compared interventions
regularly varying training parameters
with interventions with minimal or no
variation accordingly what these Studies
have demonstrated is that variation is a
critical aspect of effect of training
not that periodization methodologies are
an optimal means of providing variation
and so then he goes on to sort of say
that as the literature stands right now
uh periodization isn't really all that
evidence-based all that we can really
draw from this research is that having
Variety in your training is really
important now I think it's important to
note here uh that if you vary your
training too frequently so you're just
changing things up all the time uh or if
you change it excessively so you go from
down here to up here suddenly um then I
think that your sort of training targets
can be too varied and then your adaptive
abilities or your ability to adapt to
the training um can be spread too thin
and so as a result you know your gains
can be compromised um so variation is
important but you have to keep it within
the context of varying things
methodically and in a controlled way and
not just sporadically and guys in the
discussion that follows I think it's
going to be important to keep in mind
that uh none of these models will stand
alone in isolation in the real world uh
so I think that they tend to work
together and they work best that that
way um and if we're going to look at
this through a sort of practical lens I
think the best thing that we can do is
sort of borrow ideas or the best ideas
from each of these and then integrate
them into sort of like an overarching
programming
perspective so like I just said linear
periodization is when you increase the
intensity and decrease the volume over
time so as an example of this let's just
say you're a bodybuilder in his or her
off seon um and you're peing for a
powerlifting meat um or you're not
competing in powerlifting but you're
just running a max strength block uh so
an example of what this might look like
is say you go in week one and you do
three sets of six at 80% and then as the
weeks go by uh you will decrease the
number of reps that you're doing um and
you will increase the percentage of your
one rep max that you're putting on the
bar um and then this will just go all
the way down until you have meat week uh
or the week before meat week where
you'll do a bunch of heavy singles
pretty close to your one rep max uh and
then in meat week you'll just taper or d
load uh going into the meat I think
another example of where this would be
appropriate is say you're running a
specific progression scheme in a low to
moderate rep range so say 6 to eight
reps essentially you'll start in week
one doing 100 lb for say three sets of
eight um the next week you'll do 105 lb
for three sets of seven and you just
continue with that where the reps are
decreasing so the overall volume is
increasing um but the weight is
increasing now of course this isn't a
problem for a bodybuilder because at the
end of the strength block you've gained
a bunch of strength now uh so when you
go back to the beginning and and start
the progression over again you'll be
handling more weight and so in the big
picture you actually end up handling
more
volume so now we'll move on to reverse
linear periodization um so as the name
suggests this is sort of the inverse of
linear periodization so it's when uh you
increase the volume in decrease the
intensity uh over time and I will note
here that most studies that have
compared linear periodization to reverse
linear periodization have found linear
periodization to be more effective um
but that isn't to say that reverse
linear periodization doesn't have its
place um I think there are a few
specific scenarios where reverse linear
periodization would be appropriate the
first example of this uh would be in a
phase of training where your primary
goal is uh developing muscular endurance
or work capacity let's just say you're
trying to increase your work capacity in
the squad so you might want to kick it
off in week one with three sets of four
to six at an RP of nine then in week two
you're going to do three sets of 6 to8
uh at an RP of 9 uh week three You' go
in and do three sets of 8 to 10 at an RP
of 9 UM and then in week four uh three
sets of 10 to 12 um at rp9 again um so
since we're using the RP scale to
prescribe the load um as the rep range
increases or in other words as the
volume increases the load is
automatically going to to decrease and
the load might not actually have to
decrease by that much because as you're
going throughout the phase you're
improving your ability to to handle more
volume uh and so you might actually be
able to move more weight um in those
higher rep ranges um so I think that
developing work capacity in this sort of
sense uh does make sense for say like a
powerlifter in his off seon uh or even
leading into a peak those new
adaptations of muscular endurance and
the ability to recover from all that
volume uh can then be transmuted uh into
max strength gains um in the next block
and just as another really quick example
of this I think a a pseudo reverse
linear uh progression scheme like this
one here uh can be effective I don't
think strictly speaking it would be
classified as reverse linear uh just
because the load or the intensity
doesn't actually uh decrease it just
stays the same um but the volume would
increase across uh the course of that uh
uh misoc cycle and um if you guys want
to hear more about this progression
scheme uh you can watch my video here uh
on progression
schemes all right so now I want to move
on to undulating periodization and so
essentially guys all that undulating
means is just wavy uh so in the case of
periodization what're talking about here
is that training variables like sets and
Reps and load uh will be wavy over time
uh so they'll go up and down and so on
um so in the case of daily undulating
periodization these variables will go up
and down within the training week so
they'll vary on a daily time scale um
whereas in weekly undulating
periodization uh these VAR these
variables will go up and down um on a
scale of weeks uh but within the
training week itself uh they won't be
changing and I'm not going to spend a
whole lot of time uh digging into the
research on this uh I'll just suffice it
to say that the majority of studies do
find uh that an ulating approach tends
to lead to Superior strength gains uh
than say a linear approach but this
isn't always the case there is the
occasional study that will show um
undulating periodization not to be
superior uh to a linear approach but in
any case I think that the the majority
view is that undulating uh reps or sets
uh within the training week or at least
from week to week is a good idea um and
I think that this makes sense from a
physiological perspective but it also
makes a lot of sense from a
psychological perspective uh given that
we tend to like some variety and
freshness to our training just as an
example of this uh let's say that you're
doing squats and you do three sets of
eight on Monday then you do three sets
of eight again on Thursday um I feel as
though most people would get more bored
with that set and rep scheme uh than say
three sets of 10 on Monday and and then
four sets of six on Thursday um I think
that we tend to habituate to doing the
same thing again and again and so
undulating reps or sets or loads uh
within the training week uh is a good
idea to add variety to training okay so
let's move on to an example of daily
undulating periodization um let's say
that we have really crappy biceps um
they're a lagging body part for us and
so we're going to be hitting them three
times a week uh we might go in on day
one of week one and do three of 4 to six
uh day two of Week 1 we might do three
sets of 15 to 20 um and day three we
might do three sets of 8 to 12 um so you
have three different rep ranges here
they're wavy so they undulate throughout
the week um and that's really all that
daily undulating periodization means um
and then in week two you would have the
same setup and so and then in week three
you would have again the same thing uh
but to ensure that you're progressing
from week to week uh what you would do
is focus on Progressive overload uh so
ensure that you're adding some weight to
the bar uh from Week 1 to week 2 week
two to week three uh while staying
within that rep range um so that would
still classify as daily undulating
periodization um but there would be sort
of like a linear progression uh in terms
of incrementally adding weight to the
bar um as the weeks go
by all right so now I want to move on to
conjugate periodization uh so the
conjugate method I think is based on two
Central premises uh so the first is that
different traits are developed
simultaneously uh or concurrently so
just as an example of this uh you might
be developing both hypertrophy and max
strength uh within the same week um so
in this sense it's very similar to The
Daily undulating approach day one you
would go in and do Max effort work say
on the bench press um and then on day
two you would go in and do uh Dynamic
effort work or speed speed work uh with
say some bands and chains or or what
have you and the second premise is that
uh exercise variation is important um
and I think that this is it's this idea
that we can um borrow the most from the
conjugate approach as bodybuilders so
just as one example of empirical support
for this there was a study done by FKA
atal uh in 2014 um where they took two
groups and they gave one group only
squads uh so their workout program was
just all squads
um and the other group they gave squats
and deadlifts and lunges and I think leg
press uh so they had a lot of variation
in terms of exercises this group had no
variation um and what they found at the
end of the study was that uh the group
that only did squats didn't see
hypertrophy in all of the heads of the
quads only in a couple of the heads
whereas the group that varied their
exercises uh they saw hypertrophy in all
four heads of the quads um so I think
that this study sort of shows us that uh
if we want symmetrical and proportional
development as bodybuilders uh it's
really important to vary our exercises
and not get caught up in a minimalistic
approach where we just do say one
exercise or a handful of exercises and
that's
it so I think that out of all of the
periodization models that we've
discussed uh this is the one that we can
learn the most from um as advanced
trainees uh so block periodization is
really based around this idea of
training residuals um which states that
after you stop training a given ability
it will tend to stick around uh for a
nice while after you stop training it so
the main idea with block periodization
was that you would take one block of
training say I don't know a month or two
um and focus on developing a given
ability so let's just say muscular
endurance um then in the next block you
would put the muscular endurance stuff
at maintenance uh so you wouldn't train
that so much um and instead you would
start to focus on a different ability so
say max strength devel development um
and because of training residuals you
can sort of keep the adaptations that
you built in the first block into the
second block um provided that there's
enough work in there to at least allow
for the maintenance of it and I think
that as advanced bodybuilders um this is
an important concept for us uh because
it becomes increasingly uh difficult to
improve given body parts um after
training for for a certain period of
time um so as an example of this let's
just say that you're an advanced level
bodybuilder uh who has a lagging chest
um what you might want to do using a
block periodized approach is take a four
to six week block and really focus on
blasting your pecs with a high frequency
so say three to four times a week um
quite a lot of volume within reason and
a lot of exercise variation and then in
the follow-up block you might want to
move on to developing say another body
part uh so you would put the chest work
at maintenance say to two time times a
week with a reduction in volume to say
2/3 or half of what you were doing in
the previous block um and now focus on
say the legs or something else uh and
then in the follow-up block after that
uh what you might want to do is go back
to hitting your chest again at a very
high frequency and volume um and I
believe that you can continue to make uh
progress even as an advanced athlete uh
when periodizing your training in this
way uh where you have blocks uh of
training with a specific Focus on
developing a specific body part or a
given adaptation so guys in conclusion
um I just want to emphasize that in the
real world from a practical programming
perspective I don't think any of these
models will uh stand alone in isolation
and to build I think the best program
for you you're going to have to
incorporate uh different aspects of
probably each of these models um and
make sure that you keep Progressive
overload um at the Forefront of any any
training program uh to ensure that you
are progressing and getting better and
getting stronger uh over time so guys I
just want to say thank you uh for
watching this video I hope that you guys
learned something or took at least
something away from it uh that's going
to help you and your training uh one of
the ways that you can support me and
motivate me to keep making this these
sorts of videos uh would be simply by
sharing the video wherever you have a
voice uh if you don't want to share the
video but you'd still like to support
the channel um one of the ways you can
do that is just by giving me a thumbs up
down below I was also wondering if any
of you guys would be interested in
purchasing a standalone bodybuilding
program from me uh it would be a
probably 6month periodized plan um and
reasonably priced uh if that's something
you guys might be interested in uh just
leave me a comment in the comments below
and if I do get any interest then it's a
project that I'll move forward with uh
so thank you guys once again so much for
watching the video and I will see you
guys in the next
one