if you're vegan you're plant-based or
you're considering just reducing your
consumption of animal products here's
how to modify your diet to maximize
muscle growth and stay
healthy welcome back Dr Milo Warfare PhD
in sports SCI with wolf coaching
nonfunctioning sign or maybe I'm just
trying to save electricity I recently
got an electric bill worth several
thousand so we're trying to save over
here turns out streaming PornHub on 14
different screens at once takes some
electric and since we're talking about
the environment let me make clear what
this video is and isn't I am not
advocating for or against vegan diets or
omnivorous diets or what have you I just
going to be presenting the science on
how to maximize muscle building and stay
healthy if you do choose to opt to eat
more plant-based and I'm not going to
comment on the ethics or the
environmental impact because frankly not
my of expertise what I will say though
is that health-wise a well- constructed
vegan or plant-based diet can be just as
healthy as a well- constructed
omnivorous diet there are risk factors
to consider with both approach but if
you're smart about it you can be just as
healthy and gain just as much muscle
with either approach because eating
plant-based involves the Restriction of
certain foods within your diet that
means we're potentially at the risk of
missing out on certain important
nutrients but we first need to figure
out what they are before we can go about
how to address those issues fortunately
that's where a study from a couple years
ago comes in in this study they randomly
assigned around 140 adults to one of
three groups group one consumed 70% of
their protein from animal sources and
only 30% from from plant sources group
two had an even split of 50% of their
protein from animal sources and the
remainder from plant sources and group
three consumed 70% of their protein from
plant sources and only 30% from animal
sources the authors wanted to see
whether any differences in nutrient
intake and potential deficiencies would
arise as a consequence of Shifting your
protein intake from more animal sources
to more plant-based sources first let's
touch on protein and fiber the group
that consumed the most plant-based
protein ended up consuming less overall
protein compared to the other groups
likewise the group that consumed 70% of
their protein from plant sources ended
up consuming more fiber than the other
two groups generally the group consuming
more of their protein from plant-based
sources consumed less of these nutrients
vitamin B12 iodine intake zinc intake
and animal derived ion intake as you
might expect though the group consuming
the most plant-based protein had a
higher total ion intake and a higher
plant derived ion intake and importantly
while these differences were noted in
their actual nutritional intake when it
came to blood biomarkers of deficiencies
in these nutrients only a couple were
significant one of them was for vitamin
B12 being lower in the plant-based
groups and the other was for urinary
iodine suggesting that even in a
relatively small time frame of this
study consuming less of these nutrients
within your diet seem to lead to
potential deficiencies importantly while
only these two markers became
significantly lower over the time frame
of the study the lower nutrient intake
in the plant-based groups could very
feasibly lead to deficiency over the
long term and so all the nutrients I
mentioned are things we need to look out
for when we're eating plant-based
another review paper on the topic from
2015 if I recall correctly also
summarized data on this topic and found
similar conclusions let me list the
nutrients that might be worth
considering if you're plant-based iron
vitamin B12 vitamin D iodine zinc
calcium and Omega-3s are likely all
worth considering if you're plant-based
now what's the best way to address these
potential deficiencies within your
nutrient intake if you're heavily
plant-based or even vegan well a good
vegan based multivitamin can actually
many of your bases multivitamins are
very cheap and while much of the
evidence on multivitamins doesn't find a
health benefit that is likely because
most people eating an omnivore diet that
is reasonably balanced don't need a
multivitamin to be in their best health
however when you're restricting your
dietary intake that is when they become
potentially more helpful so look for a
vegan multivitamin that offers around
your RDA for most of the nutrients I
just mentioned and that will cover you
very well it's a cost- effective
solution to minimizing the likelihood of
any nutrient deficiencies within your
diet as a vegan similar Al I would
recommend consider supplementation with
an omega-3 a based supplement around 1
to 2 G of EPA and DHA combined per day
is likely a great starting point as I
mentioned earlier it seems like when you
eat plant-based your protein intake
tends to go down naturally additionally
a common claim being made is that
plant-based protein sources are far less
anabolic than animal-based protein
sources and therefore you consume more
protein as a vegan or someone who's
plant-based so what does the evidence
say about whether or not plant-based
people need more protein well we have a
few categories of evidence first we have
cross-sectional evidence where we just
look at what vegan populations versus
omnivore populations tend to consume and
what these studies tell us is that
people who are plant-based generally
consume less protein than omnivores and
so we at least want to be mindful of our
protein intake if we're plant-based so
instead let's turn our attention to
experimental studies to try to determine
whether or not plant-based protein
sources are actually less anabolic and
worse for muscle growth than
animal-based protein sources first we
have a study looking at the effect of
consuming 1.8 g of protein per kilogram
of body weight per day stemming either
from an omnivorous diet or from purely a
plant-based diet in this study
participants performed single leg leg
extensions so that researchers could
assess the effects of different protein
sources on both the anabolic response at
rest in the leg that wasn't being
trained and on the anabolic response
after training in the leg that just
performed leg extensions and in this
study with a relatively high protein
intake above the 1.6 g of protein per
kilogram of body weight per day
recommendation from the most Rec met
regression on the topic of Morton and
colleagues when protein intake was quite
high they observed similar anabolism and
potential acute effects on hypertrophy
of plant-based protein versus
animal-based protein so at least in this
context with relatively high protein
intakes it didn't seem like plant-based
protein sources reduced acute anabolism
either at rest or in response to
resistance trading session and the data
of different protein sources plant
versus animal on acute anabolism was
synthesized in a review paper by Van vet
and colleagues here's roughly what they
had to say while some studies do find
lower acute anabolic responses when
consuming the same amount of plant-based
protein versus animal- based protein
there are a few things we can do to
maximize the anabolic response to
plant-based proteins generally
plant-based proteins are thought to be
less anabolic and worse for hypertrophy
on account of three different factors
one insufficient amounts of key amino
acids like Lucin two a relatively
incomplete amino acid profile wherein
the plant-based protein Source has
sufficient amounts of certain amino
acids but insufficient amounts of other
amino acids and three lower
digestibility of plant-based proteins
the strategies identified in this review
paper were to one seek Out protein
sources that are higher in certain key
amino acids two fortifying foods with
these amino acids or three just
consuming a bit more of the plant-based
protein sources to make up for some of
their potential shortcomings importantly
though even acute anabolic responses
like myoi or protein synthesis aren't
perfectly representative of a
hypertrophy over the long term and so
the one evidence in any question around
muscle growth is always going to be a
randomized control trial measuring the
actual outcome of interest in this case
hypertrophy over several weeks and
months there are three studies I would
like to mention in this context first we
have a study where 19 vegans and 19
omnivores were given protein powders to
get up to a daily protein intake of 1.6
g of protein per kilogram of body weight
per day for the vegans of course that
protein was soy based whereas for the
omnivores that protein was whey based so
both groups consumed Whole Foods but got
additional protein powder that was
either vegan or soy based or animal
based AKA way based not only did they do
this but they also performed two days of
resistance training AKA lifting weights
for their quads per week and when
consuming a pretty robust amount of
protein per day in both groups they
observed very similar increases in lower
body leg lean mass quadriceps
cross-sectional area and leg press One
Max So based on this study both for size
and strength as long as total daily
protein was sufficient it didn't seem to
play a role whether participants were
getting their protein from soy or from
whey or from more plant-based sources
versus more animal sources another study
compared the effects of PE protein and
whey protein supplementation alongside a
resistance training program on
hypertrophy and by and large gains were
very similar between groups yet again
importantly from the research both P
protein and soy protein seem to be very
anabolic perhaps not quite to the same
extent as whey protein but quite similar
and finally we have a study looking at
the effects of consuming meat
Alternatives you've seen fake meat in
your supermarket or likelihood on
hypertrophy they had three groups that
were aiming for a similar protein intake
in group one a plant-based whole food
diet was adopted in group two a
plant-based diet was adopted with the
inclusion of alternative meats and in
group three an anerous diet was consumed
as far as gains in hypertrophy and
performance went gains were very similar
between groups there were differences in
their nutrient intake still and
importantly diet satisfaction was higher
in the Whole Foods plant-based diet
group compared to the alternative meat
group but this study suggests that
alternative meat Meats categorically
aren't a bad idea when it comes to
hypertrophy and strength so by and large
provided sufficient proteins being
consumed it seems like you can still
make great gains even when you're
consuming plant-based proteins as
opposed to animal-based proteins if
you're plant-based and you want to
maximize your muscle growth my
recommendation is to one mostly look for
good protein sources like soy based
protein or P based protein and two maybe
increased protein it takes slightly to
1.8 or 2 g of protein per kilogram of
body weight per day if you're doing this
I personally think you're almost
certainly maximizing hypertrophy so
we've addressed micronutrient intake via
multivitamins we've discussed omega-3
intake while consuming additional
Omega-3s we've discussed protein intake
but there are a couple of other things
you probably want to be aware of if
you're plant-based the first one is
creatine creatine has been extensively
studied within Sport Science and has
been found to be beneficial for
hypertrophy strength power outcomes and
more supplementing with creatine is a
good idea whether you're omnivorous or
whether you're pled based but it
probably becomes even more beneficial
when you're plant-based while it isn't
enough creatine to circumvent the need
for supplementation altogether
omnivorous diets do get you some
creatine through the consumption of
things like meat and so if you're
plant-based and you're no longer
consuming some of these animal products
that also contain creatine you very
likely want to consider supplementation
you probably don't need to take more
than anyone else 3 to 5 G per day is
great or if you're a baller and a
hustler you know you rent out a chainsaw
and you go to your Auntie's house and
you start making Buck I got $40 to my
name and I'm trying to make $11,000 this
weekend they rent them chainsaws for $22
for2 hours boy you better go get the
chainsaw go pull up to your auntie house
that tree that's been leaning over on a
porch That's leaning on her car cut that
down go in the backyard cut that other
one down she going to give you whatever
she give you pull off on them you
already know you can even go with
recommendation by Darren kandal creating
researcher of 0.1 G of creatine per day
per kilog of body weight for me I weigh
around 100 kg or 220 lb right now that
would be around 10 G of creatine pretty
and no you probably don't need to worry
about a loading phase I can make a whole
video on creatin if you want but the
topic has been discussed to death so I
just haven't gotten around to it just
like with creatine research has also
found lower levels of muscle carnosine
in plant-based populations versus
omnivores importantly muscle carnosine
is thought to be relatively important
for overall performance now it's likely
mostly beneficial performance of
slightly longer tasks than you would
typically perform in resistance training
generally over 60 seconds but it's still
worth considering given that people
eating a plant-based diet will have
lower levels of muscle carnosine beta
alanine is a precursor to muscle
carnosine and so by supplementing with
additional beta alamine you may make up
for this reduction in beta alamine
content from your diet I don't think
it's as important as for creatine but I
think it's worth considering there's one
more consideration I have to give out
for anyone eating plant-based and that
is that it can present both challenges
for bulking but also for cutting first
just eating plant-based tends to reduce
energy intake and body weight in most
populations and that likely has to do
with the fact plant-based foods are
generally more satiating or more hunger
supressing than most omnivore Foods
there's a couple of reasons for this
first plant-based Foods generally have a
higher fiber content and secondly they
generally offer you more volume per
calorie consumed they have a lower
energy density I have a whole video on
Hunger suppressing Foods up somewhere
above but generally these factors will
make a food more satiating and if you're
trying to gain weight and consume more
calories this can be difficult so if
you're facing this challenge try to find
foods with a higher energy density
potentially a lower fiber content and
generally are just more palatable or
pleasurable to eat but even more tricky
than bulking is cutting and specifically
contest prep can be very difficult for
someone eating predominantly or
exclusively plant-based Foods while
eating plant-based diets can be great
for satiation and managing hunger it is
more difficult to get protein in on a
low calorie budget plant-based protein
sources generally fall into one of two
categories the first category is protein
sources that are not very satiating but
are high in protein and low in calories
and this would mostly be things like soy
protein isolate powder while you get a
lot of protein per calorie here it
doesn't really offer satiation and you
probably don't want to get all of your
protein in every day from a protein
powder the second category are protein
sources that have some protein but also
generally just have way higher calories
which when you're on a cut or when
you're cutting for a show can be very
challenging to navigate for instance
tofu falls into this category while it
does have some high quality protein it
also has a fair amount of calories
compared to most lean protein sources if
you were consuming an omnivore diet and
so if you're cutting or you're cutting
for a show specifically just be aware
that as the DI gets harder and harder
and your calorie budget lessens you may
need to rely more and more on protein
powders or alternatively you may have to
increase activity more so that you can
consume more calories and still lose
weight and have the budget for some of
those protein sources like tofu that is
the video I broke down all the science
on protein intake muscle growth as a
plant-based Athlete on health
micronutrients creatine betanin I
covered all the science I could find on
how to eat plant-based and still make
great gains in terms of muscle size and
in terms of health if you enjoyed the
video please like comment subscribe if
you're looking for a training app to
handle all of your training for you that
is coming out soon check out my app.com
the pitch for M adapt is that it's
supposed to be like a coach in your
pocket at a fraction of the price of an
actual coach and so if you'd like to be
notified when it does get released and
potentially lck in for a lower price
than any other time check out myup.com
and sign up to be notified when it does
get released what's that you like this
t-shirt this t-shirt of Atlas that is
looking quite fly if I do say so myself
well you can find that on Rascal
apparel.com honestly my favorite
training clothing at one as far as
design durability and comfort watch
training so go check it out and you
might find something you like if You'
like me to coach you check out the link
above and I can become your coach in the
meantime have a fantastic day and I will
see you guys in that next one peace