in this video I'm training legs with Dr
Lane Norton Lane was actually my first
ever science-based coach he coached me
to a Canadian National Gold Medal and
natural bodybuilding and he's the first
person who convinced me that you don't
actually need to eat clean to get
shredded as long as you hit your Macros
that cutting water before a bodybuilding
competition is dangerous and ineffective
and that you can combine powerlifting
and bodybuilding successfully I don't
think it's a stretch to say that
everything I know about training and
nutrition can be traced back to Lane
Norton Lane is himself an absolute
monster he's both a professional natural
bodybuilder and a world-class power
lifter he won U.S Nationals twice and
even took home a gold medal at Worlds
for his 668 pound Squad at 205 pounds
body weight now for the non-power
lifters watching that's six plates per
side plus a 25 plus a 10 and a five and
then some change he also does a lot of
myth busting about nutrition and
training on popular podcasts and in the
media so when I heard he was coming to
Ontario Canada for a seminar I knew we
had to get a workout in now Lane's in
the middle of a powerlifting prep so he
had deadlifts on the menu but he allowed
me to guide the rest of the workout and
before jumping into the deadlift work
I'll quickly take you guys through the
dynamic warm-up we did first I'm just
going to do the same warm-up that you do
yeah go for it so I'll usually do bird
dogs with like a little bit of weight
you know you're talking about it like
that yeah so as you progress it you can
kind of move it out you know so there's
more it's opposite hand and leg right
right correct
can you explain this one real quick yeah
kind of a hip and back opener so I'm
going to bring my my foot up here I grab
my foot and then I'm going to come back
and I'm going to stretch out my
hamstring like that oh that's nice two
sets of five on each side so you're
grabbing same hand same leg stretching
this out here yep and then you're
lifting up like this yep and then you
come back and then stretch the
hamstrings stretch the hamstring another
leg yep oh nice I've never done that one
okay after those quick warm-up drills we
jumped into deadlifts where Lane was
working up to just one heavy top set of
two reps or a double as power lifters
say and we talked about how just one
heavy set is often enough to get the job
done especially if you're limited on
time or if you're limiting volume for
injury prevention so today I'm just
double and
seven that'll probably land me you know
anywhere between 630 650 some pounds 57
by the way yeah
I think that's really cool because
that's basically exactly what I'm doing
now except the rest of my workout would
be more focused on hypertrophy for me
I'm more so thinking I want to maintain
or maybe slowly build the deadlift
strength that I have and I'm literally
only doing one set a week yeah that's
enough to maintain and or gain strength
for the vast majority of lifts people
confuse what works with Optimum optimal
is a single set a week ideal for
strength probably not I agree however
for me it's much more important to be
able to continuously be consistently in
the gym and if that means I should do a
little bit less volume on the main lifts
so that I can stay healthy and stay in
the gym then that's still better
practically than what might be optimal
100 Theory so to build up to that heavy
double we did a simple pyramid warm-up
adding One Plate at a time until we got
to something close to our heavy working
weight for two reps and I'll put the
full warm-up protocol in the full
workout in the description box below if
you guys want to run it for yourself
also one thing we were noticing during
the warm-up sets was how different our
limb lengths are and how that impacts
our individual deadlift technique
so Lane how tall are you are you six
foot or five foot ten and a half five
ten and a half yeah okay so you've got
about no Short Change through the house
see yeah no I'm five four and a half so
six inch difference right but even if
even if my hip started at the same point
his did yeah his femurs are still way
longer than mine right for anyone who is
shorter watching who has similar limbs
to me you're probably gonna have a more
squatty deadlift right you're gonna be
more upright because you need to get
down farther to get to the bar if you're
taller watching your deadlift may look
more like Lanes it's not necessarily if
you're just absolutely tall is if you
have long femur bones and then your arm
length like you have long much longer
arms than me as well right we're going
to show the difference from the side of
my hip position versus Lane's hit
position should be interesting so as you
can see my hips start quite low almost
like a squat and my back is much more
upright that's because my femurs are
short meaning I can get my hips closer
to the bar and my arms are short which
means I have to dip down further just to
grip
this results in a more squat-like
deadlift for me Lane on the other hand
starts with his hips higher in a more
bent forward posture because he has the
opposite pattern longer femur bones and
longer arms again these differences are
just due to our differences in skeletal
limb ratios one isn't necessarily better
or worse now you guys may be wondering
what this string is that's attached to
the bar this is a rep speed tracker that
lane uses to give him a more accurate
idea of how close he is to failure if
you guys remember I did a full video
explaining that as you get closer to
failure your reps will get more and more
grindy and the rep speed will slow down
on the positive so by measuring the bar
speed the device can estimate how many
reps you have left in the tank so for
example if you're at an rpe of 10 that
means you had zero reps left in the tank
and the bar will be moving very slowly
on the positive if you're at an rpe of 9
that means you had one rep left in the
tank and the bar will still move slow
but not as slow as on the rpe 10 set and
so it goes down the line the device can
also measure your range of motion so I'm
going to try this for the first time uh
this is 405 so this will probably be my
last warm-up set or I might do one more
after this and so that will collect my
speed data and then I can use that as
the standard for my next set to see to
see how hard it was
okay 0.30 nailed it yeah is that what
you said yeah that's what I said nice so
0.30 if that was you what rpe would that
correspond to you think
two okay okay
here we go
lightweight
easy nice
that felt good
yeah 0.32 0.32 nice your range of motion
was 371 millimeters mine was 434.
interesting I'm cheating more than you
all right so after that last warm-up set
and rep speed of 0.3 meters per second I
put on 455 pounds and decided to go for
my double let's go Jeff big breath get
tight
 I don't know what happened there I
just wasn't feeling it bam that's just
this yeah that's not your strength it's
got to be man that's just you protecting
but that's that's part of it is getting
back that confidence to actually dig
into the lift you know trust me I've
been there honestly bro I think the
camera throws me off too I'm so focused
on getting the content let's run down
the excuses list uh didn't sleep well I
did sleep well I didn't eat well I did
eat well how do you know you're a nerd
power lifter when you bring your own
baby powder and chalk to a gym that was
it I didn't have the baby powder that's
what it was that's all it is man so I'll
get decently fired up for this just make
sure I'm in a good position smoke it
this is Lane's last warm-up set and
he'll use the rep speed on this lift to
determine how heavy he'll go for his
final top set
yep yep nice
foreign
so that was a .28 which is about 10
faster than like my top end of what I'll
typically hit nice so see you're just
good Juju that's it that's it I gave it
to you I gave you all my Juju today
you're welcome wait careful yeah true
it's hard not to uh negatively spiral
like at this point for me right now yeah
I'm like damn I literally have pulled
that for six reps before my injury of
course and I just missed it for one yeah
like that sucks so if it makes you feel
any better fatigue can do that yeah but
also you're strong enough for that I can
see you hesitating let's hit this and if
it looks good feels good then we can
always go up yeah yeah yeah so we
decided since I failed my planned weight
of 455 pounds I dropped the weight back
25 pounds and go for 430 pounds for a
double and see how that goes for take
two easy
thank you
nice
it worked okay so I'm gonna do 660. okay
because it felt good yeah let's do it
let's do it so Lane how many plates do
you want uh six plates 35 into two and a
half so 660 pounds
what's up this is Lane's top set of two
reps with 660 pounds or just about 300
kilos
[Music]
[Music]
yep come on Lane let's go
yep
drive drive easy
come on
let's go man that's sick Bro the second
one looked like it moved faster than the
first one that actually felt pretty easy
wait let me say this when I when I start
struggling off the floor I psych myself
out I'm like oh why is it so heavy
why is this moving so slow and then I
give up on it yeah you know whereas you
do not do that so the thing I actually
think about is If I Stay in position the
worst thing that's going to happen is
it's just not going to move right yeah
uh so the first rep was a .22 second rep
was a point two one two that's good it's
a little bit slower
um that's right at an rp7 for me so that
means theoretically I should have had
three more reps could argue with a 7.5
but I'm pretty confident I could have
done three more I think this is a good
learning point as well for people
because when people hear rp7 they think
warm-up set but like that was a grindy
set visually right but notice that once
the bar left the ground true once again
that's always quick but that's because
you uh cheap impulsuma
exactly exactly okay after that we moved
on to one heavy of six to eight reps
close to failure on the pendulum Squad
we'll just work up to one heavy set for
six to eight reps I usually only leave
like one or two in the tank maybe one in
the tank on these so I pushed these
pretty hard I even went to failure on
these last time and I did four plates
for I think it was eight or nine reps
I'll probably work up to four plates and
just see what I'm feeling like on this
day so we'll just warm our way up do one
super heavy set and then move on to the
next thing yep all right so as we go
through the warm-up sets here I'll just
explain the exercise so I'd say that
this is probably my favorite machine in
my gym because it gives great lower back
support and I find it offers a smoother
movement path than a hack squat the
counterbalance is also behind you which
I find makes it a little easier to get
out of the hole and a little harder at
lockout so that makes the strength curve
feel very unique also I like it as a
hypertrophy exercise because you can
more safely push it really close to the
point of failure which is exactly what
we did after those three or four warm-up
sets so here I'm going for about an rpe
of nine so leaving one rep in the tank
and excuse the loud grunts on the last
few reps I was really trying to push it
got another one
nice
oh not bad not bad
oh very nice
I think that was one more than I got
last week how many was that nine nine
that's nice I feel I feel slightly
there's Redemption now there's
Redemption now yeah see so for those of
you all watching this is this happens to
like every lifter you don't have to feel
bad we all have our bad days and it can
be resurrected it's true
happy Easter all right lane let's get it
let's smoke it here we go
until this Lane does a set here I'll
quickly say that one thing I've noticed
from training with him is just how much
his strength carries over from The Squat
and deadlift to a machine-based exercise
like this it's pretty incredible I've
never seen someone put four and a half
plates on this machine at my gym and
just rep it out like that and I think
it's in these situations where you
realize just how much power lifting
strength carries over to bodybuilding
work and that's one reason why I do
think that the two goals can complement
each other very nicely anyway I'll let
him finish out the last few reps here
let's go
you got more
you got more
let's go
let's keep it going come on man okay
okay okay I'm gonna tap out of there
yeah that was a lot of reps actually I
feel like you could have gone heavier so
if I had to rate that rpe wise I would
have rated eight and a half eight and a
half okay I think I definitely had one
yeah maybe two what do you think mine
was I would have said that's a nine and
a half nine and a half for me so I think
yeah you probably couldn't have gotten
another rep but you might have been able
to do nine with like another two a
little bit of extra weight yeah okay but
that was excellent yeah that was really
good man you crushed that you're
stronger than me on this once you
correct for body weight okay so after
the pendulum squats we moved on to a
more hamstring focused movement in this
case we're hitting this glute ham raise
machine for three sets of eight to ten
reps your hamstrings are insanely strong
like I remember if you uploaded a video
this is like 10 years ago doing glued
ham raises on I think a lap pull down
machine with literally like 10 pound
plates in each hand that's insane but I
would take people to do that exercise
they would like start to Bend forward
they go nope nope nope I also find if it
feels easy
I slow down the negative a little bit
and stay in the more of the mid-range
because if I'm up here there's no
tension what so if I stay here I have I
still have tension on my hamstrings so I
don't need to load it I can just go a
little slower and then drive through my
heels here
and squeeze until I get to here so this
is rep 4 for me so just a quick little
bit about this machine in case you
haven't seen it before this glute ham
raise machine has a chest pad that you
can hold on to it has a counterbalance
weight but the counterbalance actually
reduces the loading so it's harder the
less weight you load loading weight in
this case adds assistance not resistance
so we're doing body weight with no
assistance here for the first set in on
rep 8 here now and I'll show my last rep
here live to give you an idea of my
proximity to failure one more come on
pop up
okay
rp6 that that unironically would be in
my comment section if you ever want to
have a bunch of people tell you how
you're doing everything wrong get really
good at stuff nobody cares when you're
not that good at it fair enough so after
one set each with body weight we
realized that we were both strong enough
to load these with extra weight so for
my second set I added a 10 pound plate
to my chest and did eight reps at about
an rpe of nine maybe nine and a half and
then for my third set here I loaded an
extra 12 and a half pounds so I'm
holding a 10 pound plate and a two and a
half pound plate for my last set here
and then to finish off the exercise Lane
did a set of 10 reps with a 25 pound
plate of extra resistance and once again
I think this shows that power lifting
strength does very often carry over to
other exercises even if you don't do
them as much and certainly more than I
think a lot of bodybuilders realize all
right up next we're doing three sets of
10 to 12 reps on the prime leg extension
machine which is a cool piece of
equipment because you can emphasize
different aspects of the range of motion
depending on where you load the plates
so if you load more weight on the top
Peg you'll emphasize the stretch out
aspect at the bottom you load more
weight in the middle you'll load the
full range of motion more evenly and if
you load more weight on the bottom Peg
you'll emphasize the contracted position
at the top so if you're going to do it I
would either go even or overload the
stretch more yeah what I like to do is I
like to put here there's my plates on
here I do too with a smaller one here a
smaller one here and if you think about
where your strongest in a leg extension
you're actually strongest at the
beginning if you're the strongest in the
stretch position and another point that
I like to make about leg extensions is
you really want to get a leg extension
that the pad goes under the seat as far
as possible see how this is at an angle
that's actually what you want because
the further back this pad goes the more
it stretches your quads right and
there's pretty conclusive literature
demonstrating that the stretch position
is really critical for hypertes yes so
on this for example we're going to
emphasize the part where the quad is
stretched rather than the part where the
quad is fully extended that squeeze is
is less important correct so this is my
third set of 10 to 12 reps here we're on
rep three here now and I'll just show
the last couple reps here live and
you'll notice that I finish off the set
with a few partials in that stretched
position as an advanced intensity
technique and then we'll move on to our
final exercise for the day
before Jeff
yeah
keep going yep
that's it parcels
okay and to finish off the workout we're
doing three sets of 12 to 15 reps on the
seated leg press toe press for the caps
with these a couple quick cues that I
like to focus on this is obviously
specific to this machine in particular
what I do is I make sure that my heels
touch this bottom plate so that I get a
nice full stretch on my calves to
accentuate it further and to make sure
I'm not just bouncing I'll do a slight
pause at the bottom so I'm unlocked here
with my knees
pressing up onto my toes and then when I
get down to the bottom I'm pausing for
about one second and then
squeeze at the top
slow control stretch one squeeze at the
top also you don't need to necessarily
think about just going up under your
toes I think about rotating on the balls
of my feet so I'm coming under sweeping
under rotating this is the Pivot Point
and then uh Lane was telling me that he
grew his calves from 12 inches to just
over 16 inches mainly by just being
consistent across the decades he's been
training but he did say that there were
periods of training where he would hit
his calves four days a week with around
30 sets per week which really seemed to
spark some new growth for him personally
I hit calves twice a week usually for
just three or four sets per workout and
I do think that's enough for most people
to see growth assuming they're doing
them with good technique especially
emphasizing the stretch just patiently
progressively adding weight or reps over
time
that's a wrap
it would work out bro yeah man crush
that man I was feeling that I want to
give a shout out to Lane if you guys
aren't subscribed to him make sure you
go check out his channel I'll link that
down below he puts out tons of amazing
educational content he's a beast in the
gym he walks the walk as much detox to
talk also quick shout out to Pure muscle
and fitness they let us film here they
even turn down the music for us so we
appreciate them very much don't forget
to like the video If you enjoyed it
subscribe if you haven't already see you
guys all here in the next one