up yes
feel it in your legs a little bit now my
man I'm shaking my head nose this sucks
the no get me out of here
[Music]
hey folks I'm Dr Mike professor of
sports science and co-founder of
Renaissance periodization inventor and
creator of the RP hypertrophy app which
I will be using today to do a dumbbell
only leg workout and the person I'm
doing it to is my boss CEO of our peanut
Shaw I sure hope this goes well let's
get started
first exercise of the three that we're
going to be doing today is dumbbell
stiff-legged deadlift it is going to hit
the glutes it is going to even
strengthen your lower back the primary
target is the back of the leg the
hamstrings technique is super important
on this exercise so let's look in to a
few key tips and tricks to how to make
this work best for you most people will
make a mistake of Simply taking the
dumbbells and bending over flexing at
the spine that doesn't pre-stretch the
hamstrings it's not very effective it
looks cool and it'll strengthen your
back but it's not a hamstring exercise
what we want is for three things to be
in check the first is we want our knees
just slightly bent not locked out Not
Bent like crazy just a tiny bend the
second thing we want is a big chest the
entire time you're going to be sitting
back at your hips and your chest has to
stay elevated so your back is nice and
arched the whole time it pre-stretches
the hamstrings it keeps your back very
safe and it allows you to put maximum
tension on the hamstrings the third
thing we want is to take our butts and
try to push them as far over to the back
wall of wherever you are and if you're
outside the other side of the earth such
that your hands are just Hooks and
they're hanging there no Bend nothing
big chest knees in a stable position
just barely bent keeping the knees there
keeping the chest up Nick is going to
shoot his hips back slowly reaching his
butt backwards and as he does that
you'll notice that his hamstrings are
going to be under a ton of tension do
you feel that in your hands oh yeah
let's go do some work sets
[Music]
Nick already did one warm-up set with
flight dumbbells you want at least one
warm-up set of about 10 repetitions nice
and slow to groove into the movement get
yourself ready and then you're probably
ready to go if you're working out with
just a few dumbbells at home he's a
pretty strong guy so he's going to be
using the 40 pound dumbbells his grip
will be the limiting factor if he
doesn't use a pair of wrist straps and
in this case this is a product called
Versa grips no affiliation I've reached
out to them a few times they pretend not
to know that we exist but they're
awesome and we highly recommend them if
you need grip support this is the strap
to use if you don't and you probably
don't just grab the dumbbells firmly and
we're going to do a set of gee whiz 10
to 15 maybe even 20 repetitions any
weight that you pick that challenges you
brings you close to muscular failure
with anywhere between 5 and 30
repetitions is totally effective for
strength and muscle growth and physique
development no wrong answers here the
only right answer is proper technique
the entire time oh yeah
one last one
big chest
Arch
and up perfect and then just put them
down
awesome you want to make sure that every
working set that you do
takes you close to muscular failure and
the way we count muscular failure is can
you continue to move in the exact
movement pattern of good technique
while your muscles are still Contracting
in the way that they're supposed to be
if your muscles are doing a good job but
your Technique starts to slide that's
already Beyond failure if you can keep
good technique keep doing more
repetitions until you're really starting
to slow down on the way it is feeling
heavy we're gonna do three sets total
today because this is a dumbbell workout
we don't need to take very long breaks
for you at home anything like 30 seconds
to a minute between sets should be
totally fine
[Music]
the goal of the exercise is to put
tension on the hamstrings and by going
slowly we have a really great mind
muscle connection with the hamstrings
we're making sure they're active they're
being stretched they're being loaded the
Temptation is to be like all right let
me just get these out of the way you're
not here to get them out of the way you
are here to impart tension on the muscle
which means keep it slow keep it steady
your body will not like that but your
body doesn't like to get in shape it
likes to be in shape you're going to get
in shape doing this stuff
oh yes make sure to pause at the bottom
and really milk that painful stretch
let's do a nice two second pause here at
the bottom Nick one and two and up
beautiful
stumbling a little bit it's a hard
workout that's why we're here all right
excellent stuff we're gonna regroup the
next exercise we're gonna do is a
dumbbell front squat
exercise number two of three we hit the
glutes a lot we hit the hamstrings a ton
now it's time for quads and glutes at
the same time the dumbbell front squat
here's how this works and we're going to
have an interesting two modifiers to
this because if you only have some
dumbbells at home you have to be a
little bit creative as to how to impart
a lot of stimulus onto your uh quads and
Nick here looks a little frightened and
he should be because this is gonna hurt
so we have just a mat here and you can
use anything you have around your house
including some hiking boots that give
you a nice heel we want a big heel to
our setup so that we can stay more
upright and as the knees travel way over
our toes you're going to keep your feet
roughly shoulder width apart toes
pointed out
and you're going to squat down slowly to
full depth position notice how far ahead
my knees are my upper body is completely
upright chest is up the entire time
I take one full second to sit here at
the bottom but I don't come all the way
up if you come all the way up with a
normal barbell normal leg press hack
squat that's totally cool there's lots
of load here we only have dumbbells we
don't have the benefit of a high load so
we're going to try to challenge our
muscles a ton the research has shown
that muscles grow better in the bottom
half bottom two-thirds of the range of
motion then the top half or top third of
the range of motion he's going to come
up two-thirds of the way up
and then go right back down and hold for
a second and you're thinking but when
does he get a break he doesn't it's
terrible and then he's gonna go all the
way up two-thirds and then come back
down
and that's going to be how he does most
of these repetitions
when he is very close to failure and
when you're doing this at home and
you're really close to failure come up
and lock out completely
take five seconds of breathing
and then begin again and we're gonna go
in each set two rest breaks
last one here Ultra slow
five and one more let's go slow pause up
yes
[Music]
that hurts me I'm not even doing
anything uh one minute rest and then we
get right back into it Nick just walked
off I think he's done with the photo
shoot
we're doing three sets total but each
one has three approaches to muscular
failure so it's really kind of like six
to nine somewhere it's pretty brutal
just start out with two or three sets
yourself if you do this workout and over
the weeks you can add sets if you need
more volume if you're recovering ahead
of schedule you guys will notice Nick's
upper body is completely upright and
straight his chest is vertical Hills
elbows are up if you start to round over
the dumbbells start to fall no one's
having any fun doesn't really look like
Nick's having fun right now either but
beautiful and one more here full pause
up all the way rest breathe five seconds
and we'll do our last little mini set
feel it in your legs a little bit Nick
my man my shaking my head nose this
sucks the no get me out of here five
more let's do it big chest
one slow
two slow
[Music]
three control the bottom control
four and one last one
super pause
yes beautiful
awesome Nick's gonna go to his sad place
off camera
and cry and rub his quads one exercise
left it is going to be the dumbbell
split squat oh my god dude my quads are
pumped
dumbbell split squat targets the quads
the inner thighs and massively targets
the glutes execution here is really
important what Nick is gonna do is he's
gonna put one of his feet up on the
front
on this little platform he's going to
take the other foot and kick it back G
about three or four feet a nice distance
to get a really good stretch
the target is this back loot right here
his chest is going to be completely
upright he's going to put most of his
force and weight on that front leg and
he's only going to use the back leg on
his tippy toes to stabilize and his goal
is going to be to touch his back knee
ever so gently to the ground and hold it
there for a split second while
generating all the force with his lights
we're only going to do two sets of this
but it's one set means you go with one
leg probably your weaker leg first you
rest about 30 seconds you go with the
other leg you rest a minute and then you
do set number two so two sets here is
really four sets in reality folks the
reason for the elevation here you can do
these on the ground no problem the
reason for the elevation is because at
the bottom if you elevate the front foot
it stretches your glute out more and
that tension under stretches shown
scientifically to grow more muscle it
won't feel great but it'll be good for
you it's like eating vegetables I guess
one chest up
[Music]
two
three big chest
[Music]
four oh my God that's it that's it
that's failure beautiful beautiful
ah and just like that he's gone oh
terrible
last set of the day
[Music]
excellent
nice little break breathe it out a
little bit very good
three more
one
but no worries if you lose your balance
just reset as soon as you can two and
then last one slow
yes yes perfect go ahead and rack while
Nick is breathing heavy let me throw
some more facts of you Nick is an ifbb
professional bodybuilder he trains in a
gym loaded with barbells dumbbells
heavyweights machines a couple of 20 and
40 pound dumbbells with little platform
you think there's no way he can get a
good workout Nick how you feeling
yeah it's rough you said it all
you can make these workouts Ultra tough
at home and if you download the RP
hypertrophy app link in the description
then the app can build these workouts
for you guide you every step of the way
and make sure that week to week month to
month you're progressing with your goals
in mind do you need the app to do these
workouts no if you just want to do them
at home for free we are absolutely done
with that have fun if you want that
little extra bit of help it can be an
awesome consideration give it some
thought and uh while we scrape Nick off
the floor here thanks for tuning in
and we'll see you guys next time
[Music]
foreign