guys so uh it is January the 20th I
think and and uh it is freezing outside
today I'm going to be picking up my
brother uh at the airport he's visiting
Robin and I for a couple of days and
we're planning on getting a bunch of
training footage uh he actually wants to
go to film school in Vancouver uh so
he's going to be moving out there this
year with Robin and I and so he's going
to help me out a little bit with uh some
filming tips and stuff like
[Music]
that hey guys so here is the first meal
I've got egg whites with one whole egg
two hash browns a maple turkey sausage
some orange
slices a very burnt up piece of turkey
uh bacon I guess and a fruit bowl with
banana kiwi Apple coffee and low calorie
orange juice so my brother ended up uh
missing his flight uh so he's a little
later getting in uh than we had
initially hoped uh it's now
550 what's up dude
what okay all right good I got all the
camera [ __ ] in here okay cool Robin made
these well Robin made the taco meat I
made the
poverty and I put I basically put the
the meat on the wraps and then we're
going to go
[Music]
[Music]
train
[Music]
hey
hey
[Music]
heyyyy
[Music]
hey
heyy
hey hey hey
[Music]
heyyy hey
hey hey hey
[Music]
hey
hey
[Music]
hey
he
[Music]
hey
hey
[Music]
hey
heyy
hey hey
hey
heyy hey
heyy
hey
[Music]
hey
heyy heyy
[Music]
he
hey
[Music]
hey hey a