[Music]
hey folks doctor magnet L here for
Renaissance period ization chapter 3 of
the RP diet book 2.0 macronutrients if
you want any more details than we cover
in this short YouTube video the book
link is below
we've got scientific references chapters
are massive here all the intricacies are
discussed we're just gonna do a real
quick overview here macronutrients three
macros proteins carbs and fats we're
gonna talk about their functions what we
need them for and rough recommendations
for intake for performance and body
composition before that we have to talk
about something that we have termed the
caloric constraint hypothesis you know
not much of a hypothesis more like a
postulate but here's the deal we see a
lot of recommendations for how much
carbohydrate you're supposed to have how
much fat you're supposed to have how
much protein you're supposed to have it
aligns values come on percentages and
some of them come in graham values like
grams per pound
some of them come in absolute values
you'll see people saying well you need
25 grams of protein per meal to do this
and that here's the fundamental reality
we have to keep in mind when we're
thinking ok how much protein carbs and
fats should I eat all of it is
constrained by calories because calories
are more important than macros they have
to be set in stone
before you start choosing your macros so
the first thing you do when making a
diet plan is you choose your calories
logically once you know how many
calories you have proteins carbs and
fats fill those calories up those give
the calorie allotment up with their
individual calories approaching the
carbs of 4 calories per gram fats have 9
calories per gram so when someone says
you need up your protein unless they're
also seeing you need to increase your
calories which remember you should have
already set your calories in stone
they're necessarily saying you have to
lower your carbs your fats or both
there's no way to change one of those
nutrients without changing the others
unless you mess with your calories and
you shouldn't be because those should be
decided beforehand so for example if
you're eating for maintenance you just
want to maintain your body we didn't
have high perform
maybe your maintenance is around 3000
calories once 3000 is set whatever
amount of protein you eat if you eat too
much you have to have less carbs or less
fats there's no way to go about it any
other way so whenever we look at these
recommendations just keep in mind that
the answer is never an infinity of any
one of these nutrients why are we saying
this people say you know how much
protein should I eat say as much as you
can brother they're literally saying
that you should eat as little
carbohydrate and fat as possible and
that's insane you try to gain muscle
that's not gonna work are you gonna get
too little fat to support hormonal
functions and get it to low carbs to
Train super well and it's gonna be
really really crap or say hey I need
more energy what do I do
eat as much garbage you can well geez
that's gonna push out protein and fat
everything has to occur in a context or
everything else so let's go through each
of one of these macronutrients let's
figure out their functions and figure
out a reasonable amount of them to take
in based on goals so on and so forth so
that there's enough of the nutrient to
do whatever we needed to do and enough
room for all the others so first up is
protein it's first up because it's the
most important to body composition and
performance there is an argument in the
endurance performance and in high output
performance that carbohydrate is at
least as important maybe more so but
because this is sort of an average look
body composition plus performance for
all the sports protein is certainly
predominant why is it predominant what
does it do
protein physically composes most of the
dry weight of your muscle tissue right
so muscle is made of protein
fundamentally and protein also is what
or amino acids that the protein is
broken not into is what composes the
proteins in your body which are all of
the molecular machines that literally
make and keep you alive in all of you
right now unless you're Androids then
don't listen to this next part there is
a sodium potassium pump that maintains
the electrical potential between outside
and inside of your cells including your
nerve cells that particular protein is
always working if you didn't have it it
wouldn't work your nerves would become
dead and you wouldn't legitimately just
die right on a spot so not only are your
nerves pretty much made of proteins the
machines inside of them that let them
work the machines that physically
contract muscle are all proteins kind of
important so protein we need to take in
enough of every day because our machines
break down we're down there replaced and
they always need raw materials right
where's that leave us as far as
recommendations for protein well we have
different purposes in different ranges
the average is about close to a gram per
pound of protein per day that might not
be as much of an average as it is an
optimum value in most cases especially
if body composition air concern and many
kinds of performance as well now if
you're an endurance athlete if you're a
recreational athlete of any other kind
that doesn't want to be super jacked you
can actually considerably less protein
and be just fine and in some cases maybe
if you're dieting on super low calories
you want an anti hunger effect a little
bit more protein as a good idea but if
you shoot for that gram per pound it
gets you right into the mix of things
we're real close to at ideal in many
many cases if you want to know about
where how and when those things change
check out the book that's link right
below carbs are next up second most
important the biggest thing carbs do is
provide us energy for training and
exercise and sport performance carbs an
unrivaled fuel for high intensity repeat
performance so if you're moving if
you're loading stones if you're doing
cleaning jerks if you're shooting
basketballs and running around carbs are
the dominant fuel source period so we're
gonna want enough of them to make sure
that we can be active throughout the day
because we burn carbs doing that and
perform at our chosen training or our
chosen sport when you take all those
things into consideration we actually
have a huge variance in carbohydrate
intake as minimal amounts if you're not
super duper active then you can actually
get away with eating like a gram of
carbohydrates per pound of body weight a
day so if you weigh 200 pounds it was
quite a bit maybe you could only eat 200
grams a day on average and be totally
fine and meet all of your energy needs
but if you're SuperDuper you're active
you can be up to three equal to four
grams per pound today a same person
always 200 pounds if they're ultra
endurance athlete or a cyclist can eat
up to 800 grams of carbs every single
day and only that
you know at least that is going to meet
all their energy demands so the way
determined protein is basically off body
weight and a little bit of goal do we
determine carbs is how much activity
you're doing and for details on that
we're gonna look right to the book what
about fats fats don't have a super major
because I got a center center field role
in sport nutrition you know they are
mostly supporting players that's not to
say they're not important however fats
support hormonal profiles they generate
a lot of structures and they're
absolutely essential to take as a matter
of fact there's a group of fats called
essential fats which your body
physically can't manufacture itself you
cannot have a fat-free diet so fats are
mostly looked at as minimums of intake
not optimum intake or not intake
reference to activity there's a minimum
intake that most folks need for their
body weight and anything above that is
totally cool if you want to eat more
fats and less carbs for any number of
reasons but you need at least roughly
point 6 grams of fat per kilo or 0.3 per
pound right right around there very very
minor differences so for example 0.3 per
pound that means if you weigh 200 pounds
you need about 60 grams of fat at least
to guarantee that you're getting all
those good things from fats they were
supposed to be a hormonal support
structural support essential nutrition
so on and so forth to stay healthy to
stay upright and to stay at your peak
performance and body composition can you
cut fat slower than that in some cases
yes
is it gonna pan out well for you and all
of them no we can't promise that and to
lower fats results with the crappy
energy for hormones muscle loss nasty
performance higher chance of injury so
you know 0.3 and above and you're good
to go
how high can you go you can go pretty
high and still be healthy and perform
well you're just gonna have to cut into
carbs at some point you'll pay for that
right and definitely kind of a protein
you'll pay for that too it's probably
good idea to keep fats relatively in
check somewhere between point six and
1.0 grams per pound our starting point
three and you know point five grams from
pound or something like that and then
you can play with that number to see
what suits you best so so there's the
recommendations for fats
how much lastly do macros matter in the
context of things well our diet priority
pyramid assigns them roughly 30% of the
total effective dieting that's a big
deal now it's not as big of a deal as
calories okay so you have a diet you're
trying to lose weight there's no amount
of fiddling with macros that you're
gonna be able to do and beat out the fat
loss results that you get with just
cutting calories it's not gonna happen
if you're trying to gain muscle and
you're not altering their calories
there's only so much you can do it's
gonna affect your muscle gains if you
alter your macros know could be
considerable amount of you up your
protein and carbs buy a lot and drop
your fats relative to what you used to
be eating you can gain quite a bit of
muscle doing that but it's not gonna
have the power behind of calories that
being said it's still very important and
the two of them together macros and
calories are actually a really big deal
if it fits your macros is a sort of
dieting heuristic that can say look if
you get your right calories in and the
right amount of macros and you don't eat
just totally ridiculous food you stay
mostly healthy and have just sensible
normal timing but you're gonna get a lot
out of your diet and really even if you
mess up a lot of those other things if
you get your calories and macros that's
almost 80% of the total effective diet
so if you want to numbers to look at get
your calories right get your macros
right don't boil em s up anything else
just to basics and play your well off to
really good dieters you want a little
bit more of an edge you're gonna have to
look at nutrient timing which is our
next chapter
[Music]