hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's quick tip is
that sleep is almost never overrated
for your fitness journey let's talk
about how and why
here's the thing of all of the drugs you
could take for muscle building in some
certain contexts and there's much more
intellectual ways to explain what I'm
going to say
is
sleep is the best drug
so to speak now in reality is if you
sleep close to the right amount every
other muscle building drug is way more
powerful an hour of extra sleep beyond
what you need offers you nothing and
actually has downsides
an hour of extra sleep that brings you
from sleeping two hours less than you
need to one less than you need is unreal
powerful and comparable to tons of
anabolic drugs
if you're trying to sleep four hours a
night and you need eight adding in
another four hours roughly every night
is the equivalent or more than taking
essentially the kitchen sink of drugs
sleep isn't that important it is
critical it is foundational
why
a couple things first much of your
growth in muscle actually happens while
you sleep you guys remember that movie
from 90s while you were sleeping I'm all
fucking myself got jacked up that's what
I got out of the movie I think there was
love involved
number two
why do you gain a lot of muscle when you
sleep one of the reasons is that growth
hormone pulses the most when you are
sleeping
there is a reason that little kids
physically double in size over the years
grow myocytes and all that crazy kind of
shit transform
you guys ever see you've been around
little kids before my parole officer
says I shouldn't be doing that but if
you've ever been around little kids they
sleep like 12 hours out of every 24.
holy shit and they just keep growing and
growing growing their growth hormone
producing and consuming machines and if
you want to be a little bit more like
that and get a few more gains try to
treat your sleep as seriously as
possible
if you don't treat your sleep very
seriously because you're like fuck it I
don't need extra I'll just sleep six
hours I know it's not enough but I have
caffeine here's what you're buying
yourself
a high probability of increases in body
fat a high probability of reduced muscle
growth or even muscle loss in some
conditions and absolutely you can expect
reduced gains and strength from any
strength training that you're doing
this is all confirmed by experimental
research
fuck man I don't have to sell this much
more do I I mean Jesus Christ get your
sleep
getting enough sleep is a big deal
for most people making sure that they're
sleeping enough requires seven to nine
but more like eight to nine hours per
night that's that little extra on their
little cherry on top very few people
need adults need more than nine hours of
sleep and if you're like yeah I sleep 10
hours like all right fucking lazy
pothead motherfucker or genetically you
just need more sleep but honestly the
way you can tell if you're getting
enough sleep is like this if regularly
during much of the week you get like
sleepy tired in the middle of the day or
whatever or many times during the day
and as soon as you you hit your head on
the on the pillow you just zap fall
asleep and when you wake up you're like
oh shit my alarm I could definitely use
more sleep you need more sleep if you
feel like you get enough sleep like
right now I feel like I get enough sleep
I don't ever get really tired during the
middle of the day at night I like you
know when I lay down and go to sleep and
it takes me a minute or two probably
sometimes longer to fall asleep and then
I sleep for eight or nine hours and wake
up super refreshed and ready to go but
unless I'm taking high dose growth
hormone in the middle of the night and
then I wake up not super refreshed at
all and I still want to sleep but I have
to wake up and do duties
on damn farmers are fucking pain in the
ass but anyway in any case
don't fall for the I'll sleep when I'm
dead bro bullshit
I know this isn't a bullshit video but
that's some old bullshit people who say
I'll sleep when I'm dead
uh don't understand the next Link in
that there's a causal inference chain is
well okay but you're gonna be dead a lot
sooner you'll get a lot of sleep and
while you're lying you're not going to
be jacked and lean
so what the fuck is the point of being
alive
hello
getting Jackson lean is everything right
in any case
if you want Max gains
treating lots of good sleep after a
large meal with a ton of slow digesting
protein of course one to two hours
before bed treat that shit as seriously
as you do your training and your
nutrition
because no joke it can make a fucking
big difference and if you're already
putting in tons of time into the gym and
tons of time in a meal prep and all that
stuff the least you can do is the
easiest thing you can do which is just
go the fuck to sleep and if that is the
minimum necessary to super boost your
gains these are literally
the easiest gains you'll ever make in
your life I often stalk people and walk
into their bedrooms at night and when I
look over them people think it's a
sexual thing I'm going to murder them
and like try on their faces and ask
nonsense I just want to watch people
when they're at their most anabolic and
that's what I'm telling the jury trial I
have coming up so you potentially never
peace