hey folks doctor mike is here for
renaissance periodization welcome to
episode five of my bodybuilding
transformation journey catalogued by
none other than yours truly the one and
only
post show rebound last week we talked
about the peak week and the result of
the show all was really good
rebound
right after the show show ended on
saturday sunday monday and tuesday of
that week i did
zero training no rest to a couple qua
walks or something a couple cardio walks
no big deal
and
it was a great time to reduce a ton of
fatigue and i highly recommend that you
do a similar thing i only ate healthy
bodybuilding food because at that point
my hunger would have been so insane with
regular cheat food and even regular
tasty food that i would have just eaten
my own arm and i shot for a 4 000
calorie average which was roughly my
maintenance during that time
i wasn't training no real good reason to
eat a ton of food
then on wednesday of that week i began
to train and slowly ramp up training for
a total of a four week mesocycle
i did 11 000 steps per day which is a
lot more than i normally mask with but
that was just to keep the fat down lower
than it could have accumulated to also
if i stop walking a lot and i'm gaining
weight really fast my lower back cramps
so much then i'm like useless so i was
trying to prevent that i successfully
did
and
mostly bodybuilding food during uh those
four weeks but two meals at least out of
the week more like two to three were
cheat meals and then at some point later
in the process a few more
five thousand calories on average during
that time
uh it's a lot of calories a thousand
calorie surplus roughly maybe a little
less than that and it was done with
similar special sport supplements as to
pre-show so a lot of anabolic throughput
to gain plenty of mass but no more orals
because those are bad to take long term
et cetera et cetera
so that's what i did
and i will say that eating clean after a
show is really really hard
uh especially hard because i was still
traveling if i was at home i could have
pulled it off no problem but i was
traveling i went to charlie show to
nationals right after and i had to eat
out and i could make plenty of healthy
choices but even that was really tough
and probably during that weekend at
charlie's show i experienced the most
insane hunger that i had ever had it was
really intense
some days i had 6 000 even more seven
thousand calories in a day and i was
still hungry and could have eaten more i
ate three chipotle burritos in a row
within a half an hour period as a meal
okay usually one and i'm like holy shit
i ate one and a half and i'm like i'm
never doing this again a3 like it wasn't
even there my stomach literally hurt i
literally had proto vomit coming up i
had to fall asleep sitting up instead of
laying down because then the vomit would
just come and i was still interested in
eating more food that's how nuts it was
however i mostly pulled off the process
meeting mostly healthy foods not going
completely crazy keeping steps up and i
trained very hard during that whole time
so i put on some decent muscle i
definitely got bigger and stronger
during these four weeks and i put on
plenty of fat but the thing is that's
actually desired and that's one of the
biggest myths about post contest rebound
people talk about staying lean
i was a dexa 5.8 body fat the week
before my show you don't gain muscle
unless you're
as a male unless you're eight or nine
percent body fat or more otherwise
gaining muscle at such low body fats is
almost impossible like your body will
not prioritize muscle gain if you're
that lean it's just trying to get you to
gain fat at that point
this has been well studied in the
literature as well
so yes i'm trying to gain muscle during
this time but i'm also eating so many
calories that my body will gain me the
muscle because it's gaining plenty of
fat and checking that box for itself so
i probably ended up around eight or nine
percent body fat at the end of that
phase
uh crazy bloated at times uh but after
the bloat came off i still had gluten
striations and veins and stuff and i was
like all right this is really cool
afterwards the plan was to take a
two-week act of rest right after that
post-show rebound barely any training no
formal macro or calorie goals just
eating relatively healthy most of the
time getting enough protein and not
doing whole i still track but attracting
is more just a scientific
approach to seeing what
is sort of where my hunger levels are at
i don't attempt to try to eat a certain
way
no special sports supplements that
entire time for those two weeks and then
after that ready to push for more size
begin a formal massing phase what's that
going to look like tune in next week and
we'll talk about the post show massing
and my plans for the future see you then
you