so hello everyone um so what I'm going
to be doing in this video is uh just
outlining my general thoughts on the
reverse diet debate if you guys haven't
seen it yet I'll put a link uh right
here somewhere so you guys can check
that out overall I see the reverse diet
debate in a positive light um I know
that some of you guys wanted maybe a
little bit more of like a flame War than
we ended up seeing um but of course
going in all that I can do is go on what
has been released publicly and said to
to me um and if I had to be completely
honest I did expect a little bit more
disagreement between the parties um but
I don't see that as a bad thing that it
didn't happen I actually see it as a
good thing um I think it's good that the
people with the biggest spheres of
influence as coaches in our community um
are converging with their opinion um
rather than you know diverging so in
terms of the actual nitty-gritty of the
debate uh I think we can walk away with
as I see two main pragmatic points and
the first one is that it's smart to
increase your calories just generally in
the off season um and I think that there
are two main reasons for this uh the
first is that it's probably going to
allow you to perform better in the gym
uh and as a result build more muscle uh
and then also it might or there's at
least a chance uh that it could allow
you to diet on higher calories the next
time you cut especially perhaps towards
the the beginning of the cup um but that
isn't really how I wanted to set up the
debate that was just a takeaway that
sort of came as a result of the
conversation um I think the main
takeaway is that it really doesn't make
sense to gradually bring your way back
up to maintenance after a cut um I think
that the idea of doing that slowly and
not just jumping back to maintenance
that is your new maintenance uh right
away uh just makes no sense
uh because even if you're extremely
apprehensive about gaining fat if you
just go back to your new maintenance
then you're not going to be gaining fat
anyway by definition so what you
actually end up seeing in cases where
you have people boasting about actually
losing weight as they reverse is that
these people are just still in a caloric
deficit so they haven't yet reached
their new maintenance um and that of
course I think shouldn't be the goal of
the postc contest period unless you have
you know another show or a series of
shows was lined up I think if someone
has psychological reasons for not
wanting to go straight back to
maintenance um then that's an issue that
should probably be handled by a
specialist or or a professional who
deals uh with those sort of issues
specifically um because as coaches I
think the best thing that we can do is
encourage people that gaining fat is a
necessary process in terms of making
progress from show to show um and
actually actively encourage our athletes
to
not be afraid to gain a little bit of
fat if someone is fearful of adding food
to the point that they can't jump to
their new maintenance um then that's an
issue that I think should be nipped in
the bud rather than um feeding into that
and saying well you know they're not
comfortable with more increases so we
should go slowly so that's the lowest
that I would do the lowest that I would
recommend is going straight back to
maintenance but I don't actually think
that this is the best advice to give to
competitors uh and there are a few
reasons for that the first one is that
going to maintenance is is actually not
that much of a bump and throughout the
course of the debate I asked this a
couple of times and a couple of
different ways and I don't think I
really got a good answer at least not
one that I was satisfied with from the
other side as to why we should spend a
couple weeks in this sort of buffer zone
where you're just at maintenance but not
yet in a
surplus the only reasons that I could
sort of think of were uh it would serve
as sort of like a litness test to be
sure exactly where their maintenance is
uh because it's kind of tough to know
how big of a deficit someone is actually
in especially as they reach the you know
tail end of their contest prep diet so
by putting them back up to maintenance
it's a little bit more conservative
you'll ensure that you won't you know
get them in a surplus too fast and then
you can you know add in calories from
there but I think that this is
needlessly conservative I think that you
can just put someone straight away into
a surplus and there was a video that was
released the exact same day as the
debate uh by
3dmj uh I think it was called the
recover recovery diet what they
recommend in the video is actually going
right into a 400 to 1,000 calorie
Surplus uh and I actually think that
this is a great recommendation if the
goal is to gain fat uh then you should
start doing that sooner rather than
later uh but to my first point I think
that what some people aren't recognizing
is just how similar new maintenance
calories uh feels to dieting calories uh
so let's just say for example you finish
out your contest prep on 1,600 calories
and we bump you right back up to
maintenance let's say it's 2,000
calories um if you're quite a bit below
your set point and have been or settling
point and have been for some time um
then 2,000 calories isn't going to feel
a whole lot better than 1 1600 calories
you're still going to be very food
focused you're still going to be tempted
to binge you probably still still will
binge um and I don't think that the
differences in adherence from say a very
slow reverse I do think that going
straight to 2000 is better uh but I
think that going straight to 2400 would
be better still or going straight to
3,000 their old maintenance would be
better still and so uh for all that uh I
do think that probably the best way to
recommend this generally is just by
setting a weight cap for people um so
let's say within the first four months
of your of your post contest period um
you shouldn't try to go more than 10%
over your stage weight and I think that
as long as the athlete is comfortable in
gaining fat um how quickly you get to
that end point shouldn't matter so much
provided that you don't exceed it now
the argument against or I think the best
argument against gaining fat really
quickly like say adding that 15 lbs in
one or two weeks is that the only way
you can add that quickly is if you're
binging and if you're binging then
you're likely out of control and more
likely to overshoot and that certainly
is a possibility you know if you just
tell someone that you have a weight cap
of 165 lb don't exceed it uh
inexperienced competitors especially uh
might struggle in in staying under that
without further control however I think
that it's also a possibility if you're
tracking you know people could still be
breaking the diet they could still be
cheating on their macros and going over
and binging on the side which happens
all the time and what ends up happening
in that case which is extremely common
in my experience uh is you have this
constant internal dialogue of oh I've
already eaten this many macros I can't
eat this much more um or you know
there's this dinner plan that my family
planned for me after the show and I've
already got my daily macros almost
filled up and you don't have that
flexibility that you would have if you
just said okay you know what I'm still 3
lb under my weight cap if I go out and
eat this meal and blow my macros for the
day that's not a big deal and for this
reason especially immediately post show
when I find a lot of people have these
sort of friend and family engagements
because you've been dieting for so long
uh that now people expect the the
constraints to be lifted I think that it
would be smart to Simply lift those
constraints in terms of of of tracking
constraints at least for a little while
and so what I do to put some constraints
on the athlet so that they don't just
completely go off the rails uh is say
that you should focus on eating solid
Square meals so they can be big meals
and you don't have to put any limits on
yourself uh other than the fact that you
know once you're done the meal and you
decide you know what this is enough I
feel full um then you don't just keep on
eating you should really try like
actually try um to eat for physiological
reasons rather than emotional reasons
and really just you know pay attention
to that and actually take it seriously
and then I also always set a protein
requirement I encourage you know people
to eat 25 to say 40 gram of protein at
each meal so I think that setting up a
some sort of macronutrient guideline
with increased flexibility so say track
just calories and protein uh with a
fiber requirement in a decent Surplus
off the bat for most people and also
having some kind of weight cap uh or if
you feel as though when you're tracking
you're restricting yourself and you've
got this internal dialogue going um then
I think that a second option of paying
attention to what you're eating eating
discreet meals um allowing the body fat
to come on and then once you get to that
weight cap um then at that point you can
start tracking a little bit more closely
and then furthermore I think that there
are active things that you can do to
prevent this overshoot when using this
approach uh one would be writing your
goals down and reviewing them every
morning the other thing that I found to
be helpful is going on morning walks uh
so I think it's a good idea to reduce
your cardio uh but I wouldn't view the
morning walk as a cardio as a cardio
session but rather just a way to sort of
get Outdoors um get your state get your
day started um on the right foot and
sort of remind yourself and plan out
your day uh on the walk another thing
that I did that I found to be helpful
was I made a motivational calendar uh so
Robin and I put some photos of people
that Inspire us on the calendar and then
we would give ourselves a check mark as
the days went by if we did a good job a
good job just meant that you know we
didn't eat all day long we stuck to
discret meals and we were more or less
good at you know stopping once we were
full and then just the last thing that I
would say about that is uh to be
forgiving of yourself if you do binge um
I know that binging is held in a really
really harsh light um and a lot of
people seem to uh put it in the same
company as like committing like a a
moral atrocity or something um but I
don't think you should feel super bad if
you do binge on the diet um I personally
don't know of any bodybuilder who hasn't
binged at some point um after their
contest prep you're going to get back to
a more comfortable body weight and these
signals won't be as strong to just eat
and eat and eat um and things will
normalize over time and if it gets to
the point where it's out of control then
I think that um it's now an issue that
should be tended to in a professional
manner from someone who's actually a
specialist in that area so then the
second argument that I hear against
regaining the fat quickly or using more
of an intuitive approach is that you
want the muscle gain and the fat gain to
happen at roughly the same Pace all
right so if we look at it um graphically
like this we can put the fat gained the
muscle gained on the Y AIS and then the
x- axis will be time so if we do things
say my way uh we can allow the body fat
to come on uh quite quickly um and then
once you reach your weight cap uh you
would just put constraints on yourself
to ensure that you uh don't go any
higher than that or we can add the fat
progressively and more slowly uh so that
it better matches the rate of muscle
gain um so you don't have a period where
the fat is way ahead of the the muscle
so let's just take this point Point here
at say 2 weeks where your body fat has
gone way up uh but your muscle has only
gone up a little bit um you going to
look less lean at this body weight let's
just say it's 165 lb um than you did say
before you started your contest prep uh
because not only did you lose fat
throughout the course of your contest
prep you also lost muscle um and now
you're at a point where you put all that
fat back on but you haven't put very
much of the muscle back on yet at all um
see
now the pros of this approach is that
you only have a fairly small amount of
time where you're basically feeling like
garbage um because you've restored your
body weight um you're probably feeling
you know your hunger levels are getting
back to normal and your hormones have re
reequilibrated um to some degree whereas
if you take the slower and steadi
approach um you have a whole lot of time
where you're feeling crappy and I think
that the important point is that say 6
months or 3 months down the road both
approaches have you end up in the same
place um so really it depends on what
rate you're comfortable gaining at um if
you're comfortable gaining faster then
you just have to put up with the fact
that there's going to be a period of
time where you're looking a little bit
fluffier and then on the other hand if
you know you don't want to do that and
you do want to you know maintain some
resemblance of what you just spent you
know the last four or five months
working towards uh then you can of
course take a a slower and steadier
approach but I think that the most
important takeaway from all of this is
that uh it should be primarily the
personal preferences and uh
comfortability of the athlete in terms
of how fast they're willing uh or
comfortable gaining body fat that should
be dictating how fast uh the rate of
gain progresses uh so guys that is
pretty much my final summary on the
reverse diet debate and reverse dieting
generally I hope that you guys enjoyed
the the back training Clips uh that
covered this video um that was a back
workout I did earlier today and if you
enjoyed the video give me a thumbs up uh
don't forget to subscribe to my channel
if you haven't already and as always
guys thank you so much for watching and
I will see you in the next
video see you
again see you
again