[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike here with Joey
Zack Mary at the Lions Den Jim that is
Joey of sat strength on YouTube and Joey
has had the unique displeasure of trying
the RP training and diet methodologies
he's uh-oh few weeks in no how many
weeks this would be six 6 weeks in yeah
very good so he's halfway through his
fat loss plan and hypertrophy training
plan and I'm gonna ask him a few
questions about his training and his
diet to sort of get a feel on how he's
adjusting that's not okay yeah but I
feel like we first have to address
something that is that Mike and I don't
like each other one bit it's pretty the
fact that we're this close to each other
on a couch it's making me very
uncomfortable that's why I'm keeping my
arm yeah to this side of the couch and
he's trying to pop my personal bubble
with his hand right here well like in in
my defense this wouldn't be the first
thing you did uncomfortably in a couch
for money mm-hmm listen desperate times
call for desperate needs and aren't
these very desperate times being
resourceful so desperate that you began
an RP training approach so this is a lot
like the RP male physique templates a
few folks are interested in checking
that out
Joey's got a custom program that I
helped him develop and of course he's
been training for a long time so we had
a lot of insight into it as well what
has been the most different thing about
this approach to training than the stuff
you're typically used to yeah so just
quick background on myself as
competitive strongman athlete at the
moment so the biggest change I would say
has to do with kind of getting away from
only doing the main compound movements a
lot as well as a strongman implements
and events so for me it almost is it was
a little uncomfortable at first probably
getting away from that stuff but we
talked and we knew is a necessary part
of the training program to bring me back
even stronger when I do
back to competing so the exercise
selection has been different which would
typically be more bodybuilding style
movements that you guys are probably
familiar with and lots and lots of
volume you know the first couple weeks
it was very novel stimulus to myself
with being in the 20-plus rep range with
some of the exercise that we were doing
but that like we keep talking about it's
been necessary to get the gains that I'm
looking for when I do get back in a
strength programming so that was by far
probably the biggest difference
something else that was a very different
so that you harp all the time is gonna
be the technique involved with with each
of the movements as well so for me
getting full range of motion on
everything and taking out a lot of body
English which looking back was something
that I knew I was using a lot of which
is hard to measure especially when
you're trying to stay really consistent
with your training so that was
definitely some of the biggest i opening
things in terms of the program that we
put together yeah yeah how's the getting
used to three reps in reserve in the
first like week because basically in
their RP programming Friday per trophy a
lot of the stuff but it's not all of it
a lot of what we do is we start them as
a cycle at like the target is three reps
away from failure on all working sets
and then you slowly increase weight
and/or reps then eventually you just end
up going to failure because you just
can't keep getting infinitely strong
over the course of like four or six
weeks so that a lot of folks sometimes
tend to struggle or maybe think they'll
struggle with judging what is really
three reps in reserve or even close to
that what did you was your experience
with that the thing I would say that
helped me out was I had switched all of
my training over to RPE based trainings
for a long time prior to this so it's
kind of just flipping around so if it's
three optional reserve would be a K like
RPE 7 for me so it I found it relatively
easy to kind of transition over to just
because I have that background with RPE
based training but I would say you know
since it was so new to me and I didn't
really know where I should be with
certain action
actually the high rep range yeah that
that was gonna be the hardest part for
me to get used to but it's not as hard
as I think a lot of people make it out
to be in their head and and then you may
agree we just want to be in that
ballpark so it's like you know if I'm
it's never gonna be perfect I'm never
gonna say oh that 100% 2.5 exactly but
as long as were in that ballpark with
the 3 RI r you know we're getting the
right stimulus for training and worked
very nicely I would say coming from my
background and transition really
smoothly into the program because once
you get that first week of three ish RI
are just the weight and rep increase
this alone you'll have to get closer and
closer failure like you can't have been
that far off and eventually you will
just get all the way in and what's nice
too is kind of ending a training block
or mezzo cyclist you get to go basically
to failure so that kind of paints the
picture of you know where you are and
you have that you know wall that you're
gonna hit so it's easy to kind of
dictate moving forward after that we're
together for sure so in addition to that
there is an adjustment where we start
with sort of moderates / low numbers of
sense and then the sets are added how
did you take to the set additions
because there's always a little bit more
subjectivity there where like should I
add a set for this movement next week or
not based on like okay did it mess me up
a lot that I get really sore is my
performance still increasing if so then
at a set you know if I got really super
sore and I didn't even heal on time my
performance a sort of shaky then maybe I
shouldn't add a set was that was there a
lot of like consternation in your behalf
of like oh should I or did you kind of
sort of take it easy and then fall right
into it
well I would say in the past I have run
into an issue where I go too hard too
fast and it's hard to you know go from
there with most programs so starting
this I was more on the conservative side
and I kind of like that you know you
look at two sets you know I'm like you
know I could do five but sticking to the
plan in the program once I got to where
we were tracking everything and seeing
my fatigue start to kick in it was a lot
easier to manage and I knew I was ready
for a D load so for me I like to play it
on the safe side we
can always add more it's hard to take
away yeah I know what I mean so huge I
take it I'm fatigued but with a D load
yeah but if you under train a little bit
last week you can always push it a
little more it's kind of like if you go
to like a buffet and you get to sit
there for two hours like you can always
eat more food if you're still hungry but
if you overeat real fast then you're
just kind of like sitting there for an
hour and a half doing a whole lot of
nothing exactly and I learned that less
than early on by just going balls to the
walls too much you know fati myself over
the top and then kind of held back my
progress so going into this I was
letting you know might take the steering
wheel and whenever he's like alright
that's it that's when we're done you
know I'd rather have a little bit extra
so that I can keep pushing the training
as long as I can till the d load was
necessary which ended up actually being
perfect for when we did have our D load
because we were tracking everything we
could see the numbers starting to drop a
little bit that's when we knew we're
gonna hit it hard for that last training
week d load come back fresh and then
this current measure that we've been
running has been off to a really good
start oh cool how did your rep strength
respond on that first massive cycle well
everything has gone up basically in
terms of the rep strength the weights
something that I keep telling everybody
about is I haven't done a lot of these
movements in a long time so my you know
the the I guess the SRA that we're doing
the me coming back even stronger has
just been through the roof because of
how new the movements are such a
different stimulus and it's so novel to
me that I've been getting really great
adaptations coming from a very big
strength background changing up
completely to this higher volume i've
only been getting stronger my you know
muscles have only been getting bigger
which is a perfect ideal situation that
is what we're looking for so yeah it's
been good as far as like the feel of it
and the psychology of it and your
motivation for it and the feedback on it
how does this compare to powerlifting
and strongman training because what I've
heard from some people who come from the
competitive strength sports is that it's
really easy
to get super psyched for powerlifting
are strong in cuz it's not a lot of
training it's fun and you get to hit PRS
like right there it's just on baller
lifts like the compound basics like we
must APR in lateral raise you know
yelling about that but at the same time
that kind of training sort of eats at
your psychology because you can only get
up so many times there were so many
weeks and it just crushes you this is a
bit more of a marathon style approach
did you find that to be the case or how
did you feel about like though yeah I
think you kind of nailed it with what
she just said for me honestly the change
was huge mentally and it's something
that I was excited to do I think when
you get stuck either with an identity of
who you are as a strength sport athlete
or you only focus on one type of
training at some point it gets pretty
monotonous and it gets tough mentally
and with switching over there's
something new I was learning a ton I was
excited to come and train and at the
same time like the difference is you
like you had said it's for the long haul
so coming in it's like the pace is just
a little bit different I would say than
going for you know strength workouts all
the time and I don't know I just was
having a great it's just fun you know we
have a good time we got good show wasn't
boring cuz a lot of people say it's
boring no no no I mean I had a blast
doing it and getting pumps is cool too
yeah that's something I haven't felt in
a while to be honest with you is getting
a pump like that like the difference
feeling of I kind of use the example of
when you're doing high-volume
there's this burn in your body it's
almost like you're on fire and you can't
run away from it so you just sit there
looking at everybody and you're freaking
outside and it's like wow I kind of like
this but I don't like this at all but
then when you lift really heavy
deadlifts it feels like your soul is
getting sucked from outside of you from
some sort of weird being that you can't
see no soul sucks soul some call me that
wasn't a couple of movies called the
soul there's 1 through 22 yeah
that's doctor might the soul sucker and
so so that's just kind of how I felt
about it but yeah I was excited I was
motivated to come train is so new to me
and it's just been great so far very
cool for folks interested in trying this
kind of training basically switching
their gears a little bit more typer
trophy do you have any like pieces of
vice especially from folks coming from
largely strongman weightlifting or
powerlifting background like yourself I
think what I realized is it's a
necessity at some point and I think a
lot of people don't want to maybe do it
because they they get so caught up and
trying to progress their numbers in
their main lifts where it just feels
uncomfortable like I had said the
beginning of the video and for me
I'm just getting excited now because I
know that this was such a necessary step
for me to come back even stronger with
my training and we were talking about it
today there are some movements that I
haven't done in years and doing them now
with the knowledge I have I know that
it's only gonna help my math you know my
main lift sir my strongman lifts and
performance through the long haul and I
think people need to think long term not
so much right now focused on the micro
but macro thinking and being in for the
long haul getting as strong as possible
being smart about your training and
hypertrophy training is absolutely
something that needs to be programmed in
with your training to make you the best
possible athlete very cool very cool
thank you so much for the insight for
the next video we'll come back with
Joey's take on the RP diet app and his
diet journey so far folks see you then
[Music]
you
[Music]