your goal with weight training has to be
must be in a fat loss phase the maximum
retention of muscle mass because losing
it is a possibility you don't
want hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization should you go
heavier when you're training for muscle
gain and do lighter higher reps when
you're training for fat loss oo is this
fact or fiction lots of ideas let's find
out what's correct and what is
not the idea of going heavy for your
bulk my bulker every now and again I
read the steroid forums and I'm always
upset and every now and again they use
terms like bulker and cutter doing a
cutter and I found some wistw underneath
Grandma's old
shelves got my PCT
together got kgal on hand just in case
sides hit honestly if I ruled the world
it would be a Libertarian capitalist
Paradise
Ubi all that shit hell yeah Bernie
Sanders you can state to everyone who's
ever commented with slaying in a steroid
form lined up and fucking shot in public
as a lesson never say bulker or Cutter
nothing is ever on
hand I'm just upset in any
case when you are bulking a very common
tradition Through the Ages has been
okay you got to go heavy to put on mass
sets of like five to 12 reps is what
most guys have in mind and then in a fat
loss phase that everyone kind of knows
or the old school tradition is I'm old
school brother uh is you do higher reps
maybe sets of 10 to 20 reps if not
higher but definitely if you tell most
old school bodybuilders hey like when
I'm buling a kind of sets of 5 to 10 5
to 12 when I'm uh trying to lose some
fat I go to sets 10 to 20 is very
unlikely anyone's going to bat an eye
they like yeah
obvious but does this actually make
sense it does make some sense other
sense it does not make let's find out
how first it doesn't make sense what are
the cons against this view first there
has been enough research collected now
we pretty confidently never sure thing
science is never certain we can very
confidently say that heavier loads and
lighter loads build a roughly equivalent
amount of muscle sets of five to 30
repetitions and even a little bit
outside those ranges have been shown in
almost every study study after study
after study different designs different
populations to just not be reliably
differentiable in muscle growth so if
you said something like well sets of 5
to 10 build mass more than sets of 20 to
25 if you loop back to the literature
talk to somebody like Brad shonfeld the
world's expert on hypertrophy then it
would be like that that's actually not
true and the thing is a lot of us who do
the science and RP funds a ton of the
science and I'm a co-author and bunch of
papers nowadays we are all hardcore to
begin with like we're all from that era
and we all thought this was true sort of
hoped it was true and then we found out
it wasn't so it turns out that is just
not true to say that like heavier
weights put on more bulk or more
mass take that for what it is there's a
probability that it's true but it's just
not evident in literature or in real
practice you got guys getting big you
know like Tom Platz the way he got big
legs was like Ultra High Reps all the
fucking time okay so oh that that's just
Tom plat legs didn't apply was he an
outlier if you look at all the data and
all the experience there's just nothing
to generalize
to next lighter loads May in fact be
superior for certain muscles certain
exercises in a muscle gain phase on
average there doesn't seem to be a
difference between sets of five to 10
sorry between sets of five all the way
up to sets of
30 in specific individuals in specific
muscles some individuals seem to grow
better from higher reps some individuals
and their muscles on certain exercises
seem to grow better with lower
repetition but because that diversity is
the case you can even find lots of
individuals and or muscles on
individuals which just grow better from
higher reps and lower reps are just not
the answer for example just taking
myself my biceps if I do sets of five to
10 some stuff happens but if I do sets
of 10 to 15 or 15 to 20 my shit blows up
and so if I was to be a strict adherent
of the okay it's time to bulk that's a 5
to 10 my biceps just wouldn't grow that
much and then when I got to the fat loss
phase I would notice when I switch to
higher reps like my biceps actually like
unfortunately I'm not eating enough to
really grow muscle now but they're just
getting a better stimulus I wonder what
would happen if I did this in the
offseason when I'm bulking and the
answer is I would just get bigger so
that dogmatic you got to train heavier
to put on size thing isn't just not
statistically on average true it's on
average neutral there are many times
where where it's actually wrong and so
if you have that dogmatic view you're
going to be wrong a lot you're going to
have the situation where you do in sets
of 5 to 10 on squats and lag presses and
your knees kind of hurt a little bit
your quads get a decent pump decent
tension takes you little few days to
recover and you're good to go and you're
having like okay leg training and then
one of your buddies comes in from out of
town and you hit a couple sessions with
him you know he's there for maybe he's
staying with you for a few weeks or
something before your wedding or some
shit like that get getting you ready for
the the married life and you hit a
couple workouts with him and he's doing
like a high rep program and you're like
bro my legs are exploding I'm sore all
the fucking time my pumps are out of
this world I physically fucking added
like half an inch I swear to God in the
last two weeks on my legs he's like oh
sweet I love it yeah this this rep range
really works for me and then he gets on
a flight and leaves and you're like all
right back to bulking so that's a five
to 10 that didn't really work all that
well for me so there are situations in
which clearly higher reps work better
and that doesn't make a whole lot of
sense one thing I didn't write here on
the PowerPoint which is also true is the
corollary of that is in the fat loss
phase some guys if they do nice
controlled slow Ecentric nice and strict
injury probability kept low sets of like
8 to 10 or even 6 to 10 they can have an
unbelievably more efficacious retention
of their muscle tissue some guys could
say like dude as soon as I start going
light pre-contest my fucking shit falls
off my body my muscles just start
sinking off but if I keep going as heavy
as I can safely I just have this fucking
hard big ass look I'm able to retain all
my trouble muscles that happens all the
time so it's both false to say that
heavy training is always best for growth
and it's false to say that light
training is always best for cutting
problem next you'll hear guys this one I
had to put in here because something
you're going to hear and I want you guys
to be inoculated against this fucking
nonsense is why fucking build with
fucking heavy weights right right makes
sense and then fucking etching the
details on a
cutter guns loaded don't fucking say
that shit again fucking on a cutter just
kidding uh on a fat loss phase my bad I
fucking Etch in the details with higher
reps oh okay well let's pretend I'm a
physiologist oh wait I am of sport and
let's pretend that we know something uh
together you and I Mr viewer about how
Muscle Works and what it
is describe to me how etching in the
details could possibly work from a
physiological or anatomical persp
perspective I'm sorry you're not a
sculptor motherfucker either the fat
decreases in size or the muscle
increases in size I don't understand
what etching in details can possibly
mean and if you think about it long
enough it can't possibly mean anything
so people who say I'm using the fucking
High Reps to etch in the striations that
is just unabashed
nonsense muscle grows or get smaller fat
grows or gets smaller you want to etch
in details keep your muscle the same
size or grow it a little bit and take
your fat stores and Shrink them down
details etched no rep range
required people also say you know the
higher reps burn more calories and
that's true to an unbelievably tiny
extent that makes almost no difference
the real calorie snc that you generate
for the deficit comes from diet a little
bit of it comes from keeping up a normal
slash normal to high level of physical
activity doing your cardio getting your
12,000 steps a day whatever almost none
of it comes from differences in weight
training and remember weight training we
have one big goal on a fat loss phase we
want to make sure that we preserve as
much muscle as possible sort of attempt
to build it and the building is can
canceled out by the catabolic State and
then you end up at neutral most of the
time ideally if you start to go okay in
my workouts my weight training I want to
burn more calories you were necessarily
sacrificing optimal hypertrophy because
optimal hypertrophy is like a one one
target goal you shoot for that what are
extra goals are are up to n it's like if
you want to go to Subway and pick up a
sandwich and your friend's like hey can
you stop by like CVS for me to pick up
like some gum you're like yeah it could
it's going to cost me 20 extra minutes
we're just not that close of friends so
no I'm not going to do anything for you
again ever Bob
ever don't ask who Bob is never ask me
about who Bob is he's dead to me in any
case if the goal is getting a Subway
sandwich the anything you do extra is
extra and if you're really crunched for
time you're not just a piece of shit
that says no to Bob it really is taking
away from the goal so if your goal with
weight training has to be must be in a
fat loss phase the maximum retention of
muscle mass because losing it is a
possibility you don't want trying to
also Co spped it to just burn a few more
calories seems like a really shit way to
disturb a really important process for a
really small gain I wouldn't recommend
it it's just not a thing that's going to
work now that's all the
downsides there are
upsides and a lot of folks who are
hashtag evidence-based will be like of
course that's all true and uh that you
should just train heavy all the way
through ah but should you there are
distinct advantages
to going heavier on a muscle gain phase
and lighter on a fat loss phase and here
they are
first when you're trying to bulk up
especially later in the end of a bulk
your body fat percent's a bit higher and
you're a lot
heavier higher reps can gas you the fuck
out and because gassing out is almost
defined as your cardiovascular system
limits your performance before your
local musculature does as you're
cranking out hamstring curls and you're
now like can't breathe very well and you
have to stop you might have stopped like
four rep shy failure where you think
it's one it was one rep shy of total
system failure which is why you stopped
but you had four reps in the actual
muscle left over it's the lungs that
kept you back if you instead didn't
train for sets of 20 in the hamster and
curl but try to set do sets of 10 you
might have reached one rep away from
failure amazing stimulus without your
lungs burning much because you just
didn't have to do 10 extra reps
higher Reps for muscle growth are
amazing when you can do them but there
may be times towards the end of a bulk
where lower reps are better just because
they're not limited by our
cardiovascular ability and thus they are
actually more effective for muscle
growth on the other hand when you are
cutting higher reps can be easier to do
each week instead of harder because you
lean out when you're squatting for
higher reps let's say sets of 15 I don't
know why the fuck you'd ever do that
well let's pick a more rational exercise
to sets 15 hack squat when you're hack
squatting for sets of 15 and you're
doing it in a bulking phase oh my God
bro you're just going to start vomiting
blood at some point and stop eight rep
shy failure because you can't fucking
breathe and you're rolling on the floor
thinking you're good this is it I'm
going to die if you're doing sets of 15
on the hack squat especially in the tail
end of a fat loss phase you're losing
weight session to session week to
week and those higher reps are much
easier to do when you were physically
lighter you ever notice small people can
crank reps like crazy big guy does 12
reps and he's on the floor throwing up
and you're leaning out and nothing in
this world short of actual endurance
training makes your endurance better
than losing fat I mean it's magical as
you're leaning out you're more able to
do higher reps which is great here's
another really trippy
thing as you impose a caloric deficit on
your body's musculature that long-term
exposure to the caloric deficit
upregulates ampk activity and down
regulates mtor activity what that means
in science speak is that it makes your
muscles unfortunately slightly more
catabolic likely to break down their own
structures for feeding the body because
it's fucking starving to death and less
anabolic less propensity to grow muscle
that sucks however there's a silver
lining there ampk is also the it's not
just the central catabolic governor of
your cell it's also one of the central
governor of endurance
adaptations and a lot ofk activity
actually changes your fiber type
isoforms on the
margins it improves it signals to
improve vascularity around the the
muscle tissue and a ton of other uh
effects it actually can improve the
oxygen transport ability through and to
the muscle and what that ends up doing
is at the longer you do a fat loss phase
4 and the more ampy activity is summated
over time you actually get better at
reps you get more endurant so not only
getting better reps because you're
getting lighter and leaner but you're
now getting better reps internally
physiologically at the molecular level
that's kind of cool so you might as well
lean into the shit you're getting good
at as opposed to leaning shit you're not
getting good at coming back to that if
you're trying to go your all-time
heaviest at the end of a fat loss phase
that can be needlessly injury promoting
let's take charge of what's going on
here or take stock of what's going on at
the end of a fat loss phase you're
really fatigued you're at a body weight
you're not used to the cushioning of the
connective tissues and the rest of your
body is minimized because you've been
losing fat you're probably in a slightly
less hydrated State than you would be on
a bul because you know you don't have
bloat face anymore and that means all of
your joints connective tissues are not
dehydrated but they're less hydrated
you're also fatigued in a way that
affects your coordination one of the
earliest signs of high systemic fatigue
in athletes is they're not as fluid and
smooth anymore with their movements
they're a little shaky a little Breaky
they make more mistakes you make a
mistake under 200 kilos in a squat of
athleticism you have to lean forward a
bit more something pops there it is you
make a mistake under 120 kilos if you're
a 200 kilo squatter H probably not much
is going to happen so trying to go
alltime Ultra heavy at the end of a fat
loss phase could just be um getting
together kind of a consilience of let's
get
hurt uh potentially
unwise in
addition you may not be able to go as
heavy as possible because you are so
fatigued because your coordination is so
off because your muscles are literally
bereft of most of their glycogen stores
which allow you to do lots of repetitive
efforts if you go heavy at the end of a
cut psychologically this kind of sucks
because you can literally just watch
yourself get
weaker that
blows if you started doing some higher
reps at the end of a cut the amk
transformative process for the muscle
the loss of fat the loss of weight can
actually allow you to continue to either
hold your ground or even make PRS
especially if you're doing sets of 15 to
30 reps and you're not adding load or
maybe a little load but you're adding
reps last month of a cutting phase you
do like press for 400 lb for a set of 15
the next week you do 400 lbs for for
sets of 16 then 17 then 18 then D Lo
something like that you can actually
make PRS which psychologically is really
awesome at the tail end of a fat loss
phase is kind of like how are you able
to hit PRS is it through heavy low rep
no not really okay don't do that are you
able to hit it with higher reps yes then
do that because remember we know their
ability to hold bule is similar and also
the higher ups don't get you hurt as
much starts to be a pretty good argument
here and this leads us to best practices
so there's some downsides there's some
upsides what are the best practices the
first thing I have to say is this just
generally when you're training
the preponderance of your logic for
choosing the rep range should come from
the stimulus to fatigue ratio that a rep
range implies you can only do this by
trial and error if sets of five to 10 on
the leg press cause amazing tension felt
in the quads closer to set rep number 10
they cause a crazy burn in the quads
your pump after a few sets is Monumental
the muscles are clearly perturbed right
you try to walk away from the leg press
and you're kind of walking with bent
legs and someone's like you okay you're
like let me just grab on of this
drinking fountain so I don't pass
out good sign that you did something to
your legs and if it gets your muscle
nice and sore while at the same time
minimizing joint and connective tissue
disruption nobody's going to be able to
set to tell you that sets a five to 10
of leg press are the wrong thing because
your stimulus to fatigue ratio stimulus
being all those good things I said and
fatigue mostly being joint connective
tissue stop but also how much an
exercise systemically beats you up if
your stimulus to fatigue ratio sets a 5
to 10 is
amazing that's the right answer let me
tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy
app with over 28 preset programs already
in the app you can choose to make your
own you can modify an existing program
or you can just run the programs exactly
as they were written by me personally
this app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every sing SLE week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app
today if you go to sets of 20 to 25 and
you gas out it's your it's your cardio
that's keeping you behind your muscles
aren't being super stimulated you can't
really feel a ton of tension at that
range there is a burn but you're getting
more of a burn in your lugs than in your
muscles the pump is cool but it's kind
of a transient pump like you see some
veins then half an hour later after
you're' done training it's gone whereas
when you go heavier it's like a pump
that lasts kind of all day the muscles
are perturbed like they're tired but
they're they're more fatigued than
perturbed by perturbed I mean like if
you go heavy and sorry not heavy
whatever as effective and you try to use
your legs after they're going to feel
weak and wobbly and particularly there's
a coordination problem and sometimes the
muscles even cramp but if you do a rep
range that's not the best for you like
High Reps for Legs for This example you
could be like yeah like move your legs
around jump around a little bit like I
like feel tired and kind of heavy but
nothing like anything magical happened
to the muscles it's just a similar to
how it would feel after like a five mile
run like well that doesn't grow a lot of
muscle that's not good and if after that
session you don't really get hardly sore
at all then the clearly sets of 5 to 10
are better for you in the leg press in
that time than sets of 20 to 25 you will
have all the data in the world as you
train with the RP hypertrophy app link
in
description of different rep ranges with
different muscle groups with different
exercises and you're going to start to
learn which rep ranges give you the best
results sometimes it can be a diversity
it could be like there's no wrong
answers for Skull Crushers I get a great
pump when I do five I get a great pump
when I do 30 and everything in between
there could be times when it hurts your
elbows and times when it doesn't there
could be a Vari situation where you have
some stainess you've been doing sets of
5 to 10 for a while and then it feel not
so great you switch to sets of 20 to 25
and just the novelty alone Burns you out
and it's amazing so at the end of the
day just going with whatever is a great
stimulus to fatigue ratio and to put
that another way avoiding exercises and
rep ranges that are bad stimulus to
fatigue ratio like not a lot of pump not
a lot of soreness my joints hurt this
exercise is hard as fuck to do then
that's not really the answered and
that's the best possible thing you can
say so if someone's like hey you got to
train heavy to build muscle that's a 5
to 10 you got to be like oh you know
that's true for some muscles for some of
the time for me but it's not really true
for most muscles and they say how do you
know well stimulus to fatigue ratio so
that's the key core concept to keep in
mind on top of that you want to layer
some other ideas consider going a bit
higher rep and adding reps as a form of
progression instead of load especially
in the last Mesa cycle of a fat loss
phase where you're tired you can't make
strength PRS anymore your injury
probability is a little higher that
might just make it psychologically and
physiologically and safety-wise the
better choice I'm not saying always do
it give it a shot and I don't mean Ultra
High Reps I mean if you normally train
for sets of 10 to 15 maybe more sets of
15 and fewer sets of 10 uh at the end of
a fat loss
phase
lastly when in that first Mesa cycle of
massing of bulking out of a fat loss
phase
definitely keep lighter training in
stick to the lighter ranges progress in
loads through them gently but don't go
heavy right away what you do not want to
do is finish a lot of light training on
a fat loss phase and then as soon as you
got some food and fuel in you and some
rest you start day one of the bulk with
ultra heavy shits that's a five you may
want to do that but your joints and
connective tissues or tendons they're
not adjusted to those heavy loads it's a
very different stimulus and because not
only are they not adjusted but now you
used to have very little energy and now
you've been eating food and you have a
fuck ton of energy this is a big fucking
problem because that combination of bad
adjustment to historically what has not
been heavyweight in the last few weeks
or even maybe months combined with the
fact that you're now feeling really
strong and motivated can cause injury
and a lot of guys get hurt at this time
and it's needless what you should do is
through through the bulk the first Mesa
cycle continue to train with slightly
higher reps then in the next phase pick
some lower reps and then phase after
that you can if some of the lower reps
are working really start to keep doing
the lower reps and slowly over time add
weight so that by the end of your
bulking phase you're doing less High rep
training than you used to plenty of low
rep training maybe a little bit of high
rep training in the muscles that don't
gas you out and then when you transition
back to a fat loss phase again you can
start training relatively heavy and then
over time choose some lighter rep ranges
as you continue through the bulk sorry
through the cut good
God that's all I got at the end of the
day folks don't be pedantic about stuff
and don't be dogmatic about it don't say
well I read this from a book so it has
to be true you could give it a little
bit more thought all the evidence
doesn't say that injury risk is enhanced
directly by going heavy at the end of a
fatloss phase because that training
science has never been done that doesn't
mean that the reality isn't kind of
quite obvious and don't be dogmatic
don't say well this is how it works and
that's it maybe or maybe some guys got
some shit you know kind of wrong I mean
if you think about a lot of the
arguments are like well the old school
guys did it yeah they were smaller and
less well- conditioned and uh not as
impressive and there were fewer of them
you say Fuck dare you bro Arnold was
better than everyone sure but how many
Arnolds were there and imagine if Arnold
said this during his day he'd be doing
some exercise and he'd be like where'd
you get that
from got Vince Janda the and guys from
the 50s I mean they really knew things
and guys from the 30s I mean they knew
it
all and guys from 1910 I mean circus
strongman they didn't even have weights
they knew everything because old school
is better the that's bullshit we learn
stuff over time and some of the stuff
from the past can be informative and
true and some of it gets filtered away
so there is some truth to going heavier
and a massing and a bulking phase and
going lighter in a fat loss phase but
it's new and it's not direct and mostly
what you want is the best stimulus to
fatigue ratio possible guys thanks for
tuning in check out our members area
check out our description for links see
you next
time