if you really want to learn how not to
do biceps curls then go ahead and spend
an hour or so scrolling through social
media take 95 of the unique biceps
curling variations you find there study
them carefully and then just don't do
that maybe that's a bit too vague though
so in this video let's go over three
specific mistakes people commonly make
on this exercise that not only reduces
bicep stimulation but also increases
stress on the wrist elbows and shoulders
now hopefully you've already got the
most basic things covered already
meaning you're curling a width you can
remain in control of at all times
without swinging your torso all over the
place and aggressively dry humping the
bar on each rep you're executing the
lift using a reasonably full range of
motion and you're using a deliberate
eccentric rather than just letting the
weight fall back down using Pure Gravity
so with that out of the way here are
three other mistakes you might not even
realize you're making and if you want to
maximize your arm gains over the long
term then you need to ensure that you've
got each of these covered all right
mistake number one is excessive shoulder
flexion in other words allowing your
upper arms to drift too far forward as
you're performing the curl this is
usually a result of just trying to go
too heavy in general and it essentially
turns the exercise size into a hybrid
between a biceps curl and a front raise
which is going to bring more of the
front delts into play and ultimately
decrease the work being done by the
biceps if you watch this playoff from a
side angle then you can see that as the
upper arms travel further and further
forward during the curl and the wrist
and elbows are more closely stocked on
top of each other the more you start to
load that shoulder flexion component and
the less you'll be loading an elbow
flexion which is the primary function of
the biceps whereas if the upper arms
remain stationary then you'll primarily
be loading elbow flexion all the way
through and keeping the resistance on
the biceps at the top of the range as
well now keep in mind that as long as
the biceps are still the limiting factor
in the exercise meaning that they're the
muscle that hits failure first during
the set then a slight bit of upper arm
movement probably isn't going to matter
much if at all in the long run and I
also think that in some cases if you try
to lift too strictly and too robotically
it can actually limit total muscular
overload because you just become too
optimal form obsessed trying to
micromanage every tiny millimeter of
movement versus really allowing yourself
to just drive against the weight with
maximum force in addition and this is
going to be suited towards slightly more
experienced lifters but if you're really
wanting to push a given set all all the
way to the Limit then a bit of
controlled cheating can also have its
place here and there as well for example
if you've taken a set of curls to
failure using very strict pure elbow
flexion based form that doesn't mean
your biceps are completely on empty it
just means they failed within the
confines of that specific form and
there's still the option of loosening
your Technique up slightly by allowing a
bit of torso lean and a bit of shoulder
flexion to keep the weight moving and
push the biceps Beyond normal failure
mistake number two is performing curling
variations that have improper alignment
in other words where the path of the
resistance isn't matched up with a
natural curling path of the bicep the
most common example of this would be
narrow grip or wide grip curls where
your hands are locked onto a fixed
Implement like a straight bar or for
narrow grip curls it could also be a
single dumbbell like with a waiter curl
or a plate curl as well when your hands
are out wide with the shoulders
externally rotated the biceps would
naturally want to curl inward from this
position and if they're in narrow with
the shoulders internally rotated then
they would naturally want to curl
outward and the problem is that if
you've got both hands locked onto a bar
or a dumbbell using a very wide or
narrow grip the resistance is being
forced onto a fixed vertical line not
only is that going to limit overall
biceps output but just as importantly
it's also going to increase the strain
on your wrist shoulders and elbows which
can definitely add up over time
especially as you progress to heavier
weight these types of curling variations
might seem novel and they'll tend to
feel like they're working really
effectively because of that increased
burning sensation that they produce but
in reality this is actually a form of
negative feedback from the nervous
system as a result of the joints being
in an awkward and less stable position
which is easy to mistake for greater
tension on the biceps even though it has
nothing to do with them being loaded
more effectively by the resistance now a
slightly narrower or slightly wider grip
is probably not a huge deal overall but
for the very best results stick to
curling variations with a wrist elbow
and shoulder are kept in line throughout
the movement so that the resistance is
running straight through the line of
pull of the biceps and directly opposing
the fibers it's okay to curl from an
internally rotated position which will
emphasize more of the bicep short head
or from an externally rotated position
which will emphasize more of the long
head but if you're going to do that then
for internally rotated curls you want to
perform the exercise one arm at a time
using a dumbbell or a cable so that the
arm can follow that natural outward
curling and if you're externally rotated
then it can be done single arm or with
both arms at the same time but again
stick to dumbbells or cable attachments
rather than a fixed straight bar so that
the arms can naturally curl Inward and
if you are performing curls using a
straight bar whether it's free weight or
cable or some type of machine curl then
just use a basic shoulder width grip if
you find this advice helpful don't
forget to subscribe to the channel to
stay up to date on future videos and
lastly mistake number three is kind of
related to the point that I just
mentioned and that is selecting your
biceps exercises primarily based on feel
in other words emphasizing curling
variations that produce the strongest
overall sensation and then automatically
equating that with increased muscle
building Effectiveness now this might
seem counterintuitive because it would
make sense that the stronger you can
feel a muscle working the better it must
be for hypertrophy however once again
and like I covered in a full video a
while back there are a wide variety of
reasons for why a given exercise might
produce a stronger feel that have
nothing to do with an increase in actual
mechanical tension on the muscle and in
the case of the biceps the truth is that
the most effective curling variations
are also the ones that probably have the
lowest degree of sensation overall
that's because the biceps don't generate
maximum force or experience maximum
tension in the shortened position like
with a preacher curl where you'll get
that really strong cramping burning
sensation on each rep and it also
doesn't happen in the lengthened
position either like with an incline
curl or a facing away cable curl where
you're going to get that intense
stretching sensation the biceps actually
produce the most force and the most
overall tension on exercises that
emphasize the mid-range position meaning
basic barbell dumbbell or cable curls
where the movement starts with your arms
directly at your sides I actually made a
video about this a couple years back
explaining that barbell curls are one of
the most underrated biceps exercises and
that most people can probably build
their biceps right up close to their
maximum potential just using that one
movement alone and a lot of people
thought that was too simplistic but I
still stand by that the biceps really
don't require much in terms of exercise
variety it's a fairly straightforward
muscle with a basic function and if
you're progressively overloading a
regular standing curl your biceps will
continue to grow over time and even
anecdotally back when my arms were at
their very biggest barbell curls and
dumbbell curls were literally the only
direct biceps exercises that I did now
I'm not saying to not perform shortened
or lengthened biceps curl variations you
can include all three types of curls in
your program to be 100 sure that you're
not leaving any gains on the table but
don't make the mistake of thinking that
just because you can feel a certain type
of curl more strongly that it
automatically must be more effective or
that because a regular old-fashioned
standing curl seems too basic or doesn't
give you that same crappy Bernie
stretchy Sensation that it must not be
as good I'd say if anything you should
probably be prioritizing those basic
mid-range curls and then using shortened
and lengthened position curls as
optional supplemental add-ons if you
want some more help getting your overall
fitness program onto the right track
whether your goal is to gain muscle lose
fat or potentially do both make sure to
visit shawnell.com custom just fill out
the short form on that page and I'll
send you back a free step-by-step
training plan based on your current
condition and goals along with an easy
to follow nutrition plan as well the
link for that is in the description box
for Effective supplementation visit
realscienceathletics.com to check out my
own line of research-backed clinically
dosed formulas I personally created to
maximize your results here are two more
videos I'd recommend watching now don't
forget to subscribe to stay up to date
thanks for watching guys and I'll talk
to you again soon