so it's been a little over a year since
I released my first science explained
video on the Cavs and given just how
much research has been published since
then I think it's a good time for an
overhaul so first in order to understand
how to best train the Cavs for growth I
think it's important to have a
fundamental grasp of their basic anatomy
first um so what we call the Cavs are
technically a pair of muscles known as
the triceps surae which is made up of
the soleus and gastrocnemius the soleus
sits underneath the gastroc but is
actually bigger in terms of muscle
volume and I think it's much more
important than many trainees realize for
creating big muscular calves as a whole
the gastrocnemius or gastroc for short
has a medial or inside head and a
lateral or outside head and the gastroc
originates on the femur and inserts on
the heel bone via the Achilles tendon so
it's a bi articular muscle meaning
across as two joints having actions at
the knee where it performs knee flexion
or bending your leg like in a leg curl
and at the ankle joint where it performs
plantar flexion pressing your foot down
as if pushing on a gas pedal in contrast
the soleus originates on the tibia and
fibula of the lower leg also inserting
on the heel bone via the Achilles tendon
and so it only acts on the ankle joint
to perform plantar flexion and has no
action at all at the knee and remember
this because it's something we'll come
back to later
now the first I'd like to quickly
comment on the so called stubbornness of
the calves and while I'm not aware of
any direct research suggesting this to
be the case and I can think of at least
two reasons why it very well could be
true for one studies have shown that
androgen receptors which are what
testosterone binds to to a signal for a
muscle and Abba lism are greatest in
number in the neck and traps and then
decrease in number as you move down the
body according to scientific fitness
author Lyle McDonald by the time you get
to the calves androgen receptor density
is very low so a testosterone can't
exert as much of an effect but I would
say this is speculative at best and the
second reason why the calves might be
more stubborn than other muscles has to
do with their fiber type composition and
so the most recent evidence on this to
guess that both the gastrocnemius and
soleus are type 1 or slow-twitch
dominant and sends type 2 or fast-twitch
fibers tend to
a greater hypertrophic potential than
type 1 or slow-twitch fibers especially
when using heavier weights this
preponderance of slow-twitch fibers
could be limiting the calves growth
potential but there are definitely ways
around these potential limiting factors
and in my opinion probably the single
most limiting factor is that people just
get discouraged with the results either
give up on their training or take a more
lackadaisical approach and I think that
perhaps the best a counter example to
this that I've seen comes from Pro
natural bodybuilder Jeff Albert's and
this is a 24-year transformation but it
goes to show that if you do just stick
to the plan with consistency and a
steady focus on progression and it will
grow if you train them properly over
enough time so exactly how to do that is
what we're gonna cover next and I think
that when it comes to exercise selection
the main thing to keep in mind is that
you should be including at least one
standing and one seated calf raise
variation and this is because as we
mentioned in the anatomy section the
gastroc crosses both the ankle joint and
the knee joint so when your knee is bent
your gastroc is already shortened up at
the knee as such isn't in as great of a
position to shorten or contract down at
the ankle and this is called active
insufficiency and I think it gives us
good biomechanical grounds for assuming
that the soleus should be more active
when performing seated calf raises where
the knee is bent and this has been
corroborated by EMG data one 2012 study
found that increasing knee flexion angle
from 0 to 45 degrees resulted in an
increase in soleus activation further
implying the seated variations are
likely better at isolating the soleus
and just recall that the soleus is the
biggest muscle and so I think it
deserves some sort of special attention
in this way but despite this we're gonna
start with the more gastroc dominated
standing variations of calf raises and
perhaps the best thing to do would just
be to experiment with all of these and
find out what works best for you
according to EMG activation data from
buh heck bare hands and bus keys donkey
calf raises came out on top however
you'll want to keep in mind that while I
personally believe that all else equal
more EMG amplitude should imply more
muscle activation which should imply
greater rates of muscle protein
synthesis and greater muscle hypertrophy
overall and this line of reasoning has
received some criticism from some
members of the scientific community for
now I think you'll just want to exercise
caution when extrapolating these results
but in any case if we just grant that
activation matters for something and I
certainly think it does and you may want
to include a donkey calf raise in your
routine in practice if you don't have
the machine there are a few other ways
you can set it up one way is to simply
have a partner load a plate on your
lower back but there will come a point
where overloading heavily enough will
become an issue so you can also load it
using a smith machine with the bar
placed on your lower back or even more
creatively you can load it using a
barbell positioned lengthwise with the
safety rack setup as staggered Heights
so that you can still get a full range
of motion you can always just do the
normal standing calf raise which will
also activate the calves to a very high
degree and well I think that the
standard version using the machine works
just fine and is simple enough to
perform I think there are two better
variations the first being the calf jump
exercise where the idea is to mimic a
jumping motion where you bend the knees
slightly as well as the hips and pretend
as if you were just jumping up as
explosively as possible into the pads of
the machine and from what I understand
the main purpose here is to alter the
resistance curve to better match the
strength curve of the calves 2003 study
out of Kyoto University in Japan found
that the calves were able to produce
maximum torque at lower ankle angles
basically the calves are strongest at
the bottom of a calf raise so with this
variation some of that explosive force
that you produce out at the bottom can
sort of carry over to the top end of the
range where the calves are weaker now
the other variation I really like is the
single leg calf raise mostly just
because it allows you to really focus on
one leg at a time which is good for
preventing muscle imbalances I think the
most important factor is to include a
pause at the bottom to allow any
potentially stored elastic energy to
dissipate many trainees take way too
much advantage in my opinion of the very
powerful and the highly elastic Achilles
tendon leaving very little work left for
the actual calf muscles to perform so
what about foot position well I don't
know what made this such a hot research
topic but in the last year alone
in 2017 from aware of at least three
studies that were published on this
exact topic but before we get to those
let's look at the original paper
published on this in 2011 by riemann and
colleagues found that 420 healthy
subjects doing calf raises externally
rotating or pointing the toes out did
activate the medial or the inner head of
the gastroc more i'm so based on this
evidence it is possible that pointing
the feet out might activate the inner
calves more now out of the three papers
published last year in 2017
one study weakly supported the idea that
pointing the toes out caused more inner
activation however the paper from peri
era Attell showed no statistically
significant difference and the third
study also found no difference so
pulling it all together I think the best
recommendation we can make here is that
there probably isn't much difference so
you should just go with what feels most
comfortable for you and of course
biomechanically this makes sense since
internally or externally rotating the
foot actually results from the internal
or external rotation at the hip and
since the gastroc doesn't even cross the
hip joint it shouldn't be surprising
that it isn't strongly affected by
changing foot position as for bent-leg
soleus dominated movements you basically
have one main option a seated calf raise
now if you don't have this machine you
can improvise by putting dumbbells on
your knees and plates under your feet
but the machine is definitely better in
my opinion and as we've mentioned the
soleus is by some estimates as much as
96% slow-twitch which on the face of it
it seems to imply that it may be better
targeted with higher reps and I do
believe that there is some truth to that
according to the size principle lower
threshold slow-twitch fibers are
recruited first meaning they'll be
active for a longer duration meaning
they'll receive higher levels of fatigue
and potentially a greater hypertrophic
stimulus for growth but as with many
things in the real world it's actually a
bit more complicated than that as some
studies show that type 1 fibers respond
better to light weights and higher reps
other studies show that they grow better
in response to heavier training with
lower reps still I tend to favor the
quite strong theoretical basis for doing
higher reps for the soleus I think it's
your safest bet just to include a
variety of rep ranges with high and low
rather than sticking to a single rep
range for all these movements now when
it comes to volume and frequency for the
calves
I find it to be the case that many
trainees will just immediately turn to
pounding them with more volume more reps
and more frequency but I think that we
should learn from Jeff Albert's lead on
this one and in a text chat Jeff
informed me that his routine was fairly
simple he'd hit them 1 to 2 times per
week focusing on progressive overload
and perfect technique with standing calf
raises and full range of motion in the 6
to 8 rep range and then he just repeated
that for 24 years now for those of us
with truly stubborn calves who'd maybe
rather not wait that long I think before
turning to adding more reps more volume
more frequency you should first focus on
mastering your technique that means
pausing at the bottom of every rep
engaging a mind muscle connection with
your calves and experimenting with
different exercise variations and
advanced techniques like some of the
foot positions we discussed then once
you have all of this mastered I'd
recommend going for the upper range of
the volume recommendation set out by
Warren Baum and colleagues in 2007 which
is 70 reps per session done three times
per week in practice combining it with
some sort of daily undulating setup it
might look something like this now of
course if your knee-jerk reaction to
that is to say that you're already doing
more than that and still not getting
results and what I would say to do is
first go back to step one and make sure
that your technique is on point and if
it is then you may just be in a place
where your your muscles just need to be
resent eyes to that training stimulus so
I'd recommend taking a 1 to 2 week D
load where you either take a complete
break from any calf training whatsoever
or at least reduce volume by 50% and
this way you'll resent eyes your calves
again and you won't have to go so high
with the training volume in order to
make progress after that I would say to
just continue to be patient continue to
execute the plan and be consistent in
the gym and I promise you that if you
apply these scientific principles over
enough time you'll eventually be cut
from team no pet
all right what is going on everyone so
before we go I want to quickly say thank
you so much for watching the video I
also have to thank Dollar Shave Club for
sponsoring this video I'm in case any of
you guys aren't aware Dollar Shave Club
is a men's grooming brand and their
specialty is that they deliver
high-quality razors and other grooming
products straight to your door Dollar
Shave Club is great because you don't
have to deal with the inconvenience of
having to go to a store and pick from
their massive selection of razor blades
so just for a limited time Dollar Shave
Club is offering their shower and shave
starter kit to new members for just five
bucks so let's have a quick look at
what's in the box over here so we've got
of course their sturdy executive razor
and we've also got a full cassette of
new razor blades and they're also
including three of their most popular
products so we've got the shave butter
body wash and one white Charlie's ICU if
you'd like to get started with your
first month of Dollar Shave Club and
their new starter kit you can do so for
just five bucks with free shipping if
you go to dollarshaveclub.com forward
slash nipper and I'll have that link as
the first link in the description box
below
I'm sets dollarshaveclub.com forward
slash nipper and I just want to thank
Dollar Shave Club for sponsoring this
video I really appreciate it and of
course want to thank you guys so much
for watching please don't forget to
leave me a like if you liked the video
subscribe to the channel if you happen
to be new and also Stephanie and I are
gonna be at the Arnold Classic this
weekend at the PE science booth if you
happen to have made it this far let me
know if you guys plan on going to that
Expo we'd love to see you there and
until next time I'll see you guys in the
next video
[Music]