in this video I'm showing you my top
three shoulder exercises for round 3D
delts one exercise each for the front
side and rear heads and for some extra
scientific credibility I'm bringing in
exercise scientist Dr Mike isrel who's
going to share his top three as well up
first front delts now a very common
mistake here is actually giving the
front delts too much volume since they
already get a lot of stimulation from
any chest work in your program in fact
this German study from the 1990s found
that bodybuilders have five times the
front delt size as non-ls but only three
times the side delt size as non- lifters
so they often are overemphasized would
you agree with that like side and rear
are more important from a bodying even
more to an extreme perspective I agree
with that so much I I go overboard and I
say rear adult training is overrated as
well if you're training your back
properly your rear delts should be very
well developed you can just pour a lot
of volume into the side delts and also
visually if you ever see someone who has
big shoulders and you look at them
you're like oh those delts are really
big almost in every case it's the side
delts that are actually very big and the
rear delts of of course construct the
rest of it the front delts matter but
it's side delts that really count so I
think side delt training should be 70 to
90% of delt training wow so while the
side delts are clearly the most
important the other two heads still
complete the 3D look so let's start with
the anterior or front head my number one
exercise here is a machine shoulder
press and that's simply because being
seated increases stability which will
ensure virtually all the tension is
being directed to the shoulders where
you want it and secondly most people can
push machine exercises closer to failure
without worrying about dropping the
weight or breaking technique and I like
this panata machine in particular
because it allows for a huge range of
motion and a big stretch on the front
delt in the bottom so one thing I
noticed uh training with Mike on his
channel as well he really really
emphasizes controlled technique and a
deep stretch and also in in the stretch
position he tends to do a lot of pausing
which can be very humbling in terms of
the amount of weight that you use so
that's something I actually don't
typically do I'm I'm a little bit more
of like a constant tension guy most of
the time so that's been really cool I
feel like I'll continue implementing
some of that in my training oh and
another thing I like about this machine
is that it's unilateral meaning each
shoulder is forced to work individually
which can be great for fixing any left
to right shoulder imbalances that feels
really good doesn't it yeah see yeah
a is that okay to say I'll usually hit
these for 6 to 10 reps and of course any
decent shoulder press machine will get
the job done and if you don't have
access to one you can get a very similar
effect with a seated dumbbell shoulder
press which is also unilateral and
forces each shoulder to work
individually okay so Dr Mike's number
one pick for the front delts is an easy
bar front raise and he gave two reasons
why one of the reasons is that it gives
a ton of motion to the front delts a
huge range of motion there and also
because it is an isolation exercise and
it's pretty rare to see for front belts
most people choose a compound press
which is cool and all but if your tip
volume is where it is if your pecs are
sore if your shoulder joints are upset
with you because you've been doing a lot
of pressing maybe the overhead press is
not in the cards if I wanted the maximum
effect of something like this I would
actually do it on a free motion machine
so that I could move my hand behind the
plane of my body and get a huge stretch
to the front belt but a lot of people
don't have access to a machine like that
and this is a fine alternative exercise
that it'sit a similar thing so the cues
here is that you want to keep your chest
up if you cave your chest you're not
stretching your front delts as much what
you want to do is essentially it's like
a curl except you never bend your elbows
so it just comes up all the way nice and
high and then you milk the Ecentric and
it's going to be hardest here all the
way down chest up at the bottom oh
goodbye front belts do you think it's
dangerous to go beyond this point here I
think there's never been a reason to
suspect that if you know Anatomy things
that are causing joint pain are tend to
be not so great for the joints but if
you can do this without any joint pain I
mean listen if there is something from a
cupboard you want that's up there or
you're like well I would get it but I
don't want to be crippled for life
that's not the case I think it's totally
fine and Mike explained that for these
he uses relatively higher reps in the 10
to 20 range with a more explosive
positive and a slow and controlled four
to five second negative especially
maintaining control at the midpoint
where tension is the highest finish
resisting oh wow very nice doesn't take
a lot man I'll say this if people are uh
cutting out this part they're missing
out on a lot I would say the most
effective part of this movement
generally there are some nuances here is
from 45° to 135° here to here so I can't
lie this is like the craziest front Del
pump I think I've had possibly ever okay
so with front dels out of the way we're
hitting the most important head for 3D
delts the side delts so I'm going to let
you go first for side delt what would be
your number one there are many number
ones you're my number one what's the
number one number one well an exercise
that I think is really top tier is what
I call the super ROM lateral super Ang
motion lateral exactly like a lateral
raise just keep going okay and at any
point do I do this or this or just nor
okay so for me this feels natural to
kind of kind of Thumbs Up it a little
bit sure is that okay thumbs up it as
little as POS possible on the way up but
try to keep your pinkies up but if you
run into stuff where it feels weird you
can thumbs up naturally does feel weird
you like this better yes because then it
activates the side Del yeah yeah for
sure and let me just explain that very
briefly if I thumb up it you can see
that the resistance path is in line with
the front delt fibers if I do this now
the resistance is in line with the side
delt fibers if you feel pain doing this
then consider going thumbs up it might
be better sure but in my case this feels
great great I love it so why not Mike
recommends doing these for moderate to
higher reps in the 10 to 20 range and
once again really emphasizes good
control on the negative on each and
every rep all right so my number one
side delt exercise is a cross body cable
wire raise most people when they do
lateral raises go directly out to the
side there's nothing wrong with that the
main reason I like these is the stretch
you get here if you were going to
stretch your side delt you wouldn't just
hold it here you're not getting a ton of
stretch here if you pull it across your
body now you have more stretch on the
delt also most people think of the
shoulders as having three to distinct
heads the front side and rear but
Anatomy research shows there are more
like seven deltoid compartments each
having unique muscle fibers that fan out
in slightly different directions so
hitting the delts from slightly
different angles is more likely to make
sure that all the fibers get hit evenly
and here's how I do that and position my
torso so that I feel that stretch come
in on my side delt and then I'll sweep
the weight out and back almost as if
drying and flicking a sord
so so we feel the nice
stretch and then we're up out and back
beautiful control Jeff that's
awesome okay nice next let's take a look
at our top two exercises for the
posterior head Mike's number one pick
here is a super ROM reverse cable fly
I've actually never done them the way he
coaches them so I picked up on some
really great cues a couple of really
important cues here first you want to go
past your hand connection yep just like
that people say well wouldn't that
create a symmetry totally but you just
every other set what you're going to do
is you're going to switch your hands
which one goes top the bottom and a big
thing is you want generally to keep your
elbows locked out so that you can make
sure it's all real delt you will not be
able to use as much load that way but
minimizing the load while maximizing
muscle involvement is a really good
thing and here's a big one further back
Jeff go ahead and pull all the way back
yes and here we get a peak contraction
to the muscle you can feel the burn
accumulating while you do it and then
slowly peel that muscle out on the way
back so it's a really good thing to
really Crunch at the top it won't cost
you a ton of reps cuz it's easy there
but you'll connect to that rear delt
typically I would stop about here
probably but now I'm going to here yeah
and that extra bit Yeah makes it way
harder here's the best part they
actually start to accumulate metabolites
they hurt more and more in that position
you take that pain and you go okay I
know exactly where my re dos are because
they hurt there and then I slowly AR out
in its Madness and I hate it and then it
stretches like crazy and then the whole
thing starts again that's right and my
top pick for the rear delts is the
reverse pec deck and honestly Dr Mike
gave me the single best que I've ever
heard for this exercise here the queue
will massively reduce how much you're
lifting but will hit that Target muscle
better for good real delt training you
want to reach forward really far also
you'll notice it pre-stretches the rear
delts you're not pulling you're arcing
out to try to paint brush as far of a
distance as you possibly can punch
forward yes and then sweep out can't
brush out as much as you can it's like
if you imagine that there is like you're
standing on top of a pile of money and
there's a camera measuring you get to
keep all of the money you do this with
your hands yes let's go and I'm just
going to show my last two reps here and
notice that at no point do I allow
myself to pull my arms in I'm sweeping
my arms out and painting as much of the
floor as I can on each and every rep and
as as if another as if you're going to
do another one thing since I've been
training with Mike a little bit that
I've heard you say quite a bit is as if
you're going to do another I really like
that que because it forces you to be
intentional with that last negative yes
do it as if you're going to do another
one so you're controlling controlling
controlling pause now you're done and
then let go and that last negative may
be one of the most muscle growth
promoting portions of any rep you will
ever do in any set so why skip that a
lot of guys go all the way up and they
go uh and it's like oh you went so good
so close so close there are tons of off
camera analogies to make but I know you
run a nice wholesome Channel and I will
just shut off
[Music]
[Laughter]
down who are you are you the powered by
ice cream fell that's me you're an old
fan again you don't have to go hard or
anything like that but uh just just so
we have some b-roll then I have to go
home cuz like you're you're kind of
you're kind of locked into something
just do what the machine
says I used to do a lot of standing
barbell overhead pressing yeah I know
and I got to a lot of Str oh thank is
that guy actually Thor
sweet we're on a desert island with all
these machines we have to do a front
Delta exercise what one do you pick this
is a very highly equipped desert island
so if you're stopping from here to here
it's like what this whole other part
then it's like eating half a slice of
pizza and throwing the other half away
that's a common comment won't it hit
your junk on the way down like yes if
you're Wild uncoordinated and you
deserve you have a junk destroy one more
yeah do one from the
rear and then slow on the way down is a
big one okay I'm going to get the
sleeves
up oh yeah oh did you see that
I changed my mind slow right away slow
slow and then slow slow slow slow slow I
want to give a big thank you to Mike his
channel is called Renaissance
periodization he does all kinds of
videos exactly like this it's just
really cool tips and cues and tweaks
that I don't think you'll hear on any
other channel also want to give a quick
shout out to the gym here muscle and
fitness they let us film here they even
turn the music down for us so I really
appreciate that thank you guys so much
for watching don't forget to leave us a
thumbs up if you enjoyed it and I'll see
you guys all here in the next video