welcome back to the wolf coaching
Channel today with you soon to be Dr
Milo wolf and today we're reviewing the
advice of One V shred all I know about V
shred are his somewhat annoying ads
before every YouTube video I watch which
I get all the time and they're like 12
minutes usually and that he's not very
well regarded within the evidence-based
Fitness community that being said I
haven't really watched any of his
content including the video we're about
review on a full shoulder workout so
let's review his claims from a sport
scientist's perspective let's get into
it what's going on guys this is Vince
with vshred.com Vince for V and the
vred use on your next shoulder day
before we get into the actual video I
don't think you should have a shoulder
date I think that's kind of a waste of a
session your shoulders are like three
muscle groups or maybe a bit more if you
want to be specific but like by and
large does the front belts the side
belts and rear adts I don't think
training those three small muscle groups
warrant a whole day and in fact from the
research we have trading a muscle group
at least twice a week is very likely
better than just once a week and if you
have a shoulder day you probably have an
arm day you probably have a chest day
you probably have a back day and that
almost requires you to train every
muscle group once a week which is not
ideal for muscle growth so I'm not a fan
of shoulder
diers very cool intro I wish I had one
of those editor hit me
up
[Music]
what the hell is that just fle
[Music]
your these are
quarts these are pecs shoulders biceps
[Music]
forearms
[Music]
very cool it gives heavy 2011
[Music]
Vibes all right like I said today's
video is going to be a shoulder workout
and all you're really going to need are
some dumbbells and some barbells you're
not going to need any fancy equipment
that you find in a lot of videos so this
is going to be perfect for anybody who
just has basic workout equipment at
their gym or maybe um you're on the road
you're at a hotel or something like that
this is going to be using the bare
minimum and getting a great workout it's
also not going to take very long it's
going to be a total of five exercises
but we are going to be doing a couple
super sets in there uh not sure how I
feel about the super sets but let's see
and it's just going to make everything
move super quick so it's not going to
take very long but it's going to be a
great workout but before I get into it I
will say if you're trying to build
muscle and you want help with just
easier ways of burning fat and building
muscle I do have a fitness quizzes are
the worst in general is just heuristic
if someone advertises a fitness quiz to
you run away now and if you want help
with figuring that out hit the link
right below this video down in the
description and take the free quiz um
and I'll tell you everything that you
need to know to get in shape for your
body so check that out but let's get
into this workout so um like I said it's
going to be five different exercises and
the last four are going to be two
different super sets so first off we're
going to be starting with a bigger
compound movement I like doing that with
all of my work workouts typically unless
I'm trying some kind of pre-exhaust
which I've actually done in the past for
shoulders but today we're going to be
starting with just regular dumbbell
shoulder press and so I have my two
dumbbells right here and we're also
going with a little bit lower of a rep
range I'm not going to be going super
heavy right now on camera for you guys
because I got to show you guys proper
form and talk through it but we are
going for four sets of eight reps so
this is very cool text effects I'm
impressed I wish we had one some of
those all right editor get to walk
and I'll show you what good form looks
like so getting this
weight first off you want that your back
to be pretty straight up and down I see
some people who have it too far back
first off just a minor nitpick but to
get the dumb balls onto your thighs or
onto your knees I would say deadlift
them up because unless you're dead
you're putting dumbbells that are very
light onto your thighs curling them up
shouldn't be happening you can overhead
press way more than you can curl and so
I would say that lift the dumbbells up
and then place them on your th
minor nitpick but just a quick tip for
you back and they're actually getting a
lot of lean or maybe their low back is
super arched and they're actually
straining a little bit when they
shouldn't be I like putting the bench
just to a slight incline but still I'm
pretty straight up and down so kicking
this weight up getting back and then the
first thing that I'm going to do here is
I'm going to bring my elbows a little
forward a lot of times you see people
doing shoulder press with their arms
flared all the way out having them
forward is just going to put your
shoulder into a healthier position
because of that ball and socket
your shoulder is naturally going once to
go forward and it's going to so real
quick your shoulder is absolutely a ball
and socket joint but there's no reason
why it would be less safe to have it
here versus here like that's just
fear-mongering and it's this weird
cultural meme that the fitness industry
has where it just demonizes certain
positions or certain exercises and it
just gets spread around like a virus
right like you when you get into lifting
your buddy who's been Lifting for 2
years and who follows ax or something
tells you hey you can't get that
position cuz it's bad for your shoulders
and that gets thrilled into your mind
and then when youtr someone you tell
them that too and eventually that idea
spreads everywhere even though it
doesn't have much actual scientific
backing in this case I don't think you
need to worry about it in all likelihood
you're in that socket when you have them
slightly forward and it's also going to
help hit your delt a little bit better
it's not going to help hit your delts a
little bit better not sure where you got
that froms down and also as you drop
your elbows down you're bringing this
weight outward and then but you're also
not flaring like I said so you're
bringing it out and frontward at an
angle or forward at an angle and you
want it you don't want it to be all the
way at 45 but you don't want it back at
90 so about 70 is what I say and then
you want to go down to where your elbows
are just below 90° and you're going to
press back up and this is already
difficult because I've been holding this
too much but from there what you're
going to do is you're just going to keep
going through that motion down to 90°
pressing up and then and this is exactly
what I was talking about earlier this
would again mean that it's spread around
the industry of 90° why 90° why not more
why not less it it's basically just made
up and specifically in this case by
constricting range of motion to being
only down to 90° of elbow extension
right you're actually limiting how much
growth you get because by going all the
way down you'd be getting a better
stretch in your front belts in your
triceps and your seratus anterior and
getting more growth in fact I made a
whole video about this here you can
check it out but you really want to get
a full deep stretch in your muscle
groups when you're Trading
that part is almost non-negotiable then
at the top you're not locking out your
elbows but you are focusing on squeezing
out with your shoulders so you really
want to focus on at the top squeezing
that delt there's a difference between
just straight locking your elbows and
squeezing your shoulders all the way up
you can squeeze without locking out your
elbows so focus on getting that good
form down controlling it stopping it
just below 90 pressing it back up and
then getting right back into the next
rep a big mistake that I see made a lot
is people pressing that up and then
resting for like a second or two at the
top or catching a breath or whatever it
might be and not really realizing that
they're resting for a second at the top
and it's just making your set that much
longer and making it that much less
efficient or effective at getting that
continuous time under tension for that
so many buzzword in this one clip time
under tension more efficient more
effective in reality just because you
pause for a second at the top that
doesn't really make a big difference
it's likly just down to preference
whether or not you rest at top or not
what I would say generally is to
minimize the time you spend in a
shortened position like at the top and
at the bottom Additionally the whole
idea of there's a difference between
locking out your elbows and just having
your arm overhead versus kind of
squeezing your doubt there's probably
just not much truth to that like we have
one study looking at the effects of my
muscle connection or focusing on the
squeeze at top versus just kind of doing
it and the results aren't super
compelling there's a video on that here
but essentially it's just another
Placebo right like there's not a huge
difference in this if any and it's just
another thing that people like to sell
you right like it's a marketing strategy
where it's like no no no no look you're
not doing that exercise right here's the
right way to do it squeeze your desk
toop in reality whether you squeeze them
or not they are being trained that's
just how it is that's biome mechanics so
um that's going to be the first exercise
you're going to go for eight reps in
between these eight reps because it is a
lower rep range we are going to to be
resting a little bit longer so you're
going to go for a 2minute rest here so a
little bit longer of a rest than most of
my videos but that's because we're
trying to go all right so four sets
absolutely fine a little bit on the high
end of how many sets I would usually do
per exercise but absolutely fine eight
wraps totally fine for over pressing
variations I think between 5 and 15
maybe up to 20 is usually fine cuz it's
not a super systemically fatiguing
exercise especially seated so you can go
all the way up to 20 reps but going
below five reps is not a good idea for
hypertrophy because sets just become way
less efficient due to either
insufficient time on retention per set
or due to insufficient workload
accumulated per set or that sort of
stuff or just due to insufficient
workload accumulated during a set i'm to
go a little heavier to start this
workout and after that we'll move into
the first Super set all right so next up
we're going to move into the first Super
set so this is going to be two EX
exercises back to back that's just what
superset means you're going to be that
is what supet means very good basically
doing seated lateral raises and then
superpet it with seated front raises
with dumbbells so you want to make sure
that you have two sets of dumbbells
sitting right by you uh you generally
want to go a little bit lighter with the
lateral raises just because they're a
little bit harder it's I at least find
it easier to and I'm able to do more
weight when I do front raises so I just
have 15 pounds for the lateral raises
and 20 pounds for the front raises if
you do 20 and 25 that's fine if you do
10 and 15 that's fine if you do 15 and
15 that's fine just I would probably use
the first set to figure out what weights
you're going to be using because we're
going for a higher rep range now that
we're moving into more of a isolation
exercise so you has a point here right
pick the right weight for the exercise
don't just pick 30 kg because you don't
want to change the weight cuz that's
something bodybuilders do a smaller
working a smaller muscle group rather
than a compound movement we're working
multiple different muscle groups so
we're going for sets of 15 reps here
we're going to be going with the lateral
raises and I'll show you these first off
so you're getting into a real quick the
concept of super setting lateral raises
with front Rises is fine the research we
have on same muscle group super sets
like for example doing two different
exercises for the side dots back to back
basically says that it's no better than
just straight traditional sets now does
that mean it's worse no but it's also
not much better so I don't really have a
strong opinion here I don't personally
perform or recommend many same muscle
group super sets unless someone enjoys
them but again it's mostly a matter of
preference they're not inherently more
effective so take that as you will nice
seated position and my back is not
resting against this uh pad I'm actually
forward a little bit whether or not his
back is resting against the pad doesn't
really matter actually forward with my
body still doesn't matter really want to
focus on pressing your elbows out while
keeping your shoulders pressed down so a
lot of times when people are doing
lateral raises they get a lot of
activation in their traps because as
they lift this weight up they're also
shrugging because it's either too heavy
or they just don't know how to do it
right so so as it turns out whenever you
do a lateral raise it will be
accompanied by some degree of scapular
elevation or the act of shrugging that's
just the nature of the Beast you will
feel your upper traps in lad Rises no
matter what however even if you feel
your upper trap s rest assured that your
side belts are still doing their job
which is to elevate the humorous in this
PL right so don't worry too much about
whether or not you're filling up your
traps as long as technique externally
looks good so what you want to focus on
is pressing your shoulders down and then
bringing those weights out to the side
and then you're not actually going again
this goes back through the whole meme or
Buzz wad thing that people love to use
all you need to do is bring it up to
should it's fine need to go anywhere
past that you also don't want to stop
before that agreed actually going to be
working the delt properly and so one
other thing is once you bring this
weight up what see like he's saying the
right thing here but he's just saying it
because it's a buzz word once again it's
always been instilled in people who go
to the gym that with latal raises you
stop when you reach 90° either because
it's more effective or because of some
other buz like oh your shoulder gets
impinged or get some pain if they're may
or may not be some truth to this but
equally he's not saying this because
he's aware of the evidence he's saying
it because it's a buzzword and that's
really not good in this case the reason
I wouldn't go much above here like 90°
or so is because of the superiority of
training at longer muscle lengths you
can see in this video here versus at
shorter muscle lengths and so if you go
above about 90° you're kind of biasing
the shorter muscle length of the
exercise whereas if you're just going up
to about shoulder level you'll be
training slightly lower muscle lengths
on average this would be enhanced using
cables especially but with dumbbells
it's still going to have a small effect
focusing like I said on pressing that
weight out when you bring it back down
you don't don't forget to like And
subscribe by the way resting at the
bottom so right here my hands are just
completely by my side I could just hold
this weight and basically i' just wait
until my forearms give out to where I
would drop this weight my delts are not
being worked at all so what I like to do
is I like to stop about right there
because right there now my muscles are
being activated a little little bit and
then if I go from here out to there and
back down to there I'm never losing that
tension on my delts which is going to
make this one long set of time under
tension so this is all you're going to
be doing leaning a little bit forward
bringing your elbows out to shoulder
enough I've had enough with [ __ ]
people saying constant tension all the
time brother constant tension is not
magical I made a whole video about it
here but constant tension is really not
all that like relax not everything needs
to be constant tension constant tension
does not increase muscle growth relative
to four range of motion so you can
absolutely stop your lateral ra when the
tension drops off but even if you take a
second or to rest it's fine it's not
worse for hypertrophy level back down
never bringing them all the way down to
your side back out never bringing them
all the way down to the side so you're
going to go 15 just like this nice clean
reps after you get 15 15 reps is AB
absolutely fine nothing magical about it
but it's a fine rep range here you're
not leaning forward what I'm for
laterals I think anywhere between about
six reps maybe all the way to 25 reps is
probably fine cuz it's not a very
systemically fatiguing exercise 15 reps
is absolutely fine nothing wrong with it
for what it's worth I do like the
sitting down for this it just makes the
exercise a little bit less fatiguing and
provides basically the same stimulus it
also makes it a bit hard to cheat which
is also a good thing I'm actually going
to do here is lean back a little bit
against this pad and then I'm going to
use this pad to stabilize my body and
I'm going to press my arms forward and
bring this these weights up to a
shoulder level so again you're not
lifting this weight up past shoulder
level you're going just to shoulder
level and back down and the same
principle is going to apply at the top
and at the bottom not going too high but
also at the bottom I'm not bring it all
the way down here because again I'm
resting so I'm going to stop right there
because from right here to right here
the difference is that my my shoulder is
going to be being worked so I'm working
that anterior deltoid I'm working that
front delt now I'm going to go from here
press it Forward see the shred is
displaying signs of being able to think
in a principled way for example doing
the same thing on the front Rays as the
lad Ray for the same reasons that's very
good again doesn't make much sense but
whatever however when it comes to
leaning against the bench to have
greater stability he somehow doesn't
make that connection he'll lean against
the bench pad for front raises but won't
do it for lateral raises I would say do
it for both because if it helps you in
one case it will also help you in the
other case it's what's called a
principle and back down never going all
the way back so this is going to be that
full range of motion and the same thing
with lateral raises these are very
similar movements you're not trying to
shrug up as you press this weight
forward so you're not actually I like to
think of it as it's actually not a raise
you're actually trying to press it
Forward because as you if you try to
press it forward that's going to help
you press down your shoulders we've been
over this before thinking it's a your
traps will be involved no matter what
strug up with your traps so press those
down press the weight forward shoulder
level bringing it back down don't go all
the way down to your side and that's
going to be your one continuous set of
time under attention for that muscle
group you're going to go for 15 reps
again up 15 reps again nothing wrong
with that same thing as for lateral
raises all good of those so 15 15 rest
for a minute so this is going to be a
straight burner on your delts but it's
going to be good a minute probably isn't
going to feel like that long but one
minute of rest between set of lad raises
is on the short end and you're probably
limiting the growth you're getting
especially if you're doing a super set 1
minute of rest between a backto back set
of lateral raes and front dels just
isn't going to be enough to maximize
muscle growth so I wouldn't necessarily
recommend resting for that short of a
time I would typically rest for about 1
and 1/2 to 3 minutes between sets of
lateral raises so don't go over have a
phone have a timer something look at a
clock look at something that's going to
keep you in that 60-second rest period
nothing longer definitely not shorter um
he just said aim for 60 seconds nothing
longer but nothing definitely nothing
shorter so if you do 61 seconds it is
over you're not going to make it if you
do 59 woo definitely not making it at
that point like again just this sort of
very black and white thinking this
marketing [ __ ] these buz wads just
express it reasonably please bro like
you're still going to make gains whether
you're resting 60 seconds or 90 seconds
are you going to make better games
resting 90 seconds probably but why make
it sound as if like oh 60 seconds is
exactly what you want to do like brother
please just show some humility um and
then you're just going to get right back
into it and you're going to go for four
total sets of this and then we're going
to move into the third Super set or the
second superet the third and fourth
exercise so to finish off the workout
like I said it would be a quick one um
we got exercises we're going to be doing
the same thing we're going super sets
here and we're going with that higher
rep range so we're going sets of 15 for
both of these with the one one minute
rest in between the first one is going
to be what I call Easy Bar front presses
and so here this is just a great
exercise for that front Del also a
little bit of that that uh medial head
and so what you're going to do is you're
going to have your elbows out in front
of you and I like the Easy Bar just
because it puts your wrist into a little
bit more comfortable of position when
you have the straight bar at the top it
kind of I don't know just doesn't feel
as good so I like this little curve in
it and I like to go to the outer the
outer curve of it and so from here I'm
gonna have my back nice and straight
chest out and from there I'm going to
take my elbows and I'm going to press
these up and I'm going to squeeze to the
top like I said not locking out I said
this during the shoulder press not
locking out you're squeezing your
shoulders you're going to bring it back
down and then at the bottom you want
your uh you don't want to come all the
way down here you want your upper arm to
just pass uh parallel to the ground so
you're going to go just about a 90
there's nothing wrong with using an
underhand grip and using the Easy Bar
because it's more comfortable ultimately
most people are going to find it a more
difficult to get into position using
just an easy bar and a random bench
versus using a rack and a straight bar
Etc but if you're going light enough
doing 15 or more reps usually most
people can use this however again let's
not pretend like constant tension is
revolutionizing things 90° angle with
your elbow arm just past parallel and
that's going to be the bottom position
it's funny cuz he says that and then
goes Way Beyond parallel as well and
this is going to be like a nice burnout
so you're not going super heavy with
this but you are focusing on one
continuous motion and pressing this
weight but again by restricting range of
motion to just below parallels you're
limiting growth you're eliminating the
position where the muscle is most
lengthened and we know that that's most
beneficial for hypertrophy so why are
you eliminating this in the name of
constant
tension up and down without resting at
the top without resting at the bottom
and just keeping it going and you want
to don't rest don't rest very bad want
to use a weight that you're going to be
about fatigued at 15 reps after you do
that by the way what the [ __ ] does
fatigued even mean either you're
training close enough to failure or
you're not please like fatigued is not
really appropriate here make people
train sufficiently hard and call it
there drop that have a set of dumbbells
ready I just have some 15s here we're
going to be doing some dumbbell bend
over rear delt flies so here you're
going to sit a little forward on this
bench and the reason is because you're
actually going to want these dumbbells
to come in between your legs as you go
down so you're actually going to bend
over your chest is going to be about in
your
knees from there what you're going to do
is I like to have my uh shoulders
retracted and press down and so if I
were to sit up they'd be back and down
like that and I keep them in that
position so I'm not a huge fan of the
dumbbell bent over rear Fly for a few
reasons one you're bending over so
you're unnecessarily fatiguing the lower
back the glutes the adors the hamstrings
two the resistance curve of the dumbbell
bent over rear dumbbell fly is such that
like at the bottom when your muscle is
lengthened you have essentially no
resistance you're also unable to fully
lengthen the rear DS by going across
your body you're just getting a little
bit of a stretch in terms of the
position but you're getting next to no
tension that position and then
effectively the lift gets harder and
harder as your rear dots get shorter and
shorter and that's the opposite of what
we want for muscle growth we want your
muscle to be trained hardest when it's
most long and lengthened so I'm just not
a huge fan of this exercise for a couple
reasons I think it's practical you know
most people can just grab a pair of DS
and get it done but I think there are
many better options out there like the
cable rear Del crossover for example the
same principles are going to apply as
when I was doing the lateral raises and
the front raises when I bring this
weight up I'm not trying to go way back
behind my body I'm stopping just at
shoulder level and then on the way back
down I'm not bringing it all the way
back down to where my arms are just now
resting and it's just purely my forearms
being worked I'm going to stop about
there because now my delts are being
worked now so there to there and back
down to there so that's going to be the
full range of motion that's going to
allow you to keep tension on the muscle
group the entire time and it's going to
allow for a more optimal set and um
better time spent at the gym because
like I said it's not going to be a super
long workout so after you do 15 reps of
both of those you're going to rest for a
15 reps is totally fine but one minute
rest again is a bit on the should
shoulder workout so a quick one but a
good one if you stick to the rest times
so final thoughts on B shreds should the
workout first of all like six ads
throughout the video please bro reduce
the number of ads I will otherwise
probably kill myself number two as far
as advice goes it's not very good it's
just like literally go up to any bro in
the gym this is the sort of device
you'll get it's like a honestly it's
like a 4 out of 10 like a lot of things
are impractical and not very good and
not evidence-based and suboptimal but
equally at least getting L weights and
that's a step in the right direction
yeah i' tell like before a lot of a lot
of Buzz wads a lot of marketing [ __ ]
trying to get you to take his quiz it's
not great but you know it's something I
guess anyways that's the video if
there's anyone else you want me to break
down as far as like the sports science
behind it please leave a comment down
below let me know who that is like
comment subscribe and I'll see you guys
in that next one
peace what the hell is that just flex
your elbow you
[Music]
[ __ ] these are
quads these are pecs shoulders biceps
[Music]
forearms