okay what's up everyone it is Sunday
October the 16th and I randomly on a
whim just decided that it would be a
good idea for me to do the 10,000
calorie challenge um I know when I hit
10,000 subscribers which actually wasn't
wasn't which actually wasn't that long
ago um I said I would do the 10,000
calorie challenge I Didn't Do It um now
I just hit 20,000 or actually 22,000
subscribers um so that's another 10K so
I figured that now would be as suitable
of a time as any uh to do it so so
earlier we were just watching Rob lipet
and Chelsea lift's videos as inspiration
and got to thinking that there must be
like some sort of way to like maximize
uh the amount of calories while not
having too much food volume we're going
to go to I think Whole Foods and Publix
and just try to pick up some stuff in
preparation for tomorrow I'm the type of
person who once I reach some sort of set
point um and you guys would have seen I
just did uh I just got my body fat
tested by dexa scan it was 8 point four
I think 4 8 8 point something I'm not
entirely sure how reliable that is but
it's probably somewhere in the 8 to 10
range and I'm actually happy that like
my body is very comfortable settling
here and so my appetite isn't
particularly High I eat probably about
3,000 calories a day and I feel like I
would struggle to eat a whole lot more
than that after I eat a decently sized
meal um I tend to feel full uh so I'm
not one of those people who just have
like an insatiable appetite all the time
the only time I feel like that is when
I'm prepping for a competition and get
significantly below my set point so I I
definitely have to be um I have to
budget this properly is that manage my
calories properly I have to
strategically I have to strategize my
calories you need to get a lot of
calories for not a lot of food uh
basically and I was originally planning
to do this by drinking I was like if I
can just like drink soda and like
chocolate milk and stuff then it would
be like way easier but apparently
everyone's telling me on my Snapchat
that you're not allowed to do that I'm
going to show you
guys the sunset cuz it actually looks
really nice so this is the Tampa Sky
very pretty and I should say um we
actually just did a leg workout it was
the first time I used a a hip Circle in
conjunction with the hip thrust uh so
with the hip circle on do your hip
thrusts with isometric active uh hip
abduction uh it was just like a massive
glute medius and glute Maximus stimulus
and then after you finish out the set to
get a little bit more metabolic stress
just do hip abductions with the circle I
check them with you guys in the grocery
store for some reason I'm actually like
randomly really hungry right now um so
got these alapo cheesy bread appetizer
things as far as appetizers go like five
at of 10 so it's like not delicious or
anything thinking that this is going to
be my last meal before I'm going to try
to go to bed tonight on a relatively
empty stomach so that I'll be a little
bit more tomorrow we're here at genas
Grill um and we're getting some chicken
and I'll show you guys what I get but
this is what we started this is going to
be the last meal before the 10K
challenge there's chicken in here
potatoes udon noodles steamed rice uh
brown rice and then a bunch of
vegetables this is going to be my last
meal uh before tomorrow and tomorrow I'm
going to try the 10,000 calorie
challenge I'm going to try to go to bed
with like kind of an empty stomach so
I'll wake up nice and hungry tomorrow
have a big meal I'm going try to get up
early and start eating now we're going
to Whole Foods Whole Foods um I tend to
prefer foods that are higher in like
sugar over fats I was watching Rob
lipset's video actually as like
motivation for this and I think his
total daily fat intake at the end of the
day was 400 it was almost 500 G of fat
so almost half of his caloric intake
came from fats alone oh Halloween stuff
that actually though so not going to be
getting anything in this section nuts
wouldn't that be very help I feel like
that would help yeah you know what would
be perfect for me is chocolate covered
almonds I like destroy chocolate covered
almonds to be honest Whole Foods Whole
Foods might not be the best spot do you
just want to go to public I feel like we
should just go to public like is there
any like maybe like one or two things
you want want to go here let's have a
super quick look while we're so then you
don't have to then like you can like
scrap the whole whole thing yeah let's
yeah let's leave Whole Food wait what
are what are Halo Halo top I thought
they were supposed to be low
calorie oh the whole pint but Halo top
is much better well I definitely won't
be using any of that so it would take me
it would take me what like 60 pints to
hit my my goal okay this is going to be
the only purchase that I get from Whole
Food yeah very high calorie feel like
brown sugar bondie would be really good
I tried this one was really good could
this is like 600 calories right here
like I feel like I could just like rack
for of those that would be like easy
1200 you know now we are here at cooks
and this is where I'm I'm going to get
the majority of my stuff realize that I
also earlier forgot to say this is my
friend Stephanie uh she's from here in
Tampa and she's doing her PhD here at
the University of South Florida in um
cancer research so we kind of connected
online initially and then got together
for a training session earlier today and
now she's coming and helping me out with
my 10,000 challenge some Halloween stuff
here this could actually be this could
be decent that a good price $10.99 I
feel like Halloween candy is pretty
expensive oh the cheesecake but I think
public
publ will
have they have cies and cream but isn't
it nutritional info see that's the thing
oh it is though would this be good I
wonder what do you think oh looks pretty
good to me this all looks good to me
let's look at the what are the Mac it
looks like it's dense though which makes
it harder to eat so in one quar of a
cake there's 450 so if I ate all this it
would be
800 wait am I the dumbest person ever it
would be
1800 it' be 1800
cuz well 16 and then 17 because 50 * 4
or no they
be is hard for 1800 I did it I did it
like 450 times 2 is 900 and then 900 * 2
is 18800 that works too that's how
that's how bro sign yes none of these
cookies are calling you I don't know I'm
not hungry right now see that's the
problem I should have came here when I
was hungry so if I get a couple of these
that will like 6 *
170 840 840 so in one of these is$ 8.40
so if I get two of these that's 16 1680
two that going to be easy are you going
sick of them that's these might be
interesting cuz it's like oh these will
actually be perfect cuz it's like a
mixture of like salty and sweet I've had
people like sending me a bunch of tips
for the 10K so so someone's recommended
these 410 in one cookie I've never seen
that I do I do I swear more in person
than on camera really don't swe I don't
I don't swear on camera but I do in
person yeah I want to get like maybe
potentially like a variety butter finger
crunch that's that's my jam right there
milk count as a liquid so cereal doesn't
count well that's mixed in so I think it
should can I count the milk calories and
the cereal I have to all I need is C I
don't I don't need anything else I
already have that so should I get a
small bo I'm so jealous right now that's
all I have to say you can do it with me
oh yeah um should I get a small box or
regular size do they have that is isn't
that a small regular I don't know
Canadian has like Canada has like tiny
ones get these this is like my second oh
and I also really like
[Music]
blueberry oh you know I'm going to have
to get okay so in one brownie
280 one cookie
170 are they you think they're good with
the I like candy no no no no but like
macro wise is it you have to like
consider one Pou it's only 90 cows but
feel like I could just smash the whole
box really easily okay now peanut butter
and this sort of thing what would you
put Mella on like what what I just eat
it that would work um you could put it
on ice cream I don't know see two t
spons there's 200
calories so like just e if I just eat
two tablespoons that like make it really
oh okay so there's 2,000 there 2,000
right there I eat that I I feel like if
I'm going to have pizza I should order a
pizza like take it like like domino
pizza domino pizza but I think I'm also
going to get these These are good this
is a good call obviously Ben and&
Jerry's peanut butter cups fudge covered
toffee pieces white chocolatey chunks
and fudge covered almonds
that sounds super good I that what so
310 * 4 is 1240 calories in that thing
milk you have nothing Savory except oh
except for that sticks but I'm planning
on like eating something up at some
point push it off somewhere I know I
always that and then I don't need
it I will purposely lift it and make
sure it's like completely out of the way
yeah yeah I like to inconvenience
inconvenience all these people honestly
I I might leave it on the cake because
like I have a lot of junk food as it is
you know get Oreos I've got this ice
cream those actually do look appetizing
but I think I think I'm good with junk
food related stuff breakfast I'm going
to have um ego waffles so yeah let's go
get that and then I can use like regular
syrup I
have like like real maple syrup from
Canada oh do you actually yeah I think
so okay purle use that I'm going to get
1% milk because I'm not even sure if
cereal is cheating at this point so I
would get 2% or whole potentially to get
more calories but I have a feeling
people are going to call me out on the
liquid cereal deal so yeah I'm just
getting low
fat and eggs never thought of this until
just now but chips chips are like my
ideal bul food oh actually if we could
make nachos or something like that that
would be perfect for me toso Scoops here
we go so yeah this going be good so help
do you know if there's a spot where you
can get like um smaller bags of these
it's going to be I think in the checkout
aisle cuz I should get a normal bag cuz
I feel like I'm going a little bit crazy
here so like I'm not going to eat a full
big bag a big bag yeah the big bags are
like party size oh wait oh gee yeah I'm
obviously not going to get a
party
[Music]
that cost 84
oh okay so I'm going to go back and lay
all this stuff out I hope that you guys
found it uh at least somewhat
entertaining in terms of how it was that
I strategized uh going about the 10,000
calorie challenge and uh I am planning
on making this somewhat informative and
scientific in terms of how many calories
one can sort of absorb and then um where
those calories are sort of uh
partitioned in the body and how many are
likely to be stored as fat uh whether
the macronutrient composition is of any
importance there um so those are the
sort of questions that I'm going to be
looking into and trying to answer in the
actual 10K challenge video as for now
that's going to conclude this one so
thank you guys so much for watching if
you like the video don't forget to hit
the Thumbs Up Button um leave any com
comments below that you might have for
me subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already and uh thank you so much
for watching I'll see you in the next
[Music]
video
[Music]
oh