minimum training dose for hypertrophy
what's the least you need to do in order
to make muscle gains in size in order to
get yolked and jacked which is what
everybody deep inside them phrasing
really
wants in the world of lifting we have
the hit crew the high intensity training
sort of people people that claim that
one set per week or just a couple of
sets per week to f but like to Absolute
failure where you're there literally
fighting with the weight and you can't
move it anymore is more than enough for
you to maximize your hyper to Fe gains
but unfortunately for all of us that is
not true their research has consistently
shown that more sets will lead to more
gains so doing 10 to 20 sets per muscle
group per week will allow you to make
more substantially more gains than doing
let's say one to four sets per week but
do not think that one to four sets per
muscle group per week will get you zero
gains they will still probably get you
around 65% of your potential gains and
if you do a bit more than that so 5 to
nine sets per musle grp per week you're
going to be looking at like roughly 80%
of your potential gains so sure if
you're somebody who wants to get as
jacked as possible and I'll get to why
the minimum effective dose concept
applies to those people as well but if
you're somebody who has all the time in
the world and no stress whatsoever and
they just want to get as jacked as
possible look no further than 10 plus
sets per muscle group per week 10 direct
sets per muscle group per week so that
wouldn't mean 10 sets of biceps where
you're counting back exercises as bicep
exercises that would mean 10 plus sets
specifically off isolation bicep work
done per week but if you're somebody who
wants to get jacked but also has other
things going on in their lives and is
often faced with periods of time where
it's not really possible to get all that
volume in maybe because there's no time
maybe because you can't recover enough
or maybe because you're not feeling like
it doing 5 to nine sets per muscle group
a week which is not a lot of training
and taking those sets to failure very
close to failure which is something that
the literature has shown us to be very
important for hypertrophy will be more
than enough to still get really really
solid gains and I'm talking about the
majority of your gains you can't if it
was more than the majority then it would
be all your gains and that doesn't make
sense but you can still get almost all
of your potential gains with just a few
sets now to take it a step further if
you even do as little as a couple of
sets per muscle group per week so that
would mean me going to the gym on Monday
doing two sets of push-ups to failure
for my chest two sets of tricep
extensions for my triceps two sets of
bicep curls for my biceps two sets of
lateral raises for my delts and maybe
what am I forgetting a couple of sets
for my lats and for my upper back I
could literally do that for the whole
week and for those body parts mentioned
I'd still be looking at making roughly
60% of my potential hypertrophy gains
we're talking about very very low amount
of training in order to still get a
meaningful at least for everyone
response side note if you're somebody
who has been trying to really optimize
things and you've been doing a bunch of
volume but you may be thinking that
you're not training hard enough going
down to roughly 5 to 10 sets per muscle
group a week and taking those sets to
failure so to momentary failure to the
point where you can't get any more reps
despite attempting to do so you may be
surprised to see that those sets are
more effective than just doing more
volume for the sake of doing more volume
keep that in mind and it is worth
experimenting with less training volume
for some periods of time seeing how that
feels when it comes to muscle growth
muscle growth is a process that takes a
long time so you doing less than optimal
for a few weeks here and there is not
really going to be very detrimental to
your long-term progress even if
absolutely ma maximizing muscle gain is
your goal and it sure as hell will be
much better than doing absolutely
nothing or skipping sessions or feeling
like you're not really doing well and no
seeing yourself that you are leaving
games on the table because you can get
your full session in so a few sets per
week performed with intent with
intensity can lead to absolutely great
gains alth those suboptimal and allow
you to still make those damn gains even
when things are not looking that great
as far as time availability or recovery
resources go anecdotally speaking we
even have a lot of
natural natural just kidding just
kidding just kidding just kidding just
I'm not going to continue adding layers
to The Meta joke here The Meta joke um
but we have a lot of natural and
enhanced lifters training and preaching
that lower training volumes are the best
thing ever and you don't need to do so
much training volume as some other
people or even their research says that
you have to do so you have those
anecdotes in conjunction obviously with
the research to essentially show you
that you're probably going to be just
fine training with lower volumes
especially for relatively short periods
of time like a couple of months here and
there keep in mind to select exercises
that bias long muscle lengths control
the Ecentric get a nice stretch take
those sets to Absolute failure when you
think you're at failure try for another
rep when you can't physically move the
bar or the machine anymore call it a set
have your protein go to sleep enjoy your
gains minim minimum doet training.com
for free templates if you want to check
them out there's no sales pitch here
it's literally free templates and
minimum dose. trining for some of the
literature on making gains using a
minimum effective dose training concept
if you have any questions imagine Tom
Platz sitting there looking at you in
the eye screaming five
more one more for 20 come on get those
five more reps get another five after
that faint wa wake up get another five
reps go to the hospital get diagnosed
with rapo tell the doctor nice try
doctor last time I checked academics
were the real doctors get a real job
nerd slap him slap the police when they
come to arrest you get your ass to the
gym ignore rapo finish your set get
those extra five reps and enjoy your
herper free Gams with just a few sets
per moner group per week
peace