a lot of people who bench flatback and
with their shoulders flared out that's
like the football program and high
school bench press they're the ones that
are like yeah man I used to bench me my
shoulders got the better of me and other
than in high school before I was a
powerlifter before I learned how to
Archer tract I've never one single time
hurt my shoulder in the bench press ever
how you would do this in real life is
you would get down onto a bench which I
will demonstrate first thing you do is
you walk your scapula towards your butt
this arches your back again you don't
have to crazy Arch as you walk them back
also walk them in it's going to take a
couple walks really tuck them in there
and then you'll grab the bar notice the
bar is going to lay pretty low if you
reach up you lose all that unrack
push the bar over to the position as the
bar descends you keep your chest stuck
way in the air and you press and way in
the air and then you press