[Music]
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here Jared feather for
Renaissance periodization with uh Ron
suusi yeah you got it I'm trying I'm
trying my best pretty good he is the
founder of the entire Atlantis brand and
of course we're here at Atlanta's gym
and he
is how old are you don't want to say it
right 68 68 yeah years young and jacked
and he is going to show us how he trains
and we're going to ask him all kinds of
questions about what he's seen growing
up why he got into fitness and maybe
what you can take away as an older
individual trying to stay in the best
shape of your life let's do
[Music]
[Applause]
it
so I'm going to do like 15 20 reps sure
just that to warm up we used this
machine uh yesterday it was amazing
amazing amazing machine the smoothest
machines ever yeah even the cable Stacks
are so smooth I'm like what the hell is
going on you know when you've been
tweaking the machine for 40
years that's the to improve there's
always room for improvement sure
training why did you start training at
all I was you know 7 8 years old wowly I
went to the basement of our house and I
saw a box of magazine muscle building
magazine because my father was training
back then you know we had like 10 lb
dumbbells 5B
dumbbell so I try some
exercises from the the magazine and I
cut up the picture M put some Scotch
tape you know on the wall and each time
I was in my bed at night I said one day
I'm going to be like this so you've been
training for 60 years
yeah
wow my first contest so I went to the
gym I got member in the
September and in March there was a
contest in Montreal so after 6 months
I went to the contest I didn't win but
just for the trill to go on the stage
for me it's a oh my God then after that
uh I won the junior Mr Montreal quec
after a year after a year so at 17 or so
were you eating a lot or no oh yeah oh
yeah oh yeah because I gained
like uh 30 lb in a year I remember as 16
years old as 16 Ines of arms you know
it's not bad I was following the years
you know 17 17 18 18 of arm and and 18
arms at 18 good Fu listen yeah oh yeah
well I was training like 6 days a week
crazy
yeah when did you win the Mr Canada you
know I want Mr Montreal pris Quebec
Eastern Canada came third twice in Mr
Canada
those year was the best year because you
could compete naturally so I went to
Hilton in 78 I came
second and the year after it was Mr
Canada here in Montreal
1979 at a prestigious plaz
desar and Frank Zen was the guest poser
back then I won the Mr Canada the
picture over there that's that's the
year I want how did that feel oh was
great because my dream was to be Mr
Universe and uh because I want Mr Canada
I was the guy who
represent Canada Mr Universe but I
understood you need to have you know
other things you know than training sure
so I was afraid you know of those things
you know I'm not ready to do that I
don't know where I'm going to go with
this you know
[Music]
so I stopped I open a gym I saw that was
not a Lista back then
7s and but I didn't have the money you
know to buy those machines I said one of
my friend taught me all to well and all
to build machine because I I have a
financial degree you know bachelor
degree so I didn't know how to well so
I'm I'm going to make the machine like
the way I I think you know my first
machine was a power rack oh yeah that's
obvious I didn't have a power
right where did the company name come
from in 1986 I said I want like more
commercial you know name uhhuh so for me
I saw a movie a clus and apparently was
healthy people and they take care
of this be a really nice name it's a
great
[Music]
he's been working on a long time common
mistakes people make in the gym and
prevent them from having their best
games sometimes they know they take too
heavy and they do like half movement
yeah you got to train with the uh Kings
of full range of motion Arnold and all
those guys back then they were all they
all did full movements I don't know
about the technique today if it's good
or not but I can see that for me to do
only half of the movement I don't feel
but some machines you know that you have
on the market sometimes you cannot do
the full movement most like presses yeah
or some chess movement oh yeah the
machine the way they
done it's hard to make full
movement and also they want to to grow
fast me it took me like 10 years to win
Mr Canada takes time sometimes
impatience like a decade you know to to
do something uh
I
think so the workouts typically don't
take more than 45 minutes yeah I think
the error that I did it was overtrained
yeah it was hard on on bodybuilder you
know it was like crazy a little bit and
after that you know I had some
discussion with other body it was little
a bit too much too much you don't need
to be two hours in the gym you know but
they good training you know I feel it
you know I can feel
it for me it's like it's a it's a way of
life yeah I have a lot of
passion but my passion if she said you
can take only one it's going to be
training by any measure you're a very
successful person successful in sport
successful in family successful in
business what uh anything you can say to
the folks at home watching your top tip
just for anything you do how to be
successful what is a something people
one word perseverance I went four time
to win Mr Canada MH you know working out
maybe nine times a week and you know
during four years I did that so but I I
I wanted to to win so I had to persevere
you know to do my things even in
business sometimes you said oh I'm tired
so much things you know I'm going to
continue that's probably the key of My
Success is perseverance it's very
inspirational that's awesome that's
awesome Raymond Mr s thank you so much
huge pleasure huge pleasure learning a
ton from you hopefully Jared and I can
become a third of what you are this is
it the man the myth of Legend thank you
so much for tuning in see you next
[Music]
time
[Music]