[Music]
folks you're at home you have a pair of
dumbbells you might in some odd
alternate universe even be our P's
manager of coaching dog but in case at
least some of those are true you can get
awesome workouts at home today we're
gonna do the fourth video in the series
and demonstrate arm training just a
little bit of a sampler we are going to
do alternating supersets antagonists
supersenses they otherwise known triceps
- biceps we're gonna hit arms here's
what's gonna happen
Doug is gonna do overhead tricep
extensions in dumbbells we're gonna show
you how that works then he's gonna shift
right into bent over curls what the hell
is that we'll see in a second then he's
gonna rest something like 30 seconds no
rest between those two by the way and
this is gonna hit another superset just
like that three of those super sets is
all Doug has in him for today he's
recorded a lot of videos between between
the two of us he can't hear what I'm
saying and here's the good news
you can scale this workout however you
want if you're new to training just do
two super sets and you'll be totally
good and if you're not new to training
or if your dumbbells are super light and
it's not a big challenge then you can do
five six or even seven of these they're
brutal they work if you're at home give
this a shot
the first exercise we're gonna warm
dougie up for is the overhead dumbbell
tricep extension Doug
hit it real quick always warm warm up
set of three to five reps even though
these are relatively light dumbbells go
ahead and rack position press up elbows
are gonna point forward he's gonna touch
right behind his shoulders and come up
and elbows in yep and come up get your
elbows a little closer together yes and
come up good enough rack excellent
relax but don't drop them we're gonna
just warm-up right for the bent-over
curls right away what a jug is gonna do
is basically going to get into a half
bent roll position like 45 degree angle
nice tight back
there's get a little ed his arms just
relaxed where they are and he's gonna
curl to his face hold for a second and
control the weight back down this is a
leverage disadvantage for your biceps
which means you can take light dumbbells
and to make a much harder Doug give it a
shot just like that and that's it relax
put him down we're gonna rest one to two
minutes Doug's gonna feel this flow
feels vibe a little bit and then after
that we're gonna do three sets
back-to-back sets overhead extensions
then curls rest 30 seconds and repeat
we're taking all of these to technical
failure which means we can't do any more
good technique we stop give Doug a break
we'll see you in just a second good
technique is number one it's easy to
cheat with light dumbbells you always
gives you more reps but it's pointless
because it doesn't target your muscles
notice Doug is pointing his elbows for
the whole time he's not letting them
flare out he's controlling the eccentric
gently touching his shoulders and coming
all the way up to a full lockout let's
push it Doug good one more press another
one slow and press good technique only
one last one with good technique good
technique
good technique that's it that's it good
very good
all right and right into bent over and
curl arc to the face beautiful one two
at least ten here three
good keep going as much as you can get
technique still good excellent and one
last one at least oh that's it good
enough good enough good enough very good
feeling okay excellent we're gonna take
30 second break and we're gonna come
back and do another set technique is
number one elbows forward and up
elbows forward and up good very control
I love it come on touch me Hill up
that's it that's it very good
bend over hit it straight back good good
very good good control the descent boss
at the top good come on one more
ah you think you got another one oh
that's it very good stuff last 30 second
break and then he's gonna finish up
alright folks
dogs last superset strict overhead
tricep extensions strict bent over curls
dog this time when you bend over try not
to round much try to keep a nice flat
back not a super important detail but
something we ought to consider hit it up
excellent very good elbows up you want
to just bend yep Bend back up elbows in
in in in well that's it very good
there's failure excellent right away
beautiful 1 9 you got it let's go 10
stay bent over more good and one last
one stay bent beautiful that's it
alright folks
there was three sets not bad how are you
feeling pretty beat very good that's the
idea that's the workout if you want to
copy this workout use the weight you
have at home do fewer or more sets take
a little bit less break a little longer
break more power to you always remember
go all the way to failure are very close
to a good technique
and multiple sets are gonna get the job
done don't be afraid to add sets
overtime and reps overtime to keep
progressing because you might not only
be training at home for one week it
might be a thing where you like training
at home and you just do it as part of a
plan progressing heavy and heavy and
heavy through the dumbbells is fine but
adding wraps week to week to week is
really awesome so you might start doing
roughly sets of ten in the first set and
then eventually you get two sets of 20
and then you have your next heaviest
dumbbells maybe the twenty fives you
were using now it's the 30s
you could have thirties and start
getting set to ten again and keep
progressing just like that if you want
superfine detailed nitty gritty approach
in the link below we have our P at home
our P Jim free training programs that
charge all of this out for you with just
a pair of dumbbells you can mess up your
whole body and get awesome hypertrophy
results if not just follow along with
the videos read our articles folks best
of luck and we'll see you for the last
video of the series soon