let's say you train your chest on Monday
you train your chest again on Thursday
if after Monday's workout let's say
you're doing three sets of chest by
Tuesday evening you're like not sore
you're not tired you're ready to
go your strength is as high as it'll
ever be someone could ask the
theoretical question of why the are you
waiting Wednesday as a whole day to just
go Thursday you could have already hit
it again so if you're well beyond
recovered next Monday you can do four
sets or five sets for chest to get you
close to just barely recovered for next
Thursday if you're just SP car let's say
Wednesday you're still a little tight a
little sore little weak feeling and
Thursday morning you're really good to
go perfect is that MV yeah so if you go
over that value you might have exceeded
your maximum recoverable volume but a
kind of way to make sure you're not
excessively over it so make sure you're
healed on time but if you're healed too
early you think you're growing but
you're really doing so few sets that
you're not accomplishing a whole lot so
the point is to challenge your body such
that it is recovering until gee a day or
several hours before you hit it again