you can only be able to eat 10 gram of
fat at the next meal and I really wanted
that protein bar but is 11 gram of fat
and ah it's like just being utterly
aware of the walls of your
prison hey folks Dr Mike here for anos
periodization and today's topic is to
ask the question can you lose weight and
fat hopefully without tracking what do I
mean by that on occasion you guys will
see this with clients if you coach
clients and maybe even with yourself and
some friends and people at the gym folks
you talk to people will sign up commit
to losing some weight maybe it's a New
Year's resolution maybe it's springtime
maybe they just decide it's time for a
change but they're not comfortable doing
possibly one or both of two things
they're not really interested in
stepping on a scale to get their body
weight regularly and they're not
interested in meticulously tracking the
macronutrients of their daily food
consumption never mind meal by meal not
even for the day
there's really only one reason for this
in most situations both of these
practices stepping on a scale and
looking at scale numbers and tracking
food make them feel
icky where does the ickiness come
from for some people looking at the
scale gives them a combination
of a few nasty psychological Downstream
effects when they step on the scale for
the first
time the number that they see is so far
outside of the psychosocial realm in
which they consider it to be
acceptable that they feel deeply hurt by
how in a sense wrong and unacceptable
that number makes them
feel specifically with females uh way
more often with females than
males if a female weighs over a certain
amount and she has a certain kind of
usually genetically mostly genetically
determined psychology which is no fault
of
hers she's going to have a real hard
time looking at that number without it
making her feel really really really
terrible so that's a big downside for
example when you grow up and you read I
don't know girls read I had a sister uh
have a sister had a and had her growing
up as well and you know she would read
like 177 magazine so she was like well
like 15 and I was like 13 so you know I
get bored and I'd read them too there's
a lot of quizzes like what is your
perfect guy like I take them and usually
fail not into guys zero zero I got zero
points on all of them unless it's
Orlando Bloon floor of the Rings and
then yes just just write in the yes in
any case there was like uh this is in
the 90s so there was discussions of
weight and uh sort of data on not not
metadata not in columns and graphs but
mentions of what celebrities weigh and
of course you know all the gossip
magazines have it you know Cameron Diaz
weighs you know 117 pounds or something
like that and and generally women uh you
know that are in sort of Hollywood or
women that other girls look up to that
are popular famous Etc they weigh
somewhere between 90 lb and 140 or 50 lb
especially they're really tall which is
sociologically kind of uh a tough cell
for a lot of girls who and women who
later in their lives find themselves
especially on the 200 plus side of
things I mean they don't have a
reference character in their mind from
when they were developing a sense of
esteem and a sense of people to look up
to to want to be like they don't have
anyone in mind that was female what they
considered an acceptable look that was
over 200 lb it's just a non-starter and
we can talk to we blue in the face about
how your inherent value doesn't come
from your weight and about how like
you're still an awesome person no matter
how much you weigh and it's weight scale
weight is just a number which all those
things are true godamn it stings like
crazy for a lot of people to see that
number and they just don't want to see
it because it makes them feel bad and on
the other side another nasty feature is
they think the number initially is bad
and then it starts to go down which is
good but then a lot of these folks get
really obsessed with that number going
down and the degree to which it slopes
down starts to correlate and well really
cause the kind of mood the kind of
affect that they experience so if they
started died at 2011 PBS is the worst
day of their adult lives the next time
they weigh in three days later they
weigh 197 lbs and they're like hey hey
all right all right we're cooking we're
in business the next time they weigh in
another half week later they weigh 193
pounds and they're like holy crap here
we go dream body so far so good sort of
the beginning sucked and it's still
you're really heavy but you know hey
this is progress and then when that
initial water weight comes off they find
themselves next week weighing
193 and they're like oh hold on I'm
losing no weight I didn't lose any
weight I did this fucking stupid diet
for three and a half extra days and I
lost nothing I knew it I'm never going
to be able to lose weight my body is
like oh up up NOP genetics uhuh and it
just catches me and it Rockets me back
up fuck this I quit and maybe you'll get
them over that first one but then
they'll lose another one pound and
they're like d I'm never going to do
this I weigh 192 my first week was
amazing the second week was the worst
thing that's ever happened to me how am
I supposed to get down to my ideal
weight of7 17 PBS or whatever Cameron
Diaz weighed back in
1996 if I'm going to you know go at this
slow pace and then later half a week
later or something like that they're
down to like 189 somehow because they're
just Trucking along and body water does
this whole Wiggly thing and then they're
super ecstatic it's just this crazy
emotional roller coaster for them and
they've had experience with this before
it's not their first rodeo and they've
just written it off that I can't do this
anymore I definitely want to lose weight
I want to get healthier I don't really
even care about weight I want a certain
shape I can't stare at that stupid
number on the scale anymore and I feel
that 100% I know where they're coming
from on that
1,00% macr tracking is a similar version
to that where you give someone a numbers
to hit and they start thinking okay I
have to hit these macro
numbers but if I hit a little under them
I'm extra good and if I hit really far
under them I'm like superwoman and then
I'm starving and I'm hungry and then I
have to admit defeat by going up and
just hitting the macros normally again
but like I already set a precedent for
going Beyond and now I'm
retreating I'm gonna fail because I
tried to go harder and I couldn't and
now these macro numbers as I get
hungrier and more tired over the diet
they they start to be like a fucking
prison cell I if I eat 40 grams of fat
at this meal I'm going to only be able
to eat 10 grams of fat at the next meal
and I really wanted that protein bar but
has 11 grams of fat
and ah I hate this I feel totally
constrained it's like just being utterly
aware of the walls of your prison and by
the way macros have to get lowered
through the diet often when you adapt
metabolically and with movement and your
weight decreases so there the the walls
of your prison cell just closing in all
time awful and I just can't do it no
more no more too many bad experiences I
can't do it anymore there's a question
to you as a coach is can you actually
accept clients like this that are in
this position and can you make progress
can you help them with these limitations
the answer is absolutely yes and here's
how you would do
it without tracking you can still give
help for example you give them a healthy
eating plan sample meals sample portions
with rough sizes you know like grain you
know enough rice to fill up something
the size of your fist you know a handful
of of lean meats two fistfuls of veggies
get your two fingers out like this and
that many almonds or something like that
very rough amounts that they can just
eyeball and you tell them it's no big
deal if it's a little more it's a little
less nobody cares you're good to go just
eat something like this and you're
totally golden
that's a good
start on occasion once you give them
this plan you can check to see how
hungry they are because there's a little
trick in diet coaching if the person is
continually a little bit hungry on
average there's a not 100% chance but a
very high probability that they're in a
hypocaloric condition and they're
consistently losing weight you don't
have to put them on the scale if they're
eating way cleaner way more organized
than ever and they're consistently
hungry you're starting think they're
probably losing weight and probably
losing fat so you're
winning every two we two weeks or so you
can look at pictures of them that they
send you preferably totally in the nude
I'm
kidding whatever clothes they feel
comfortable in preferably tight clothes
or like a bikini or whatever so you can
see more of you look at their pictures
every two weeks you'll be able to tell
if there's progress or not and you can
say look take these pictures on your
phone you don't even have to look at
them just send them to me if you want to
look at them and appraise them yourself
hey sweet they're your pictures but you
can just send them to me so I just know
what's going on and I don't even have to
tell you how you're doing if you don't
want to hear it I'll just adjust my on
my side the diet or anything I need to
do and another thing is you can ask them
how well their clothes are fitting
because if you're really working with
folks like this and they're usually a
bit on the heavy side when they lose
weight it starts to become very apparent
very fast you'll be able to tell they
look different in pictures their belts
will fit differently their clothes fit
differently they'll tell you this and
you're like hey you're a rock star let's
do
it do this for 3 to four months with
them typical diet
duration and every time they seem to be
pretty full for a week you ask them like
every week like hey like how full are
you feeling you feeling hungry and like
for a week they might be like you know
man I'm uh I'm actually good I'm not
hungry at all you're like okay great you
take the frood down just a little bit
you know pull out a little bit of rice a
little bit of almonds or something like
that and then they're like okay actually
after you made that change two days
later like I'm feeling the diet a little
bit you're like great hey sweet and you
never want them to be ultra
psychotically hungry cuz that's a recipe
for Burnout but youd also don't want
them to be like oh man this diet's crazy
I'm so full I can't eat anymore so what
you're going to want to do is kind of
manage that not fine line but that sort
of gray area of just mild hunger and if
they sort of bottom out they're not
experiencing anymore you drop their
nutrients again and they keep
going that formula is likely to result
in pretty good fat loss progress after
you do a maintenance phase they recover
from the diet you can kick it again and
repeat that process for long term
results what you also want to do is
psychologically check in with them a lot
and focus on a few things things like
buying like Hey we're doing the plan
because we think it's going to work
because it's worth it because you're
worth it yes and they go yes because if
they're fully bought into the plan and
they own the plan they think yes this is
me I'm doing this it's going to
work if that's the case you're going to
get much better results and they're
going to feel psychologically more in
control when they see a scale with a
weight they don't like they don't feel
in control when they see macro numbers
that they interpret as being super
restrictive they don't feel in control
but when they have a diet that's theirs
and the process is theirs they have full
Buy in they feel in control and
generally that means they're going to
coast along and eat the meals and do all
the steps per day that you tell them to
do all that other
stuff consistency is a big one say hey
look like if you miss a meal here and
there and you eat some junk no big deal
but just try to do this like more often
than not and try to do like your best
job and stick into it as close as you
can we don't need Perfection we need
consistency all right you put a little
bit of rice in too much rice this time
next time you put not enough no big deal
just try to do your best consistency is
going to be the key if you can get them
to really understand that over and over
with your sort of I was going to say
indoctrination it's not too far off your
uh continued support
i' make a great propagandist no less uh
then that's going to make their time
easier and more likely that they're
going to have success and also
positivity especially in positivity
about the great habits they are building
because you tell them a real big secret
you say listen if you can eat in this
more organized way for some
time what's going to end up happening is
you're going to build the healthy eating
habits that will allow you to stay a
certain leaner and smaller size in the
future by kind of repeating this style
of eating and having some BS and junk
every now and again for the next three
three months we're not going to do a
whole lot of BS and junk because we're
Mission oriented but once you get to
where you're going we're going to have
the same core healthy meals that you're
learning how to make and eat now you're
going to rely on those for a long time
with some BS and junk on the side and if
you're positive about their outcome
you're positive especially about the
habits that they're building you're no
longer super focused on the goal the
goal lose 15 lbs or 20 lb or whatever it
is you're po you're really really
positive reminding them hey you're being
real consistent you're being real
dedicated and you're building amazing
habits every single healthy meal you eat
is a victory to us and that's really
great because what that does is it
generates a lot of
momentum after a few weeks one of their
friends comes over from college or
something to visit them and they're like
oh my God Stacy you look so good did you
like I don't want to say the W word but
like lose weight and she's like yeah she
like how like I'm like on this diet but
like doesn't even feel like a diet I'm
just like doing my thing swag girl
yes they high five they hit the
club pee
popping come home with some s
fellas drugs hard drugs wake up middle
of the night desperately I don't even
know where I'm going just reciting my
college experience as a overweight
woman hell's wrong with me what you want
to do is support them in building that
habit-based Fitness
lifestyle which is positively oriented
of these are the good things we're doing
not these are the bad things I want you
to avoid if they say hey like I had two
cheeseburgers last night you don't say
well that's a bad thing no cheeseburgers
fatty uhuh you say hey I'm shit happens
cheeseburgers happen and they're like oh
yeah okay what do I do to make up for it
now there's no making up for it no big
deal like your body all cheeseburger no
no big deal just like a next meal just
do your best and just stick to the
healthy food we've been practicing you
know how to do it they like oh okay
sweet you celebrate the victories the
defeats don't don't uh fester in them
for too long because folks of this kind
of psychological makeup they don't do
well with that they've been festering
and defeat their entire lives and
they've sensitized like shit to it and
if you really point out like you suck
they just heard that from like every
Bully from when they were in eighth
grade all the way to when they were in
college or whatever and it just doesn't
work for them that's why they're so um
recal about their weight and all this
other
stuff doing the thing is getting the job
done not the tracking we don't need
tracking if we're taking the right steps
in a certain sense it's like flying a
plane without instruments can you
actually fly a plane in which the
instruments are all broken well yeah
yeah you can you just try to feel out if
you're climbing or descending you do
have Windows in the plane and unless
you're flying in absolutely terrible
weather conditions you can see if you're
going sort of up or sort of down or sort
of at the Horizon and if the plane to
shake you reduce the throttle you don't
know how fast you're going but sure shit
feels too fast or if the plane starts to
feel really sluggish you don't need a
stall warning you just boost the
throttle a little bit now truth be told
is flying with instruments better uh
yeah hell yeah it is so is tracking a
better way to diet it is objectively
superior you get more precise results
you you don't have to wonder as much if
the plan is working like if we got your
weight and we got your Macros girl we
got your steps we know it's working flat
out in addition to that you can fly a
plane with no instruments Landing a
plane with no instruments is tougher you
got to get the air speed right you got
to be a real experienced pilot to land
the plane with no instrument just the
same way if you want to get to a certain
look or to a certain well I'll just say
it body weight then you're going to need
to know like your body weight now truth
be told most girls don't actually want
to get to a certain body weight the body
weight's just a proxy for how they look
and if you tell a girl like hey check
this out we're going to do some crazy
surgery on you you ready and she's like
okay mask she's out wakes up 15 days
later and she has a b bopper Club ho
body weighing 95 lbs little teen little
waist everything's all fit finish little
titties and shit
little ABS whatever bullshit women are
into I'm not in all that crap in any
case I'm into thickness but that's
neither here nor there whatever B Boer B
Boer Club
Body you can wear all the the mid riff
and all the stuff and she's like oh my
God this is unbelievable I I went to
sleep at 250
lbs and that's when the scientists are
gather around they go yeah yeah yeah
totally totally do you like how you look
and she's like this is a miracle where
is the club so I can finally use my
body to have fun with other people in an
adult way that if I continued this
analogy YouTube would censor me and the
scientist like yes but we need you to
know something she's like okay I've seen
movies like this it doesn't end well
actually it ends quite well you are the
first generation of
enhanced cybernetic organism and the
thing is is that that you're
functionally Immortal your body is no no
longer human body but it is going to
look young and fit and sexy as shit for
yeah at least 900 years from now that's
kind of how we design this thing your
brain is totally preserved it's actually
now digital we threw away your old
body trust me I getting to a point here
but um the thing is you're powered by a
totally safe I mean the safest ever uh
enriched plutonium reactor
what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now and you actually weigh 700 lb now
you don't feel like you weigh 700
because you have Fusion powered
actuators and technically you can also
fly and fight crime you're going to feel
like a totally normal person but you
actually do wave 700
pound in this case she's going to be
like I weigh 700 and she's looking down
at her little tummy and shit she's like
get get out of my way throws one of the
surgeons aside goes to the mirror and
she's like oh shit I look fucking
amazing and they're like yeah I told you
you look exactly like you weighing 95
pounds do you think she's gonna care I
have an answer for you it's a rhetorical
question the answer is no one out of a
thousand women is going to be like make
me wake n make me weigh 95 I don't care
care how I look so they just blow her up
full of air and she looks insanely fat
like job of the Hut but she actually
weighs 95 PBS nobody wants that women
don't actually care how much they weigh
they care only about the look at the end
of the day so when you are trying to
guide someone to a certain look you can
do a lot just with the look itself and
you never need to step on the scale but
is the scale good for tracking and
making sure they're going to that
hypothetical look cuz looks change over
weeks and it's tough to tell sometimes
but if every few days you're losing a
couple pounds you know the look at the
end of the day is guaranteed somewhere
down the road you're not just spending
time doing this floating in the middle
of nowhere not making
progress that being said the
conversation about
accepting that weigh-ins are totally
cool can be a tough conversation the
conversation about accepting
macronutrient constraints and goals and
targets can also be a tough
conversation and at some point it's not
the point to be having it with your
clients but if you've had the same
clients for a while you're star to know
them really well and here's a big one
they've already made a ton of progress
you can potentially bring them back into
the fold gently gingerly with tons of
compassion and a preparation that it
doesn't work and you need to be like
okay JK we're not looking at weight
experiment
failed you have to be gentle speak in
terms of trial runs like Hey we're going
to try to get your body weight for two
weeks and if if it's super icky and you
don't like it it's just too weeks and
then we're done but if you're cool with
it then maybe we'll try a little bit
more you have to reassure them that the
ickiness declines over time because you
know what it really does you stare at
your weight long enough it used to be
197 but recently it's like 163 and
everyone in your Social Circle thinks
you're beautiful and amazing and that
one guy that you used to like in college
from that one frat he's back and he's
like hey what's up Samantha what's up
Eric he's like hey you know what I'm
saying like I don't mean to put this in
a rude way like it's okay I can take it
used to be fat and awful so I hated you
and I avoided you but no I'm trying to
have sex with you she's like oh my God I
love sex and that's her experience so
she's well into the fold and now you're
like hey like do you want to get your
body weight going so we can take you
from like 163 to 155 for the summer
she's going to be like yeah hell yeah
those are all right answers and maybe
she's going to be totally cool with it
because it's that time and you eased it
in or maybe not and then no big deal you
do it the oldfashioned way with no
measurement because you can still do
something at the end of the day your big
weapon is two things one the knowledge
and understanding there's nothing
inherently bad about the weight on the
scale or the macronutrient number good
and bad exist up here in the real world
it's just all just machines it's all
just stuff and your body is also just
made of stuff like if aliens came down
and they were super intelligent and they
met a really just really fat girl and
she's like what do you think of me and
they're like well uh there you are she's
like am I good or bad like you're just a
human being so and she steps in the
scale she's like but watch
this steps in the scale like
303 look what do you think about me now
they're like why are you crying just
that's what you weigh it's no big deal
it's just a number it really is it's the
look you don't like I feel that
sometimes we don't like our look a
number is a tool to change that look but
we don't have to use the tool macers are
the same way they're just numbers so
your first Big Tool as a coach is
understanding that the objective reality
stuff is is just does not have to bake
in any morality or any making feel
people feel bad about themselves
whatsoever but your other tool is the
flexibility of mind to understand that
if somebody's not ready for that Journey
not ready to use their weight not ready
to use macros you're totally cool to be
like hey no big deal we'll do this
another way and you do it in the way I
just described this video isn't that
nice we got we got to hear plenty of
impressions of this Chad and Stacy and
Erica and whoever the hell else boiled
up in my insane mind am I losing it the
answer is yes see you guys next
time