hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization let's talk about the
differences and hypertrophy training
between beginners intermediates and
advanced so a couple things we need to
cover today first we're gonna define
each term that's actually a bit of a
task in and of itself people use these
terms all the time a lot of times they
don't have very good definitions then
we're gonna talk about how you know
which one you are okay and that's
another discussion was very good we'll
talk about how beginner training is
different how intermediate training
advanced training is different we'll
talk about what kind of results you can
expect at every single stage of the
process and sort of finish off with some
take-home points so defining each charm
a lot of people throw these terms around
what really do they mean easy way to
categorize them is by timespan training
so beginner means you've probably been
training between zero and two years
intermediates probably in three in six
years and anything over seven years is
advanced but that's not the best
definition for a couple of reasons
well what if you've been training pretty
hard for three years and then took a
year off
aren't you intermediate still or you
beginner again who knows what if you've
been training just total fuckery style
and just total dogs you're training for
four years there may be intermediate but
then you started training really well
and up the consistency and the little
difficulty and the logical design of the
training
what are you beginner again meanie who
knows what if you have really really
crappy genetics and after the first six
months you're just struggling to put on
size you haven't used all these advanced
techniques to gain anything are you
really a beginner still I don't know and
on the other hand what if you have
amazing genetics and ten years of
training you've just had easy gains you
there came to you with no thought are
you really an intermediate even are you
definitely not advanced than any sense
of the word so we definitely need a
better sense of what these concepts mean
we need a better set of definitions and
I think we have them here here we go
three definitions one for each if you're
a beginner that generally means you can
make great gains with hardly any thought
what's
ever they just happened by default if
you train hard and consistently with
almost no intelligence whatsoever
another easy way to tell if you're a
beginner is if you're doing a hypo
caloric fat loss diet in you're gaining
muscle and strength while on the diet
you're almost certainly a beginner
especially if your gains on the diet are
very good the intermediate your
intermediate when you first really have
to think about your training to
guarantee gains a lot of times is
heralded by the arrival of your first
plateau beginners don't know what
plateaus are almost by definition they
just keep gaining intermediates to be
like yep at one time my squats are to
stall out on me or my quads kind of
stopped growing it seemed and I had to
really rethink the process they're going
to have to be intelligent with fatigue
management and progression in order
guarantee consistent gains but those
customs and gains if they just get the
basics right and fix a couple problems
will be guaranteed great consistent
gains no problem and for the dieting
aspect someone's intermediate or their
muscle as an intermediate muscle when
they can gain a little bit on a fat loss
diet or worse maintain all of their size
and strength
lastly advanced easy definition your
advanced if you don't make gains unless
you have all of your ducks in a row
you gotta get pretty much everything
right even down to the details your diet
has to be great your training has to be
super well organized if your diet is too
small of a surplus if you do the wrong
that your size does even though they're
generally trained to say muscles you may
experience no gains at all this is no
more guarantee of gains even if you
apply yourself and work hard and get the
basics done on a diet advanced people
will maintain their muscularity and
sometimes even lose a little bit on a
diet even though they're trying really
really hard so if you think you're
advanced but you just did a fat loss
diet and either drug free and you did
the diet and you gained a muscle of
strength during the diet you're not
advanced you're just not you may be an
intermediate but you may really be a
beginner alright so TLDR the super easy
explanation here is this if your gains
are coming super easy with no thought
whatsoever you're a beginner if the
gains only come when you apply yourself
pretty diligently and implement a plan a
basic plan but a plan nonetheless your
intermediate and if the games only come
if you really check all the boxes and
you pay attention to the fine points
then you're advanced it's really that
simple now here are some implications
some of these are counterintuitive first
you don't want to be advanced people has
talked about who advanced training I
want that you don't want to be advanced
advanced training is kind of like
advanced medicine you don't want to be a
candidate for advanced medicine because
that means first of all you're very sick
and second of all the basics didn't work
to get you better okay you're like oh
I'd love to be in the ICU that doesn't
make any sense that's kind of what
advanced training is it's all the real
fine-tuned stuff that's like our Hail
Mary to get you to grow again you don't
want to be advanced okay here's another
piece of interesting good and bad news
some lifters will be in the advanced
category essentially because they're so
resistant to gains after a year of
training look at automatically only the
advanced stuff works and attention to
detail has to be applied for you to gain
any muscle it happens not great genetics
I'll the other have some people with
amazing genetics can only be advanced
after 10 years ok and they had like six
years of being a beginner and four years
of intermediate and they only have to
really start thinking about the deep
intellectual insights of training after
10 years I'll note this is really easy
to spot who's who on YouTube if they say
say shit like don't worry about the
details and just luck train brother and
you'll grow they're not advanced almost
certainly or they're at least speaking
to other people that they think they're
not advanced ok lastly this is a very
very fascinating application each muscle
can have its own developmental category
ok if your bicep so you just train them
to just grow and this you just rose and
they grow pull-ups they grow curls they
really grow then your biceps are
beginner muscles they spawn like
beginner muscles even if you've been
training them for five years or for six
years or longer on the other hand if you
have to just get everything completely
fine-tuned super right to get your
hamstrings to grow and otherwise they
just recede and actually gets smaller
even after a year of training your
hamstrings could be advanced that could
be in the same body at the same time so
it's actually a little bit less
productive to think about individuals
only asked a beginner media advance
though it is a helpful rubric it's
helpful to think of that but on top of
that layer some stuff about their
individual muscles right how difficult
is it to really grow the chest versus
last so on and so forth an every
different almost no one has an even
distribution of how easy and difficult
it is to gain muscle for the very small
so their body for sure now let's take a
look at what each one of these look like
what does beginner training look like
first I'm approaching this from the
perspective of the best long-term size
gains this is a beginner that wants to
be super jacked and super lean years
down the road if you want to transform
for a Hollywood role in six months you
don't train like this as a beginner
you're gonna be training differently but
most of us who are watching these videos
these long winded intellectual
explanations we want the best results
for ourselves for our clients so we're
gonna take some time the inter training
for the best long-term size gains number
one you want people to focus mostly on
compound basics they're very efficient
uses of time they grow slabs of muscle
they have a huge roasting list magnitude
they generate some fatigue but we don't
care cuz beginners just don't generate a
lot of tea cuz they're not that strong
and they teach you how to move in
excellent patterns that you'll use for
all the other assistance exercises
you'll ever do after that so number one
focus mostly on compound barbell basics
number two
focus more than anything else in
developing excellent technique not only
will a technique guarantee good muscle
growth it'll keep you safe and once you
learn technique its ingrained and it can
be used to build basis on later if you
learn to technique wrong at first you
have to relearn it it's a really really
shitty process great thing for beginners
is to learn really really good technique
cuz they don't have problems growing
once their technique is there it's gonna
fuel excellent growth through their
intermediate advanced season how many of
you guys have seen advanced lifters in a
sense of difficulty growing their
muscles doing squats with a technique of
someone that just learned them yesterday
and a good God if that guy only knew how
to squat right he wouldn't be advanced
so to speak he would get great quad
growth but that person might have been
training his quads for ten years if only
at the beginning of that person's
training career someone taught them how
to squat right they would have had great
growth for year and years and years and
never hit plateaus super early this is
the time to learn excellent technique
next training for beginners ideally
should be around two to four times per
week why because you want folks to have
something that they can adhere to for
sure if you see look you're a beginner
you gotta train stuff
times a week most people are just gonna
burn out of that you don't want people
to burn out you want them to have an
enjoyment of the process and then slowly
and adherence if they want more okay
someone tries a food for a certain time
you're not like here eat two pounds of
this because if they don't like it they
might be like overwhelmed it makes you
feel overwhelmed even if they like it
but if someone tries a food wow I think
I want more of that you can always give
them more and then give them more and
they give them more without making them
sick right it's the first thing you do
if you don't know if you like shrimp you
know go he have all-you-can-eat shrimp
just the same way if you don't know if
you like lifting you don't just pile on
the lifting that's a great way to burn
people out a little bit of lifting two
to four sessions a week each one maybe
30 minutes to an hour at a time learning
the compound every basics technique and
slowly getting stronger that's the best
way to go and later you can always add
more because muscle groups recover
really quickly from training when you're
a beginner is you just don't do a total
whole ton of damage and because the
learning component of technique requires
lots of reinforcement which you can do
and also the minimum effective volume
per session is very low folks will grow
for one or two sets per muscle group you
basically train each muscle group and
every session so every session is whole
body training or whatever part of their
bodies they want to develop every
session of the week ascent so if you
train three times a week its whole body
Monday whole body Wednesday whole body
Friday that sort of thing next up you
want to use most of the five to ten rep
range why the biggest reason is this
five to ten reps is enough reps to get
really good technical practice but not
so many reps per set that you start to
fatigue and the technique goes out the
window because gorge entire that's
really the fundamental reason good news
is that range is also relatively heavy
right and that builds a really good
strength base when you learn technique
under heavy loads it extends to when
you're tired and when you're onner so
when you're that so sets of five to ten
are great because of those factors not
for any other magical reasons what about
how hard to Train relatively speaking
you want beginners to cycle for roughly
five reps and reserve percent to two
reps in reserve okay why not go one rep
in reserve and zero reps in reserve
because their technique isn't set in
stone yet it's gonna struck a break down
if you take them too close to failure
and we don't want that
that's definitely a bad sign that deal
so we want beginners to push themselves
until it be getting kind of tough and
then we want to back off a little bit in
during that time as you're cycling from
five RER to to I are back down you want
to add load as the primary method of
progress they get stronger and stronger
strong over time everything good comes
from that as far as volume you want to
deal owed beginners when they get to
roughly two-thirds the way they're Marvy
how do you know that it's when their
technique starts to look a little shaky
and their fatigue becomes very notable
they come in and like oh my god I'm beat
up from last week they're still
elevating their performance they haven't
hit MRV it's time to back off give them
a little bit of an easier sort of a mini
D load week half way D load and then
they can come back super refreshed
should go again there will be times in
places for beginners to push harder and
that's when their intermediates pushing
to MRV and so on and so forth now is not
the time okay even if they want to train
super hard make sure that they
understand that hard means consistent
with excellent technique as they get
into more challenging weights and then
as they're really good at that they're
becoming more muscular stronger they
love everything about lifting and look
it's super easy that's the best of all
worlds don't worry eventually we'll get
tough and they'll get the kind of
advanced problems that everyone else has
here's the deal when do you switch
someone to essentially intermediate
training as a beginner well it should
occur when essentially two things happen
one the technique on the compounds is
excellent ingrained which means they
know how to do it themselves without you
cueing them and stable which means reps
that's a set week to week it looks the
same
that's when you know someone knows the
technique and to their strengths
progress in the five to ten rep range
has reached notable asymptotic behavior
that means they used to gain strength
really fast and they're still gaining it
but it's like getting to be way slower
if you're still gaining strength like
this you're beginner just keep doing
what you're doing right if you're still
adding five pounds a month every month
on your main lip rep strength don't
change a thing okay five pounds a month
my math is correct is like sixty pounds
a year on your lifts
crap just keep doing that whatever
you're doing is working right but all of
a sudden if you're uh starting to get
better still getting better but it's
harder and harder then you've probably
entered the end of media route right to
that end an entry level intermediate
someone has just crossed the threshold
from beginner an intermediate is really
well prepared to take the meta make the
best out of an intermediate phase by
having excellent technique being way
stronger and bigger than when they
started and they love to Train and can't
wait to train more that's really awesome
and in order to support especially that
last point you want to make sure
beginner to enjoy their lives lots of
tasty food lots of good basics and
nutrition no crazy overreaching phase
there's no deprivation no crazy diets no
psycho warrior training you want someone
to finish out their first 1 2 3 years of
training and be like I got these great
gains I love training I want to do more
of everything
I want more Challenge you don't want to
have someone finished 2 years of
training be like man I'm done training
is way too hard
crazy dieting after that remember these
are long term processing goals that we
want to set in motion we don't want to
burn somebody out the first day or the
first year or so on and so forth all
right they've gotten to intermediate how
does training change for again for the
best long-term results intermediates
should continue to focus most their
volume on the compound basics overhead
process row squats etc really really
good stuff they're going to start to
explore some more isolations explore
some more machines and compound
variations every block can change the
close grip bench and wide grip bench and
incline bench and so on and so forth not
just very very basic stuff anymore some
of their volume may be 20 to 40 percent
is going to shift into the 10 to 20
range particularly for these isolations
and machine movements that they've
started employing so a little bit of
diversity there they're going to begin
to push the end of each mess over pretty
much each one to zero reps in reserve or
one if it's something like squats where
you die if it gets to zero and and we're
failure and you want them to start
actively working on pushing themselves
hard so it's not just that you're saying
okay now we're going to failure or at
the end of every single train
mesocycle you want as they get into the
last several weeks you want to be like
look I know you think you can't do any
more reps with good technique but I
think you can and you get under their
skin you push them and if you're the
intermediate push yourself because
research on beginners is very clear what
they think is three reps and Reserve is
really like six reps in reserve so this
is the time to learn to push yourself
why your technique is already really
good so you're not worried about
technical breakdown now you can really
push yourself and more gains will come
from that
in addition on the volume side now these
folks will reach their true MRV their
maximum or carbon volumes at the very
end of training and that means they're
gonna detect a performance reduction
what is that
here's an example beginners community
mass quad a certain amount of weight and
wraps quad a certain amount of weight
and wraps go up up up up and when they
start to look like they're plateauing
before they do you DLO them cut them off
switch some things and they keep going
up intermediates you're gonna wait for
them to get to a plateau and dip a
little that's how you detect MRV lady
315 for ten sets of roughly ten reps
last week this week 320 pounds and they
got like sixes and fours I'm just done
MRV
D load recycle and all that good stuff
these folks will be pushing themselves
to the limits of volume on light
beginners we don't want that for but
these guys have stable technique they
can handle it and there's a benefit
there and of course to those who are
willing you want to go up to like four
six sessions a week most muscles train
two to four times a week
the thing about intermediates and
especially we get to advanced as some
people say we actually had a question or
appie ones how come you don't have any
advanced three-day week program because
you're when you're advanced three days a
week doesn't cut it just the same way
when you're intermediate you've been
training two to four times a week as a
beginner it's probably time to go at
least four times a week to really really
get good gains if you're intermediate
can you train two or three times a week
and get good gains maybe decent ones but
if you're getting great games three
times a week you're almost by definition
a beginner so time to do a little bit
more now for intermediates switching to
advanced training should occur when two
things happen
one
lifter knows how to train hard while
maintaining excellent technique through
the end of each set and has reached MRV
on numerous occasions at the end of
accumulation phases and knows what
that's like and for them at this point
at the end of the intermediate phase the
less than ideal training produces a
plateau in rep strength right and when
they're doing fat loss phases basically
their strength no longer increases at
all if someone does a fat loss phase and
their strength goes up they may think of
themselves as advanced luckily for them
remember some anson have a good thing
they're wrong they're still intermediate
they still don't have to worry about all
the super advanced stuff right when
you're ready to cross the threshold into
advanced you can best prepare yourself
as an intermediate by having excellent
technique on questionable technique
being way bigger than when you were a
beginner great gains big difference and
essentially being addicted to the
training process and to the idea of
making progress and that progress is
starting to be tough to make when you're
in that sort of mindset and it's
physical preparedness you're ready
essentially for advanced training and
what the hell does that mean well here
we go what is advanced number one this
is when you can begin to focus a lot of
the mind muscle connection preceding a
ton of tension or the burn in the target
muscle up until this point as a beginner
all you wanted to do was get the
technique correct as an intermediate all
you wanted to do was squeeze out more
reps and train hard but my muscle
connection is only something you can use
when you're training hard because a high
level of tension doesn't occur unless
you're training hard and a burn doesn't
occur in the target muscle unless you're
training hard and with good technique so
finally you could start to focus on the
minor muscle connection and you can
start to focus on exercises versus just
the compounds or whatever they yield the
highest stimulus to fatigue ratios and
you can also explore a bunch of
different exercises all the time and try
to pick the ones which have the best s
FRS and also alter them how you perform
them where you touch the chest to the
bar how you grip to get the best SF
that you could possibly get most
training for advanced for most people
will occur in the 10 to 20 range
probably half of your working cents per
week in the 10 to 20 range some of the
training will be in the 5 to 10 some of
the training will now be in the 20 to 30
rep range as well number 4 you want to
really perfect pushing to the limits
while maintaining a strong bio muscle
connection so here's the difference a
beginner won't be pushing to the limits
no worries just get good technique an
intermediate will push to the limits
while there look for example at arises
while their technique is externally
perceived as great and they get to
failure and that's it ok awesome
advanced will never have any problems
with technique they will push to true
failure and have no problems with
technique and at the same time if
they're going to feel their side delts
and angle thereby specifically to hit
their side delts the entire time so when
they fail on the exercise to get close
eats their side dose that are failing
that's one hell of a task
psychologically to be able to do it
requires you to be two things one the
technique is ingrained and you can do it
in your sleep and 2 you've been training
hard for so long that is no longer a
question it's not a skill you're working
on now you can focus on the mind muscle
connection actually perfecting pushing
the limits while still focusing on the
mind muscle connection top super count
or two to remember try this on leg press
you like okay cuz quads I'm feeling my
quads usually if you're me you could
either focus a lot on your quads or
focus on the psychological drive to push
for more reps if you're truly advanced
you have to learn to do both
it's tough that's what takes up your
time now number 5 in most mezzos you
train to MRV before edie load you see a
performance caplet every single at the
end of almost every single accumulation
phase and potentially there may be some
credence to starting them as a cycle
instead of at 3rr you might start your
muscles to RER and you may actually end
the final week beyond failure for straps
drops that's things like that that might
put a little tiny exclamation mark on
your hypertrophy that you only need when
you're advanced
and you can only maintain stable
technique in mind muscle connection with
when you're advanced so just when you're
able to benefit from it you use it but
you have to have a huge huge
understanding of stimulus to fatigue
ratio to make sure you don't burn
yourself out or get hurt doing these
kind of advanced techniques number six
lots of prioritization phases or doing
double daily sessions you could no
longer do justice to your whole body
doing four or five days a week of
training in your training 8 10 or 12
sessions a week which means a lots of
double days and or you're only training
some muscles hard parts of you know the
year and having the others on the back
burner and vice versa okay there's one
you can't just like say okay yeah I'm
advanced I'm working on growing
everything on a five-day split the hell
does that even look like if you do
biceps after back how can you possibly
be doing justice to your biceps when
your backs ABS everything that you have
including your biceps so definitely
definitely a concern there number seven
you're probably to the point where you
benefit from meso to meso potentiation
heavier loading on average in mezzo one
a little bit more high volume loading in
meso two tons of really sorry high rep
loading in mezzo two and then super high
rep drop sets and stuff in mezzo three
you can potentiate frequency low
frequency in the first mezzo moderate
frequency in the second and
unsustainably high frequency for just
one mezzo and a third and then you do
active rest phase Andry sensitization
right after okay if you've never taken d
load if you don't know what time off is
you're not advanced because an advanced
person would have snapped in half had
they never done that right so now it's
time that just four D loads but for low
volume you sensitization phase on
occasion and active rest phases as
needed progress in load and reps can
occur sometimes you have to get creative
you won't be able to progress
necessarily every week so you might have
to progress by only very small larges
every week like literally put two and a
half total pounds on the bar every week
or you might have to add a wrap every
other week or five pounds over another
week to hit your rir progression okay
and this is a huge point point number
ten these not in order of importance by
the way they're just things we have to
get through you have to have your
nutrition and recovery nailed to a tee
- essentially guarantee yourself gains
and phasic concordance has to be a thing
or two spacing corns it means your
nutrition and training line up which
means that if you're trying to grow
muscle but you're not eating in a
surplus as an advanced person there's no
guarantee you're gonna gain anything at
all as a beginner he'll your door comes
a muscle on on a maintenance diet
there's an intermediate yeah you'll grow
some for sure as an advanced if you're
not a surplus if someone says hey listen
I'm in advance that I need to get bigger
biceps I say how much do you weigh
there's two hundred pounds but ok see
you in five months at 210 pounds like
well do I really have to gain weight yes
yes you really have to gain weight to
guarantee yourself bicep growth remotely
guarantee and if you stay 200 pounds and
you try to grow your bicep so there's an
advance actual advance your biceps are
advanced there's no guarantee no I'm not
putting my money on the fact that you're
gonna gain any muscle you eat all your
weapons at the front and the hyper
caloric diet is the biggest weapon you
have so all this being said what kind of
results can you expect at each phase and
this is kind of another way of measuring
each phase based on results okay if
you're gaining in big compound lifts rep
strength in the 5 to 10 rep range of
roughly 5 to 10 pounds per month you're
a beginner and you can use all the
beginner strategies we talked about that
might not sound like a lot people say we
have 5 pounds per month that's nothing
10 pounds per month I guess it's decent
but I'm gaining 20 pounds a month no
you're not okay if you consistently even
remotely consistently in a sort of
curvilinear fall off pattern over the
year gain 5 to 10 pounds per month
that's 60 to 120 pounds per year can you
imagine putting 120 pounds on your bench
in a year I can I've done it before
only when I was a beginner okay if you
put 120 pounds on your bench in a year
if you're a beginner doesn't matter
where you tell anybody else there's no
shame in that if you're intermediate you
gain typically 2 to 5 pounds per month
on your big compound lifts in the 5 to
20 range now so that means you put 25 to
60 pounds on your squat 4 reps let's say
in a year that's really good that's
really good that's not struggling now
here's the thing if you're advanced you
actually can no longer expect to gains
so good results is gaining 1 to 2 pounds
per month in the 5 to 30 rep range
strength as an advance which means over
a year you may gain somewhere between 10
and 25 pounds of strength now look if
you're advanced and you're squatting 450
pounds at the beginning of year 1 of
advanced and you're squatting 475 at the
end of that year that's really good even
if you went from 450 and now you're at
460 look that's progress it's money in
the bank if you're increasing your
compound lift strength for reps all of
these rep ranges from 5 to 30 even
between 10 and 25 pounds you're doing
really well for yourself as an advanced
lifter and that's nothing to be ashamed
of now to that point
here are some take-home points
especially the first being realistic is
huge ok if you're advanced and you're
still wondering how you're gonna
reignite intermediate gains forget about
it I'm in Philadelphia recording this
video no no forget about it fuck off but
seriously is this not gonna happen right
short of like revolutionising your
nutrition or taking all the drugs in the
world don't do that you'll die it's just
not gonna happen right and people say
this kind stuff all the time they say oh
man I did this one program in high
school my pecs cruel a crazy you're not
in high school anymore motherfucker that
shit's not gonna work anymore man you
can try our high school program again
and after 3 weeks you back this is a
stupidest program ever done I like
somehow under and over trained at the
same time oh shit the reason it worked
back then because you were a beginner
now that you're advanced or intermediate
it's not gonna work it's highly unlikely
you're gonna have to be smarter at the
end of the day you could only do your
best you don't choose which level of
advancement you're in that choice is
made for you by the preparedness of your
muscles and their readiness to grow so
you already know how to train and if you
need help we got all the RP videos and
books and all this other stuff 3 d MJ
all these other great companies putting
out great content learn how to do your
best job train your best when plateaus
happen examine your nutrition and
recovery increase the attention of
detail you paying and do your best thing
you will see the gains you've got coming
to you but if you think you're gonna be
a beginner again
that's not gonna work folks thank you so
much for tuning in see you next time