[Music]
[Applause]
folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
peered ization
and we're here iron sport gym with Chris
of warhorse barbell in Philadelphia and
he's gonna be our test dummy for how to
fix mistakes in the dumbbell chest fly
Arnold did them and you're not better
than Arnold so do them too and let's
figure out how you're messing this up
all right folks first mistaken and I'm
gonna fly it's that first for any reason
of the fact that I just wrote it down
first it's actually interesting we have
an opposite mistake we'll talk about
later this one is actually keeping the
elbows too straight or too locked out so
what's gonna happen here is Chris is
gonna press the dumbbells out and get
ready to fly he's gonna keep his elbows
completely locked out because he's super
dedicated strict technique he's gonna do
a dumbbell fly with his elbows
completely straight right and then he's
gonna come back up just whatever
dumbbell fly and he's gonna do a couple
more reps just like that I mean it
extremely looks like okay this clearly
has to be training the chest but there
is a problem go ahead and rack Chris and
just relax
so what ends up happening here is if you
have your elbow out completely it does
the same thing is essentially locking or
close to locking your knees out for your
hamstrings it's just that for your
biceps another way to say this is that
it makes your biceps a limiting factor
for the exercise it stretches them a ton
and it actually is a great bicep
exercise believe it or not but it can
leave your pecs lacking it actually
means the pecs are not the limiting
factor anymore and the biceps can give
out first or take more of the toll and
that's not ideal because this is the
chest why so the correction for this go
ahead and Kristin come out you could
start locked out but then you want to
unbend your elbows and just give
yourself a little bit of slack it's
gonna be personal usually something like
135 degrees yep and he's gonna go all
the way down and all the way back up and
now he's getting more chest involvement
less bicep limitation his shoulders are
probably feeling better and we're
getting a better chest workout so the
last mistake was keeping the arms too
straight unless the biceps and shoulders
take too much of a hit and not the pecs
we can over fix this sometimes
sometimes just to use more weight we can
bend the elbows a ton so Chris is gonna
go ahead and do a fly where he bends me
almost a ton and he's gonna go ahead and
go through the motion
yeah sure that sort of looks like a fly
but it's really kind of like more of a
press at this point why do people do
this number one reason right good enough
Chris you can relax the number one
reason people do this is just so they
can use more weight now sometimes there
still hits their pecs a lot but if you
want to use a lot of weight and you want
to hit your pecs just do a press right
there's even another exercise is pretty
advanced called a combination fly press
that you could do if you're doing flies
do them properly which means just barely
bending the elbows to get a huge chest
hit and using a big moment arm to really
get your arms out there so go ahead and
do the correction just bend them less
yep and go ahead and do a proper
dumbbell fly all the way nice and deep
and all the way back up perfect elbows
are neither too straight nor are they
too bent and we get the best chest
workout and not a whole lot of
everything else alright folks next
mistake is doing a really good fly on
the eccentric but I'm a con centric
maybe you get freaked out the weight is
too heavy you're trying to get more reps
than you should be able to restrict
technique and you start turning it into
a press on the way up so Chris is gonna
do a very good fly on the way down yep
he's gonna control the weight nice open
angle and then on the way back up he's
gonna start pressing it back up which is
kind of weird because yeah you can lift
more weight like this but what's the
point if you're gonna do both the fly
and press at the same time there's
actually an exercise called a
combination fly press which you could be
doing instead more appropriately but
this isn't it so when we do flies we're
gonna do them correctly go do them right
this time by flying up and flying down
under strict control and the same elbow
angle every time go ahead and stop if
you're changing your elbow angle midway
through you know you're onto something
that's not ideal this mistakes not a
huge deal but it's sort of pointless so
we might as well not do it a lot of
folks will do a really good fly and
Chris is gonna demonstrate a good fly go
nice and deep all the way down and then
come back up and he's gonna Clank the
dumbbells together at the top now
there's nothing wrong with clinking them
but the last basically several inches of
the range of motion gravity doesn't
point sideways folks it only points up
and down if you want a good peak
contraction for the chest that's what
cable fly's are for
that's what the PEC deck is for so what
he's gonna do with a proper flies go
nice and deep as usual and he's gonna
come back up and stop right when gravity
stops affecting when his arms are
straight up and down that's it common
mistake and the dumbbell fly is to not
get that extra deep stretch in the pecs
at the bottom it's easy to cut your
range of motion use more weight or get
more reps but the reality is you're not
getting nearly as good of a stimulus
that way so ideally what you want to do
is go nice and deep you don't want to go
too deep to where you feel shoulder pain
but you want to go nice and deep so this
is really good depth right that's a
proper fly but some people know do that
they're gonna do sort of a halfway down
fly where they stop right there and then
they come back up like is that deep sort
of it's not that great though we can go
deeper so go ahead and Chris and start
going all the way down super deep big
stretch on the pecs and then all the way
back up and then another one super deep
stretch for the pecs and all the way
back up as long as your chest is
stretching good you can stop as long as
your chest is stretching and you feel
tension in your muscles you're good to
go
all right so you don't have to worry
about going too deep if you're going too
deep and you're losing tension on your
pecs and you've got shoulder problems at
that point that's too deep but as long
as your chest is feeling in a ton you're
well on your way if you've been doing
chest fly's when we to a partial range
of motion and you want to go deeper you
don't have to do it all in one training
session you can start going a little
deeper every single training session and
then average single training session you
could expand it and as long as your pecs
are feeling it more and more and your
joints are feeling the pressure keep
going so if you are used to flying just
to here and you want to end up with a
super deep fly that's more effective you
don't have to do it all in one day
work your way in slowly a mistake that
is often made and it's actually a little
bit dangerous is dropping the fly's down
way too quick folks the point of the fly
is not to go as fast as possible to get
the reps done it's to stimulate the
muscles safely so some folks will do
this where they'll drop the weight down
fast and then they'll come back off and
they'll drop the weight down and then
they'll come back up not the greatest
thing and it's not even that great for
your pecs what you want to do the fix
here is just go slower control and then
come back up quickly and then control on
the way down and then come back up
quickly you don't have to do super slow
reps which you have to be in charge the
entire time no dynamic dropping very
related to the last mistake is a mistake
of dynamically coming out of the bottom
of the fly so you can take a fly down
and come out like this there is a little
bit more injury risk there probably not
a ton but what you want to do especially
is make sure that your muscles are
taking the effort not your joints you
don't want to use as much passive
structure you want to use active
structures you want to tax the muscles
which means you don't have to stop at
the bottom of each fly for a second or
two you can and that's totally cool but
at the very least what you should be
doing is slowing the movement down at
the bottom and then you can speed back
up slowing the movement down maybe
stopping and then speeding back up
versus doing one of those bounces at the
bottom that gets you nowhere
real fast so another common mistake in
the fly is keeping the upper body rigid
and flat when we fly which ends up
leading to less PEC stretch and a lot of
shoulder discomfort what we want to do
instead not over exaggerated but retract
our shoulder blades in the fly and arch
a little bit what that allows us to do
is really open up the chest target the
chest itself and come all the way up can
you get a good peak contraction like
that no you can't but who cares
the peak contraction that's not what the
dumbbell flyes floor that's cable fly's
machines lines and so on and so forth so
instead of staying rigid and trying to
fly like this arch up shoulders back fly
to open up your chest big time at the
bottom
last mistake we see on the fly is going
either too heavy or too light you know
you're going too heavy when you lose the
mind muscle connection entirely and if
you feel mostly your joints maybe even
your elbows and your biceps and no
longer for you your pecs you're not
getting good pumps you're not even
feeling the muscle you just sort of
surviving it and sometimes that comes
with a real big temptation to pull your
elbows in and all of a sudden you're
doing god-knows-what some people can do
flies on the 5 to 10 rep range most
people will benefit from doing flies in
the 10 to 20 range maybe sets of 12 sets
of 15 you can do sets of 10 and 8 I
wouldn't do sets of 5 usually just heavy
to get the actual good muscle
stimulation in such an isolation
exercise on the other hand the pecs tend
to be a faster twitch muscle some folks
want to do dumbbell flies in the 20 to
30 rep range and people can benefit but
it might be that that just makes you
really tired and makes your pecs tired
there's no stimulate them a ton it might
actually just start taxing your shoulder
or your bicep and at that point it's not
a good pack workout so 10 to 20 reps our
best recommendation for flies you can
use other rep ranges just make sure
you're still targeting the muscle and
not much of anything else folks thank
you so much for tuning in to this fly
Corrections video at the end of the day
you want to do flies and all exercises
in a way that stimulates the target
muscles the most and does the least
amount of needless fatigue and
involvement of other muscles that are
not necessary use strict technique the
personal technique you pick is going to
be the one that hits your pecs the most
hits everything else the least amount
that's needless for if you have
questions shoot them into the comments
focus if you know more than someone else
please feel free to help them out by
answering the questions below and if you
have any suggestions for other exercises
we can do breakdowns for let us know in
the comments and we'll probably get
around to it folks like subscribe thanks
for watching and I'll see you next time
you