hey guys dr. Mike is Rachelle here or
Renaissance position rp+ & RP University
lecture number 4 I believe for our third
most important training principle
fatigue management and the subtitle here
is making room for future training which
is what fatigue management is really all
about on the agenda for today we do a
simple definition first then talk about
fatigue and its sources because before
we talk about how to manage fatigue we
gotta make sure we clear what fatigue
actually is how it arises why it's not
great and why it needs to be managed and
brought down periodically we'll give a
technical definition some examples and
then of course as usual some programming
implications for you to take with you to
make sure that you're designing your own
programs in accordance with this
principle and of course all the others
so here's the simple definition and I'll
just read it out the same overloading
training it's very important the same
overloading training that makes you
better also beats you up and makes you
tired in the process every time there's
no way around this so you've got to be
just as concerned with recovery as well
as with adaptation and make efforts to
recover regularly if progressive
overload is your goal that last part
progressive is super important because
here's the deal if we had to train once
and then that's it to get as good as we
needed how hard were we trained we were
trained basically to near death because
recovery is rotten they're not really
concerned because you don't have to come
back and train again but remember that
if you want to do a good job with
training you have to apply progressive
overload things get harder and harder
and harder and if you let your fatigue
rise so much that you're not recovered
enough to present harder and harder
overloads then you can't progressively
overload you're just kind of showing off
and getting way too tired and then
you're not going to get better over time
fatigue management derives is implied by
the overload principle so the overload
principle gives us a sort of rule things
have to get harder over time it also
gives us another effect that overloading
training is going to be messing things
up and the things that are getting
messed up because they're messed up they
won't let you present an or another
overload right how does a racecar driver
get faster by going and challenging
himself with more extreme turns and
faster straightaways to make sure that
he has the fastest lap in the fastest
lap and then another fastest lap but how
does it need his car to work when it's
approaching the extremes of speed can he
have tires that are worn off can I have
a loose steering wheel can I have some
oil you know and admixture problems or
something like that no his car needs to
be in tip-top shape to reach those
levels of overload to go better and
faster and further than it's ever gone
before
with a driver in it of course but the
very act of going super fast and hitting
really tight turns and ramming down the
straightaway breaks down your tires and
wears them down a little bit
messes with the oil levels in the car it
does a lot to disrupt the car so while
it also makes the driver better and
allows them to drive the car faster it
also leads to some fatigue some
breakdowns some disruption and if the
driver wants to come back in a day or
the next day or even next week to take
that car faster still which is required
to keep getting better we have to make
sure there's some way to heal that
damage to repair that racecar so that it
can be back to at least good enough to
take him faster that's more or less what
fatigue management does fixing that
racecar up and maybe taking some steps
not to mess it up too much to begin with
you know if you crash the car every time
there's not any fixing that can really
fix the heads so making maybe making
some steps to not mess the car up drive
it responsibly but you're gonna get some
some things messed up anyway just
pushing the limits
and every now and again taking the car
back to the shop
rebuilding replacing fixing recovering
to make sure it comes back better than
ever and ready to push the boundaries
again so that disruption and that damage
is a physiological process that occurs
in the body and here's the deal overload
in training training that is not
overloading doesn't really disrupt the
system it just does if you take a
racecar and you drive it at 20 miles an
hour around the track one time and you
park it do you have to fix the stuff
about the car
no absolutely not nothing changed about
the car but that wasn't pushing the cars
limits at all just the same way with the
human body if the training is not
overloading fatigue doesn't accumulate
but if and when training is overloading
first of all that's what gets you your
gains and it also gets you reliably
every single time different categories
depending on how much fatigue there is
and how long you train hard for
different categories of disruption one
category and a short this is a kind of a
reading from the short to the long end
of the scale basically phenomena that
occur over several days and then can be
healed over several days ones that occur
over weeks and even ones that occur over
months so training hard can deplete
certain substrates within minutes and
seconds creatine is depleted within
minutes and hours glycogen store carbon
hydrogen and muscle is depleted there
are disruptions to the nervous system
that occur and takes days and weeks to
manifest and days and weeks to heal back
up there are disruptions to internal
cellular signals for example the mTOR
anabolic pathway starts to work less and
less actively as fatigue is accumulated
for weeks and weeks and amt kinase which
is a catabolic pathway starts to work
more more during that time not a good
state of events if we're trying to build
things and prepare them really well on a
longer time scale with really really
hard unabated training overloading
training and abala core moans like
testosterone start to fall off a little
bit and catabolic hormones like cortisol
start to predominate in blood
concentrations
real good balance there if it goes too
far as you can probably tell and lastly
micro tears and micro fractures in
muscle tendon ligament and bone
regularly occur and become evident and
kind of demand our attention with a time
course of weeks to months but they also
take a long time to heal muscle can heal
relatively quickly tendon ligament and
especially bone can take a very long
time to heal so we'll have to have some
strategies to heal all those up if we
want to continue to train super hard
right now here's the deal
every single time scale of training
whether it's every set every session
every micro mezzo or macro cycle every
single time we have overloading training
we see some recovery of these systems
just between the different phases if we
don't do any fatigue management the body
has a certain amount of recovery ability
that occurs without us having to make
any adjustments for it your body just
naturally recovers right if you break a
bone and it doesn't offset poop orally
and it's still sticking together you
don't have to go to hospital you have to
you should to go get at least some pain
drugs and make sure it's set the right
way but if you're Leslie if you're super
confidence that the right way you know
we think we've all kind of maybe broken
a finger a fractured a finger or two
never went to the hospital the body
heals at least say you know it heals all
the structures on its own time but if
you keep overloading over and over and
over that recovery usually isn't
complete so if you're overloading every
single week for example in week 1 you
might replete 90% of your glycogen
stores in your muscle you know we've -
it's 90 percent of that that's 81
percent total next week it's 72 percent
total then 63 percent total you guys see
how that works is 0.9 times 0.9 times
0.9 him boy after five weeks of that
kind of stuff we're down to like half of
our glycogen stores that's gonna start
to seriously affect performance so the
one thing we can tell is it's okay to
have quite a bit of fatigue around it's
okay to have Mike refractors on your
bones and muscles you have them all the
time it's only when they get to pretty
high levels that it starts to cost us
and it costs us in particular ways so
when fatigue gets excessive
certain things happen into what is
considered excessive is depending on the
system in which we're talking about so
for example as your fatigue rises even
to just marginally above normal levels
you can risk an interference with
technique learning if you're learning
new techniques and a highly technical
sport like golf or tennis very high
fatigue levels or even moderately high
fatigue levels start to seriously
interfere with new technique learning
that's not good thing which is one of
the reasons why if you have golfers run
marathons and lift weights all the time
they will get much better at golf
because new technique acquisition is
incredibly difficult seriously impaired
it's probably one of the first things to
be impaired as fatigue Rises as fatigue
keeps rising we see not only an
impairment of learning new technique but
an impairment and ability to show off
and practice and reinforce all technique
you can tell if you play tennis or golf
or even if you wrestle or do some kind
of combat sport and even if you lift
weights especially in weightlifting
where the bar velocities are high and
the technique is important nothing feels
as crisp you kind of feel like you have
butterfingers you feel sloppy right
you're not able to really tell your hand
where to go with your mind and
vice-versa so it ends up being that you
feel not as technical as you know you
damn well are you damn well were last
week before you were asked fatigue as
fatigue keeps rising
we have decrements in both the ability
to demonstrate and the ability to
improve in the following order speed
power strength size and endurance
so yes marathon runners and endurance
athletes can still make improvements
unaffected in marathon with incredibly
high fatigue levels if they tried to
pick up a technique sport during that
time they wouldn't be learning it very
fast rates because they're fatigued
chronically is so high that it's going
to interfere a whole lot with their
ability to pick up finally to new
techniques but they can handle the most
fatigue it's not an infinite number
fatigue fatigue instill overwhelm even
marathon runners in size training you
can handle quite a bit of fatigue it
doesn't interfere with size training but
at some point it's too much strength
training thrives
a relatively moderate to low fatigue
environment power training needs pretty
low fatigue to really exhibit its full
abilities and improve and speed training
is very very fatigue sensitive so
knowing that knowing that no matter what
we're training for fatigue is summing up
over time with overloads at some point
we've got to do something about that
because remember it's okay to have
plenty of fatigue but too much is too
much and it starts to cost us all these
negatives so this is where we get into
our technical definition of fatigue I'll
read it out fatigue management is the
concurrent means while you go and
periodic which means every now and again
not while you go but distinct times
concurrent and periodic amelioration or
reduction of cumulative fatigue factors
to promote a recurrent ability to
overload progressive overload via
performance recovery you got to be
recovered enough to be able to overload
again if you're done bones aren't
sticking together anymore you're not
recover enough to overload again you're
gonna snap in half next time you try to
lift and to keep adaptation mechanisms
predominant and responsive so notice
fatigue not only interferes with your
ability to overload it actually
interferes at the very molecular level
with your ability to benefit from
overloads and actually adapt remember
the reason we overload and training is
because Orolo Spurs adaptation but
adaptation at a very chemical level down
to the very functions of the cell can be
interfered with
if fatigue levels are too high that a
really really really bad deal
talk about spinning your wheels you
might even still be presenting it over a
little bit because your fatigue is too
high you're not getting what you used to
out of training you might not be getting
anything at all
can you imagine a mesocycle of training
where you train hard the entire time and
then get anything bad bad news god to do
something about fatigue and then the
last part of the definition and reduce
long-term rates of injury and illness
because if the fatigue doesn't beat you
up eventually it's gonna get you hurt or
it's gonna get you sick very
well-studied very predictable stuff now
this fatigue management this
amelioration or reduction of fatigue
occurs and remember amelioration of
fatigue means we don't let it rise super
high knee
Lesly and reduction means if it is
getting too high then we reduce it on
purpose
both of these occur between sessions
right because you rest but you even
occur between sets you arrest between
sets fatigue is too high for you to
overload again right if you just did
basically ten reps of 10 rep max how
many were reps can you do zero your
ability to overload is zero you have to
rest a minute or two or three for you to
do another overloading set right between
sessions you rest maybe you've got a
session at 8:00 in the morning in
another session at 5:00 p.m. you rest
between sessions to to reduce some
fatigue you rest between days by just
going around doing other lighter
activities and sleeping you rest between
micro cycles in all of those ways
mentioned but also via recovery sessions
or days off completely from training
rest or or basically a fatigue
management at the level of the mesocycle
is accomplished through d loads which is
a single micro cycle of very low volume
and intensity training to bring down
fatigue it's accomplished between macro
cycles with what are called active rest
phases with its entire oh one to four
week period of much easier training to
really bring down some of those longer
factors like muscle tendon bone damage
like alterations to hormones etc etc and
this entire process is helped along so
these are sort of ways to ultra training
because these are the training
principles this is ways to alter
training to make sure that fatigue is
brought down and never allowed to rise a
super duper high but all of this is
buttressed by the attention to what we
call the recovery modalities which we'll
talk about in a later lecture basically
sleep relaxation nutrition
supplementation and passive modalities
such as compassion and touching aka
massage if you do all of those things
well then you in general don't
accumulate fatigue as fast and the
fatigue you have accumulated falls
faster if you apply these modalities but
these modalities have to be applied in
addition to altering the training
process there's no amount of sleep or
massage that you're going to be able to
do to not accumulate fatigue from
consistent overloading if all you do is
overload every now and again we've got
to move to some of these ways to bring
for
down so that's what fatigue management
is all about the definition of it is
every now and again we got to bring
fatigue down to make sure it doesn't get
so high that it interferes with our
ability to overload that interferes of
the adaptations occurring and very
importantly doesn't get us hurt or sick
so what's an example of application now
these are just super simple because all
this is super technical talk a fatigue
management says super fancy thing
fundamentally it just really means being
smart to begin with and backing off when
needed so proper application example
after our super tough season the soccer
coach gives his team two weeks of no
formal heart training as the command so
they can heal up for the next preseason
if some of the soccer players are super
dedicated and they're feeling super
motivated they finished the season they
play super hard soccer right into the
next one and of course the next season
is super hard some of those players by
the middle of that season will have
unsustainably high fatigue levels now
you're in the middle of a season what
can you do about bringing down fatigue
can you not play in games no games are
super fatiguing because they're
psychologically as well as physiological
taxing so then you're screwed you just
keep rising and fatigue until you get
hurt or get sick or start to suck so
look that period of several weeks
between seasons is exactly the time to
back off and remember we're not backing
off because we're not tough enough
because we don't want it enough we're
backing off precisely because we're
tough enough psychologically to
understand that sometimes taking a step
backward means we take three or four
steps forward later whereas if we take
one step forward now we take two or
three steps backwards later so this is a
real good example of fatigue management
and kind of tells us the other side of
the story psychologically that it's not
always something you want to do a lot of
people don't want to take time away from
the sport for several weeks that just be
easy and just do physical activity and
heal up their bodies but you've got to
heal if you want to continue to present
overload in the long term training isn't
a matter of weeks it's a matter of years
over-application example so somebody
could hear all the stuff about fatigue
management and maybe miss the lecture on
overload and think oh geez fatigues were
really mad at me my god they interfere
so that a patient's risk of injury
illness my god um let's not do anything
crazy so Jodie here's this lecture and
she doesn't want to
at fatigue at all so she stays away from
anything less than five repetitions in
reserve so basically she cuts all our
sets off at six reps away from failure
or more she stays away from heavy
weights she stays away from high volumes
and she never has any fatigue nor does
she get any better because she violated
the over little principle took away
everything that is good and now there is
no more fatigue nice and then there's no
more overload if you think of zero
fatigue is the optimal training state
that isn't correct who has zero fatigue
well people that sit on couches after
work and watch TV and don't ever train
how much fatigue do they have none
really no they haven't have any support
related fatigue to speak of but are they
getting better of course not proper
fatigue management is hard training and
not allowing fatigue to rise any more
than it has to but it has to rise
because overload brings it up and if the
intelligent reduction of fatigue when
needed not just never letting it happen
to begin with right it's like saying
well you know I really wanted to have a
birthday party but I don't want to
invite a bunch of friends to clean up a
bunch of plates and cake and candles
with cake on them stuck to walls so I'm
just not gonna have a birthday party and
that's gonna be really fun I would hold
on a second we've eliminated the fun as
well as the hassle a lot of things in
life that are fun you can have fun in
such a way that doesn't make excessive
hassle like you can talk to your guests
and say hey let's not throw pieces of
cake at the wall maybe let's keep cake
on our plates and we can have a great
time and you can make sure to diligently
and intelligently clean up the mess
afterwards just take an hour out of your
day clean up everything before you go to
sleep that night or maybe early the next
morning and then there's no more mess as
opposed to letting it linger around and
just get worse those are fine solutions
but the solution isn't to cancel the
birthday party and not have any fun to
begin with just like that in training
the solution is not to interfere with
the application of overload the solution
is to make sure we're not going
excessively over what we need to do in
training right and to make sure that we
treat that fatigue in the best way
possible without interfering with the
actual process of or below
however of course there is the
possibility of under application of
fatigue management happens all the time
here's the example Vincent doesn't take
D loads coz only pansies do that he
thinks and he's always on the grind
Instagram hash tagging everything all of
his training is to a max until his quad
tears and he's out for six months
straight you know being in a hospital
bed has instagraming advantages you get
sympathy points all kinds of likes
you're a warrior because you can't be
stopped even though in your hospital bed
but when you're not checking your phone
and the Instagram likes aren't coming in
you're still stuck in a hospital but not
making gains because you were too stupid
to back off when you were supposed to so
can you under apply fatigue management
and do way too much overload apps so
Lully can you go on the other respect
absolutely as well fatigue management
just like all these principles is a
balance doing the right amount of
management to make sure we still get
overload and recover properly as opposed
to either one of those two things being
outside of its normal boundaries
finishing up with some program design
implications for you guys to make sure
that we're taking some really good stuff
away from this so implication number one
there's no way to get around overload
read about it
so making training easier all the time
won't work to get around fatigue and
still progress oh you can get around
fatigue just fine if that's your only
goal just on train but progression
without overload there's no way to do
that so whatever scheme you got for a
fatigue management has to integrate
overload within it remember overloads
more important than fatigue management
it ranks ahead it's the second most
important principle after specificity
fatigue management's third for a reason
if we weren't fatigue management before
overload we would say it's more
important to be easy than it is to train
hard that would be nonsense that's just
not true
people get jacked and strong and fast
and great sports because fundamentally
they train hard and secondarily they
make sure not to go overboard make sense
point number two you want to have
distinct periods whether they be
sessions days micro-cycles and
mesocycles or combination of overloading
training where the purpose is to disrupt
systems
the side effect is to accumulate fatigue
and distinct periods of recovery after
those so that you can bring cumulative
fatigue down a really good analogy and
it's not even an analogy it's actually
an example outside of training of the
same exact physical systems is the
workweek in the weekend what's the best
way to be both successful and sane work
really hard during the week rest really
hard on the weekends if you don't work
really hard on the week
no overload so to speak what the hell
are you resting for you suck you're
probably gonna get fired and make no
money and not be nearly as successful as
you could be on the other hand if you
think success means work and you work
seven days a week all the time you're
gonna end up in a mental institution
with a nervous breakdown and before that
the quality of your work will start to
suck because remember your brain just
like everything else and your overall
body stress needs breaks to relax
reinvigorate and do even better work
later so that's why kind of we have
weekends and evenings off and good
nights of sleep it's you know if you
were the dictator of planet Earth and
you wanted maximum production and the
first thing you said was no more offs
off evenings everyone works through the
night no more weekends and you had
economic advisors whose only purpose was
to raise the production and advise you
properly if they pull you aside and you
like probably a good idea to give time
off probably good idea to get people
full night's of sleep probably a really
good idea to give them weekends and even
vacations and you would say well damn it
how the hell is that possible we're not
here to pamper people who're heard of
create you know this interplanetary
galactic system of oppression to be most
productive and making our military as
big as possible to do that well yes sure
a laudable goal or less but in order to
get the most out of people just like to
get the most out of your body cells and
muscles and systems those periods of
recovery are critical in allowing them
to work at their best
so having distinct sessions for overload
for your training is it really good
you've gotta pound it in but you also
have two distinct have distinct times
for backing
way right if you just back away only
when you feel like total shit and
everything's going wrong you're probably
missing some stuff you probably could
have backed away sooner and benefited
right you don't take a week off because
your psychiatrist says look either I
prescribe you this anti-psychotic
medication because you're losing your
mind or you go on vacation you probably
take a week off before that happens
probably for the best most sustainable
way
now there's two fundamental methods of
fatigue reduction or fatigue management
that we are through training we're not
going to examine them closely here
because we'll have a whole other lecture
series about this but they're basically
auto regulated strategies and
pre-planned strategies auto regulated
means that you monitor your fatigue and
performance levels and when they start
to fall off in certain predictable ways
you can say huh okay we have detected
excessive levels of fatigue first
appearing and now it's time to bring
them down
and if you don't detect them and if
trainings going well you keep training
hard you keep applying overload until
that detection has occurred that's
autoregulation pre-planned methods are
ones in which you know that after a
certain time in a row load three
mesocycles you're going to take an
active rest phase or some other kind of
phase you're going to produce fatigue
whether you feel anything or not now it
says here auto regulated methods are
best for glycogen depletion and nervous
system fatigue and should be used for
those how come because you can feel
glycogen depletion and you can feel
nervous system fatigue they affect your
performance quickly and very directly if
you've got 25% of loaded glycogen you
got getting through fight by 10 you get
through the first set of 10 and next set
you're gonna get like 3 and the next set
you're gonna get 1 and sit down and
wonder what the hell you did wrong with
your life clear sign you need to eat
more carbohydrates take more easy days
and replenish glycogen and nervous
system fatigue within a period of
several weeks is gonna make you much
weaker than you're used to being and
your strength won't be increasing
anymore very easy to detect simply by
training and monitoring your numbers
great candidates for auto regulation on
the other hand auto regulation isn't
infinitely powerful when you have a
shift in autocrine activity so basically
when you're mTOR starts to drop off and
you're an p kinase your catabolic
processes start to outpace your anabolic
processes can you feel
that there might be some secondary
repercussions of that you might not get
big pumps from training anymore your
progress might start to slide but why
that takes weeks and weeks and weeks to
figure out and be sure of that it's not
something else like nervous system and
glycogen stuff so a lot of that's really
hard to tell what about tissue damage
how do you know that your ligaments or
one of your tendons is one millimeter
away from ripping off the bone
you know what the messed up part is
because tendons are so poorly innervated
because they have so few nerves in them
to sense pain oftentimes tendons can be
hanging by the thread and you have no
idea one extra rep one extra max effort
hmm it goes and your whole chest comes
with it and that's six months of
recovery you had no idea so if you just
did Auto regulating remember another
factor here you could heal nervous
system disruptions and you can recover
glycogen within a period of several days
to a week but on nerve but tissue damage
especially in even some autocrine and
endocrine shifts they can take weeks of
active rest or other such low volume
phases to really reduce so then you know
if we're using only autoregulation we
miss the stuff that we can't see
so yes Auto regulated methods are
excellent for for the short-term stuff
glycogen depletion nervous system
alterations but pre-plan methods should
still be used even if you feel like a
million bucks
you should still take your planned
active rest phase because you can still
feel like a million bucks and Terrier
pack you had no idea what's coming
you should have based on how much load
volume you did go home I should have
theoretically damaged me like crazy
theoretically is all you can go on
because you can't literally detect that
damage it's imperceptible to you lastly
you'll finish off at this point if this
whole lecture is kind of lost on you if
you don't see a need for dedicated
fatigue reduction measures say well I
just ought to regulate everything or I
don't even have to do that I just train
and fatigue is not a problem for me you
are not training hard enough if you are
a novice maybe six months or less of
training if you're a beginner you have
three years or less of training you may
be able to not pay much attention to
Teague management and be okay and get
pretty good gains as you become an
intermediate-advanced highly-advanced
etc and especially if your masters
athlete you are going to have to do more
and more and more perceptive of fatigue
because if you're don't know what
fatigue is all about you're not training
hard enough and if you're training super
hard you will very quickly realize that
there is something you got to be doing
about fatigue which is gonna stop you
dead in your tracks folks thank you so
much for tuning in we'll see you next
time for more learning and possibly more
fun we'll find out
[Music]