hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization and today's bs mythical
entity that we are going to slaughter
think of like a unicorn mythical and we
just come up to it with a giant axe and
it's like
and we're like
and it's like like one pathetic groan is
last grown you could say thankfully all
the unicorns are gone now we can move on
to this bs matter specific food choices
matter for results
well
let's start out with some basic signs
for pretty much any nutritional goal
some variables about how you eat clearly
matter but they look something like this
they're very general how many calories
taking in what macros are taken in
proteins versus carbs versus fats
micronutrients vitamins minerals
phytochemicals fiber things like that
they matter a little bit digestion
speeds can matter slow digesting versus
fast digesting and nutrient quality like
how high quality your proteins what you
know how much nutrient source or how
slow digesting are your carbs and you
know are your fats on the more the
healthy side of the spectrum is less
healthy more like olive oil and more
like trans fat
these things matter and actually
give you
certain different kinds of results about
the very food that you eat right
but in almost every case
these general categories map onto what
is effective
but the specific foods that meet them
have basically the same effects which is
to say
if somebody posts a meal of theirs
on instagram and it's like lean beef
with rice and broccoli
and you ask the question of like what do
you think about turkey in this meal you
are asking a question that is
essentially baseless
beef turkey and chicken have
very easily arranged almost identical
macros if you get the macros right
they're basically the same thing they
have the same effect on the body
broccoli spinach green peppers same
pasta brown rice whole grain bread same
so if you ask someone hey can i replace
pasta with whole grain bread in this
meal the answer is almost certainly yes
unless the person is an insane person
and tells you no it's very specific you
have to have pasta which is crazy in
almost every case avocado almonds peanut
butter essentially the same effect
how essentially the same are we talking
about well here's the thing
if we did a study and randomized foods
to people it's okay you guys will only
eat peanut butter for all of your meals
as healthy fat source you guys will only
have olive oil you guys will only have
almonds
and we try to detect the differences in
body composition who got leaner who got
more muscular who lost more fat who lost
more weight who felt more satiated etc
etc etc
if all of the foods are randomized from
the same category like whole wheat pasta
versus brown rice versus whole grain
bread not like throwing in white bread
or something which very different
glycemic index very different digestion
speed if the foods are from the same
general categories like healthy carbs
for example
we would need sample sizes
number of participants in the studies in
the hundreds if not thousands to detect
any differences at all between groups
and if we zoomed in
on those differences
most of the differences would just be
random statistical error which is to say
the groups are actually undifferentiable
it's just randomly that they're seem to
be off some of the subjects more
adherent some of the subjects of
different genetics and responded better
the peanut butter group lost more weight
that's just because they had like 10
people in the group of 50 that were just
studs and did an incredible job we only
have like five studs in the other group
so that's how it went
and if there are any meaningful
differences that would be trivially
small trivially small for example
we may find that folks who dieted using
almonds versus peanut butter
lost 0.2 pounds of fat
more
than you know so almond group lost 0.2
pounds of fat more than the peanut
butter group over the course of 12 weeks
0.2 pounds of fat now we have a sample
size that allows us a statistical power
to detect that difference and actually
say now this is a real difference it
really is probably the almonds being
better than peanut butter you're going
to change the way you eat over 0.2
pounds 0.2 pounds that's a fifth of a
pound over the course of 12 weeks why in
god's name would you do that you know if
someone said well i know almonds are
better but i really like peanut butter
what
kind of world would you be living in if
you told them no no look the research
says almonds are better and they ask you
how much better you're like
yes much and they're like so i like
peanut butter this much more almonds
have this much more of an effect where's
the trade-off there is no trade-off only
insanity leads you believe that very
ultra-specific foods matter because they
fucking just don't trying to be as
honest as possible here can you guys
tell i've been badgered with these
questions for too long on social media
so
at the end of the day it's better to
think in similar groups of food choosing
any foods you like within them rather
than individual foods so whole grains
versus green veggies versus fruit versus
lean meats
etc are as much better way to catalog
and organize your food intake than pasta
versus celery versus apples versus steak
etc okay individual foods essentially
just don't matter so next time you see
someone on social media and they're like
i'm eating ground beef and rice if
you're like ooh can i eat turkey and
pasta the answer is yes answer that
question for yourself there's no need to
ask because the answer if it's anything
other than yeah it's cool is wrong flat
out right
choose any of the many foods in the
general category so if you have to
choose a veggie or green veggie that the
list is as long as it is in the rp diet
coach app it's almost infinite you keep
scrolling and you know get your scanner
out and scan any food at the grocery
store if it's a vegetable it works and
you get super super lean you get all the
results in the world jared feather our
head uh physique coach here at
renaissance prioritization he's an ifb
pro his coach numerous ipros doing a
bunch of stuff and if people ask him for
specific foods he begins to give them a
very insulting condescending lecture
that they're asking a question that
cannot be answered now there's one
little tiny caveat sometimes some food
just sit better with you or you enjoy
them more like you need pasta you feel
great when you have rice you feel a
little off and you know your stool is a
little weird a couple hours later hey
listen that's all you and that's totally
fine but that doesn't mean that that
expands to everyone i've had tons of
people you know tell me like oh man i
can't believe you drink this much milk
and never sits well with me it's just
fucking fine with me what am i supposed
to do tell people that milk is wrong or
could be wrong for 50 of the people that
i tell it to
individual differences are cool
individual preferences are cool but
please understand that it don't expand
to everyone else so
if you think that one specific food
of a big food group like you have to
have chicken fish is no good beef is no
good turkey's no good this requires
chicken for this goal to get you really
ultra lean uh then that's just bullshit
thanks for tuning in see you next time
you