this is an extremely effective pull day
you can try as part of your push pull
legs routine first we'll start with a t-
borrow to train your upper back this
exercise allows you to get more tension
in the lengthen position than a
traditional bra R next to get a good
training effect in for lats and Terrace
major will get a pull up or pull down
variation in if you'd like to emphasize
the stretch a little bit more consider
doing partials in the stretch position
after failure or just doing length and
partials because the pull down gets more
challenging as you shorten the back
musculature this is where length and
partials might be more beneficial next
we'll do another row exercise for higher
reps this time I recommend some sort of
chest supported machine row then we've
got to train a biceps try the bench
cable Cur with the dumbbell preacher Cur
both of which emphasize the length and
position the dumbbell preacher curl is
slightly more time efficient next toet
the rear dels try the rear Del cable
crossover this will give you a rear Del
stretch like you've never felt in any
other exercise finally finish off the
session with any additional bicep walk
upper trap walk or forarm walk that You'
like to include that's why