FR of that Mir You Twerk It onow FR of
that Mir you twerk it on Twerk It FR of
that Mir you twerking it on the dance
flow that you twerk it Twerk it on the
flow Twerk it on the danow twerking it
on the danow twerk it
on all right hey what's up guys so I
wanted to do a quick video just
explaining to you guys where I've been
uh for the last month or so and what
I've been up to probably the coolest
thing that's happened since I've been
away from YouTube is that Phil Heath
gave me a spot on the bench
[Applause]
press
[Music]
one and then basically I just went home
for a month I took a break from YouTube
uh I've been focusing on a presentation
that is coming up uh Jason and I are
presenting at the online fitness summit
on February 5th at 6: p.m. on block
periodization uh so I'll put a link with
some more information about that in the
description box below I also was invited
to do a podcast with skip laor uh so
I'll put a link to that below if you
guys would like to go ahead and check
that out I've also decided to postpone
my participation in the Arnold Classic
for this year my back is still giving me
a little bit of trouble when I squat so
I'm going to leave that until next year
and see what happens as of now I'm going
to focus almost all of my attention into
bodybuilding uh making sure that I can
come in at my absolute best in 2016 when
I make my Pro
debut and I might still do uh a couple
bench only meets I'm considering doing
bench only at the Canadian Nationals in
April but like I said my primary focus
for now is going to be bodybuilding all
right so that's it for now guys uh thank
you again for your continued support and
we're going to get some new videos up in
the very near future and do so on a more
consistent basis all right thanks for
[Music]
[Applause]
watching Hollywood
hey Hollywood hey Hollywood