[Music]
so we're headed down to the pool just to
I don't know Chill by the pool for a
little bit it's good
angle Your
Head Upon My
[Music]
[Applause]
Breath
we're here at the buffet it's a
restaurant inner Hotel just like
unlimited food so I'll show you guys
what I get to eat and then after this
we're going to go train so this is my
first plate I've got a piece of like
mozzarella pizza chicken breast some
country style mashed potatoes here some
P chips with Kiki and hummus uh some
Mexican fried rice some jasmine rice
with chicken curry and I'm not sure what
this is but it looks really good um so
yeah this is the first plate and uh
probably see how I'm doing after
that uh so we're about to go hit a back
workout um so we're just going to go to
the hotel gym here at the ARA which is
actually very nice picked up a couple of
these ghost lifestyle pre-workout
packets at the Expo today just finished
up at the buffet I think I had four
total plates of food I also got the like
unlimited drink package I think I had
like four four or five drinks hopefully
we can still fit in a good back workout
and after that I think we're going to go
go to the ghost after party um and which
is crazy because uh Jamie Fox is playing
there tonight and we actually like
completely like almost half drunkenly
ran into him and his crew as we were
coming out of the buffet him and his
like enormous posi were like coming in
the perpendicular direction to us and so
like pretty much I basically rammed into
Jamie Fox so that was an interesting
experience I'm go hit this back work out
and I'll take you guys in the gym and
show you we do probably not going to be
anything too crazy so don't get your
hopes up we see this is the blue
raspberry ghost pre-workout then look at
the
ingredients should do that but this did
you look at it bro uh okay sit m b
alanine okay caffeine okay Che out oh
man oh man that's strong man I didn't
really like the blue
R man just like very it's a lot of
flavor yeah do you ever have well remind
me of that flavor oh bro when I was like
a bro that's not that good man I man I
gave it a six like six is like if it
works then six is fine but just taste
alone this I'm not getting sponsored by
ghost anytime
soon okay well welcome everyone to the
voice over section of the video in this
this commentary I'm going to be stepping
away from the workout itself and instead
just talking about how it is we can
drink alcohol without compromising
progress and for the record this back
workout was just completely off the cuff
um completely freestyled uh I was I
think mildly intoxicated like I said I
had a few drinks uh before training but
it was basically just a pull down uh
followed by two row variations and then
two shrug variations as upper traps are
something that I'm trying to bring up at
the moment um and I feel like I should
also say that the preceding clip was
obviously a joke um I have nothing
negative to say about ghost or anything
to do with ghost other than the fact
that I'm apparently not a fan of their
blue raspberry flavored pre-workout so
yeah with that out of the way I'd like
to delve into the specifics of alcohol
and I'd like to just bracket the
following discussion with a quick
reminder of basic thermodynamics so it's
true that most experts in the field
agree that while it's complicated and
functions more so as a useful heris
rather than a hard and fast rule as far
as weight loss or gain is concerned a
calorie really is a calorie and what
ultimately determines whether you gain
or lose weight and by extension fat will
be whether or not you're in an energy
deficit or a surplus and consuming
calories in the form of alcohol doesn't
pose an exception to this so as I see it
if you're fitting alcohol into a caloric
allotment which puts you in an energy
deficit then you just don't need to
worry about fat gain at all it's not
going to happen to any appreciable
degree regardless of where those
calories are coming from so how I I
recommend ensuring that this deficit is
in fact in place as by using one of two
methods the first is a simple tracking
method so here you just track your
calories for the day as normal and
borrow calories from fats or carbs but
ideally fats for reasons which I'll get
to and then simply make your total daily
calorie and protein numbers add up the
other way to do it I'm calling the
non-tracking method so if you're not
tracking macros then what I'd suggest
doing is simply eating Light low calorie
but high volume meals during the day uh
so foods that are high in protein high
in fiber but low in carbs and low in
fats and then just enjoy your alcohol in
the evening uh from ideally low calorie
sources so avoid sugary drinks and
Cocktails uh choose light beers or
whatever it is that you are drinking mix
it with diet soda water or just do shots
on their own so the idea is to limit
calories as much as possible while
drinking so that you don't have to worry
about tracking everything in my fitness
pal so I think the first thing that's
important to understand is what it is
that happens in your body when you
consume out alol so the main sight of
alcohol metabolism is in the liver it's
also metabolized in the brain and
alcohol's presence in the brain is why
you get drunk in the first place as for
the liver alcohol is essentially handled
metabolically as a poison in the sense
that your body has no capacity to store
it unlike the other macronutrients um so
it's given top priority in terms of
metabolism and what this means is that
the metabolism or oxidation of dietary
fat for energy slows down substantially
which makes fats more available for
storage so for for this reason and the
fact that carbs are not as easily
converted to fat and stored as fat as
dietary fat is um it might be smart to
reduce your fat intake rather than your
carb intake on days that you go drinking
and again if you're in a deficit I don't
think that this distinction really
matters uh you're not going to really be
storing much fat anyway um and of course
it's even worse to go out and binge on
something very high fat after drinking
since all of this fat is very likely to
be stored certainly much more readily
stored than if you hadn't drunk at all
uh and just for the sake of completeness
I'll say that alcohol itself isn't
readily stored as fat that's a common
misconception it's just that the other
excess calories especially calories from
fat just become so much more likely to
be stored when you're consuming alcohol
I'd like to quickly comment on the
effect of binge drinking on bodily
parameters relevant to people looking to
build muscle or lose fat so the first
being testosterone and first I'd like to
look at a 2000 paper published by kyal
which found no change in testosterone
levels across a 3-day period after
subjects were intoxicated following a
training session in 1990 another paper
showed a 23% reduction in testosterone
keep in mind this was after drinking 120
g of alcohol or the equivalent of about
8 and 1 half beers and honestly a 23%
change in testosterone probably isn't
going to do much of anything catabolic
or anabolic on the basis of testosterone
alone and then on the other hand you
have a 2013 paper by VIN grenal which
actually showed a small increase in
testosterone after training so I think
that in all as long as the data is mixed
like this I'm going to be concluding
that the acute link between a drinking
episode and testosterone specifically
isn't going to be enough to really do
much of anything to your gains very
quickly there have been a few studies
investigating the effect of alcohol on
post-workout recovery and the data here
is somewhat mixed as well uh of course
the magnitude of the effect will be
dependent upon how much alcohol it was
that you consumed but it seems to be the
case that a single episode of moderate
intoxication doesn't accentuate the
muscle damage caused from training with
that in mind later Studies have shown
that higher doses of alcohol like 1 gram
of alcohol per kilogram can impede all
sorts of markers associated with
recovery including increased cortisol
slowed reaction times and impaired
cognitive recovery now studies on muscle
protein synthesis are very interesting
and are definitely showing that muscle
protein synthesis is suppressed by
alcohol consumption especially in the
post-workout period And while most of
the research to date has been carried
out in Mouse models uh they are
consistently also showing the same
negative effect the one high quality
paper investigating this question in
humans that I was aware of was published
in 2014 by patal and they found that
alcohol inhibited muscle protein
synthesis by 37% in the post-workout
period however this inhibition was
reduced to only 24% when protein was
consumed in conjunction with alcohol
after the workout so I think that this
indicated that protein could partially
but not fully sort of rescue from the
negative impact of alcohol and honestly
if we can bring it down to a 23%
decrease in muscle protein synthesis
for8 hours by consuming some protein I
really don't think that that's
significant enough to outweigh the
potential training detriments uh that
can occur the following day which again
of course will depend on how much
alcohol it was you consumed so I think
that if you're going to be drinking it's
a good idea to know your limit past
which your training the next day will be
negatively affected and if you happen to
cross this line then your options are to
either have what will likely be a subp
power workout the next day and accept
that or simply plan for a rest day the
day after and in my experience I think
the better option of the two is the
ladder since you can spend that day
actually recovering from the drinking
and rehydrating rather than trying to
force in a training session that
probably won't go that well anyway that
you probably won't recover that well
from and which can then in turn
negatively impact further workouts down
the road and so guys there will be a
main practical takeaways summary at the
end of the video uh but for now I'm just
going to conclude the commentary section
of the video I hope that you guys found
it helpful or at least interesting and I
hope that you enjoy the rest of the
video so we're about to head out to the
ghost lifestyle uh party at juel yeah
that's going to conclude this Vlog if
you guys like the video don't forget to
like it subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already thank you very much for
watching and I'll see you guys in the
next video who in the do you think you
are and I
said I
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
said you see me out you said There Goes
Jamie
[ __ ] DJ
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
son voice of
Jesus