all right what is going on everyone so
what follows in this video is going to
be a conversation between myself and dr.
Mike Ezra tell many longtime followers
on this channel will be familiar with
Mike but in short he is not only a very
intelligent guy with a PhD in sports
physiology I think his main claim to
fame is being the most hilarious guy who
also happens to be really intelligent
and well well-versed when it comes to to
fitness so I think that you guys are
really going to find this to be a really
entertaining conversation and also this
whole interview will be available on my
podcast I do have a podcast with about
30 or so episodes backlogged on iTunes
and stitcher and I'm going to be trying
to do at least one interview every month
so the next one is going to be I think
on the vegan diet and I'm going to
interview one of the main writers at
examine calm on that issue as for this
conversation Mike and I mainly talk
about training volume so how much total
work you're doing in the gym and this
conversation really focuses on more of
the theoretical framework so I really
let Mike lay out his whole training
volume methodology and the theoretical
basis for his sort of concepts that he's
developed over the years and it was a
really interesting conversation he's
actually updated a lot of things over
the last couple years we did speak I
think a little over two years ago now as
a part of a roundtable but I felt like
we were able to really dig into the
details a little bit more in this
discussion and also we disagree a little
bit about a few things when it comes to
training to failure and levels of effort
I think so hopefully that'll make for a
bit of engaging listening if you guys
want to hop around and you're listening
here on YouTube I'll have all the
timestamps linked in the description box
below and then also in the comments if
you're listening on mobile but also if
you want to help me and support this
sort of work honestly the best thing you
can do is if you do want to jump around
open up a new tab and kind of just let
the podcast or the interview run through
there's nothing that hurts me more than
people who might watch two minutes of
and I want to
long interview that just kills and
really buries the video in the YouTube
algorithm so if you could just maybe
open another tab watch it the whole way
through that would help me a lot if it's
no cost to you but of course don't feel
any necessarily any pressure to do that
if you do enjoy the interview give it a
thumbs up that'll help more people get
to see it and if you haven't subscribed
yet make sure you subscribe because like
I said I'll be doing a bunch more of
these interviews in the future this is
something I want to keep doing so
without further ado I hope you guys
enjoy this interview with dr. mike is or
tell so guys I'm here with dr. Mike
Ezra tell and we're here for a
conversation mostly about training
volume and hypertrophy and mike has been
way too long man thanks for coming back
the black boys thanks for having me man
it's always good to check so I will have
done some kind of intro for you in the
pre-interview segment but maybe just
give people some idea what you're up to
right now
what yeah you might be working on yeah
so I'm used to be a professor for a long
time but Renaissance period ization the
company that I helped to start a couple
years back has gotten so big that I have
to do RP full-time so I do our people
time now developing a variety of digital
products and writing books and I'm
actually to three quarters of the way
through the Renaissance diet 2.0 book
which is kind of a most comprehensive
book on body composition and performance
dieting that we've ever written
it's it looking like a monster it'll
might be like 400 pages or something
eventually yeah so I'm doing a lot of
book writing training for hypertrophy
I'm currently somewhere between 250 and
255 pounds and I have veins in my ABS
which is strange eating as a god my road
to 255 is proving really difficult
because after 250 my body's like nah and
the amount of food is just kidding
so I'm kind of absurd so it's tough it's
it's it's stupid to complain about
eating too much because there's people
out there
contest dieting yeah it is a thing yeah
it is tough it goes in both directions
like any way you try to push your body
to the brink of where it's comfortable
it's gonna resist so I can really yeah
thanks
totally and unfortunately that's
actually where you make the best
progress
true-true and yeah we actually met for
the first time at the Arnold Classic I
was how was the Expo experience for you
well you know my experience is mostly of
the line to go see you wrapped around
our booth it's over not against someone
who come your line would recognize
myself what are you doing there like I'm
Jeff Klein now like that's great I guess
you were also across from the DJ booth
unfortunately yes I mean I don't
understand how that is something that
the people who promote the Arnold allow
so basically to give folks listening
context there was a booth at the Arnold
several actually spread throughout the
Arnold with like Club decibel music at
all times
and a gentleman yelling on the
microphone because not speaking of these
yelling on a microphone yeah so it was
awful because Jeff and I had to talk to
people over this guy and you were coming
to meet us and chat and it was just here
it was awful yeah it was I feel like I
had strep throat for about a week after
it oh my god yeah it was if it was only
like Pleasant music I think I was saying
not stupid stuff yeah this guy was just
saying like it was just all it was
terrible it was the most bro a [ __ ]
you've ever heard yeah they should have
done an open mic and had you go up there
so Mike what I was actually thinking we
would do is split this up into two parts
if you're down for that so in part one I
kind of like to give you the chance to
just lay out everything that you've been
developing to do with training volumes
and hypertrophy for anyone who might
have watched our volume roundtable like
two years ago you did lay out I think
some of the fundamentals there but I'd
like to give you the chance to sort of
elaborate on that update those concepts
because I know they've developed a lot
in the last two years and then in part
two I'd like to focus a little bit more
on maybe a specific case so in my case
right now I'm actually trying to
incorporate more powerlifting
programming into my bodybuilding style
training so maybe we can do like a full
deep dive on soak up our building in
that second part but I think just to
kind of get everybody on the same page
and get everybody up to date I feel like
it'd be good to just do a fold sent off
of kind of everything you've been
working on with regard to training
volume in this first part that sounds
good that sounds perfect yeah so the
volume roundtable I scan a ton of views
now I think quite a popular video that
was mostly me
against three other people it was it was
kind of me sort of trying to just
advocate at least devil's advocate for
the higher side of volume because there
had kind of been this um maybe uh sort
of unspoken agreement in the
evidence-based community that doing the
on the lower side of things something
had been termed sort of minimum
effective dose was a good thing and that
anything north of that was somehow sort
of like on the net balance definitely
worse and I was sort of based on the MRV
maximum recovery volume concept are
saying we know that there are some good
things to gain on that northern end
ironically the reason myself and my
colleague James Hoffman when we were
sports scientists I guess we still are
but when we were actively working with
teams at the collegiate level
we developed the MRV concept in order to
actually advocate for the opposite which
is they basically say look there is a
maximum amount of volume that your
athletes can recover from mr. and mrs.
coach going over that is just simply not
productive and in a long-term
counterproductive and even dangerous so
we were trying to basically say that if
there was this kind of cuff you can fill
and you can fill some with a couple of
sport training some with weight training
some with technique training and then
after you filled the cop you just any
more training wouldn't work because you
know there's a lot of you know we all
played sports and we've all heard these
sort of tropes of you know outwork your
opponent 110%
I remember in wrestling people be like
you know whoever you're gonna be
wrestling you know you gotta train
harder and I was always like what if
he's training too much should we like
just double time and really die like you
know there's right this is to make any
fun so and the idea 110% is purest
mathematical nonsense
so we
basically it was funny that I was
arguing for the more side of the volume
even though that had come from the left
side to kind of age a coin the MRV
concept but since then I've been able to
take a more balanced approach and talk
about a couple of concepts in
intersection two in particular that are
very important minimum effective volume
and maximum recoverable volume minimum
effective volume is the least of only
you can do and still see results in
whatever it is you're looking for
results for an obviously strength
training has some kind of minimum
effective volume hypertrophy training
has another minimum effective volume
power training has another one etc etc
but they all have their minimum factor
volumes per the individual or situation
and then on the other end is the maximum
recoverable volume where it so it
doesn't pay to train any lower than
minimum effective volume if you want to
make gains and above maximum recover
volume it doesn't pay to train anymore
than that so what you're left with is
this kind of delineation this band this
range we're all productive training
lives then that's between MeV minimum
effective volume and MRV maximum
recoverable volume and I think that by
the overload principle especially for
one a train for hypertrophy we should
probably go from Harvard from easier to
harder over time and I think one of
those kinds of things is going from the
minimum effective volume maybe at the
beginning of a mezzo cycle slowly either
by adding weight repetitions or sets and
I've been advocate of adding all of
those it particularly sets and weight
but you move from minimum effective
volume incrementally to maximum a cargo
volume wherein you can by definition no
longer move productively upwards that's
when you D load maybe change some rep
ranges change some exercises or just D
load start a similar program go back to
your new minimum effective volume
whatever other happens to be in stock
crawling all the way back up and that's
where I think most especially if I per
trophy most productive training lies so
I think nowadays I'm not so much
advocating blah blah I'm our VM every
MRV I I don't I don't think I have to
cuz I think I actually kind of made my
point with MRV where I think my
quintessential point in the debate was
minimum effective volume means by
definition you're getting minimum effect
why would you want that I mean why don't
you want optimal volume and if we can't
find that maybe it's somewhere between
MeV and MRV and I think it is it's
actually a lot harder to pinpoint
because it also changes to so but I
think if we train between MeV and MRV
we're in a good spot that's kind of what
I've been advocating for the last
concept that I've developed there's
Maxima adaptive volumes somewhere in
between but it's just kind of a nebulous
concept if you're going from a median
MRV you know hit it anyway but another
concept but very useful I think it's
gonna be coming in handy for something
else you and I talked about later today
particularly emphasis the emphasis
training is something called maintenance
volume so it turns out in trained
individuals especially for the amount of
volume it takes to maintain a certain
Fitness characteristics like not lose
your strength it's actually way lower
than the minimum effective volume that
is designed to make it better right so
and I'm sure you've talked on this
before on your channel is like if you
just want a vacation with friends for
two recreation you want to maintain your
muscularity man you got a train like
twice a week with a compound heavy
basics then you're good to go but in
order for you Jeff nipper to make
improvements to your you know your your
pro physique it's gonna take heaven and
earth to see any kind of results that
are big so those two volumes are really
far apart and I think this idea that
maintenance volumes are much lower
usually especially for the advanced than
minimum effective volumes or even that
range between MeV and MRV it allows us a
really neat tool when we want to
prioritize something or de-emphasize
something to really move volumes around
so we can make more space for productive
training by not thinking do we have to
always train hard to keep our gains it's
like if you want to continue to be able
to ride a bicycle you don't have to ride
your bike for an hour every day matter
of fact the maintenance volume for
riding bicycle is pretty pretty much
zero right but you know playing the
piano or speaking a foreign language
those have very low maintenance volumes
if you think about it you know you speak
if you are a staff fluent Spanish
speaker but you don't live in a
spanish-speaking place you speak Spanish
to your your your your fiance or to your
mother-in-law for half an hour every
week and your ass flew initial ever be
you don't need to be immersed and that I
understanding that maintenance of
characteristic can be accomplished with
relative ease
can can give us a whole lot of
flexibility and sort of
you attend our training that we can use
to be productive in other ways awesome
yeah you're always good with the
analogies man I try this all over here
making even better ones an algae
competition I'm losing so I gotta get
off my ass that's good so I'm like I
would imagine there's probably a lot of
people who haven't watched that in case
anyone hasn't it is really good and it
serves as more of like I think an
introduction to maybe what we'll talk
about here but just to save people maybe
some of the time let's first talk about
exactly what training volume is I know
it's like a fairly straightforward
concept but in terms of the application
it can be a little bit
tangley especially in terms of like how
you're actually tracking that so how
about you just quickly lay out your
definition of what training volume is
maybe why it's important or why we think
it's important and then you kind of go
from there
sure totally so training volume is how
much you scream when you're lifting and
that counts internal screaming that no
one hears right don't have measured in
decibels that's right yeah right Oshin
units and volume is actually pretty easy
to define it's the amount of physical
work you do and that's measured by
essentially force times distance it the
best sort of measurements of that in the
gym is how much weight you have on the
bar or in a machine and how long the
range of motion is although the thing is
is that if you're comparing your volume
to anyone other than yourself that's
relevant if it's just between you and
you we just almost always will use these
concepts for it's you can just obviate
that whole range of motion thing cos
it's always the same more or less like
you're always gonna squat to the same
depth and come back up actually one of
the reasons why myself and folks like
Eric Helms advocate for a consistent
technique is because it's really
difficult to compare squats if you
always do at different depths right if
you always do the same depth you kind of
know what you're getting so it's the
weight on the bar the distance which is
usually the obviate and then the number
of total repetitions that you do in
training now the total repetitions thing
can get a little wonky because what one
of the things we're really looking for
volume is the amount of fatigue that it
causes because we want to see how much
of only we can stuff into a program
because we know it's a little bit
skipping ahead volume is
predictor and a causative factor for
gains in some sense if it's volume
composed mostly of very heavy lifting it
is what causes you to get stronger but
especially causes you to get bigger
especially if it's lots of volume in the
moderate rep range but since we want to
know how much volume to do because
volume is the good stuff it's the
measurement of work that makes us better
we don't know how much we can stuff into
our ability to recover which is
generally although it varies a little
bit it's generally pretty stable a
characteristic like if you can do 20
sets is back regularly and recover you
probably can't do 30 sets of back and
recover every time you try it doesn't
matter how much you slept that night or
how good your eating is just not gonna
be able to reach that people have
certain you know just genetic variation
etc but you only gonna be a little card
from so much so because volume is really
closely related to fatigue we can do a
little better than reps and if you tend
to do fewer reps what you're going super
heavy reps become not such a great way
to measure volume because each rep is so
much harder right that that it's way
more than the amount of force that's
added way more the amount of weight to
the bar the fatigue goes up
exponentially but on the other hand if
the reps are really high each rep isn't
super fatiguing and it ends up going in
the other direction
so I think Gregg knuckles came up with
this originally but it's the the number
of hard sets that you do in training
because it sort of obviates for that
extremes of rep range is a pretty good
way as a proxy measurement of volume to
tell you is it to relate volume more
closely to fatigue so if you do you know
sets of anywhere between uh something
like five and twenty reps I think if you
do you know six sets or ten sets of six
reps or if you do ten sets of 15 reps
that's probably gonna a fatigue you in a
similar degree and that now we can
compare number of sets from program to
program individual to individual and
especially within the individual over
time to give us a good metric of how
much can you do to make yourself better
and how much is too much that'll make
you so fatigued you can't recover and
you can't make progress gosh yeah I
really like the the tough sets metric
just because it kind of gets rid of all
those problems like you said with like
and lower reps and then also going
between different machines and different
ranges of motion twelve different planes
of motion and all that kind of stuff
that sort of just flattens all the hair
out so if we're tracking sets what
counts as a set because we can do
warm-up sets we can do different types
of sets what what what are you tracking
there so you know I generally don't
count warm-ups when I'm talking about
minimum effective volume maximum or
coverable warm-up sets it's actually
interesting they're usually so easy that
they have been shown in the literature
to sometimes decrease fatigue so if you
let's say have a program where you go
Monday Wednesday Friday and your fatigue
starts to accumulate a whole lot if you
skip Wednesday altogether your fatigue
is gonna fall a certain amount by the
time you hit Friday and let's say you're
super fatigued on Monday after Monday
you're like I need a break if you take
Wednesday off completely your fatigue
falls a certain extent if you go in and
only do the warm-up sets for Wednesday
different he actually falls more
something to do with getting blood
through the area perhaps some
neurological effects a hormonal effects
but in any case your fatigue might
actually fall even lower so if we you
know some people are really dogmatic if
I see you gotta count all your warmups
two questions for that one if they don't
really add to fatigue why we counted
them if they essentially on average at
and that muffy to fatigue why we counted
them and second of all what the hell
kind of warm-ups are you doing that
volume from them is so extensive I mean
my guys some people really do warm up
wrong I think you know there's like this
idea that if you do sets of ten you warm
up by sets of ten all the way from 135
to 405 and then you start doing sets of
it that's insane
so I think that it definitely don't call
warm-ups I count straight sets and then
I always get this question it gets
really tricky to count drop sets and to
count super sets at that point you have
to be I think even doing those kinds of
things you have to do more advanced to
really benefit from them and and to be
able to execute them properly in a
program and by then you kind of have a
feel for how fatigued anything is making
you and you can set up a proxy for
yourself so for example a super set of
leg presses two squats you might just
count as two sets because damn that it
will mess you up but a superset of bicep
curls on a cable to upright rows even
you let's say like you really really
using the upright rows to just finish
off your biceps and it's only like three
to five reps of upright rows right after
curls and your biceps are done you can't
move anymore you might actually just
proxy count that as one set because
having experimented with it expecting it
to be like one and a half cents worth of
fatigue
it just never amounts to that much
fatigue so I think the rest of the stuff
comes down to experimentation the safe
bet is just to count sets as they are
like if it's a superset just counted us
two sets but you'll learn that usually
super sets are not asked for taking as
you would think maybe a one and a half
sets there's a good proxy but that's so
individually dependent I just leave that
up to the individual right yeah it kind
of reminds me of the people who will ask
like should i when I'm tracking my
macros should I weigh this cooked or
should I weigh it raw and it's kind of
like as long as you're consistent with
it over time it's okay it's kind of the
same thing here it's like people will
put these volume milestones or whatever
you want to call them on forehead Astle
and say you know like I've got to hit 20
or whatever whatever yeah but it's so
individual and so relative that as long
as you have some scale of directionality
in terms of whether to move it up or
move it down that's actual specific
number is less important that that is
that's I mean I wouldn't just say that I
think you summed it up perfectly and I
would love for people to sort of listen
to that again the volume landmarks are
all come with instructions of how to
detect them and how to read attack them
and because they also change you know
people say like my MRV is 22 sets for
quads it's like yeah this muscle cycle
it is maybe 20 the maximizing 18 after
might be 24th after that as long as you
know what you're looking for and you
have a range then you're good one of
them I think the most valuable things
about volume landmarks is learning over
a period of about six months for every
individual getting a good a target range
for yourself for each of your main body
parts here's where this comes in handy
for example my range for hamstring tumor
V personally is like 10 to 15 sets per
week is the most I can do for hamstrings
including both leg curls and hip hinges
and after that I can't recover anymore
but my side delt MRV is something like
between the mid 20s and the high 20s and
set numbers
if I did a program that programmed 15 to
20 sets for everything I would burn my
hamstrings right off the bone and my
side delts would just never really go
anywhere that I think is the beauty of
the volume Landmarks is kind of knowing
at least where to shoot the shotgun
right and where the individual shells
are the individual little holes are
poked in the sheet of paper then you can
kind of adjust it it based on every week
of training you can go up you can go
down etc but at least knowing kind of
where to start where to finish because I
think a lot of um sort of pre prescribed
programs that were written earlier on
they suffer from the limitation of not
being individually adjusted to volume
for example let's take a program like
5/3 warm it's a fundamentally very good
program in the way it's structured it if
I throw one came at a time when
powerlifting was recovering from its
from its equipment binge and
five-three-one was like here's this
basic ass raw programs run the [ __ ]
you'll get strong it's sweet the thing
is five through one is the identical
volume for every one short of any kind
of advanced modifications you want to
make for it for some people that was
like the right amount of volume for some
people the very few it was way too much
and for most people it just wasn't
enough
so for I really don't like programs that
say you did this many sets and of this
and there's many sets of that I think
most good programs should be like start
around here see how your body responds
and adjust to where you need to be right
yeah on the topic of say like five
thirty one I feel like it's like a very
low rep high weight program I think we
should do intensity and reps kind of
like a fair analysis here so for
hypertrophy purposes let's say do you
think we should be counting you know
heavy doubles or triples the same in
terms of volume as you know high rep
sets of thirty reps or what have you
because that's it's like at those
outlier ranges where things start to
kind of like look a little tricky with
tracking sets or do you think there's
like some kind of middle range where you
should just be pretty much all the time
if you're a bodybuilder yeah so part one
is that no you don't count them the same
so anything south of five
raps is going to be vastly
disproportional and it's fatiguing
effects and underwhelming and it's
hypertrophic effects well it's great for
strength but it's not very good for
hypertrophy because the fatigue is way
way higher imagine you had to do 20
total reps in a program but they all had
to be 95% max singles on the squad it's
20 singles but you're gonna die before
you get to anywhere and 20 reps right my
god you could do sets of 10 and get 40
reps to four sets of Tanna me that's
like that's pretty decent work I was
nothing to write home about and that's
at more hypertrophy benefit it has been
clearly demonstrated by numerous studies
but it's a some kind of small fraction
of the fatigue on the other end there's
another problem of super super high rep
sets sets of 50 60 70 wraps things like
that most of the reps being done are
simply to get you tired enough for the
muscles to start struggling enough to
actually present even a relative
overload it's accumulated and lactate to
get the fast twitch motor units firing
because the slow twitch ones have lost
some power that you know maybe the last
five reps the last 10 reps are
challenging but the first 50 or 60 or
just kind of just paths to get there so
again I think there's actually just
proportionate level of fatigue type or
trophic effect with those super high
reps because you're accumulating a
shitload of volume for no damn reason
just to get yourself prepared for that
so as far as efficiency goes it's not a
great way to Train unless you're really
hurt so I think that constrains the
hypertrophy benefit range between about
5 reps to about 30 and in for most cases
even just about 20 so anytime I see a
hypertrophy program training within 5 to
20 reps sets I don't any really ask any
questions about reps very much I'm just
going ok great if someone's got a
hypertrophy program and they put it on
my desk and I see anybody think about
this and there's anything south of 5
reps or north of 30 especially even
north of 20 I start to be like why is
this in here and if there's a good
reason that's great but but sometimes
there's not a good reason and and for
the for the mentioned reasons it I think
it's at least very poor efficiency on
the high rep side and just very poor
fatigue management for for the amount of
all for the amount of Jack Ness you get
on the low rep side right
I guess one other thing we should
probably address is is intensity or we
can just call it effort the
some people who I find are really volume
tracking junkies will just become
obsessed with hitting a certain volume
threshold and not really be exerting
themselves hard enough to get much out
of it in my opinion so it is there a way
that you gauge that in terms of like how
hard you need to be working in terms of
an intensity threshold in order to
totally yeah yeah totally so so the term
for that is the relative intensity and
that's just how far have you gone not on
how many total reps you've done or how
much weight there is but relative to
what you can do as a maximum and I think
the best measurement for that is for for
bodybuilding training or for a part of
your training is repetitions and reserve
I think when you get to like doing low
reps because the reps and reserves are
like 1 or less for everything sometimes
the RPE method is better where you know
you do nine and a half or 8.5 or
something like that but reps in reserve
is a great method
they just whatever number it is that's
how many reps you could have done if
there was a gun to your head and you had
to go to failure so I think anything
which is you know unfortunate way to
train
I haven't stories about what you have
heard stories about like various Eastern
Bloc coaches having like a loaded pistol
on the gym floor to scare lifters man
wouldn't surprise highly unfortunate so
anything shy of 5 reps in reserve is
going to have hypertrophic effects
they're just gonna be vastly lower than
anything north of 5 reps so I think that
here for training between 5 4 to 5 reps
in reserve all the way to failure you're
not the most productive hypertrophy
range but if you're really just cutting
your reps or SATs super short of failure
you know you're probably missing out on
some kind of relative effect at the very
least for efficiency gains so like you
just have to do that much more volume to
get the same effect so sometimes when
people say you know I can do 40 reps for
my side delts of not overreach I'm like
what are you stopping those sets and
they're like oh I just get like sets of
five and I could do like 19 more but I
don't the thing is that actually is very
rare because most of the same kinds of
people that want their M RVs to be
artificially inflated also take every
set to concentric failure and beyond so
so it's rare um every now and again with
sort of Meeker trainees
you know you
you sent either like we send me a video
of your last set from last week and they
send you a video you're like my god you
have like 50 reps left if I don't know
it feel pretty hard you're like okay I
can see what we've been programming this
much volume so that I think that beer is
that you gotcha I gotcha
probably like just has a rough ballpark
you're tracking sets that are somewhere
in the let's say five to twenty repre
and then that leave no more than say
four or five reps and it correct
something and now we're talking yeah I'm
sure instead what your thoughts would be
there's this camp of people I feel like
they're a little bit more on the
periphery in the scientific community
but they argue that volume isn't really
it's all it's made up to be what's more
important is taking sets to momentary
muscular failure and provided you're
taking sets to muscular failure you
don't need to accumulate a whole lot of
volume because you can max out the
hypertrophic response so there's a few
researchers in particular Fisher and
Steele who've kind of made this argument
again and again and they've kind of
written some I guess rebuttals to
schoenfelt's work on this what do you
what do you think of that or do you
think we really do have a knockdown
smoking gun case that volume is the main
driver here so they have one small point
and the point is this as you get closer
to failure the magnitude of hypertrophic
response increases so that a set of 12
reps taken to momentary muscular failure
let's say with a weight that takes it to
moment your muscular failure versus a
set of 12 reps with a slightly lower
weight that leads to reps in a tank that
set of 12 the goes to muscular failure
will per unit of volume have more
hypertrophic effect it will grow more
muscle the problem is that the fatigue
accumulation from momentary muscular
failure or the closer you get to failure
is actually exponential so if you go to
failure you're getting way more fatigued
than if you go just to rep shy of
failure and two reps try a failure you
still get quite a high degree of
hypertrophy
I actually think I would be willing to
put more much of my scientific
reputation on this claim is that around
two reps in reserve is the average not
always best average best place to stop a
set for high purchase for you because it
gives you the best trade off of
hypertrophic effect to not crazy fatigue
yeah
if you always go for our IR you get very
low fatigue but you get not so much of a
benefit so I think the trade-off is met
but if you go you know all the way to
failure your fatigue is crazy even
though your hypertrophy is linearly
increased your fatigue is exponentially
increased why is that relevant well if
it's the last micro cycle before you D
load it's not which i think is why you
can definitely go to failure probably
should go close on a last micro cycle
before plan D load but on any other
micro cycle remember there's two
components to every single time you go
in the gym and it's not a final micro
cycle it is how do I do the best job to
grow today and how is that gonna set me
up to do the best job to grow next week
so that last part is just completely
obviated it's just not answered by
people who advocate failure training if
you are anywhere other than a beginner
I'm sure you've tried this yourself I
actually used to train I used to be one
of these folks I used to train on a
multiple set all sets to failure program
until I discovered fatigue accumulation
cuz every third week my body would fall
apart into pieces I just wouldn't be
able to match any of my reps which is
actually how we define MRV you can no
longer match sets and reps at the
predicted intensity that you're supposed
to so I would crash into my MRV all the
time and just wonder why I couldn't
survive an old program it's because
fatigue accumulated booms like this it's
not a productive way to Train
sustainably I think that's the kind of
final word on that sort of trains does
work but if you want to put volume is
very well correlated to how much gain
you're getting it more correlated than
relative intensity so it's more
important to find a way to keep the
wrong to intensity good two sets or two
reps are so short of failure but to
really pump as much volume as you can
into that and every single review of the
literature that has been done that's
been any good shows that volume is
actually more important than relative
intensity and shows that yeah you know
if you train close to failure there are
ways to make it work okay but because of
this volume became a fatigue
accumulation problem submaximal
higher-volume programs simply cause more
hypertrophy funny enough if you look at
the way most bodybuilders train even the
ones on a million different steroids
almost no one takes every sector
concentric muscular failure most
bodybuilders keep some reps in the tank
to do more and more sets that's how
people get the biggest do you always say
what about during it's what about this
and that guy they're choosing and
picking one out of a hundred yeah
examples where the other ninety nine
guys if you told them hey why don't you
go to failure they'd be like I tried
that before I just broke in half yeah
yeah I think the real-world results are
pretty unquestionable one thing they
might argue is that for people who maybe
aren't trying to be like the best
bodybuilders in the world or what have
you it may be a more time efficient way
to train so if you don't have the time
to do all this volume then taking away
or taking you know one single set to
momentary muscular failure might be a
way sort of make the most of the time
that you do have in the gym and then
maybe you know if you need it take more
time in between sessions to allow for
that recovery maybe maybe I got a
rebuttal to that I think it's a it's
it's a fine way of doing things and
they're definitely on the right logical
track what I would say is if you're
really interested if you're gonna play
the efficiency game over the sort of
optimality game then what you're really
gonna end up going towards is still
saving about two reps in the tank to
reduce acute fatigue because if you were
all the way to failure on a set if you
don't just do a set right after you're
broken you're like and you're a
psychologically like it's tough to just
gather yourself to do anything stopping
if you want maximum efficiency you stop
each set two reps or so on average from
failure and you grab another barbell or
another dumbbell or another machine
and you do the antagonistic body parts
for another set right after and then you
grab a couple of seconds to breathe and
then you repeat that first exercise
antagonistic compound super sets you
know bench sue percentage of pull-ups
shoulder press superset to upper well
upright row bicep curls super senator
tricep extension you know squat superset
into hamstring stuff that's the kind of
you know it with very little rest
between sets but that's really you can't
beat that as far as efficiency I can
burn someone too
in 30 minutes with a workout like that
twice a week that's a great general
fitness workout if you're really intent
on going a failure first of all it's
psychologically very difficult and
because of that recovery time you still
need between sets I just think we're
sort of reifying deifying this momentary
muscular failure point and purposelessly
and I know I've gotten in a boil boy I
used to have a history of getting into
debates with high intensity training
advocates I'm actually so
philosophically a very big fan of the
school of Objectivism Iran capitalism
all that stuff and a lot of those folks
tend to gravitate for some [ __ ]
reason or another to high intensity
training and I used to debate them all
the time because I thought they could do
better and one of the things that we're
saying is you know one set to failure is
the only non arbitrary way to train I'm
like that is exactly as arbitrary as any
two sets it's as operatories two reps
from failure you're just picking
something randomly be like that's what's
important so when it comes to failure is
there any place for it if I were to play
devil's advocate even though I'd agree
with you I would say that it does you
know depend on the exercise so if you're
taking a set of leg extensions to
failure is I'm gonna do as much as
taking a set of squats to fail you're
not nearly as much so if you are
training to failure maybe you know
preferentially allocate that towards
exercises that are warmer impact but
what do you think about it is is there
really any president or is it a kind of
waste of that fatigue so I have an
interesting retort I've heard that
argument before it's a very very good
argument
I have initially more torture that if
you can do it on the lower fatiguing
exercises maybe it's not as bad you know
Jeff I didn't think we were going into a
gym in our quest for the optimal
training method to get a jack as
possible I didn't think we were going
into the gym to try to get away with as
much [ __ ] as possible I thought we were
going to the gym to try to do as good of
a job as possible it's almost like you
know you know ideally a toddler would
stop hitting everything he saw but I
guess if we give him something padded to
hit it's not as bad well ideally you
teach him manners not to hit things in
public and then that's the best so I
don't think we should be asking the
question of well if we were gonna train
to failure or maybe leg extensions is
okay well it given that we have the leg
extensions program exercise what's the
optimal way to do that well it's still
they shy away from failure and just do
more line extensions because you get
more volume or hypertrophic stimulus for
that ratio of fatigue but but there is a
place so that argument I think Falls a
little bit short because we shouldn't be
asking can we get away with failure we
should be asking when is failure the
best use of our of our time and effort I
think the best time for failure and they
think the time when failure is almost
needed is via the progressive overload
what we have is at the beginning of a
mesocycle will start at about four reps
shy of failure because that's the lowest
we can do that's our minimum effective
relative intensity so to speak right and
because we're putting more weight on the
bar and we don't want our volume to fall
we don't want two reps to fall
we're basically automatically going to
be climbing up in our IR and we're gonna
next week might be three reps in reserve
the week after that to etc we will
inevitably climb to failure or very
close in the final weeks of our
mesocycle accumulation phase and then we
have a deal owed after because the d
load reduces so much fatigue it's a
whole week of easy training we might as
well go all the way to failure to get
that little extra bit of growth that's
superlative stimulus so that when we
have the fatigue reduction powers that
we need with a deep load now training to
failure makes perfect sense because we
have to sort of a two-factor problem one
we have to do something real special in
that last week to provide an overload
for this week before because it was one
shy of failure of the week before and
two we have plenty of time in a lot of
power to Bruce fatigue so we're not so
concerned about accumulated fatigue
would you don't have to come back but
next week and try to hit it again does
that make sense you throw those two
things in conjunction mean but at the
end of every mesocycle most mesocycles
we can go very close to failure and in
some programs going to actual fail it's
good idea that's when the equipment
considerations come in handy you're not
gonna go to failure on squats unless
you've got a death wish
bench presses maybe if you got a really
trustworthy spotter or a couple um leg
extensions tricep pushdowns bicep curls
failure away but i would say only on the
last week if you're doing failure
training anything other than the last
week you're just screwing yourself over
for the next week what do you think of
the recommendation that you say you're
doing three sets or four sets per
exercise for the first two or three
he'll leave you know two or three reps
in the tank but then for the last
you take that one too to failure because
you don't really have I should say the
last set of the last exercise take that
one to failure you think that's probably
pretty safe I think it's pretty safe but
I don't think it's best because you got
the next so you train back twice a week
you got your next back workout to worry
about it or even if you train once a
week you have the next week to worry
about it so I again I think we're coming
back to like I've been a coach I really
want to go to failure how can it get
away with it best if you want the answer
of how do I get away with the best
that's completely correct that would be
a good way to get away with the most but
how about we get away from this getting
away with failure the most and just
trying to program optimally and saying
that we're just gonna say failure for
one time oh you know it's almost like a
client now asking you okay how can I eat
the most pizza a week after my
bodybuilding show we still not get fat
you start moving macros around because
you're gonna have nothing other than
pizza and protein shakes and almost done
you learn how about we ask the question
of how do I get you know the best for my
next bodybuilding show and put on the
most lean mass possible knowing okay and
you're like okay we're gonna have pizza
once a week and then the rest of the
time we're gonna follow good diet you
know that's like where we're trying to
go with that yeah I guess yeah I think
if I'm gonna push this one last time I
promise we and one case that could be
made for it is the fact that people are
especially beginners and maybe early
intermediates are pretty bad at knowing
how many reps they have left in the tank
and so unless they felt what that
failure feels like unless they actually
do it they don't really know how hard
they're pushing themselves so I think
that maybe what you're saying should
apply to more people towards the more
advanced end of the spectrum people who
maybe are new and don't know what that
feels like should be you know taking a
few sets to failure so they are pushing
themselves a little bit harder and they
really know in fact how close they are
to that threshold so they're not
actually stopping like you said in your
example of your client they're not
actually stopping 10 reps drive failure
and saying you know I need all this
volume to make progress where in fact
they just need to ramp it up a bit so
you need to flirt with that sometimes
you need to actually in fact take it
there in order to know what that feels
like
flirting leads to indiscretion sir I'll
have to remind you of that
so you're coveting failure is what
you're saying so man I've boy do I have
a good answer for this one so part
one the idea that it is a very big
problem that beginners do not get close
enough to failure is already
statistically wrong because I can spot
you a beginner anytime you want at the
gym find a not jack guy who's like
bleeding under a barbell somewhere
because he went five reps past failure
and he's like hell but he's not saying
how cuz he's like I can still get out
it's like spotting guys in the bench and
they're like don't take it and I'm like
no I'm taking it I don't want the
ambulance show us like I'm doing you a
favor you'll come to thank me later so
so first of all most beginners their
problem is that they go too close to
failure because they view training as a
catharsis and they think there is a
one-to-one relationship between relative
intensity and gains usually one too many
rich Piana memes and all of a sudden
you're like do what it takes everything
you have to do everything you can and
they're like yeah clearly you know we're
talking about young males here you know
I mean like they're gonna go to failure
first of all second of all and I would
this was something we covered
extensively in the book dr. James hop
and I wrote about training volume it's
called how much should I train actually
it's the name of the book we actually
don't believe that beginners should
approach MRV nor do we believe that
beginners should approach failure very
closely here's why as a couple of
reasons number one is the more beginners
approach failure because they have an
unstable to really develop technique the
more likely it is that their technique
is going to falter and they're going to
start learning bad technique you got the
beginner doing squats there's Squatch
the great up until they hit about two or
three reps and reserves and then their
back starts to round the shoulders K
forward and they start like sort of
looks like they're being born again
like literally someone's giving birth to
them you know what I'm talking about
we're like damn you see if someone's rep
really was a religious experience how do
you feel and then I get the holy water
you know like you know that's not
exactly some technique you want to
practice the bad thing is is that if
beginners practice a certain way it's
really hard to get rid of poorly learned
techniques and I'm sure you've come
across this at your own coaching
practices you're like show me a squat
and they do a squat and you're like ah
alright what you don't know how to squat
was just gonna teach you all over again
and that's really tough but there's a
worse problem executing such poor
technique reps especially if you get
another habit of a push and close to
failure not only is the act of pushing
close to failure but pushing close to
failure poor technique
it leads to a higher chance of both wear
and tear injuries and acute injuries
precisely for the people that are gonna
pay the most when they get hurt which is
beginners so in order to keep people not
hurt and keep them from learning poor
technique we don't think that it's a
good idea to get very close to failure
for beginners but here's the so
quintessential things that makes this
possible beginners don't have a problem
of games you get your noob games so why
don't you go for minimum effective
volume all the way up to maybe
two-thirds of the way to your MRV and
just recycle and go back down and start
building up again focus on getting
strong for reps and when it comes to
failure go anywhere from four to six
reps in reserve to two reps and reserves
if you have a good coach around he'll
cut you off at that point in the cycle
back down as a beginner you're making
such amazing gains once you are
intermediate and more advanced when
there is a need to get closer to failure
to tap into more advanced set of
tensions you know learning how to go to
failures pretty [ __ ] easy at that
point and you've already flirted with it
it's it's gonna be pretty obvious but I
think that this this idea that we need
to teach beginners intermediates how to
get close to failure because there's
they're not training hard enough I don't
think they should be trained that hard
because games are not a problem at that
point and any level of games any level
of stimulus you're not getting can be
overcome by just adding more sass to the
program which actually gives them more
technical practice in the lifts which
makes them technically more sound at
some maximal weights which is how you
end up developing really good lifters
for later on right I don't know if there
could be a bit of a selection bias in
terms of the people who are coming to
you maybe have like more of a history of
an athletic background or maybe even
though they might be more new there may
be a more audacious with their goals and
then people who maybe are just like
regular gym goers so there was this
study I don't know if you've seen it but
I think there was like 400 subjects they
asked them how many reps they think they
could or how many reps they typically do
if they went to the gym with a set
weight it was something around like what
would be your 10 rep weight that you'd
normally do when you go to the gym and
something like I think 13% of people got
more than 10 reps or more than 20 reps
but their typical 10 rep weight so they
were leaving something like 10 reps in
the tank and the average I think was
something like 6 or 8 reps left in the
tank in that study
so I I think that what that highlights
is is that a lot of people actually
training hard enough for every person
like you describe the rich Piana guy who
who is going in there and training all
out I feel like there's also a person
who's going in there just going through
their emotions they're on the phone half
the time and they're just not really
getting anywhere near that intensity
threshold that we're talking about
mm-hmm
so um an interesting thought about that
study is first of all if you actually
let those people train at what they
thought was failure which was really six
to eight I don't think you'd see a
problem with long-term hypertrophy in
those individuals for a very long time
because interestingly enough in the
first several weeks sometimes several
months of training again are see very
little progress altogether and
hypertrophy primarily neural adaptations
account for most of strength increase
one of the reason is I think we're
essentially out doing MRV right from the
get-go people who should train one set
per week we're giving them 3 by 10
programs right away so I think it's
actually a good thing when beginners
underdose their training because they
should have low-dose training to begin
with second of all the way we test
repetition maxes in training or in in
the laboratory if your event in this
kind of environment it is multiple
researchers stand around including
graduate assistants often of the
opposite or same-sex whatever your
proclivities may be and they are yelling
at you and they are encouraging you and
they're yelling really loudly and they
warm you up and you understand your
purpose is to show off and be the hero
and do as many reps as you can no matter
what that kind of failure is so [ __ ]
unsustainable in a program that is the
equivalent of a meet that is no I think
it's a strongman meet you just did so
when people say well they really should
be training like that all the time no
they [ __ ] shouldn't yeah that's five
reps more than they should normally be
doing failure in training means failure
under normal circumstances that already
gives you a shitload of fatigue that
effort that they did when they got
twenty more reps or whatever or than
they thought or 13 more reps than they
thought that is not a sustainable effort
it's good that they think they failed
six to eight reps shy of that because
that's where their most productive
training is gonna be training like you
do in a laboratory as a show-off
experiment is not training that is I
guarantee those people were sore for a
week and a half
that [ __ ] from probably one set and that
is not a sustainable way of cleaning so
I think counter balancing those two
things and because beginners just don't
need much to grow
I think yet Jeff there is a point there
were especially in a client trainer
interaction if you see someone you know
sometimes females are more statistically
likely to have this kind of issue where
they're just a little bit think I'm
afraid the weights a little bit afraid
of their food sort of feeling their own
swag a little too much and you know you
look at them and you're like clearly
you're not pushing it I think there is a
time and place even for beginners
especially intermediates so be like I
don't let's push the pace a little bit
more but I think that group of people is
actually in the minority and most people
are in if they're into that six to eight
reps away from their actual laboratories
they'll ear point I think that's a good
way for them to train and that's I think
where most productive training occurs
with the least downsides of injury or
pushing it too hard
I think but once you get to
intermediates and especially advanced if
you continue to have that problem yeah
you need a wake-up call you need to try
harder but I think you know even in the
non rich Piana crowd just doing a few
more sets of getting good technical
practice beats trying to approach this
mythical failure point more yeah that's
an interesting take I think that where
the rubber hits the road we actually do
agree on this point I just feel like in
my more like recent developments I guess
I've reached more up to the general
public and I see people worrying about
these like what I would consider to be
slightly more advanced concepts or they
don't even have that I would even say
psychological framework where they're
willing to even like exert themselves a
little bit harder especially in the
cases of people who don't maybe have
quite any kind of athletic background so
really not used to exerting themselves
physically even so that is why I would
emphasize that but for all that I would
still wouldn't say it's necessary to
actually take a lot of sets to failure
that would really never be the
recommendation especially for a beginner
but just to I guess get comfortable with
going past that point of complete
comfort if that is logical coherent for
sure you know I again you I think you
called it earlier most of my advice
revolves around people who are tried on
I'm known as like the hypertrophy
optimizer guy right like if you want
like to really be a robot and go see dr.
Mike but like
most of those people don't have effort
problems they have the opposite problem
where they would just gladly do five
times the amount of work relative and
absolute that they would need but I
think for the people who are a little
bit Meeker I think a kind of a pulling
them in slowly approach is better than a
make sure you're going close to failure
it's kind of like let's see how hard
you're working you watch them for a
couple of sessions and you go you know
you just keep increasing their weights
and and tell them just keep doing the
same my favorite way to approach people
to failure gently is to just put more
weight on the bar over the weeks and
just say you still have to hit ten reps
and they're kind of know it's getting
pretty hard and I'm like you're still
doing it keep going if you've never done
that and that's the easy way to do it
forget about approaching failure as far
as well give me all you got you just
never have to say that you just put five
more kilos in the bar every week and you
said sense of tense that's a 10 sets of
10 sooner or later they get 9 and
clearly that was because they went to
failure so you'll get him there
eventually I think that's a pretty
solved problem yeah it's it's
interesting how the roles have switched
a little bit here because you're
typically known as the guy who's telling
people to do as much as you can and to
max out your results and now you're kind
of arguing for you don't need to do as
much as you can it's you know what man
it's all population-specific when I when
I begin with with beginners it's super
gentle super easy just loving training
fundamental motor patterns and then we
grow these people over the years into
psychotic death machines that only want
destruction and pain it's a beautiful
thing that's right you've talked a lot
about a mesocycle I would imagine a
number of people will be familiar with
that term but maybe we can talk about
some specific programming stuff now I'm
Steve Leto I think your four main key
concepts here so you have the
maintenance volume which as you said is
to maintain you need to do like a lot
less than you need to actually gain
maybe like half a third something like
that about you need to gain yes so like
up I think maintenance volume is about
half of the average between mev to MRV
so the average amount of all you do is
talk about half so like a lot of people
will be able to maintain all of their
muscle and strength with six to eight
working sets per week per body part
whereas most people grow best from
something like fifteen so basically
about half would just give a significant
fight
it's not your minimum effective volume
it's much lower than that which is
really cool implication and then you do
have your minimum effective volume which
is kind of like that lowest volume you
need to make any progress at all but
wait yeah for the Africa intermediate
it's super average number to kind of
start thinking about this stuff
there's tons of variation for
individuals and all that stuff but the
average intermediate something like ten
sets per week per body part is a minimum
effective volume for a lot of people in
that range eight to twelve it sounds low
I feel like a lot of people on the
internet really are these crazy high
volume junkies and you're known in our
science space field as a high volume guy
and ten seconds actually sounds kind of
almost trivially low I mean it's just
force that's one day force that's
another day you're done yeah pretty well
but those are tough sets kind of as we
leave out one I'm sure that there is
that kind of working sets for sure
mm-hmm and then you've got your maximum
adaptive volume which maybe you could
describe that one a little bit better I
know you said it's kind of like an abuse
in an Eevee and MRV but yeah so maximum
adaptive volume it's just something that
we have to theoretically define because
it's theoretically very important
although practically it's very difficult
to get a hold of its the volume at any
one time that if we had to do one
session it would get you the most gains
possible the thing is is that your
maximum adaptive volume floats when you
start a new program and you exercise and
sets and reps if you do too much of that
then you just spend so many resources
recovering that you spend fewer adapting
so when you start a program your maximum
adaptive volume is actually really close
to your minimum effective volume as you
train provide overload more and more the
definition of overload as as soon as
you've done something it's gonna take
more to get that same result so you have
to do more more apps more stats more
weight whatever your maximum adaptive
volume through the course of motor cycle
will increase and it'll end up just at
or just below or just over your maximum
recoverable volume eventually so kind of
floats from your minimum effective to
your maximum recoverable luckily that's
how we train is we go for a matter of
fact automatically hypothetically in a
very good program
you're a real close to your maximum data
volume
people ask me like well why not just
start at your maximum adaptive volume
right away well first of all you'd start
at some value much higher than it if you
think it was let's say it's between 10
and 20 if you start at 15 that's already
way more than you're kind of ready for
you should have started closer to 10 but
even if let's say it was 15 the old
above principle says that as soon as you
do that volume the next week you're
going to need more it's a it's by
definition a moving target
it was kind of same like you know what's
the optimal amount of you know Spanish
language practice to do to keep getting
the best possible in Spanish well you
know five minutes of Spanish a week will
make you better for a couple of weeks
after that's gonna be 10 then sooner or
later it's gonna be have to live in
Spain you know like so you can't just be
like oh we'll just do this number all
the time like your body adapts right so
so if the maximum adaptive volume just
something to keep us around or to the
idea that well yeah we are looking for
this optimal value cuz there's one early
retort to MRV is like who cares about
what you've heard from what's gonna work
the best well this is a pretty closely
tied right and then MRV on the other end
of the most volume you can recover from
recovery defined as can you repeat the
same performance so basically if you
bench 225 4 sets of 10 like it hard sets
of 10 and all of a sudden you know you
do like say 20 sets of chests and next
week you're benching sort of 225 again
but it sets up like 8 6 4 4 3
you haven't recovered your performance
from last week you're not performing as
typically expected that means something
happened and if you continue to approach
let's say 20 sets is your MRV if you
continue to approach your MRV and you
basically you'll say you're MRV is 20 if
every time you get to at or pass around
20 cents for chest let's say and your
performance it starts to drop off and
that is basically around your maximum
recover blowing the most you can recover
from training above that chronically is
simply not productive for multiple
reasons one its injurious to it can't
biochemically overreaches you which
means your muscles are now basically
trying to recover and survive they're
not really trying to adapt anymore and
the worst of probably one of the worst
parts is you're physically unable to
provide an overload at this point it's
like if your performance is dropping how
the hell do you do more you're like you
have to put more weight on the bar at
some point to get stronger so you can
get bigger how the hell do you do that
if you literally can't lift the same
amount of weight from the same reps you
do so
Trading over here Murphy is pretty
stupid on average I have found through a
variety of of channels and now finally
formal research is catching up with a
lot of Schoenfeld studies and other
stuff that something around 20 cents is
at least where most people the average
musculature experiences maximum recover
volume or clothes so what I would say is
20 sets is not a magic number because
are no magic numbers but like if you're
consistently doing more than 20 cents
provided for a week and your progress
sucks and you feel like your recovery is
burdened and you got to think about
probably doing less whereas like if
you're doing eight sets per week and you
think like oh this isn't working you're
probably not doing too much right right
I got ya um so before we wrap it up here
Mike and I think in part two we'll get
into some more of the like complex
topics a parrot is a ssin maybe
frequency so some stuff like that and
then maybe specific programming examples
especially as it would apply to like a
power builder or someone who wants to
curve by strength and power but first
just so we kind of have the rest of the
foundation laid you can you explain what
a mezzo cycle is and then how you you've
kind of alluded to it throughout but
just quickly in summary how you would
apply the concept of say a minimum
effective volume and maximum recover
volume within a Meisel cycle and then
how that might apply across say a macro
cycle or a full training year or what
have you sure so you know master cycle
is basically like it's a it's a unit of
Micra cycles that are similarly
structured put together in the sequence
and the mesocycle generally has two
parts the accumulation of phase which is
the application of overload starting
from something that minimally gets you
results all the way up just you know
jumping up and on up the ladder of
overload moving more and more and more
until you get to the most you can
recover from and then the second part of
the Maslow cycle or most mesocycles is
the d load where as fatigue accumulates
and it generally does so over the course
of multiple weeks you know anywhere
between three and eight weeks mezzo
cycle length we basically see fatigue
accumulating after fatigue gets to a
certain point it becomes
counterproductive to continue to Train
so then we D load reduce the fatigue
then we start another mesocycle which is
another foray into the stratosphere it's
kind of like a mesocycle can be seen as
climbing a mountain right you start at
Basecamp you go out to summit and then
you come back down you rest and recover
and then you climb another mountain
right because mountains are discrete
entities it's very you know you don't
plan a trip being like okay Tuesday
we're gonna climb this mountain and then
by the next Tuesday we're gonna climb
halfway up this other mountain someone's
like okay but what about the other half
we just plan it like one-week increments
who cares about the other that's
nonsense right so his discrete entities
based on the application of overload and
the accumulation of fatigue when we
can't apply overload anymore and when
our fatigue is maxed out then we have to
deal owed and that gives us a finite
place to cut things off so it so every
metal cycle is kind of like a multi week
long wave and often times because of the
principle of specificity every
microsecond looks very similar it's just
more stuff with whether it's more weight
more apps more sets some combination of
all those they are repetitions and
reserve usually falls so you'd have very
similar exercises week to week to week
you just do more and more and more and
then you get too much fatigue D load
repeat that's basically a messy cycle
usually you start with your minimum
effective volume and because why the
hell would you start anywhere else and
then you work your way up in volume just
not because you're targeting your MRV
you're not like we're gonna go towards
MRV you're simply applying overload and
by doing so you're closer to armory and
once you get to your Marvy it's not like
the manual point that when you reach it
you're like ha we got it goal it's not a
goal is just going further than that is
counterproductive and fatigue is
super-high at that point so you have to
deal owed and then you start at minimum
effective volume again and for whatever
body parts or methods of training that
you don't want to decline during that
time but you want them to maintain you
keep those at maintance volume so for
example if you're really blasting your
chest your back in your legs you take
them through a mess a cycle from mev all
the way to MOV
d low to repeat and for maybe your other
body parts here your biceps triceps
whatever that you have on the back
burner you might keep those at
maintenance following the entire time so
they don't shrink on you but so they
stay the same size maybe you do a couple
of mesocycles in a row of blasting you
know chest shoulders and or check back
in legs or whatever the hell I said
whatever is on the front burner you do
that
for two to four message cycles and then
you know you'd build up some what I call
adaptive resistance you know body parts
don't like to grow for a really long
time then he breaks every now and again
you switch those around you take the one
you had on maintenance volume and then
you prioritize those for awhile and
that's kind of height maybe you would
construct a macro cycle that makes a lot
of sense one which is raw it's got to be
wrong right one way I think about these
in terms of like time scales like the
micro cycle is basically it usually just
a week the diesel cycle is a month or
two maybe very and then a macro cycle is
on the scale of like six months to a
year or something like that exactly yeah
and the mesocycle that what really I
think determines a mezzo cycle links
unless you try to get fancy and again
make this mistake of trying to work
toward some magical time instead of
laying letting the training principles
play out to determine the time kind of
like trying to reach for MRV as opposed
to just accumulating overload to get
there unless you're playing weird tricks
I think um repetitions and reserve
relative intensity is really what
determines mesocycle Lakes is you know
anything lower than five reps and
reserve is probably too easy
we can't sustainably train to failure
every week so we have this range right
and we start one of our weeks at the low
end and then as we accumulate overloads
we tend to see that there you know rir
starts to shrink whenever it shrinks
we're done and it's time to deal owed if
you are advanced or sorry if you are a
beginner to intermediate you don't
accumulate fatigue as fast and you make
such rapid adaptations that you can milk
out man sometimes more than eight weeks
of accumulation like you know you'll
have like you'll do squats in one week
the next week you'll do even more weight
and more reps but you're rir won't fall
because you got that much better at
squatting over a week right advanced
people just just doesn't happen anymore
so as you go from beginner immediate to
advanced you start to get into situation
where your medicines usually shrink in
duration and then you're running sort of
like on you know a one-month
accumulation phase it's funny I was
talking to Jared feather one of my
colleagues at Rp and as a natural pro
bodybuilder when he's like you're still
running a four to one accumulation which
means for micro-cycles
up for weeks up and one down Indy load
and I'm like yeah he's like dude I'm
still running four to one and it's
getting tough is it coming to have to
switch to three two one since he's been
training
for ten years so at some point you know
people I'm sure you find it funny when
people are like yeah I'm doing a 12-week
mess I quit
how the hell you survived what is it
that you're doing for 12 weeks that
constitutes and I was like then when you
look into it sometimes they have really
easy periods kind of for no reason or
another problem like we were talked
about earlier they're really far from
failure a lot of the time and you're
asking I'm like you know yeah you're
training but you're not even providing
an overload and as a super beginner and
you could just get Jack no matter what
especially if you're advanced unless
you're pushing it to some extent you're
just really not gonna benefit a whole
lot so mesocycles usually get shorter as
you get more advanced yeah yeah I
totally agree I really like that set up
I feel like and you may not like this
categorization I'm not sure of your
thoughts on this but it Kyle Ike the
fact that it does borrow some parts from
the sort of block periodization concept
where you'll focus on one maybe one you
said three specific entities and one
Mazal cycle but the rest at maintenance
you can maintain those and give the
attention to the stuff you're really
trying to develop that it needs and then
maybe in the next one you can you know
switch to a slightly different area of
focus put the the other body parts that
maintenance that you're not focusing as
much attention on and then continue to
build in that way I feel like that's a
pretty good strategy for guys who are
more towards the advanced end of the
spectrum
oh absolutely for the advanced um I love
the term Blachford ization
I'm a subscriber to what's called in
sport science modern period which takes
so dating block etc and puts them all
together and I sort of finely tuned
arrangement but but constructing
different mesocycles or putting a couple
of them together into blocks and having
to stick blocks for to seem to obtain
good practice I think that you know I
actually just wrote this down as a
Facebook post up making leaders many by
the time this goes out have a post maybe
that I've been super busy doing a bunch
of formal writing so it's difficult to
make posts all the time but if your goal
is maximum muscular potential in the
long term as a beginner you should
emphasize everything because your total
your the sum the summation of every
maximum recoverable volume of each body
part your bicep primary pleasure chest
um every pusher like store all of your
body is still under your total body
systemic MRV
your total body's ability to recover
through just overall stress as you get
more advanced that that summation
actually exits the range of your total
body recovery if I told you Jeff never
diff I told you you had to take every
muscle group and prioritize it at the
same time you'd be like okay I'm just
gonna do that for one week and then die
of old age and actually this is not
gonna happen right that might be double
your MRV for your whole body so what we
have to do is as we get more advanced at
first we prioritize everything that is
everything goes from MeV Dam RV later
we'll leave some things at around MeV
for the whole mesocyclone while pushing
everything else immediate Emery maybe
just a couple of our strong points or
something we don't want to work on as we
get more advanced more of our body parts
will be leaving at MeV and taking the
rest of the immediate in our view later
will help us leave some things at
maintenance volume to give ourselves
much more room and then as you get more
advanced more things have to be on
maintenance to prioritize just one or
two or a couple of things
so like for example branch Warren I'm
sure you know who that is yeah I took
one year off of leg training so he even
put that below maintenance volume I took
top prioritizes upper body and then he
trade for a couple of months and he got
his legs back his legs are just just
genetically freaky legs so so maybe a
more advanced version of a more modified
version of that would be like just doing
6 cents for every leg muscle for a whole
year maintenance volume and then just
upper body just crushing it to really
bring it out and I think that's where
eventually all advanced training goes
gosh yeah I feel like on that note
that's a good place to wrap this one up
I feel like people should have a good
idea of what you're about and this whole
conceptual thing so next time we can get
into more specifics and totally yeah
thank you so much I just want just
people just remember if you just confuse
to what I stand for it's just hard core
training at all times stop thinking and
just bleed if you're not bleeding in the
gym or at least yelling I'm not sure why
you're there yeah yeah yeah exactly
that's a new way to look at blood flow
restriction you gotta flip now we're
talking blood flow restrictions merely
just trying to patch the wounds from the
war against the barbells brother
exactly all right man well I think I'm
gonna wrap it up there and I'll have all
your stuff as usual link down there in
the description so if people want to
kind of cross check it because I feel
like unless you were taking notes or you
heard this before it might be a little
bit tough to like actually pin down the
concepts so I'll have all your articles
are fantastic link down there in the
description you guys can go and check it
out because next time we won't be going
in this kind of detail we're just gonna
hop right into some more specifics so
you can be on the lookout for that for
everybody listening probably about a
month we'll give Mike some time to do
some writing and launch some books or
whatever your your up to whatever yeah
get your balkon next time you come back
I want to do you say I'm to 75 oh boy
we'll make it happen
yeah thank you so much for having sweet
man alright well yeah it was a real
pleasure and thank you guys for
everybody who's been listening and don't
forget to leave us a like thank Mike for
taking time of his busy schedule go give
him a follow on Instagram check out his
website and I will see you guys all here
next time
[Music]