lifting weights does not make you less
flexible if you do it right first when
you compare lifting to static stretching
they both induce similar improvements in
flexibility with that being said in some
studies comparing the flexibility of
power lifters to the flexibility of
non-ls they observe that in the lower
body flexibility is greater within the
powerlifters but in the upper body
flexibility is generally greater within
non power lifters is that consistently
the case within the evidence these
couple of studies and novice lifters
increased range of motion even in the
upper body a key difference between
these studies and most power training is
that power lifting only has you training
the bench press as far as your upper
body goes likewise the way most power
Ops bench press nowadays is with a
limited range of motion So to avoid any
limitation in range of motion from
lifting weights it may be the case that
you simply need to have a sufficiently
wide excess selection and that you need
to lift with a sufficient range of
motion but in general lifting weights
makes you more flexible if anything and
that's why