your trading partner goes you know what
would be fun is if we did deficit
push-ups super set up with blah blah
blah and you go oh my God that's great
double the ideas double the fun always a
good thing
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video is about
training partners
yes that's right are they important are
they just evil twins that keep us from
achieving the real goals we could if
somebody was to make the Smith machine
slip just a little bit one way what am I
talking about training partners are
great
and they can help you
and this video is the first in a little
tiny mini series we'll shoot the other
videos over at some point
is to how a training partner can help
you how to use a training partner in the
best possible way how to have a really
good arrangement and also how to have
maybe the sub-optimal arrangement that
you don't want and you can do less of
that more of the former and have a
really really good time so
if you haven't had a training partner
before
but you've considered it and maybe there
are some options for you
may think well hold on a sec what are
the advantages of having a training
partner like I lift the weights by
myself still yes and the answer to that
is yes so what are the advantages
training partner can help you do a few
really really awesome things and this is
one of the reasons why a lot of times in
the deepest parts of contest prep for
example myself and Jared feather ifb Pro
will live in the same place for a while
in the same room even we share a blanket
yes all the jokes please we've seen them
all before but shoot them into the
comments we like to train together
for many of these reasons and you may
have a reason to train a training
partner that includes these other
reasons so check this out how training
partner can help
first
what is called scheduling motivation
if you're looking at your schedule next
week and you're like I'm traveling here
extra work at the office here
Valentine's Day
actually it's Valentine's day tomorrow
as of this recording
the fuck
the food you talk about oh shit my wife
don't you worry about when I'm gonna
give my wife
would you go get your what are you gonna
get your girl Scott the video guy
you took her nice hotel in Vegas but
that wasn't a Valentine's Day it wasn't
you think she's just supposed to
remember all the way through
yes
someone's like hey honey what's your
boyfriend getting you for Valentine's
Day she's like nothing but he got me
something a few days ago
that's gonna go great with the
girlfriends
don't care noted in any case
Valentine's Day whatever you got a week
schedule coming up if you train alone
it's easy for you to be like you know
I'm gonna skip next week at training or
I'm just gonna train two times but you
have a training partner though and they
may be more open to training and they
may be able to provide you with some
motivation to be like hey look look I
know you're busy but let's get in the
gym at least three times because I'll be
there four and I'd love to have you for
at least three of those sessions you go
God damn it you know what all right fine
and that's great because that training
partner pulls you into the direction of
more training a few months later when
he's got a busy week and you don't you
can pull him back and the average amount
of adherence to the training plan can go
up
next is of course the obvious really the
number one perceived reason that
training partners are a good thing is
intro workout motivation I mean that's
the person clapping and getting in your
face and getting after it get you pumped
up for sets congratulate you after and
all that other good stuff so yes
absolutely that is a factor another
factor that many people don't talk about
hilariously and ironically as I all
about to state is good conversation
if you have a training partner in the
gym who you can chat with and it's fun
and interesting
Gee Whiz It's like go and hang out with
your friend every day for an hour
that's awesome
and this is incredibly awesome from the
perspective of adherence for the
long-term plan if do you going to the
gym means going to the gym alone and
you're lonely you don't talk to anyone
and there's other people there and
you're like ah and you kind of keep to
yourself
ah man you might not want to be there
much or as much and you might fall off
the wagon or just go less but if you're
going there with your friend your buddy
your partner your pal and you're having
really great conversations all the time
which you is you know you might go train
to avoid other parts of life that's how
consistent you'll be your wife's like
when are we doing movie night it's been
years you asshole and you're like oh
yeah movie night yeah Cheryl well you
know I gotta I got a training session
coming up with my friends so Fitness
first I'll see you never whoa and you
just get out the door strange that you
speak like this
and you have a weird accent but
nonetheless it's really good to have a
good time during training between sets
because it can very least keep you
coming back
another one is program troubleshooting
you may not kind of have figured out why
you should put squats here leg presses
here or why that combo doesn't work but
when you're making a trading plan
usually your training partner is
involved and if even if they're not you
can ask them like hey dude when I think
I should do with leg presses today he's
like you should do them after stuff like
it does because you don't need your back
anymore because you'll just be in a leg
press and your back is on a seat oh fuck
brilliant thank you so much so program
troubleshooting is something a training
bar can do really well because not only
do they know general theory of training
in many cases but they also know how
your body works and how your body is
particular to your needs and
and how everything gels there they've
trained with you maybe for weeks maybe
for months maybe longer and they really
know how you respond so they can give
the most apt uh program advice Jared and
I when we train he always gives great
programming feedback and hopefully vice
versa another one is idea generation you
may be like man you know like I'm
putting together a chest day
I feel like we used all these exercises
already your trading partner goes you
know what would be fun is if we did
deficit push-ups superset with blah blah
blah and you go oh my God that's great
double the ideas double the fun always a
good thing
another thing is you get to learn by
experimenting everything's kind of an A
B split test if your training partner
does one thing and you do another you
basically go you know I don't know if
we're gonna do these curls or these
curls your training partner does one you
do the other a mesocycle later you come
back and you're like what'd you think
and he's like and you're like I thought
my shit was great he tries your shirt
the next month or you try his what do
you think oh yeah you're right your
dumbbell curl sucks and he's like dude
the cable curls you had going they're
great so now you have two people that
say this exercise is amazing two people
that say this exercise sucks maybe you
learned a lot for the both of you and
look if you don't agree then you can say
hey it's all individual difference
there's lots of stuff to figure out uh
to make sense of and you can do all
kinds of little experiments there with
your training partner and you can learn
a lot more and of course last but not
least and this is one that applies more
if your training partner is also friends
with you but even if they're not such
close friends with you it was promoting
adherence outside of the gym you know uh
if you're on your diet game like you're
going to have a discussion about diet
with your training partner and so it
could look just like this
show up Monday morning you both show up
to the gym you start training your legs
and your partner goes so how's the diet
right because you told him last week
you're on a fat loss diet
the fact that you know he's going to ask
you is already good motivation for you
to not do stupid shit on the weekends
because then you're going to have to
stare a training partner in the face
and say oh man you know I actually just
ate potato chips all weekend long
because at the worst he's gonna be like
oh yeah I hear you man that's fun no big
deal but then you've like perceptively
lost value as a human agent a rational
willpower you know holding agent and it
just sucks most of us want to perceive
that we're competent most of us want to
perceive and uh be perceived as somebody
who sticks to a plan when they lay it
out so even on the bare minimum of him
just asking you stuff in the gym just
about how life is going you're going to
want to make sure that your diet your
recovery Etc uh makes a ton of sense
like if you come in from the gym and
you're like yeah man legs are going to
be tough today I just did stupid shit
all weekend and didn't get any recovery
your training partner is going to be
like thinking at least to himself or to
herself like not in the gym trying to
crush my goals it's nice to have a
training partner who's also in the gym
to crush their goals and if you guys
have ever been in a situation with you
have a training partner in two different
degrees of seriousness they tend to kind
of find like like water finding its
level at least to some extent and
oftentimes that means the degree of
seriousness moves up when one of the
training Partners isn't willing to move
down a lot of times if you train with
someone you know
I'm I'm trying to train pretty
diligently but when I'm training for
um just with Jared Jared feather ifb Pro
if I'm training with him and he's
training for a pro show look there's one
speed on you know and uh that was really
good for me because I can be very
serious in the gym but if Jared was like
some fuck off asshole who was like yeah
I'm gonna do a set and I'll feel like it
then it's kind of like it is a little
tougher for me to to push my pace so
basically it's one of these things where
you end up if somebody's serious in the
gym it ends up sort of exuding
seriousness to the other facets of life
and everyone's Fitness gets really
really good and as a matter of fact
people will tell you that
um I've actually uh talked in a while
I've talked to numerous people on random
occasions about muscle stuff and I hear
a lot of the same stories and one of the
stories I hear is you know what people
find out I'm a bodybuilder or whatever
they'll say oh here I used to train with
and they insert a prose name back in the
day and a lot of times they say man I
was in the best shape of my life when I
trained with that guy it wasn't because
the guy knew a whole lot of Secrets or
something it was like this is a pro and
we go in we go harder we go consistent
and if you can train with someone at a
higher level a training partner that
pulls you up and you pull them up hey
that's awesome it's going to be great
for the rest of your life as well
second thing okay so first how can a
training partner help second is what
makes a good training partner and
concomitantly what makes a bad training
partner that stuff we will cover next
time so but I suppose the opposite of
this at the very least
first what makes a good trading partner
is they're they're on time
non-negotiable I've been a training
partner that's been like five to ten
minutes late
not a fun feeling not one I want to feel
again so nowadays I make sure I'm on
time every time and
if you have a training partner that's
five to ten minutes late it's like some
combination funny joke slash nuisance
if you have a training partner that's
half an hour 45 minutes late or they
just don't show up that's not really
your training partner in any sense of
the work so on time training partner
critical
diligent
okay they don't miss workouts
willy-nilly they don't miss reps
willy-nilly they don't get their
technique off like one of the weirdest
things you can have with a training
partner is you both understand what good
technique is and then they're doing lap
pull downs and at the end of their
really good technique lab pulldowns
that's the shirt like rookie jerking and
they get like three more reps like it's
always weird for me to Broach that be
like the fuck just happened bro did you
just forget all the fucking Sports
Science knowledge and we're trying to
learn together fuck are you doing that
is an example of low diligence like
somebody who could stick to a plan in a
program I mean she was you know like
that's what you're doing with your
training Partners just to can do a plan
so if they're low on diligence the whole
thing is kind of uh up up uh up to no
good
third if there is a Nuance here but the
it leaves drama at home
leaves drama at home doesn't mean that
between sets of leg curls it's something
wrong with your training partner be like
well Cynthia says she wants to start
seeing other people but if I wear a mask
and I'm on her only fans that I can be
in the room at the same time you're like
fuck bro or great I don't know what is
the monetization on that only fans I'm
trying to take this you're giving
yourself a little sniff a little piece a
little slice or is it just are you just
in like a fucking gimp mask
that's cool
but if instead of spotting you on leg
press to make sure you don't die or
watching for your Technique or even just
chatting with you between sets if
they're on their phone like Cynthia if
you ever text me back I will hire the
mafia send dot dot dot to have you
fucking killed sen dot dot dot black
heart black heart black heart black
heart send
we're here to train bro either train or
chill between Seth if we're bringing
negative energy and drama and a ton of
like really spastic shit
it's okay every now and again but
generally speaking like
same applies to all sports you can
actually treat this all as teammates in
basketball or football somebody bringing
drama on the court weird drama on the
bench whatever
next training partner has to bring the
right intensity which just means a
sufficiently high level of intensity to
get going but also nothing psychotic
like if your training partner starts
warming up for the squat and he's
yelling at every rep you got to be like
bro bro bro bro people know me in this
gym also if they don't they soon will as
the guy who works out with yelling
insane asshole guy you shut the fuck up
like there's levels to the shit so you
have to have an intensity that's like go
hard when the time is right chill when
the time is right
next gives you what I like to call
Goldilocks level of encouragement you
don't want a training partner that
you're warming up for a set he said come
on buddy you got this of course I
fucking got this warm up chill the fuck
out right or every single said he says
the same shit it's kind of annoying but
you also don't want to have a training
partner where you just hit your all-time
best PR on bench you rack you're like
fuck gas and training Partners like
okay it's my my set next ready to spot
me you're like okay Jesus Christ are you
like grinding out a leg press set and
your training partner's like
you finally get it he's like
good job you did it you're like are you
a fucking robot hey there's gotta be
some some living human in there but not
so living and so alive that that too
much of that like guy that came to talk
to your high school was a motivational
speaker shit and that's like excessive
so somewhere with it especially what you
like where you guys can gel and most
people who have a decent amount of uh
social intelligence if there was such a
thing to perceive cues and get on the
same level with that stuff next big one
a training partner has to give you
honest feedback if you're doing terrible
technique if you're not getting the Reps
but you say you are your good training
partner shouldn't be like good job bro
and then it's his next set
like all you when it's not all you I
don't want that shit I want honest
feedback now luckily my training partner
is often Jared feather ISP Pro he's a
mean man Jared's a mean person and well
okay honestly he's one of the nicest
people in the world but to his friends
he's really mean I don't know he has a
rationalization for
if I fuck up a tiny bit
I get the inevitable the the Doom saying
the sh earth quakes the mountains
crumble the Seas boil and I hear come on
Mike and I know in that stupid Missouri
accent I did something wrong my toes
came up my heels came up I wiggled the
bar this way that way Jared keeps me
honest because honesty doesn't mean
being a dick and he's not a dick honesty
means being like dude that was a great
set and then when it wasn't be like oof
that got rough towards the end even
gentle honesty like that to be like
respect it got rough I'm gonna clean it
up next time you have a good set that's
what it's all about next is
your training partner shouldn't compete
directly with you
when Jared and I are training together I
count the number of reps that he does so
I can say things like two more and I
usually get it wrong anyway because I'm
barely counting I'm not counting the
number of reps he does to be like I'm
gonna do two more than him first of all
if he's on contrast prep yeah I'm
stronger if he's not a mass phase and
I'm on prep he's stronger
who the fuck has time to compare that
kind of shit there is individual
differences in how fatigued you are in
each exercise we're all just trying to
hit our own reps in reserve to our own
specific strength on that exercise so if
a training partner is ruthlessly
competitive like if you have a guy that
always has to get one more rep than you
that's an insane person not a training
partner so competitive is great but like
directly with you competitive is nuts
compete more on how good your Technique
is and honestly between training
Partners I wouldn't even compete I would
be on the same team like do you compete
with guys on the same basketball team
like in practice kind of if that's the
drill do you do it on in in the in the
actual game because remember training
Partners their training is their
competition right you being in that gym
floor of a 24-hour Fitness in you know
West Oaks LA suburb or whatever that is
your fucking game time is you and your
training partner 40s a week or fucking
like the Lakers and the Pistons right
sorry so they're analogy wrong you're
like oh I was going to use code then I
realized they hated each other oh King
hey
Jordan and Pippin I'll go back on some
old school shit actually people who are
not competing against each other but
they're collaborating so the direct
competition even indirect competition is
kind of weird they're all there on part
of the same team
next you want a training partner that is
honest about their own preparedness what
you don't want is week five of them as a
cycle you guys are both trashed you
should be deloading and you got this
like weird again competitive bro complex
where he's like how you feeling bro and
you're like can't barely open your mouth
because you're so fatigued like good
good man I feel good uh fuck great and
he's okay me too bro me too and you're
all right let's warm up yeah great and
you do another shitty workout where both
of you suck because nobody can just
admit that they have high fatigue you
don't want a training partner
that drags you down because he's a
straight fucking bitch but like you
gotta have some wiggle room of honesty
honesty about preparedness honesty about
everything because the at the end you
want the truth so you can make the best
decision possible uh when trading
partners lie to each other it's kind of
fucking weird whatever the reason is
this one the next one is related uh
somebody that doesn't bitch aimlessly
only in the perspective that aimless
bitching bitching with aim is like hey
this is a problem let's Solve IT solving
great no more bitching Amos bitching is
some a bitching can be fun if it's
comedic and humorous hilarious right uh
one of our training partners are very
good friends uh someone who's appeared
on this channel a bunch for training uh
world record powerlifter brianni Terry
she says I'll I'll do every set I'll do
a rap I'll try hard but I absolutely
reserve the right to bitch to which I
answered girl I'm Jewish you don't think
we invented that shit fuck up out of
here right but it's totally valid
bitching is hilarious and can be awesome
but Breeze bitching is fake bitching
it's joke bitching it's athlete bitching
for real bitching like man fuck this
exercise I want to do this shit and
you're like okay you sure look oh man
I'm good I'm good I'm good you're like
bro like stay calm a lot of people are
just complaining about a lot of stuff
and complaining is just toxic real for
real complaining joke complaining is
hilarious so
you got a training partner that's just
fucking complaining all the time oh man
you know you kind of picked the wrong
training partner maybe or it's at least
worth a discussion
next one is someone you can chat between
sets with now this isn't mandatory none
of these are mandatory mandatory some of
them are highly recommended you can have
like a silent relationship like when
Batman and Robin drive back to the
Batcave after a day of fighting crime I
don't know if they're like
so
go to that Gala tomorrow as Bruce Wayne
Batman's like yeah
all right you're gonna fuck any of them
hoes there he's like yeah like all right
my man
anyone uh looking out for
yeah this one bitch Cindy you're like ah
sweet my man hell yeah fuck Cindy let's
get it I don't know if that happens
anything just kind of sit there right
and that's totally cool if you want to
be Batman Robin about the shit between
sets you don't say anything but it's
just much more fun if you can bullshit
between sets if you can have like a
friendship as well as a trading partner
thing all the motivational stuff the
consistency the adherence all that just
gets way way better
next
a training partner should ideally this
is not a must be close to your weight
and height and honestly your strength
why
because if my training partner puts one
plate on the leg press and I put seven
on the leg press or if I put seven and
they put 12 that's a lot of work for
both of us if my training partner is six
foot eight and I am five foot three and
a half which is my real height
I love starting rumors on the internet
Scott the video guy
guys but for real my real height is five
two and a quarter but honestly it's five
six but on a serious note I'm actually
five nine yeah
training for muscle growth
is never going to be the same
my training partner Jared feather
everyone knows fact is my biological
child
he came out of my penis is that that's
how children work no sorry I'm getting
ahead of myself it's ideally the thing
for you to be roughly the same size
strength Etc so you can work on the same
machines okay so if I'm 5'3 and the
training partner six eight what fucking
squat height are we racking out into and
out of are you fucking kidding me like
okay I'm not doing pull-ups here on your
fucking squat bar and I want my training
partner I have to do a full ROM good
morning to stand up with my squad so at
the end of the day it's not a must but
somebody roughly similar size
similar strength isn't super important
as long as they're not like outlandishly
stronger like if I mention a plate and
you're benching too
shit no problem if I'm mention complete
you're mentioning three no problem two
plates on two plates off no big deal but
again if I'm hack squatting one plate
and you're hack squatting eight plates
fucking Christ who's gonna put seven
plates on the bar each time between each
side that's nonsense you reach another
problem if somebody's really really
strong if someone's really really not
strong I don't like to use the term weak
all the time it's kind of negative
um you know the person who's not a
strong they need like 30 seconds break
between uh sets the person who's really
strong needs three or four minutes and
then it's like does that person do two
sets for the one they're gonna run out
of stuff to do it's better to have
things similar not mandatory but better
and lastly has similar goals and this
one's pretty important because if one of
the trading partners is training for
powerlifting
the other for bodybuilding one is trying
to work on his chest the other one's
trying to work on his arms
it's tough because then you have to go
separate ways for a bunch of different
exercises and then you just kind of go
to the gym uh to train and um
you know you're not training for the
same thing anymore like my wife and I
are similar enough height for the height
thing to be okay uh different enough
strength for that to get annoying
sometimes but a lot of the things like
we train for considerably different
goals within context like what we're
specializing prioritizing Etc some
people are like oh like you and your
wife train together I'm like well
we're in the gym at the same time I
stare at her ass a lot but is it true
for me to say that I train with her like
sometimes we go on vacation and we just
do like a general program for sure it's
fun to have my little bro training
partner my favorite thing is to say all
kinds of bro jokes with her and treat
her like a man and then later we go into
the locker room we discover she is not a
man and then happiness confusion tears
more happiness confusion tears and then
we leave locker room that's just in the
locker room all that stuff by the way so
any case similar goals is really really
helpful now last thing for uh this
episode today is what doesn't matter and
that is experience level you can
actually have great training someone
who's Advanced with someone who's a
beginner there's going to be a lot of
learning
but that beginner is going to come up
real quick to be able to help that
advanced person out spotting and loading
looking for basic technique stuff even
if you have a beginner in training a lot
of times what you do is you put yourself
into this position with the way you
describe technique to them after a few
weeks they become a technique Zealot and
then they just innocently tell you
you're doing shit wrong and you're like
wow fuck he's calling me out he's
totally right for example as an advanced
person when you have a beginner with you
you teach them how to Bent row you're
like all right like do this do that make
sure your back never moves Nobody
English they're like okay got it the
first thing to suck at it and a couple
weeks later they're doing it pretty good
and then they're spotting you and you
know it's all good vice versa and
they're like hey on that last night
you're you know your back's starting to
get a little wobbly and the instant
inclination I usually have is with the
fuck I've birthed you into this world of
training how dare you I'll birth you
back uh but the reality is you got to be
like oh wear it up yeah uh listen if I
can't convince a beginner I have good
technique I'm really fucking up so a lot
of times that works really really really
well so it doesn't have to be that you
have the same experience level but all
these other things are highly preferred
next time when we come back with another
one of these videos hopefully we'll link
this one to that one so you can be
caught up we are going to talk about
training partner negatives and how to
get the most out of your training
partner including hacking into their
bank accounts and just just a small
enough money to where they never see it
leave the account but big enough that
you can buy extra burritos and uh fuck
over your friends on the slide yeah
friends training Partners big difference
see you guys next time