[Music]
[Music]
okay what is going on everyone so this
video is going to be a response to my
last video which was my April Fool's
video basically the Technic Tuesday
episode hosted by bro Jeff if you
haven't seen the video I'll have that
linked down below that's basically a
4-minute video of my alter-ego giving
the worst possible lifting
that you can imagine as an April Fool's
joke but we're gonna kind of respond to
that in this video but yeah it's like
four minutes if you want to watch it
I'll have it linked down below and then
there's like a minute of bloopers but I
think most of you guys have seen it and
we're gonna kind of go through the
response to that first things first I
will say that I've been surprised at the
response to that video I was actually
pleasantly surprised at how positively
it was received so it's my most liked
video in a really long time and it got a
98% like to dislike ratio which is super
high for any video but especially high
for a video like this which could very
easily be taken out of context so I was
impressed with I won't say I was
impressed I was actually
pleased with how many people basically
got the joke and thought it was funny
basically what I expected was the people
who are subscribers and regular viewers
of my channel would basically catch on
right away that this was bro jeff'd bro
Jeff who was hosting this and it would
just be basically a troll video and
anyone who was new to my channel because
my videos reach both subscribers and
nonsubscribers would think that this guy
is just a total idiot and would just
totally write it off right away whereas
what actually happened that I found a
little bit surprising was a lot of
people including subscribers were
actually fooled by the video until I
said that it was an April Fool's video
in retrospect I can see how it would
happen because I think I was still or I
should say bro Jeff was still speaking
with a very professional informative
tone and so I think a lot of people were
just really confused and we're kind of
like wait this doesn't sound right but
you're speaking in a way that sounds
very professional so maybe there's
something to it and it just took until
it got to a certain point of
ridiculousness or until I just showed my
hand and said I was trolling that people
actually finally realized what was
going on so the first thing I want to
talk about here is basically that in
health fitness bodybuilding whatever
it's very rarely the case that you'll
find something that is undeniably true
so in all situations all the time this
is the thing that is always going to
work and by the same token it's actually
quite rare to find something that is
always complete and utter nonsense and
never has any value or application in
any context usually most things fall in
a gray area where they may have merit
for some people in some circumstances
and may not in others and just to give
you guys an example of this I want to
look up an article here from Brett
Contreras and Andrew Vygotsky from 2014
the term worthless should be used
sparingly since almost everything has a
purpose and provides some value
depending on the situation and they give
the example of whole body vibration
training basically those machines that
you just plop yourself down on and they
vibrate your body and then that's
supposed to burn calories or build
muscle in some way so you have people
who don't actually want to Train stand
on these things and think they're gonna
get results from it and so these
machines have kind of become the
laughingstock of most of the online
evidence-based community however as they
say in the article whole body vibration
training is promising for the promotion
of tendon healing so even something that
has all of the makings of complete bro
science can have application in specific
circumstances in this case in the case
of promoting tendon health okay so I'm
just pulling up the video here now and
we're gonna go through these three
pillars by the way I think that along
for regular viewers I'm not gonna
explain the joke I think that'll ruin it
but I expected like at the very
beginning the intro sequence is totally
altered we did a totally new intro
sequence that had the actual song down
pitched and I think maybe the only guy
or the only comment I noticed was the
guy who actually produced the song
Ryan little who was like as soon as I
heard this terrible bastardization of
your intro track I knew that this is
going to be a troll and then the comic
sans font gave it away for a lot of
people the outfit obviously you know if
you're familiar with the
with this character you'll know that I
use him as an example to demonstrate
what improper lifting technique is in
the technique Tuesday videos but if you
haven't seen those videos then you'd
have no context for all those red flags
so I can see how that would be missed
but in any case okay let's dig right in
with the first pillar so the first
pillar of proper training technique
according to bro Jeff is that weight
always matters more than technique
one of the more cringy statements I've
read in a while but I think it's worth
actually exploring a little bit now I
think that the main culprit here in
terms of this having no legitimacy is
the word always like I kind of already
alluded to it's really the case that
things are completely black and white in
matters of health and fitness so you
could almost replace weight and
technique with any other words and this
would still be almost a nonsensical
statement because it's rarely the case
that one variable always matters more
than another variable it's usually the
case that it matters depending on the
goal of the person or the advancement of
the person or the context of their
training situation or whatever let's
just pull out for the sake of
illustration pull out weight and replace
it with a volume because we know that
weight and volume are actually
inextricably linked in a way it's
actually something that I feel like a
lot of people would have to think about
because we've heard for a long time now
that volume may be the primary driver of
hypertrophy we at least know that
increasing volume is all else equal a
pretty sure fire way to drive muscular
progress forward and so maybe you could
make the case that volume actually does
matter more than technique however I
would argue that technique is actually
more fundamental because even though we
tend to approximate volume as the number
of sets times the number of reps times
the amount of weight technically
speaking volume is actually the amount
of total work done if you look at the
actual physics formula for work you'll
see that it's actually Force Times
distance so there's a distance component
to the amount of work that you're doing
and in exercise science circles this
distance component is basically captured
by a range of motion so if you're not
training through a full range of motion
are you really maximizing on the amount
of volume that you're doing if
go back to wait there let's just assume
that by wait what bro Jeff means is
progressive overload and we know that
progressive overload is the main thing
driving progress forward
so maybe progressive overload does
matter more than technique and I do
think that progressive overload is very
important but I don't think you should
ever achieve it at the expense of
training technique for a couple reasons
first of all if you're progressively
overloading but your technique is
progressively breaking down you may not
actually be applying a progressive
tension stimulus to the target muscle
you might just be getting other
assistance muscles more involved through
the momentum and the cheating that
you're doing so you might be
progressively cheating not progressively
overloading your technique doesn't
necessarily have to be perfect all the
time but it should be consistent if you
want to prioritize progressive overload
on the flip side of this you have
something equally absurd which is
basically becoming so obsessed with your
training technique that it comes at the
expense of you actually ever really
training with any significant amount of
effort but when talking about this stuff
in the context of people relatively new
to the gym or just people who haven't
established good lifting habits I think
the technique really is probably the
most fundamental thing in most
circumstances and another thing that I
got a lot was a comment something to the
effect of you do actually need to lift
heavy though to build maximum muscle so
even though weight may not be as
important as technique past a certain
point of form breakdown you do still
need to lift heavy if you want to build
maximum muscles but we actually have
quite a bit of research telling us how
heavy you need to lift to build muscle
and it's actually not nearly as heavy as
many people think
so there have been a bunch of studies
done on this comparing hypertrophy
between groups doing very high reps
groups doing very low reps groups with
very light weight groups with very heavy
weight and what we see is that you can
see more or less equal hypertrophy
across a very wide spectrum of rep
ranges so if you combine studies you can
see very similar growth between subjects
doing 30 percent of their one rep max
you know that's very light weight all
the way up to 85% of your one rep max
so something you could do for like five
reps you could make the case that as
long as you're training to failure or
sufficiently close to failure you can
see very similar hypertrophy however
with that said last year in 2018
there was a new study published and the
mass research review covered it here and
it actually shed some light on what that
bottom end threshold might be for how
light can you train and still make equal
progress to what you'd make by training
heavier and the answer seems to be
something between 20 to 30 percent of
your 1 rep max and I think that this
makes sense I'm very skeptical that you
can get similar bicep growth by just
training with the 2 pound pink dumbbells
4 sets of 50 or 100 reps as you would
with 30 or 35 pound dumbbells 4 sets of
6 to 12 and research now supports this
so it seems that you need to train with
at least 30% of your 1 rep max to be
capable of maximizing your hypertrophic
potential but that's actually still
pretty light but with that said I think
that there is still a practical
hypertrophy rep zone meaning that if I
was to recommend to someone what rep
zone to train in I would say 6 to 12
reps which means you're for the most
part and it does depend on the muscle
that you're training in the exercise but
for the most part you should be training
somewhere in the 6 to 12 rep range
because that's gonna allow you to use
sufficiently heavy weight to generate a
significant tensile stimulus on the
muscle without running the risk of
becoming extremely taxed metabolically
which you run the risk of if you're
doing very high reps and you also don't
run the same risk of injury as you would
with very low reps and another issue
with very heavy weight is that it's
really difficult to accumulate enough
training volume because the reps are so
low so for practical purposes I agree
you should actually lift quite heavy in
a more moderate rep zone but from a
theoretical perspective you can't really
say that you need to lift heavy to build
muscle and I think that this is
particularly salient in the case of
people who have injury or just can't
train heavy or hate training heavy you
actually can make significant progress
with lighter weights provided you're
taking those sets to failure or very
close to failure which practically
speaking is really hard to do it's
really hard to
a set of leg press even harder to take a
set of squats to failure if you're doing
20 to 30 reps but still to say that you
need to lift heavy or that lifting heavy
is more important than technique i think
is actually nonsense
okay so pillar number two according to
bro jeff is to emphasize the concentric
only and ignore the negative now there
were at least I would say hundreds if
not thousands of people who commented
that they got two or three minutes into
the video before they realize this was
patrol which means they heard me or I
bro Jeff say this and recommend that
your spotter lift the weight off your
chest so that you can just get the
weight up and then drop it on the way
down and fell for it so I won't say that
that's concerning but I think it does
open my eyes of the fact that maybe
making this video is necessary so this
is as close to utter nonsense as I could
come up with for the April Fool's video
because we know and you know I've said
this on the channel a lot that it's
really important that you control the
negative for basically two reasons the
first is safety if you're just letting
the weight fall you're so much more
likely to snap your stuff up but even if
you don't really care about safety too
much like bro Jeff over here I still
think you want to take the eccentric or
lowering phase very seriously because it
probably is the more anabolic
contraction that isn't fully fleshed out
in the literature but I think you can
make that case you're at least stronger
on the eccentric than you would be on
the concentric so I think it'd be kind
of foolish to just let the weight fall
and not take advantage of that potential
increase in tensile stimulus that you
get from resisting on the negative also
you provide more stretch to the muscle
here in the length into position so
there's various reasons why you might
think that the eccentric is more
important for building muscle so you
definitely don't want to just ignore it
one of the cues that I like to use in my
own training is thinking about the
negative as a sort of failed positive
that's just using the bicep curl as an
example you know you would curl the bar
up and then on the negative you wouldn't
just let the weight fall back down
or you can just think about lowering the
weight you'd actually think about
actively resisting so kind of pushing
the weight up but slowly allowing it to
come back down so you can think of it as
if you were trying to get the weight
back up but it just so happens to fall
back down and that's gonna apply a lot
of active tension on that negative phase
yeah obviously don't want to exaggerate
that to the point that like the negative
takes a long time generally speaking you
only want it to last one or two seconds
but still I think you should be actively
resisting on the negative for the most
part that doesn't apply to every
exercise so for example I recommend
lowering much faster on a deadlift
do you think of that as one of the very
few concentric only exercises and on a
squat you don't really want to think
about the negative necessarily as a
failed concentric because you really
want to load up the stretch reflex in
the bottom there but when it comes to
like pretty much every single joint
exercise or exercises they're kind of
trying to isolate one or two target
muscles I think it is smart to think
about the negative this way okay
pillar number three was that range of
motion doesn't matter we kind of already
talked about range of motion I think it
is really important but still by the
same token I don't think I'd put range
of motion necessarily on a pedestal and
I think that there is a place in your
training for partial ranges of motion
however I think that all else equal and
for the bulk of your training program
you should be training through a full
range of motion that's comfortable for
you so what a full range of motion is
for you is going to depend on your
mobility your skeleton the particular
exercise so for example unlike a
preacher bicep curl
I could see merit and you know doing say
10 reps with a full range of motion and
then just pumping out the top end of the
range of motion to kind of get a few
more effective reps in at the end in the
video here I think I used the benchpress
as an example after or should say bro
Jeff used the benchpress as an example
after not wanting to use the squat he
suggested that you only bring the weight
a quarter or half the way down so that
you can use more weight that's something
except for like maybe in the case of a
Spoto press which is like an advanced
exercise for power lifters who try to
train through that sticking point I
would never recommend cutting a
benchpress range of motion short dress
you can use more weight
that is explicit cheating on the
exercise and if you do that in the gym
your benchpress doesn't count you need
to bring the weight all the way down to
your chest that's how it's done in
competition and that's what a actual
benchpress looks like so that this might
be the one I don't know I disagree with
all of Bro Geoff Spiller is quite
strongly but this one in particular
bothers me because it's really common to
see people restrict their range of
motion just so they can use more weight
and like I said except for in those
advanced cases that's something I would
almost never recommend now the very last
part of this video was the motivational
pep talk about hyping yourself up and
all of that that was kind of me just
playing along with the fact that like
it's kind of ironic that the people who
hype up the most then go and just use
like a partial range of motion or have
their spot or lift the weight off them
it wasn't to say that hyping yourself up
is bro science there's actually a lot of
interesting research on using music
using positive affirmations even like
ammonia salts and stuff like that in the
case of power lifters even though the
evidence on that is actually kind of
weak but still I think that some kind of
preset ritual actually has quite a lot
of merit and I might go into that in
another video the whole hype up thing
really does depend on the person some
people do better with a lot of hype some
people do better without much hype but I
think you know well it goes without
saying that hyping yourself up that much
before like a set of really bad form
bicep curls is probably not the best way
to earn your respect in the gym if
nothing else so anyways guys that is my
full response to bro Geoff hopefully
you'll take my word for it and not his
but yeah he's gonna continue to make
appearances and demonstrate improper
lifting technique and the remaining
technique Tuesday videos so you guys can
have a look out for that thank you guys
for hearing me out I know this was a bit
of a longer video but I did want to do
that full response I'm going to leave
the video a thumbs up if you enjoyed the
video subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next video
[Music]