the strict interpretation of the
effective reps Theory as propagated by
one Chris basley and Paul cter is wrong
here's
why we back local effective reps hater
and soon to be doctor Milo wolf here and
today we're talking about the effective
reps Theory and why I think pretty
convincingly that it's wrong here is
what the effective reps theory states
first only the last five repetitions of
a set to failure cause hypertrophy
perhaps up to the last eight repetitions
but certainly no more than eight
secondly this is due to a combination of
a slow contraction velocity despite
maximal intent high levels of mechanical
tension and complete motor unit
recruitment essentially what a strict
interpretation of this model predicts as
has been espoused by Paul CER for
example if someone were to train five
reps or more away from failure according
to this model they should see no muscle
growth unfortunately this just doesn't
seem to be the case in fact the most
recent metth analysis on how close to
failure you train and how that impacts
hypertrophy found that you did indeed
see substantial muscle hypertrophy
whether you trained 10 reps away from
failure five reps away from failure 15
reps away from failure so there is
definitely still hypertrophy being
stimulated when you're training further
than five reps away from failure in fact
even previous metanalyses on training to
failure or not training to failure
generally found similar hypertrophy
whether or not you got those five reps
at the end of acep failure that really
matter so it just doesn't seem to be the
case that only the last five reps or
even eight reps are the only ones that
matter for hypertrophy you can still see
hypertrophy even when training five or
more reps away from failure so the
effective reps Theory just seems to be
wrong if we dive a bit deeper into the
ortic Chris Bley if metabolites aren't
playing a role in the muscle glow
process then why is it seem as though
combining a variety of rep ranges which
may very well initiate hypertrophy bya
different mechanisms for example higher
rep ranges might involve greater amounts
of metabolite accumulation which could
then lead to hypertrophy but if
hypertrophy doesn't stem from
metabolites and only from tension as
Chris bizley speculates then why do we
see greater hypertrophy when including a
variety of rep hes versus just one
anyways there's a lot of holes in the
effective reps Theory or at the very
least in the very strict interpretation
of it with that said is there some truth
to the effect of reps theory yes if you
actually look at the results from the
Robinson and colleagues metanalysis on
training to failure and how close to
failure you train and the effects on
hypertrophy you do see that the closer
you go to failure especially those last
few reps the more hypertrophy you see on
a set per set basis so while a very
strict interpretation of the effective
reps Theory as I've seen for example
espoused by Paul cter would predict that
you only see hypert
when you do at least one or more of
those last five reps that's not true it
does seem that doing those last five
reps before failure does increase
hypertrophy even more but you do still
see some hypertrophy even when training
Sub maximally in other words repetitions
do get more stimulative as you get
closer and closer to failure in fact if
you look at the discussion of that paper
you will see that the authors refer to
something called nonlinearity which
basically just says that each additional
rep you do going closer and closer to
failure seems to produce more and more
growth on a per R unit basis so let me
summarize this video and give some
recommendations first the strict
interpretation of the effective reps
Theory as put forward by Chris basley
and propagated by Paul CER is wrong now
does that mean it's completely wrong no
there is some truth to it in fact
generally as you go closer and closer to
failure each rep becomes a little bit
more stimulative but you can still
absolutely see growth training five or
more reps away from failure that's the
video if you like the video it's a short
one please comment like subscribe and
I'll see you guys my viewers in that
next one peace