[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday so this week I'm
going to be recruiting the help of Matt
bogus to help demonstrate some of these
exercises that we were both in
California for the natural muscle mayhem
this year and we decided we linked up
for this AB video now before we get into
the exercises themselves I think it's
important to keep in mind that while the
ABS will be built in the gym they're
revealed in the kitchen meaning without
a sufficiently low body fat percentage
doesn't really matter how well you train
your abs your six-pack probably isn't
gonna look its best now generally
speaking somewhere in the 8 to 12% body
fat zone for men and 14 to 18 percent
body fat zone for women is gonna be
necessary to reveal that six-pack so in
a previous technique Tuesday video I
covered isometric exercises for training
the core such as a plank so in this
video Oh gasps and I are gonna show our
top three exercises for developing this
six-pack or the rectus abdominis itself
so the primary function of the rectus
abdominis is lumbar flexion basically
rounding the lower back so to Train the
6-pack optimally we want to include
exercises that are gonna take the lumbar
spine through a full flexion range of
motion and while weighted spinal flexion
movements like crunches have been
criticized as being risky an
evidence-based examination of spinal
flexion from dr. Brett Contreras and dr.
Schoenfeld argues that it's premature to
say that dynamic flexion exercises like
crunches are injurious in healthy
individuals and I've discussed why I
think crunches are safe to perform in
another video which I'll link down below
now according to EMG data from buh heck
Barron's and bus keys you can see that
while both crunches and hanging leg
raises are both effective for targeting
is the full six-pack hanging leg raises
do target the lower abs a bit more while
crunches target the upper abs a bit more
so as a general rule to hit all three
rows of the six-pack you want to include
both an exercise where you're bringing
your upper torso down toward your
midline like a crunch and an exercise
where you're bringing your lower limbs
up toward your torso like a leg raise
okay so the first exercise is the weight
and crunch you can do this on a machine
or by using a rope attachment on a cable
setup and you want to grab the rope with
your pinkies up against the handles and
pull the rope back behind your head as
you kneel down and before initiating the
crunch you want to squeeze your glutes
to position your hips and posterior
pelvic tilt I'm just gonna help the ABS
get engaged over the hip flexors
initiate the movement by thinking about
crunching the rope both down and in only
crunching the straight down might cause
the hip flexors to take over more
crunching in is gonna force your lower
back to round which is a good thing
this is exactly the movement that the
ABS are responsible for performing your
upper back can stay more or less fixed
at least there's no need to
intentionally curl your upper back
since the ABS won't contribute to
thoracic flexion as much as a lumbar
flexion and you can tuck your chin down
if you find it helps you focus on
flexing your spine better however the
main thing you want to avoid is jerking
your head up and down throughout the
range of motion so you want to crunch
until you feel a strong contraction
along the entire length of your six-pack
and then reverse the motion by allowing
your lower back to straighten out at the
top of each rep you should reach full
spinal extension so you can take each
and every crunch through a proper full
range of motion now in general I like to
load the crunch in a more moderate to
light rep zone something around 12 to 20
reps
since loading lumbar flexion heavily may
still present a spinal risk so while
many athletes are able to do it without
issue just to play it safe I think it's
better to avoid really heavy loading on
the crunch in my opinion now one of the
most common errors that I see with the
crunch is pulling the rope or machine
down with your arms to help combat this
you want to take a more loose grip on
the handles and think about your arms
only as connectors with your ABS doing
all of the work it's also really common
to see people only flex their upper back
while their lower back stays completely
neutral and this is a natural tendency
for lifters because it's generally a
good lifting advice to keep a neutral
lower back however the ABS are an
exception to this rule since one of
their primary functions is to round the
lower back okay up next is the hanging
leg raise for the hanging leg raise you
want to hang from a pull-up bar with a
roughly 1.5 times shoulder-width grip if
you find your grip to be a limiting
factor you can use straps which might
help improve them
muscle connection with the abs by
limiting the fatigue of the forearms
from here initiate the leg raise by
rolling your hips forward and up as your
knees swing up toward your chest or
armpit area and again you want to think
about crunching your lower abs in your
upper abs together rather than simply
thinking about lifting your legs up
which is most likely gonna cause the hip
flexors to take over once your knees
reach the top position reverse the range
of motion by lowering your legs back
down under control and if you focus on
using your abs to control the movement
rather than generating momentum by
rocking your torso back and forth your
hips should stay pretty well stable and
locked into position when if you would
from the side since this is actually a
pretty tough exercise when executed
properly and with good control
I generally perform it with body weight
for 6 to 15 reps depending on the
abdominal strength of the trainee now
one of the most common errors that I see
here is simply allowing the knees to
bend up without any hip curl component
while the bent knee leg raised can be a
decent progression before going into the
more straight leg variation you still
need to focus on rolling the hips
forward and up not just simply lifting
the knees up just lifting the knees up
without rolling the hips or crunching
the ABS is simply going to target the
hip flexors and be way too easy past a
ranked beginners strength level another
very common error is using too much of
momentum allowing the torso to swing
backward and forward rather than
cheating your way up by swinging
initiate the leg raise by contracting
your abs from a dead hang if you can't
do a raise without swinging you may not
have developed enough ab strength yet so
you can start by using a Roman chair
which is gonna prevent momentum or you
can start with decline reverse curls
also known as dragon flags and grab on
to a handle balance your weight on your
upper back and shoulders and swing your
legs up as you crunch your abs at the
top and then allow your abs to control
the negative as you lower your legs back
down under control alright the third
rectus abdominus exercise we're going to
cover here is the bicycle crunch and I
really like this variation because it
not only trains the rectus abdominus
through spinal flexion but it also gets
the obliques involved through spinal
rotation so here you want to lie on the
floor place your hands behind your head
but don't actually grab your head and
bring your left elbow to your right knee
by twisting your torso while
in your apps alternate sides back and
forth so that the leg movement looks as
if you're pedaling a bicycle however
keep in mind that just like with the
hanging leg raise the simple act of
bending your knee doesn't do anything
for the ABS so you want to focus on
mindfully crunching and twisting with
the 6-pack rather than simply just going
through the motions passively unlike the
weighted crunch and the leg raise the
bicycle crunch is generally performed
with a faster more explosive tempo so
I'll generally program it for something
around 15 to 20 reps now the most common
error with the bicycle crunch that I see
is just moving your arms to touch the
knee rather than actually crunching with
your abs your arms should be locked in
position and the elbow to knee contact
should be created entirely from spinal
flexion and rotation and guys that is
all that I have for this one I want to
give a shout out to Matt for helping me
out with the demonstrations on this
video and I'll have his channel and his
Instagram link down below I make sure
you guys check out my latest ab
technique video which focused on the
plank and the AB wheel roll out don't
forget to like the video if you found it
to be helpful subscribe if you haven't
already and I'll see you guys all here
in the next one
[Music]
[Music]