[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization oh and look this man is
wearing our PT shirt also he is Doug our
coaching manager at Rp and we co-opted
him into doing the at-home workout demo
videos of which this is number three and
lower body this time so we are going to
do four brutal back-to-back-to-back sets
of stiff legged deadlift with dumbbells
and then after that we are going to do
elevated squats what are those things
you might ask if you're really impatient
you can just fast-forward right now but
if you want to learn stuff and go along
with our workout stay tuned we're gonna
do first thing is we're gonna warm up a
little bit more than else to forget that
we're assuming you're working out at
home you don't have a lot of equipment
all we have is a pair of dumbbells let's
get to it
all right folks the first thing we're
gonna do for all these exercises all
these workouts is to at least one more
upset just to get the blood flowing get
a little heat to the muscles so on and
so forth so double stuff like it out
we're using some pretty heavy dumbbells
here because ideally once and everyone's
if you have light ones all you have to
do is do more wraps sets of twenty to
thirty and even more are just fine
that's not gonna do sets of twenty nine
thirty here today because these are
pretty heavy dumbbells Doug let's do a
set a full about four to warm up give it
a shot so he's gonna pick these up
normally just reach down and pick stuff
up kind of way and then he's going to
arch his lower back get his hips back
get his chest down hit it up chest stays
elevated and back up very good you want
to keep that back as straight as you can
get the tension on the hams very good
notice that slow eccentric and up and
you don't have to go all the way down
the ground dog is pretty flexible which
you can even stop just below your knees
as soon as you feel tons of tension in
the hams and up feel it okay there
awesome let's rack he's gonna rest about
30 seconds to a minute get his stuff
together and we'll do the first higher
rep set after that we're gonna take five
to ten second breaks between three more
sets bring in four total sets of hams
prepare to be sore here's the deal when
do you stop on these you can keep going
up and down like
using God knows all hustles in order to
use the hamstrings properly we have to
have that tilted la pelvis here arched
lower back the rest of our back in
doesn't matter what it does but arching
most of it can help you arch the rest of
it so if you're trying to round over
here arch here that's kind of advanced
if you can do it sweet but generally
just want a nice arch lower back and
then your knees are gonna want to push
forward on you don't let them keep them
just barely out of lock and you're gonna
let your hamstrings do the talking here
and you will feel it you know these are
going right if you feel your hamstrings
deep painful stretch every single rep
I'm gonna stop dog doing these we're
gonna hit technical failure when you can
no longer keep a tight lower back and
keep his knees pretty close to straight
it's not gonna be a matter if he can't
move anymore
ready dog let's do it so low and up
great big chest yes
feelin blue background warning number
one let's arch that back let's fix it
and get a couple more ups chest up chest
up chest up chest up and up one more
good one slow big chest big chest big
chest that was dog that was for
sure failure rack good stuff man good
stuff
folks will your background on some of
these yes the trick is to give yourself
one round back one per set and if
there's more than one the set is over
you have to try to fix it so difficult
my god my background and I failed I
don't know try to correct it but if you
can't correct it cuz you're so messed up
that's it the set is over 5 to 10
seconds later we start again dougie
ready to go hate it focus on technique
slow
excellent and up keep that back tight
control control and up one more back
starting around big chest big chest big
chest oh that was awful
Rach you know you're fatigued very good
very good very good thrust a little bit
three to five big breaths and we're
ready to go again on an exercise like
stiff legged deadlifts with dumbbells if
you're getting these lower reps it's
okay to rest a little longer maybe 20
seconds maybe 30 seconds
fundamentally we rest as long as it
takes for the muscle to be the limiting
factor so if you're still gassing for
air maybe it's not time to go yet if you
feel super weak centrally like at a
nervous system all they're like oh I
don't feel like you can do a lot of reps
don't but as soon as you're ready to go
you're ready to go how you feel on dog
beat but ready to go let's do it set
number three
excellent one excellent two one more
last one big chest the whole time arch
that back arch arch arch arch arch
that's it rack that's it pretty obvious
failure that one real good we're gonna
take a slightly longer rest
this is totally okay to do every now and
again we're gonna let Doug rest 30
seconds to a minute don't worry we'll
cut the scene so he doesn't have to bear
with us then when he comes back he's
gonna do another couple of good reps not
a bad start
very good one chest up chest up chest up
and good enough here we go it's starting
around go ahead and rack excellent folks
that's it for stuff like a deadlift
we're gonna opt for lighter dumbbells
and show you guys how to do elevated
squats back in just a second
[Music]
all right folks exercise number two the
heel elevated squat we're here with dog
still alive after stiff legged deadlifts
and we're gonna take some time away from
exercise to learn how to appreciate the
guitar and other rock equipment just
kidding we're gonna do blasphemy we're
gonna take this book cause you probably
have books at home I hope books you
might not like a ton and we're gonna
place it down right here and what we're
gonna do is we're gonna step heels only
on to the edge of the book make sure
it's nice and stable and then we are
going to put the dumbbells up on our
shoulders and squat all the way back and
down completely upright the entire time
Doug's gonna do one warm-up set and then
real sets I wouldn't demo it they'll pay
me fat we do pay Doug for that dog
hit it Doug go ahead and take those
dumbbells and curl them all the way up
to a shoulder rack you're gonna place
those dumbbells right on his shoulders
very very comfy you're going to wanna
stay as upright as possible
give us five good reps squat back and
all the way down and up excellent just
like that nice upright upper body and up
all the way down for a brief hold at the
bottom and up and then one more
and up beautiful rack notice that slow
control I'm eccentric makes it tougher
and more effective Duggars gonna rest 30
seconds to a minute we're gonna begin
set number one of our four set Maya rep
back-to-back blasts daily aren't squats
is a little tricky because you can
sometimes cantilever your body
especially with dumbbells you get more
reps with poor technique we're looking
at technical failure here so I'm gonna
call him out for it when his technique
gets really sloppy I'm gonna say dude
you got one or two more reps if you
can't keep this up he's gonna try and if
he has to do bad technique in order to
get more ups that's it we're gonna cut
it up failure chest up nice and nice and
low hit it at your own pace and up
beautiful nice little pause at the
bottom and up great keep your chest up
stay upright through the whole motion
yes and up two more and you're all set
good technique and up and one more chest
up and up rack good job very good rest
for a sec because we don't want to do a
trillion reps we're only gonna rest a
little bit til his breathing's
relatively back to normal
three to five deep breaths and then he
hits another set right away the quads
will be the limiting factor how that
feel pretty good hit it again right now
take your time shoulder racking boom and
you're ready chest sky-high just like
that go yes and op excellent and up good
breathing on the way down two more four
big chest come on and up behind good rap
notice when technical failure approaches
we stop there's always the next set to
try hard with good technique hating the
muscles yep back-to-back sets of squats
folks when you're at home and you only
have dumbbells you can't be resting a
ton because and it's a bunch of sets of
twenty to thirty reps speaking of which
let's hit it again too big chest two
more
ah three last one dog everything it
takes let's go big chest big chest big
chest up Rach good job very very good
excellent feel something in your legs
why are you shaking that's strange
that's strange at home trainings
supposed to be easy hit it I don't have
to do anything I just yell at people at
least five let's finish up strong this
is the last set we're doing in this
workout make it good go and up last one
chest up chest up chest up up very good
ooh I don't think there's another one
left in there excellent weight down dude
good stuff folks that's it for this
workout it's literally two exercises
four sets each back-to-back if you want
to take this workout sandwich it with
something else do chest and triceps or
back and biceps or something like that
with it before after whatever it's all
on you at home training can be super
effective in order to progress on that
week to week if you're at home for a
number of weeks you just like training
at home in general yes you can add
dumbbell weights but a lot of times you
can't add a whole lot so you add weight
every month or so to add a rap session
to session ideally you would write your
reps down and the next week you try to
add one or two reps to each set and the
next week add one or two reps what about
sets do as many sets as it takes you to
get a nice good pump get a little bit
sore if you're healing on time for your
next workout maybe add a set here and
there and slowly you add some reps you
add some sets the workouts get harder
every maybe four to eight weeks you do a
deal owed week where you do easier
training you're recycle pick a heavier
dumbbell or stick with the same dumbbell
and keep adding reps keep adding sets
best of luck in your at-home training
we'll see you for the next video which
is going to be oh I think arms see them
[Music]
you
[Music]