hey folks dr. Mike is rotelle here for
the template guide walkthrough so what
you want to do now is you might actually
want to minimize this video or you don't
have to look at me talking what you want
to do is pull up the actual templates
themselves or you can walk a walk along
with me here we're gonna have in the
video display an actual walkthrough of
all of the PDF tabs the PDF pages that
we're gonna be talking about but if you
want to walk through your own
that's even better so here's the deal
we're gonna walk through every single
one of these tabs and we're gonna talk
about which what the tabs do what they
don't do and how to get a handle on them
for your success when you actually open
up your PDF document it should always
open first when you first receive it to
a page called quick tips quick tips is
like a very summarized very basic
version of frequently asked questions
it's a really good idea to read it first
because you just clear up a lot of
confusion read that quick tips
it's literally like oh just around 10
tips for you to read that really kind of
give you them super basic just answering
questions that are super straightforward
you know for example talking about how
to calculate protein and fat stuff and
measuring and protein and things like
that
this is listed extensively in the actual
FAQ they're long version this is just
kind of quick reminder so you're gonna
look at the quick tips get through them
no big deal the next is a page it's
gonna be called serving sizes or serving
sizes with pictures it's just gonna just
remind you about how big servings really
are the cool thing is is that because
you are going to be measuring out
servings usually in grams and stuff like
that this is just just to keep your mind
wrapped around exactly how big stuff
physics sometimes when you measure food
and grams and you put it on the plate
you're like isn't really how much food
I'm supposed meeting sometimes it looks
like way too much sometimes way too
little this will give you a handle it's
it was in pictures of plates with
various common objects compared to
actual foods that serving serving sizes
so just kind of give you a real-world
look now we get into the real actual
template of stuff that's instructing you
to eat in certain ways so we're gonna
hit the base tab the base is where you
always start every single diet where the
RP tumbler
you're gonna run the base for one to two
weeks it's your call how long you want
to run it everyone should run it for at
least one week to get their metabolism
and their body and their psychology used
to cooking and eating and measuring
meals while there's not really much of a
goal to the diet the base designed to
keep a brought your same body weight if
the base makes you gain weight or lose
weight you can always adjust it a little
bit and there's instructions about how
to do that and the FAQ and the how-to
but generally speaking you want to stay
on the base for at least one week to get
a real good thick of things you can
absolutely if you need more time
adjusting to the diet sometimes you know
you want a fat loss diet you're like
okay I've gotta get a handle on cocoa
plus food how I measure all these meals
I need more you can take up to two weeks
or even longer if you like and two weeks
is totally cool to get used to the diet
when you want the actual results to
start really happening you're probably
going to move into one of the business
tabs if is this a fat loss template that
you got it's gonna be tabs fat loss one
that lost to or fat loss 3 and there's
gonna be three of those tabs or three
pages in the PDF document or if you got
the muscle gain template it's gonna be
muscle gain one two and three now here's
the deal this is where you have to look
at the how-to guide and look at the
guidelines for when to switch tabs when
you're on base if you're on a fat loss
diet if you're already losing weight
within the specifications that the
how-to guide talks about which we'll get
to later then it's totally fine to just
stay on base because you're losing fat
at exactly the rate we want you to
that's great why eat less food if you
can eat more food and lose fat on the
other hand if you're on the base tab or
you're on the base page and you're
actually gaining weight on a muscle gain
diet and you're gaining enough weight to
get you with him the minimum and maximum
guidelines you're totally good to go
there's no reason to change but
according to the how to as soon as
you're not losing quite enough weight on
the fat loss diet or not gaining enough
weight on the muscle gain diet you want
to switch into fat loss 1 if you're a
fat loss or muscle gain 1 if you're in
muscle goo you're gonna stay in those
columns for as long as it takes for you
to exit out of the weight loss rate or
the weight gain rate that you're
prescribed so for
example if let's say your how to
document says if you're losing any less
than half a pound of weight per week you
need to move on to the next tab that
means if you lose 0.7 pounds this or tha
this week you're good to go you don't
need to make an adjustment it's by
two-week periods so you take two weeks
and let's say you don't lose any weight
at all then after the next two weeks you
definitely need to go into the next fat
loss phase or if you lose let's say 0.4
pounds but 0.5 is the cutoff that means
you're not losing weight fast enough you
need to go into the next that loss to
tab fat loss 2 is a stricter diet it's
less food sorry we can't shoot encoder
but that's what it takes calories and
calories out to lose weight and to lose
fat when that loss - could work for two
weeks it could work for one week and
then you need to give another week just
to make sure and then make the change or
it could work for two months and you
keep you in that optimal rate of fat
loss but if that weight loss rate is too
low or non-existent if you stop losing
weight or lose a very very slowly you'll
have to move from fat loss - into fat
loss 3 now we almost almost guaranteed
the fat loss 3 will lose you all the
weight you need the reason we don't
start with a first this is too powerful
it's gonna cut your food by like half of
what you're normally eating that's way
too much it's gonna lose you a bunch of
muscle it's gonna cause you to burn out
of the diet it's gonna be super super
hunger inducing you're not gonna be able
to focus only use fat loss 3 if that
lost - stop doing the trick if it
stopped letting you lose weight within
the boundary specified by the how2guide
- Melissa's rocket science it's
literally just two numbers is your
weight between them if not you gotta
change up the tabs if it is you're good
to go and if it's above them on the fat
loss right if you're losing two pounds
of weight per week but you're actually
supposed to only lose up to 1.5 that's
totally cool you just stay on the same
tab and keep going because extra weight
loss is totally fine but if it's not
enough weight there's a problem on the
muscle gain side it's the same thing
only in Reverse if you're not gaining
weight fast enough or at all you move to
the next tab after two weeks of analysis
if you are gaining weight fast enough
you don't do a thing about it right how
to guide explains this much more
thoroughly but that's really all the
magic to the templates if you're getting
the results you want if it's a results
based on the trend line that we want
that'll of
actually get you to your goal weight
we're good to go you don't need to
change a thing but if your body is
telling you that it needs less food or
more food to accomplish whatever it
needs to accomplish to get to the weight
to get to the muscle or to get to the
fat loss rate that you want then you
have to go on to the next tab whether it
be fat loss 1 2 or 3 or muscle gain 1 2
& 3 always work through them
sequentially you were never gonna skip
from 1 to 3 or anything like that all
makes total sense
so let's say you got all the way to fat
loss 3 you finished your diet that's 12
weeks long we don't recommend you diet
longer than that at any one time what do
we do next after fat loss 3 is done do
we just stay and fat loss 3 no do we
just eat whatever we wanted that ID is
over not a good idea what you do is you
start moving through the maintenance
tabs you go through 2 maintenance one
and then if the how-to guy tells you
it's got all the detailed instructions
there after a while if you start to
really lose weight again then you go to
maintenance - because maintenance 1
isn't that much food but what it does is
you've died it out when your metabolism
is super slow down your hungers little
wonky maintenance one really just starts
to reset your metabolism heal you up
give you more food but not a crazy
amount because we know if we feed the
body a ton after it's lost weight it
just gains back a lot of fat right so
when we go is maintenance 1 and then
when the how2guide tells us it's ok we
eventually go to maintenance 2 at the
end of that whole process we go to
what's called new base the new base is a
diet for you to take with you for as
long as you want to just stay at that
new weight you have and maintain
function in the muscle gain guide and
the muscle gain templates the
maintenance tabs aren't even there you
go from muscle gain all the way up
through the ones you need and then you
go to your new base right after that but
the new base is literally a diet that
you can keep forever that with some
minor adjustments on your part which the
how-to covers in addition to that it's
going to be super simple for you to have
awesome performance awesome recovery and
get everything you need food wise and
nutrition wise for health to make sure
that you're well on your way in doing
well in whatever sport or just life
activity you want but if you want to
eventually lose fat again then you can
totally rerun the template if necessary
or buy a new template if you lost more
than 20
pounds or if you gain more than 20
pounds you buy a new mass space Templar
or a sorry a new muscle gain template
you can totally do that stuff but we
have to give it some time
maintenance after a calf tur a fat loss
phase the entirety of maintenance 1 & 2
& the new base together should be run
for a total of at least two months in
almost all cases we recommend running
them for actually about 3 and if you've
gained muscle you've done the muscle
gain tabs you should run the new base
for at least one month before probably
going to a fat loss phase to cut off the
fat that you gained along with a muscle
maintenance is essential we're gonna get
into in a next video why exactly
maintenance super important but now that
we know it's important we know what all
the tabs do you guys are ready to take
the templates use them for what you need
and get the results you need and if you
have any more questions we have the next
video coming up for some frequently
asked questions we have a frequent ask
questions guide and a lot can be found
in the quick tips document at the very
template you're looking now thanks so
much for tuning in we'll see you for the
next video