I see far too many people making
technique mistakes on the squat that
could be holding them back here's how to
fix
them welcome back Dr Milo wol here today
PhD in sport Science with wolf coaching
and I'm breaking down the best technique
for squatting for muscle growth first
how much does technique actually matter
how do we know well I'm actually the
author on a paper that try to answer
exactly this question how much does
technique matter for muscle growth and
and what's the optimal technique for
optimal technique there are at least
three important components that we've
studied first we want to have a decent
Tempo if your Tempo is too fast or too
slow you could be reducing your muscle
growth according to a show andf met
analysis from 2016 if your rep takes
much longer than about 8 seconds you are
reducing hypertrophy what else do we
know well if your reps take much less
than about 1 or 2 seconds you are likely
shooting yourself in the foot as far as
hypy goes in my opinion this means you
shouldn't be dive bombing your squats
Instead try using at least a 1second
Ecentric and your reps should take at
least 2 seconds according to the
findings in this body of evidence some
more speculative or emerging evidence
suggests that an Ecentric of at least 2
seconds is probably a good idea and you
may want to perform your concentric
phase or the lifting phase of an
exercise as explosively or quickly as
possible on the other end of the
spectrum we want to make sure your reps
don't take longer than about 8 seconds
if your reps take this long this can
often make it difficult to put in
adequate effort on each set it also
makes breathing a little bit more
difficult if your reps take 8 seconds
and you're only really breathing in and
out at the top of each rep you may have
trouble with breathing before your
target muscle group actually gets good
work out in the second factor that is
likly important in terms of technique
but that hasn't been studied as much is
making sure that one that the target
muscle group is the limiting factor in
the exercise and two that most of the
production of force stems from the
target muscle groups and not other
muscle groups you're not really trying
to Target for example in a barbell row
you wouldn't want to swing your hips
around a ton when you're really trying
to Target your back and not your glutes
this would just lead to unnecessary
fatigue for not much additional stimulus
why is it important that the target
muscle group is the limiting factor well
according to a met analysis by Robinson
and colleagues from 2023 the closer a
set is taken to failure the more muscle
growth it produces while this doesn't
tell us about individual muscle groups
it does tell us that as you go closer
and closer to failure probably also on a
muscle basis you get more hypertrophy
and so in the squat we want to make sure
that Target muscle group is the thing
that gives out first in the squat
depending on your goals that could be
either the glutes and adductors and or
the quad recepts so for most people the
squat will be a tremendous quad exercise
and a pretty good glute and aductor
exercise if you want to emphasize the
quads in a squat try staying more
upright and going deeper into your knees
to increase the moment arms even further
avoid the good morning squat if you want
to take this one step further you could
even perform the Smith machine squat
with your feet forward so that the
moment arm on your quads increases while
reducing the moment arm on your hips
conversely for a glute Focus try leaning
forward a little bit more at the hips
during the squat if anything a more good
morning style squat May beneficial when
it comes to targeting the glutes and the
adapters the third big component of
technique for muscle growth is going to
be range of motion while Tempo doesn't
play a huge role with hypertrophy as
long as your R ballpark maybe around 2
to 8 seconds per rep and the exact
effect of targeting the right muscle
group and minimizing momentum from other
joints remains unmeasured within the
science range of motion can have as big
of an impact as 5 to 20% hypertrophy
difference comparing the worst approach
to the best approach what's the best
range of motion for your Technique well
we absolutely want to make sure we get a
stretch in the Target muscle groups in
fact some research suggests that
lengthened partials where you only do
the lengthened half of the movement may
actually be better for hypertrophy than
a full range of motion so you could try
lengthen partials on the Smith machine
if you wanted to give this technique a
try we want the best stretch possible on
the target muscle group what does this
mean well for the quads we want to
maximize a knee flexion range of motion
to help you achieve this in the squat
try weightlifting shoes with a heel that
allow you to get deeper in the squat get
more knee flexion without your heels
coming off the ground if you don't have
weightlifting shoes you can use plates
underneath your heels as an interim
solution conversely for the gluten
adductors will actually want to lean
forward a little bit more to maximize
hip flexion range of motion as this will
further stretch both the glutes and the
adductors if you want a good stimulus
for both the quads and the gluten
adductors just go deeper generally if
you go deeper that'll increase range of
motion and stretch at both the
quadriceps and the gluten adors don't
believe me that going deeper in the
squat will cause more hypertrophy well
there's actually been a few studies on
exactly that topic one of which is a
study by Kubo and colleagues here's what
they did they compared a shallower squat
to a deeper Squat and you know what
happened generally hypertrophy was
better in the deeper squat group
specifically in the glutes and adductors
I would recommend going as deep as you
comfortably can given your goals
ultimately if all you want was quad
growth there are better exercises out
there like the reverse Nory curl you can
check that out in this video here there
are other studies in the quads for
example broadly showing that getting to
a longer muscle length is going to be
beneficial for hypertrophy the final
factor in exercise technique is a more
practical one and that is preference and
Pain Management if you're doing all of
the above a good Tempo a good range of
motion making sure the target muscle
group is a limiting factor but you have
a certain technique that you prefer
using it's more comfortable or you just
enjoy it more go for it likewise if a
certain technique hits the above that
consistently gives you pain don't feel
like you have to use that technique feel
free to play around until you find
something that works better for you
you'll notice I didn't say anything
about the heels raising off the ground
or some Butt Wink or even some spinal
flexion being that bad for you if you're
pain-free and this isn't my expertise
you probably don't need to worry about
it too much you'll notice I haven't
really talked about pointing your feet
forward versus out and taking a shoulder
width stance or a bit wider as long as
you adhere to the general components of
good technique like for example a
sufficient range of motion a good
Ecentric duration making sure that the
target muscle group is the one that's
limiting performance The Stance width or
the degree to which you point your toes
out probably doesn't play a huge role so
if you find that one stance or one
approach allows you to get much deeper
go for it but the truth is as far as a
research goes we just don't have a basis
to tell you that this stance or that
stance is really any better without
further do here's the perfect technique
for squatting to maximize muscle growth
step by step first set up safeties to
fail height if you have them secondly
place the bar on your back high bar may
be marginally better but both work place
the bar on top of your shoulders for
high bar for low bar place the bar on
top of your rear delts if you find the
low bar placement is uncomfortable try a
false grip next get your midfoot
underneath the bar and bend your knees
assume a shoulder width or narrow stance
many people make the mistake of
unracking the bar with their their feet
set too wide while staying upright
unrack the bar by extending your knees
many people make the mistake of needing
to go on tippy toes to unrack it's
almost always better to unrack too low
than too high you can quarter squat a
whole lot more than you can calf raise a
three-step walkout is most versatile in
my opinion and accounts for most setups
first perform a short step with your
non-dominant foot backwards out of the
rack second perform a larger step right
into your final position with your
dominant foot finally take a shorter
step with your non-dominant foot to
adjust into your final position when
performing these three steps take your
time the better the position you end up
in the less energy you'll have to waste
afterwards shuffling around into your
final position where you look during the
squat is down to you during walk out
it's probably helpful to look at your
feet so that you can tell where they're
actually going now let's talk breathing
for most people most of the time you'll
want to perform a vava maneuver take a
big breath and Brace your midsection as
if someone were about to punch you in
the stomach perform this maneuver in the
first 25% of of the rep or so you can
either do it at the top or just as
you're starting The Descent to further
improve intraabdominal pressure try a
belt why can you breathe in and out
during the first 25% of the squat well
at this point of the lift the force
production requirements are still pretty
low and the moment arms of the spine are
pretty minimal giving you a bit more
Breathing Room pun intended during the
set can just make sure that you're not
getting gassed out and thus ending the
set early before your target muscle
reaches close to failure next break it
both the knees and the hips at the same
time while the advice to sit back has
become popular it's probably needlessly
limiting squat depth for many people and
turning squats into a more hip extensor
or glute focused exercise next go as
deep as you can that is if you want both
quad and gluten Electro growth if you
want to prioritize one or the other just
make sure the joint you're moving at is
predominantly either the knees for the
quads or the hips for the glutes even if
some Butt Wink occurs or if you have
some spinal flexion if pain isn't
present and the exercise still feels
safe you probably don't need to worry
about it as a starting point point to
try a 2cond Ecentric or descent phase
and slow down as you reach the very
bottom of the squat when you're at the
very bottom of the squat pause for about
half a second to a second then perform
an Explosive Lifting phase ascending as
quickly as you can once you reach the
top 25% of the rep or so you can breathe
out at any time I would recommend
performing squats for sets of 5 to 10
reps and not anything above that doing
much more than that will often be
limited by breathing versus your actual
Target muscle now that I've broken down
the perfect technique for the squat let
me break down how this can compares to
what we think is best for hypertrophy
based on the evidence first our
reputations will take at least 3 seconds
or so with a 2cond d Centric an
explosive concentric and generally using
a Tempo that will have you spend more
time at lower muscle lengths by slowing
down the Ecentric at the very bottom by
pausing in that bottom position we're
accentuating that stretched position
next as far as range of motion goes
we're making sure we're targeting long
muscle lengths by using weightlifting
shoes and therefore increasing range of
motion at the knee and by prioritizing
range of motion at the Jo joint and
muscle group of Interest we're making
sure we're training at long muscle
lengths Additionally the squat is
already a pretty length and biased
exercise the hardest part of the
movement is near the bottom if you
wanted to take this a step further and
this is what I do you could perform
lengthen partials on a Smith machine and
finally we are making sure the toet
muscle group is the limiting factor by
prioritizing motion at the Joint SL
muscle group that we're interested in if
you use the technique I'm recommending
here you'll have successfully ticked all
of these boxes try this as a starting
point and adjust it from there if you
find a stance more comfortable or if a
specific technique causes you pain that
was the perfect technique for squat to
increase your muscle growth if you
enjoyed the video please comment like
subscribe if there are any other
exercises you would like to see me break
down from a scientific perspective what
the best technique is leave them down
below and I'll get to it but in the
meantime have a great day and I will see
you next time peace