hey YouTube dr. Mike is racquel here for
Renaissance period ization super cool
video for you guys about helping to make
your stubborn body parts grow how do you
make body parts grow well you can go to
juggernaut training systems and find
that we have like eight hypertrophy
guides for all the different body parts
or the main ones and you look up all the
videos they're really good they're like
15 minutes each really cool sort of
systematic approach to making sure you
grow but and that stuff works most of
the time but it doesn't work all the
time specifically for stubborn body
parts right it's one of those things
that we all have stubborn body parts and
the ones that don't either don't train
or are genetic freaks all around
we all have body parts that just aren't
growing as fast as others so a lot of
people have tried a lot of stuff and a
lot of people are still really
disappointed that they can't just budge
anything in these stubborn body parts
this is a systematic guide which means
two things one it is an organized
approach of 10 essentially 9 discrete
steps that you take in order to make
sure that you address every part of
where the problem could be because it
could be several different things that
are causing it or even a combination of
things but if you trust every single one
of them you've sort of cleaned your
plate then the second implication here
is first of all that it's ordered and
second of all it's gonna be quite
lengthy so this video is gonna be a
little bit of some juice and hopefully
you see like how long it is in the
bottom of your screen there it's it's
gonna be some good stuff so if you
really want to take a deep dive on
really try to figure out how to make
stubborn body parts grow this is the
video it's not a quick video which means
it's not like snazzy like 1 minute 30
seconds of like here's five easy tips
like if you come to this video and
you're gonna watch this whatever it ends
up being hour and a half or something
like that whatever brought you here was
probably in some combination related to
the fact that you have tried all the
quick tips on how to work
right this is going to be a principled
systematic approach to actually reducing
the probability that your body parts
aren't growing increasing the
probability that they are growing it's
definitely not a sure thing because
sometimes things just don't grow we'll
get into that but it's gonna give you
very close to your best weapons if
you're taking the time to watch this
video probably means that G you're
pretty frustrated with this and you
think Omega hour hour and a half long
video it kind of sucks but if you can
watch this video you'll have the tools
to forever look at stubborn body of our
training differently than most other
people look at it and much more
effectively and if this video can help
you gain a sizable muscle mass over the
next six months a year two years three
years on body parts that were lagging
boy it's gonna be worth the hour and a
half so I'm gonna shut up and stop
trying to sell this video to you which
you're clearly already watching let's
get to the meat potatoes so let's look
at our stubborn growth checklist and
this basically contents we're going to
go through every one of these points in
this video first one is checking to make
sure your growth is actually stubborn
maybe we have some definition stuff to
get through there point number two is
making sure you address basic nutrition
and recovery
sounds a little pedantic but I promise
you there's a real good point there we
have to get through number three is
addressing technical and mind muscle
issues right if you're not executing
exercises properly us telling you to do
more fewer the exercises is sort of
putting the cart before the horse maybe
we get you doing exercises more properly
and all of a sudden you get more growth
especially growth where you want it then
we're gonna go into something a little
bit more technical
finding your it says like foie mev right
your your minimum effective volume per
session and that's the beginning of a
process that eventually we find our
training frequency and then slowly ramp
up volume and intensity in that
frequency go from our minim effective
volume all the way up to our maximum or
recoverable and that should be the
prescription for growth granted that
we've addressed all the other issues
beforehand
most people with stubborn body parts who
can potentially grow them will grow them
using this method point number eight
we'll talk about the possibility of
addressing systemic on our V ceilings
basically like if you really prioritize
certain body parts it turns out your
body's total systemic ability and
recover is exceeded
so you
might have to take some other body parts
and put them on the backburner that's
not always necessary and we'll talk
about when it's necessary when it's not
right and lastly we'll address the last
part of the external growth checklist
which is tracking progress right a lot
of the times people don't not even sure
if their body parts are stubborn so much
because you say well how come you know
you say your biceps haven't grown as
much as you like and yeah well how much
have they grown oh I'm not sure well
maybe they've been actually getting
really good games or maybe no games at
all we knew the situation is very dire
so tracking progress is critical and
we'll show you one specific good method
that's sort of the gold standard of all
the methods to track progress and point
number ten is really not that 10th on
the checklist but that last series of
slides is gonna be on myths and fads in
stubborn body part growth and boy
there's a lot of them we just picked I
hate the top ten but there's tons more
that I didn't list and you know if you
if you have any of that that I missed
please feel free to write them in the
comments cuz it's a good god there's a
ton of BS out there alright so let's get
right into it
point number one on our checklist is to
check to make sure growth is actually
stubborn so what are we even talking
about here well here's the deal a lot of
people will say that they have stubborn
biceps or my chest it just won't grow
right but a lot of times they're not
actually saying that to be very
technical very specific they're saying
something a little bit different
sometimes a lot different for example
somebody could say man my chest is real
stubborn and actually they have a really
good chest and you say well it doesn't
look stubborn well like yeah I just want
my chest bigger well don't you want
everything bigger right like don't you
want all your muscles to be bigger like
if your bodybuilding probably or you
know all the muscles you train and focus
on don't you want all the bigger like if
I had the world's biggest shoulders I
still probably say they were stubborn if
I was misusing the terminology because
I'd want bigger shoulders right who
doesn't so a lot of times people will
just sort of want something bigger and
they'll say it's stubborn we're in the
technical sense it's not and we'll get
to the technical definition of what
stubborn means in just a bit number two
some people could say well I have a
stubborn body part but that body part is
actually lagging behind compared to
other muscles neethu say man like my
chest isn't really growing much and
again your chest is kind of bigger than
everything else though I'm like right
still stubborn right the egg I don't
know if that's a really good definition
of stubborn rustling you talk to someone
with a small chest and big arms and you
know you have a big chest and regular
arms and you're like yeah man stubborn
chest I feel you they're gonna look at
you and be like shut up feel me for what
your chest is huge like well I wish you
could grow faster so that again it comes
back to point number one
so for muscles to really be stubborn
they actually probably have to be
lacking compared to other muscles and
then point number three people say well
you know I have a stubborn you know Xyz
muscle and it turns out that the muscles
are lagging but they actually making
really good steady games like for
example for myself years back change a
decade back when I switch from
powerlifting to hypertrophy training
I just didn't use my lats much in
powerlifting training sort of as
predicted especially the sort of outer
upper lats a vertical pulling pull-ups
pull-downs and stuff I just didn't do a
whole lot of that so you know you could
have pointed to my physique and be like
yeah man your lats aren't that big that
might probably must be a stubborn body
part I could have agreed with you but
the thing is like they were actually
making really good consistent gains and
after several years they became a strong
body part for me so it's one of those
things like yeah if something's lagging
that doesn't make it stubborn lagging it
could be lagging for a variety of
reasons you haven't paid attention to a
much in training or you have but just
not for a very long time and so on and
so forth so if something is making good
gains maybe we shouldn't label it
stubborn and I'll tell you why just a
bit it's important that we get this
clear so what's the checklist for making
sure you actually have stubborn muscle
well here it is one you want them bigger
right like if you just don't give a shit
that your calves are small because you
let's say you're a sprinter or something
we just want Beach muscles you just
don't care about your calves they might
be stubborn but you don't even know cuz
you barely train them right so you have
to want to get them bigger that's the
only way they're stubborn seems better
like a no-brainer just good to put that
in the definition next point if they
have to check is they have to probably
be behind the average muscle that you
want bigger in size so like if you are
really trying to get your chest up your
back up and your arms up and your arms
are just just really undersized compared
to your chest and back then I k√∂k' that
we can make an argument for the fact
that they're stubborn right if your arms
are the biggest part about you man you
know we could call them stuff or to be
sort of technically correct because they
don't respond really well to growth
anymore
but cuz they're the biggest muscle you
have it's kind of a little bit illusory
you're just not talking about the same
kind of stubborn that other people are
and certainly not that can same kind of
stubborn we're going to toggle on this
video lastly lastly the most important
part of the checklist the definition you
have to check all three of these for it
to actually be stubborn muscle these
muscles seem to making poor gains
compared to the average muscle so like
your training your chest your back in
your arms your back rows great your
chest grows great your arms just don't
grow great or if they don't basically
grow at all that you can't tell they've
done big like somebody sees you after a
year of training and they're like hey
man your arms get bigger and you're like
honestly like I don't know I've been
trained to them it doesn't seem like it
to me so if you can check all through
those checklists then you qualify for
the rest of this video or I think you
for sure actually have stubborn muscles
right um and why are we asking this it's
not just a we you out of a video nice
and early if you don't meet all three of
their checklist we're essentially having
this really detailed or a very
intellectual checklist about what to do
very specifically to solve this problem
or to make this problem better of
stubborn musculature why go through all
that bullshit if you don't even have a
snubber muscle there if there don't have
to be any special arrangements made to
just get your regular non stubborn
muscles to grow if you think all of your
muscles are stubborn you're gonna do
this really super analytical approach
and for what just for regular games and
be like yeah I tried that shit but
everything grew the same fuckin wasn't
stubborn right so you can save yourself
a lot of time if you just realize okay
well clearly my legs and chest and back
are not stubborn but my arms really are
stubborn by this checklist then you can
just focus your intellect on this more
deep process to your arms and not have
to worry about the super kind of
technical analysis for everything else
all right on to the technical analysis
here we go
point number two this is a caveat that
comes before training is addressing
basic nutrition and recovery fact muscle
does not come out of thin air gate has
to be built through substrate through
actual consumed food at some point and
you could say well you know if I consume
enough calories even to just lose weight
slowly or just to stay the same
I could recom grow muscle and lose fat
at the same time and I could bring up
stubborn body parts while not gaining
any weight so recap is really actually
pretty difficult it's easy for people
who just started training with decent
genetics
to do after people didn't just start
training like a year or two years in
recon becomes really difficult for them
and those are the people with good
genetics the people with not good
genetics have trouble recapping even
from the get-go or several months in and
here's the thing you're stubborn body
parts if we actually go through the
stubborn checklist almost by definition
have bad genetics right or very likely
do like remember the the genetics that
determines your whole body musculature
there's also genetics that determines
you know poor muscle structure but you
could have amazing biceps and really
shitty triceps and people say oh you've
got great arm genetics you know like
it's only true really a third true
because it tricep as a bigger part so
you know your stubborn body parts if we
say fact that after your training is
relatively experienced several years
recomposition is hard for your whole
body how do you think recomposition is
for the the worst parts of your body for
the ones that find it the most
challenging to grow but you could say
like if your chest grows sort of no
matter what and you don't lose weight or
gain weight for a year but you gain some
muscle lose some fat who your chest grow
well yeah just fucking grows no matter
what but if you have really really weak
triceps don't we want to give them the
advantage of a hyper caloric diet do we
really expect some kind of magic to
happen where your triceps just come up
with you gaining no weight right we want
to give ourselves the best effort it's
this is not a good way to do it right so
if you're in a slow weight gain of a
mile surplus at least you know getting
at least a pound a month I would I would
advise faster maybe two pounds per month
of body weight then you've given
yourself a real big boost right you
really are to make sure you actually
supplying the raw materials that if you
arrange all your training and everything
else super well then you're gonna have
the highest probability of actually
growing muscle because look at it this
way if you sort all of your training out
and just have it flawless but you have
an underwhelming amount of new food
coming in calories coming in and your
body just doesn't recom penny more
you're gonna think you failed you won't
you will have failed you're gonna think
of the approaches wrong because you
never supplied it it's in time for the
skyscraper analogy bullshit that I
always do it's like getting all the most
talented engineers and architects and
workers together to build the most
beautiful skyscraper ever but the trucks
with bricks and steel and glass
straight up never arrived like you can
fuckin I have all the greatest shit but
if you don't have raw materials man it's
just not a lot gonna happen right and
they can maybe redesign the building a
little bit with old shit and maybe it
look better but again if it's you know a
stubborn muscle is analogous totally go
really really intricate part of the
skyscraper maybe like a really intricate
display made a crystal glass in the
lobby it's not something that assembles
itself and to do it right you have to be
a real meticulous take do you really
think you're gonna take glass out of
some of the windows and make it into
crystal glass and make it into a
beautiful sculpture probably not like
that shit needs to arrive through raw
materials and be done with all the
possible advantages so the dad analogy
is sort of seeing like you you want to
gain weight you want to get the raw
materials and give yourself the best
chance to actually bring up your body
part next recovery is huge
sleep super important there's been a lot
of recent data on this that if you don't
sleep adequately muscle growth is
actually really hard sometimes pretty
close to impossible and fat gain is
really easy and sometime close to
inevitable and stress is huge and plays
into that role and other physical tasks
so basically we can look at a situation
where someone's like a man my fucking
legs won't row and you're like oh okay
um you know how much do you how's your
nutrition they're like I'm gaining
weight and everything okay great check
that off how's your recovery it's pretty
good look where's how's your sleep like
man I sleep like four hours a night um I
was tired really okay and what about
your stress do like super stressful
crazy job okay and what about other
physical tasks like well my job is
construction so I'm using my legs all
the time to lift stuff and I'm running
up and down stairs all the time you're
like huh it's almost impossible for you
to get any growth under these
circumstances no matter how good
nutrition is like oh no shit it's a lot
of people just don't know that so it's
important if you're gonna give yourself
the best chances remember we need the
best chances there's a lot of people
rightfully talking shit about
optimization right why do we need to
optimize just do a good job just follow
the basics this video is created because
sometimes the basics aren't good enough
because the basics will for sure grow
your strong parts they'll probably grow
your decent parts but they might not
grow the parts that really count that
was a penis joke by the way right so you
know the the body parts of yours that
are really really struggling and we have
to go above the basics we have to make
sure everything is hit and recovery is a
really really big part of that so if you
sort your recovery if you're sorry if
you
don't sort your recovery out decently at
least you know stronger parts might be
fine and they probably will be what
about the stubborn ones they probably
continue to mean stubborn continue not
to grow so before you move on to any of
the rest of this presentations advice of
intricate training analysis and
periodization and so on you gotta sort
your sleep your stress your nutrition
and other physical activity before
embarking on these other steps right so
basically get enough sleep trying to
minimize your stress as a decently as
you can make sure you have really good
nutrition hyper caloric enough protein
multiple meals a day so on and so forth
and just try to minimize other physical
activity especially the taxes that
particular muscle group which can be a
really big thing with legs for example
right but if you like doing like five
rounds of boxing per week and you want
to bring up your arms and your shoulders
like something to consider like it so
it's a whole lot of volume that's gonna
compete with adaptations for hypertrophy
training it's gonna some a lot of
fatigue so on and so forth so all their
physical activity if you can minimize it
that would be for the best once you have
all that sorted you can know that the
training plan you put together is going
to be the real test of whether or not
the stubborn body parts are going to
come up because here's the deal if you
don't implement any of this in your
recoveries bligh or sleep as bla or
nutritionist mat and you do try this
super intricate fucking waste of your
time with this advanced training you
might go through six months of a shit
and be like man I tracked all my numbers
like he said in all his bullshit you get
a fucking thing well how do you know the
training didn't work because you know
now you could just go on to some other
kind of philosophy you can just ditch
you know doctor Mike's bullshit
altogether and go on to some other kind
of thing which you know might be good
for you but you can't be sure because
you never gave it a good college try
because you never sucked a really good
conditions for right set the good
conditions first I'll tell you what two
times out of em challenge
Josiah or Lord of the Rings words thread
two times out of ten three times out of
ten people who sort this stuff first
might realize that they're stubborn body
parts come up with just normal training
tada like you start eating more sleeping
more and all the sudden you're like
start growing you're like buck I guess
that was almost a bird opossum as that
wasn't feeding him enough and not enough
recovery notice I said two out of three
two or three out of ten times the
majority of stone body parts will still
struggle even if he handled this but
once you handle this and then engineer
the precise training where they talk
about in the next slide then you give
yourself a much higher chance than two
or three out of ten all right on to the
training the first thing you want to do
probably because it's the most efficient
use of your time and the easiest thing
to do without having to embark on this
to multiple weeks and months long
journey we'll talk about later is to
address technical and mind muscle
connection issues right
people will say oftentimes here's a
quintessential example man my back's not
growing and then you watch them bent row
and pull down and their technique / mind
my soul connection it's like fuck man
you're not barely using your back at all
it's like a heave-ho glute exercise with
some bicep involvement like I'm sure you
guys have seen your share of pull-ups
and bent rows where you're like man I
can tell you why your back's weak
because you're not using your back right
so it's an issue that has to be resolved
it can be very easily resolved and you
don't really need to change anything
other than oh wow I worked on my
technique and now it's so good that all
of a sudden my body parts are coming up
and there's stories upon stories any of
bodybuilding magazines forums YouTube
there's tons of stories tons tons tons
thousands millions of stories of people
sound like Trump thousands millions of
stories billions of people love this
program everyone loves it so there's a
bunch of people that'll be like man I
could never get my chest to grow and
then if someone finally taught me how to
bench press and dumbbell press properly
burn out like are cheering we're
tracting and feeling the packs and
getting the stretch and all of a sudden
I just started growing then that's not
much of a technical fix I mean they
didn't have to go dive into
periodization super deep it's just they
started doing the exercises properly and
more attuned to their body so how do we
know if we're doing the exercises
properly how do we know if we're doing
it in such a way that fits our body
design well there's a little bit of a
checklist more checklists alright so
what you want to do is ask about each
exercise that you're doing for that body
part so for example biceps every single
biceps move you're doing you're gonna
ask some questions first one does it
feel like the target muscle is being
stimulated or does it just feel like
your joints hurt right or does it feel
like it's loading your joints for
example on squats once when I was 19
years old I started getting decently
strong and
I had an idea that if I could just
partial squad a lot my legs would grow
is all tension based after all no range
of motion so like Porter squatted 685
for a set of 9 reps quarter squats that
will cut me much slack is not that
impressive it took me like a full second
to get the bar to come up off of the the
pins for the first time because it took
that long to summon enough force to
stand up I was like then finally it
started rising right I was like man like
I did it set at 9 I yelled a lot
everyone Jim watch me it was really cool
I went home the next day
my knees hurt my quads didn't feel a
fucking thing I was like man this is
gonna be crazy Dom's my quads are gonna
meet up nothing happened my knees hurt
right then sometimes you don't have to
do all that crazy shit just the exercise
during the exercise itself like you do a
closer bench press in some fashion
someone's like triceps and your like
elbows my elbows I just feel my elbows
you're like huh okay that's clearly like
probably not the best way to train your
triceps
ideally now my mind you it's not the
whole picture because we have what four
other checklists ideally you should feel
the target muscle being stimulated now
it's not just the joints that could be
the problem it could be other muscles
right for example some people the way
they do curls with their hand grip is
positioned or the kind of bar they're
using ez bar versus straight bar when
they're curling they'll feel the muscles
of the forearm a lot other muscles and
they won't feel the biceps a lot you
like you guys ever do that curls and
you're like oh my fucking forearms and
someone's like do you feel in your
biceps you're like honestly not really
man and they don't hurt or anything
there's no lactic acid accumulation
you're just like fuck I just really if
you just like cut off my biceps I don't
think it would change I think I still
still be able to curl just like this so
it could be that other muscles are
getting in the way this is a really
often happens with people in the
benchpress sort of really big arms and
their chest and not so connected to
their chest a lot of times they'll bench
and someone's like chest workout and
they're like yeah honestly I just feel
my triceps in like really you're like
yep they just take over everything so
you should feel the target muscle being
stimulated in that exercise so if you
find a curling exercise where alter your
technique and a curling exercise in such
a way that you're like oh yeah you guys
don't talk about when you when your curl
and you're like oh my god my by says
like a fucking bomb in there
it's miniature explosion every Rapids
holy shit and you get off the exercise
usually you get her like a gnarly pump
we'll talk about that in a bit when you
got pain he like oh wow like you just
know it's the shits in my it's like
doing hip thrusts you do like three or
four hip thrusts you're like something's
happening in my gluts and someone's like
you're sure it's not your lower back
like fucking positive you can say that
that's a good that's a check that's a
very good thing if you can't say that
you have to work on your technique or
pick another exercise which you can say
that for the not have to probably should
next one do I have a mind muscle
connection that's a more sort of very
particular way of explaining like yes it
is my bicep that is working during curls
I can feel myself in my biceps like I'm
connected to the muscle and I'm using my
biceps to move the weight it's probably
not the most important thing in the
world but it's a good thing to have so
put a checklist there if you can really
say it if you can't really say it
sometimes you get really good growth
anyway they can overhead shoulder
presses your front delts are grow
whether or not you feel them but if you
feel them that's definitely a bonus okay
so and be clever because look people say
fucking matter doesn't have feel shit
for a non-starter body parts totally
doesn't matter for genetics freak body
parts doesn't matter all you can just
fucking move weight around a part of
grow for stubborn body parts we want
everything we can take we want
everything we can get so it's a good
thing not the most important thing but
definitely a good check to have with
mind muscle next one do I experience
joint pain or in this exercise if you do
it's not a good exercise stop doing it
in that technique do it differently or
move away from it all together so people
say like man I want squats to grow my
legs but my knees just hurt stop
squatting that way get a good coach to
look at your squat technique and fix it
to where you're like oh wow now I feel
it on my quads and not on my knees right
my joints don't hurt anymore or just
move away from that exercise altogether
if it's just not just an exercise that
like for example for me I can't do skull
crushers with my hands moving up behind
my behind my face like this kind of
skull crusher already do this I just
can't do it my elbows just immediately
hurt like after three wraps and I'm like
my fuck
it takes days to heal but I can do Jam
style skull crusher or actually bend my
elbows like this and touch to my
or or my nose for a total fucking cops
come home my elbows are fine all right
now here's the thing it's not the same
thing the first one was if you feel it
sort of just in the joints and not on
the muscles that's one kind of concern
in this one when it asks number three
here do I experience joint pain during
this exercise it can also mean you feel
the muscles like in a skull crusher when
I do those kind of skull crushers I
definitely feel in my triceps also but I
also get joint pain the thing as a joint
pain it literally almost certainly means
your joints are experiencing some kind
of damage it might be not a ton of
damage you might be able to go months
and years probably not years months
doing that exercise and pain will just
get worse and worse that's not a
sustainable way to do things it's not a
sustainable way especially to train your
stubborn body parts because you want to
give yourself all the best possible
situations so if you have joint pain in
an area new exercise or alter the
exercise technique radically enough to
get rid of the joint pain public service
announcement a lot of you folks ask me
is very excellent question hey I want to
do this exercise but it hurts my joints
to do so should I the answer is always
no there's two potential answers after
that is change the exercise technique so
that it doesn't hurt or abandon the
exercise I would always try I would
abandon it for a while usually unless
you're a power lifter you have to squat
or something I would abandon it for a
while and just do exercises that don't
hurt really clean the slate right make
sure you've got no residual joint pain
whatsoever I take weeks if not longer
then come back to that exercise revamp
your technique completely with good
information of a biomechanics get some
coaches to look at you so on and so
forth and then give it another college
try with a new technique what I wouldn't
do is try to alter the technique right
away I would just go to different
exercise because if you try to alter the
technique right away you could still be
inflamed in the joints from the bad
technique weaves behind you and anything
remotely looking that head exercise
could hurt your joints but if you took
several weeks off of that exercise and
trained another one you could come back
and it could be clean slate you would
never have joint issues again so give
that some thought so a joint pain
definitely bad if you say yes to that
one that counts for the negative next
one do I get good pumps from this
exercise again not super critical if
you're using a muscle if
it's actually contracting and if you
were disrupting homeostasis to a
significant and affix not too hot cause
hypertrophy you'll almost always get
pumps and somebody could say well we
know when I'm in a hypocaloric a period
but I'm dieting I don't get many pumps
well you fucking cocksucker you're not
supposed to be dieting during this time
you're trying to bring up and that's
actually another myth we'll cover later
it's trying to bring up some body parts
when you're dieting it's the dumbest
shit I've ever heard my life you're
supposed to be eating enough food to
gain weight so your pumps are supposed
to be there right do you have to feel
pumps and everything no if you do
stiffly get that lifts out hamstrings
you have to feel pumping your hamstring
that hard to feel a pump in your
hamstring but it's a good thing to have
on the checklist
and for the body parts that do
experience pumps or you've had pumps on
them before if you're not getting pumps
that's not a good sign if you are that's
almost always a good thing right if
someone's got these is crazy engorged
super mega chest pump after some flies
and they're like it's a weak part
stubborn but I got to be stubborn if you
keep doing that
right it's probably gonna cause I'm
gonna have purchased food last one again
none of these are mandatory probably
except for the joint pain one but this
is a really good thing in the question
here is do I get sore from around four
to eight that's all this exercise in one
session do I get either really stiff
later that day or delayed onset muscle
soreness later that day the next day so
on and so forth so delayed onset
soreness or or even just sort of the
kind of diffuse soreness that occurs
after the session and for several hours
thereafter is it critical no but I'll
tell you this and it was four to eight
is it exactly between four and eight no
in that range you could say three to ten
and be pretty much just as correct or
something like that it's been shown
reasonably well at this point that doing
way more than ten sets per body part per
session is probably overkill in doing
very few like one set procession Malik
you might just need more sets right so
if you have an exercise that you think
is good for your muscles you think
stimulates them but it takes you like 12
sets of that exercise to get sore fuck I
mean that exercise right not just there
might be better exercises now remember
this is not the only criterion lateral
raises on delts you could just not get
sore at all pluck and ever unless you do
like a tea set
in one session don't do that right which
you could get great pomp snow joint pain
great my muscle connection target muscle
is definitely working then you're
looking good it's gonna work right but
this is just another tool and tool box
or so to speak just another one of our
detectors of if the exercise is being
technically executed like if you're not
getting sore from you know eight to ten
sets at the most of an exercise in a
session at least some kind of day of
like oh I fuckin really worked it kind
of disruption even if it doesn't have
dogs and there's probably just better
exercise for you that really just it or
you're doing that exercise on such a way
that doesn't isn't really that great
here's kind of a quintessential example
if you do partial wide stance squats for
quads which is the fucking terrible idea
but bear with me if you do them someone
could ask you man did you get like
soaring your quads and you be like I
wanna get so am i growing get sore my
lower back I don't get so in my quads
you know like well how many sets does it
take you to get sown your quads
hypothetically make you guys think about
it imagine like wide stance
partial squats four quads you're like
where you're sitting back not sitting
down right so di da D emphasizing quads
almost completely it might take you like
fourteen sets to get quad Dom's or
before then you just rip your groin in
half they're like nah man I tried it
didn't work so there's not a reasonable
number less than ten offsets that in one
session will even get you sore so if
that's your target exercise for the
quads I mean fuck that's really not quad
training now if someone throws you in a
high bar back squat with weightlifting
shoes completely vertical you sit right
into your quads with a full squat deep
stretch one second pause and come up how
many fucking sets of those will it take
to get you sore well if you've never
done them before three sets of that shit
you'll be fucking hobbling for half a
week so you can check that shit off no
problem be like yeah fuck definitely
right then you can definitely say look
some shit's happening in my quads right
and that's just another way of telling
us are we stimulating what we want
because if you check is the opposite of
the good thing on all of these man you
something's up right so basically case
in point or to get to more specifics the
better you score on this little
questionnaire right the more answers
that you answer and like okay this is
definitely working
type of
thing then the more likely your exercise
selection or your exercise technique is
not the problem like if someone comes to
me and they have really small triceps or
like stubborn triceps that won't grow
compared to other body parts and you
know III ask them these questions like
hey does it feel like your target
muscles being stimulated they say like
let's say we pick three exercises
pushdown skull crushers and dips and
about all three I'd be like do you do
dips feel like the target muscles being
stimulated that I do fuck I feel like
it's all triceps are cocaine check does
it feel like your pecs are getting
involved a lot that I just like pretty
much triceps sweet you have a mind
muscle connection that you'd like with
push downs I'm like fucking all about my
triceps which was fucking connected to
them totally like I feel all three had
drug a check any joint pain that I cope
not at all I can just keep fucking
cranking and doing crazy volume in
weights never had joint pain ever elbows
are fine and sweet you give good pump so
I do mindboggling pumps like my fucking
can't move my arms after tricep
sometimes alright and how many sets does
it take for you to get sore from push
down gigantic about six sets of push
downs and I'm fucking sore for a couple
days all right
hmm I feel like us tweaking your push
down technique or your depth technique
or Skullcrusher technique or going out
of a way to pick other exercises there
are four triceps like all care clearly
this doesn't work in as close grip bench
time we were gonna be picking those
other exercises or altering the
technique out of a hypothesis that
states the current exercises are not
sufficiently stimulatory they're not
actually stimulating that muscle but if
you answer pretty much the right answer
and I want to say yes cuz some of these
are no if you answer the in the
affirmative
it works for all of these questions
fuck man like your fucking exercises are
not the problem right they're just not
right we have to look elsewhere and look
good news there's the rest of those
presentations about elsewhere we got
tons of a elsewhere cover but but but
but if you score pretty poorly on this
right I would recommend you try to
change your technique and your exercise
selection to whatever extent you you
feel is necessary until you can start
answering these more in the affirmative
for example someone shows you you know
trying to do triceps and someone has you
doing close to bench presses and you go
through this checklist and you're like
don't feel my triceps I just feel my
shoulder joints Annelle
don't have a mind muscle connection just
in fucking pain yes I experienced joint
pain never got a pump from closer bench
and my triceps and it would take me like
ten sets to get sore in the triceps from
closer bench and I would fall apart like
fucking mr. Potato Head by them try
pushed outs right or maybe your Close
Grip technique just totally sucks and
someone teaches you how to suck your
elbows in and really push high on the
chest of after you do that you're like
oh wow yes yes yes great no pain yes and
all of a sudden you're fucking kicking
it and that's a good exercise to take
into the rest of the technicalities
later in this lecture or someone swishes
you're like they try that stuff with you
with a closer batch like anyway you do
it sucks you're like okay fuck that
let's try dips or let's try overhead you
know cable extension something and then
you finally pick several exercises that
just check all these fucking boxes for
you then we know your exercise technique
is good the selection is good all as
well that's just it
alright once you have your good
exercises together what you want to do
is find your session minimum effective
volume is a minimum amount of training
you do per session to actually
theoretically stimulate hypertrophy now
it's called your fall
MeV MeV stands for minimum effective
volume min effective volume is a little
tough to estimate formally because so we
have a book how much should I Train it's
about the training landmarks on
Renaissance period ization calm gets
very technical about how to find your
MeV and really finding a matter of fact
of volume means analyzing an entire
several mesocycles of training where you
intentionally train with as little
volume as possible and seeing which
volume finally results in no growth so
like if you grow 14 sets per week great
if you take it down to 11 sets per week
and you still grow great that's
definitely 14 was not your minimum
effective could you're going from 11
then you finally get down to 8 for a
whole month and at 8 you don't
experience any noticeable growth here ok
so I'm a minimum effective volumes
clearly somewhere between 11 and 8 we'll
just call it 9 or 10 and then we have an
immediate but that takes a fucking long
time right you might have to do that at
some point but there's no faster method
it's informal it's not super duper
accurate but it gets you a really really
good start so here's the method right we
can say that a session was probably
minimally effective no
not maximally effective if the following
three things happened one you got a
notable pump all right if you someone
trained quads and did like one set of
quads and you were like you get a pump
they're like no okay and then they ask
you like am i growing you're probably
like no you're probably not growing keep
training until you get some kind of a
pump right
why pump the pump shows that there has
been a significant disruption a
significant generation of fatigue
generation of metabolites and the cell
swelling effect actually independently
causes a per trophy so it's pretty good
sort of causal elements or at least
correlated elements to something's
happening probably growth related right
in in the trenches so to speak
bodybuilders have associated the pump
with hemorrhage for a very long time
that's probably not entirely mistaken ii
did the session feel like work right was
it not a total breeze right if you do
like two sets of eyes have curls and
someone was like you feeling it like
feeling what like your fucking training
like no not really
is there a chance that they could be
getting some hypertrophy from there yeah
they're total beginners I have really
great genetics for sure if you're
stubborn grower right grow or not a shoe
or am i right yeah can't all be funny
jokes it's got the sound guy all right
so you know if you know your you have
stubborn body part it's probably gonna
take some fucking work so if you do a
session or like once that that was great
and sometimes like did you feel like you
did anything you're like nope it might
not be minimally effective it might not
be anything at all last one
you got sore after the session right and
that includes not delayed onset muscle
soreness which is like the day later it
starts but just feeling is stiffer than
usual the rest the day what do I mean by
that
right you train biceps or you say you
train biceps
you got no pump you basically felt like
it was no work it was like some guys
like let me show you this one set
exercise that you could do and it'll
fuck your biceps up you're okay guy here
we go and you do this that and he's like
oh you're crazy intensity technique
don't hold it to the top and but kind
like you're holding two dildos and yeah
this is easy it's like my day job so
you're done with it and he's like
alright Gerlach tup you know you're
welcome you're like thanks mister and
you go home
and you know have a protein shake
whatever take a nap wake up go out with
your friends and talk another like hey
would you do relation eight you're like
a trained biceps no like oh yeah and
they poke your bicep low you're probably
feeling pretty weak uh pretty stiff and
you're like actually I couldn't have
told you that I trained biceps if I
didn't physically remember the event
occurring like there's nothing about my
biceps right now that feels any
different than normal like you usually
think about even if you don't get Dom's
you train quads
later that day your quads feel weaker
they feel stiffer right they might not
exhibit pain or real delayed onset
soreness because the next day that could
be even better and better better and
then two days later it healed but
there's something there that seems
disrupted there's residual right stiffer
maybe more sensitive to the touch
proprioception might be off weaker that
kind of stuff we include that in
soreness that just general disruption if
you don't feel that at all from a
session it begs the question of what the
fuck were you doing in the session right
because if you're not disrupting a
homeostasis to some extent you'll
probably not hypertrophy now again do
you have to disrupt homeostasis to grow
if you're a beginner probably not if
you're really advanced I'll unbelievable
genetics probably not if you have
stubborn body parts probably right so if
you say no to all these you probably
didn't have a minimally effective
session so we actually have a little bit
of a criterion here if you got only one
out of the three of these let's say you
got a pump but it didn't feel like work
and you didn't get sore stiff at all you
probably need more volume right so from
which one out of three you probably need
more volume if it's two out of three
like let's say you felt like the session
was work and you got a little stiff
after mmm it's probably a pretty good
estimate of minimum effective volume
like it's probably in the ballpark right
and then if you've got three out of
three it probably means you got a really
good training session probably above
like you got a pump the session felt
like work and you got sore you could
probably do a little less than that and
still grow right because if you got all
three on the checklist man you're for
sure was minimally effective but
probably even more than minimally
effective so if you get three out of
three yeah I mean he's probably a bit
lower than that maybe like a third fewer
sets lower so for example if you did six
sets of leg extensions and you've got
all of these things pump you felt like
it was work and you got sore four sets
of leg extensions right like one-third
less than that or two-thirds of that
total value
that could probably be close to your MeV
right so super super easy checklist once
you find this man you have an
understanding of at least what it's
gonna take to get you theoretically some
growth if you're eating enough so on and
so forth right real important so you
know these numbers you're probably going
to figure out these numbers per exercise
right it might take six sets of leg
extensions three sets of high bar squats
four sets of hack squats you know three
sets of light processes so on and so
forth the more dady have the better you
know really straightforward figuring out
how this works and once you have it
we're gonna use it a little bit
super super really effective thing so
now you know you're kind of a minimum
factor blowing procession now we go on
to choose the training frequency so you
found your per session minimum effective
volume you know how much how many sets
of a certain exercise or per body part
it's gonna take to get you that
checklist of pumped the sort of sore and
you know felt like to work all right now
we need a workable frequency how do we
find that frequency we have to ask a
question how long after my MeV session
that made him an effective volume
session am I completely healed from
delayed onset muscle soreness or
residual soreness
one day prior right not like I healed
yesterday like I healed the day before
and am I able to have another high
performance session no residual fatigue
that's meaningful today
right so let's get an example here you
do four sets of chest Monday because you
assume that's your minimum effective
volume right you get sore but your
soreness heals completely by the end of
Tuesday right and thus you would predict
a train again Thursday because Wednesday
is one whole day of no soreness and then
Thursday would be okay so end of Tuesday
we healed there is a new train again and
you say okay great you try to train on
Thursday it works you got a real
productive training session you can
overload like no you know you did some
dumbbell presses and flies on Monday and
then you do some bench and cable flies
on Thursday and they fucking go great
you're not deteriorating a performance
you're not like all thought my chest
didn't heal you guys are talking about
you're like this is awesome then clearly
that's a workable frequency that means
your tentative frequency for that little
mini experiment is like okay chest is
two times per week make sense let's get
another example because it can't all be
two times a week and here's another
example let's say you do four sets of
curls on Monday at your MeV is four sets
that's what you've calculated you know
sort of experimentally found as checks
all the checklist or two-thirds of the
checklist and you never gifts or
soreness never occurs so then we can say
because soreness never occurred the one
whole day of not being slower condition
means Monday what's that day so we could
hypothetically train again Tuesday you
go in and you try to train hard on
Tuesday but you still feel a bit
fatigued like your usual bicep weights
and reps you can't do you're like oh man
fuck my bicep move I'm still tired man
like buy something you know often my
biceps I'm still feeling that fatigue
I'm not sore but I just clearly didn't
recover and then what that means is
Tuesday is probably a bit too soon for
you to train because one of the
conditions was violated so next week you
train Monday Wednesday you give yourself
that one extra day and Friday and it
works great tada so then the result
there is your tentative frequency
because remember this can change for
biceps is maybe three or four times a
week because clearly trying to do them
everyday probably isn't a good idea cuz
you can't recover but you maybe every
other day or sometimes you double up on
days and then give yourself two days off
so on and so forth three or four times a
week seems like a legit example right
does this seem a little complicated or
first yeah it can tabulate shit and what
deta dockets or can I perform blah blah
it really only takes a few weeks to
figure out and that's weeks in which
you're probably getting some decent
growth right it's not just an experiment
where you're arranging the cards and
then eventually you're gonna start the
process and grow your training all right
your training in minimum effective only
much it's some kind of training and it
can allow you to sort of get used to
these higher frequencies or lower
frequencies depending on which way
you're going but the sort of the
take-home message here if you forget all
the complexities how do you find your
training frequency when can you train
again after mev training and complete
healing occurs right so like if you
train an MeV and you can't train hard
for four days later until four days
later clearly you're not going to be
training every day
that's nuts but if you train at MeV in
your fucking golden the next day and you
train hard and it works and then you go
to the next day engineer our networks
then yeah they you just got yourself a
train or a train whatever snubber body
part every day there are muscles that
were can recover that faster maybe
training side delts rear delts can just
be like fucking gold oh there's really
small muscles they're not in a
mechanical position to accept a lot of
damage but for minimum effective volumes
they can grow just fine with everyday
training sometimes that do i'm i am i
recommending a very new training not
necessarily it has to be a calculation
you make most people end up somewhere
between two times a week training and
four times will be training for the
average joe's right this establishes
your rough baseline frequency based on
experimentation and then you get into
the meat potatoes slowly ramping volume
and intensity so point number six
volume and intensity we know cause
growth so how do you add volume
intensity because so hold on right now
written minimum effective volume and not
at a super high intensity because we
haven't progressed anything so clearly
like you know we could do better and we
have to overload an overload means
progression so we have to add an amount
of training and we have to add intensity
weight on the bar so how do we add well
intensity additions should be of a low
magnitude if we're trying to get
stronger for the purpose of exhibiting a
high ability to produce force through
our nervous system a muscular system
then we should jump in intensity maybe
not super aggressively but pretty
meaningfully because intensity
progression is probably what determines
how fast you gain strength but in
hypertrophy volume is probably more
important than intensity as far as
making you grow if you progress in
intensity too quickly it means you can't
progress in volume is quickly enough you
take away the biggest factor so for
intensity
you're gonna progress maybe somewhere
between two and a half and ten pounds on
the bar per week sometimes you can hold
weeks cost them and add reps or just add
sets and not progress in weight but
basically nice and slow but two and a
half to ten pounds really depends on the
exercise something like leg press ten
pounds a week is a fine progression
super slow something like dumbbell bicep
curls two and a half pounds per week
might be too fast and you might need a
skip a week here and there right
slow super easy progression where you
add just a couple of percentage points
of weight on the bar every week no big
deal right
now how do we figure out how to progress
with volume you could just like add two
sets a week there are better ways of
doing it we're gonna show you an on a
regulated way not an advance not a
regulated way but a pretty good Auto
regulated way of adding volume so here's
the deal you're training Monday
Wednesday Friday right if you're no
longer sore by Wednesday and your
Wednesday performance this week is equal
to or greater than their performance
your access times reps times weight
right or how many reps you get for
weight if it's equal to or greater than
the last week's Wednesday then you add a
set on next week's Monday what the fuck
did I just say it was Wednesday Monday
last week blah blah you train Monday
then you train Wednesday
if you Wednesday you're not sore from
what you did Monday and your progress is
good you either didn't get weaker or you
got stronger for reps then clearly your
recovery here from monday to wednesday
is good enough and you can add a little
bit Monday and probably still recover
well next week so cuz you can't fucking
time-traveling you're not gonna add to
last Monday's did this Wednesday you're
gonna back okay check this was good and
the next week Monday you go okay here
instead of doing four sets I might add
five sets right or add five and one set
and there's five sets so if everything's
good on Wednesday you add for Monday
okay so that's good let's see what's
next if we go to Friday whatever we did
Wednesday could potentially have made a
sore through Friday and degraded our
performance if it was too much volume
but if it wasn't too much volume right
if we look at Friday and we're no longer
sore Friday and our performance this
week Friday is better than last week
Friday are equal to it at least then
clearly we're recovering enough we add a
set to next week's Wednesday because
Wednesday was not enough right so we can
do better next Monday we do the same
thing but use Friday so if we're not so
on Monday right and our performance this
week is better than last week on Monday
then for
Friday of the next time we go we can add
a set because we say ok this Monday we
did really super well and we healed
super on time then that means that the
you know Friday before it we could do
more and still recover because you could
end up in if you never progress this way
you to two essential things would
develop one is you or by definition at
minimum effective volume and so your
minimally growing and also like it's
just clearly day you could do more I
came a Janu in four sets and eventually
you barely get sore at all or not at all
and you're a super super recover but
someone's like why aren't you doing five
sets you're like oh well cuz I don't
know like you could just be doing more
so this auto regulated approach
basically it's like look if you're
recovering well which is basically what
this checklist is like as you're showing
us going away and just perform is good
then add we're at saying double we're
not saying triple just add a set it's
really super easy right if you're still
source of some problems here if you're
still sore in an overloading day right
you do not add volume on the day before
so let's say if you added four sets of
curls on Monday and then on Wednesdays
bicep a routine you are still sore don't
add sets to next like don't go to five
sets
you're still sore clearly you're under
recovering you want that soreness to
diminish it a little bit more and over
time you get used to training right so
you'll get less and less over time if
you stick to the same volume so you say
okay Wednesday I wasn't healed Monday
was four sets I'm not gonna drop volume
next Monday but I'm not gonna raise my
volume so I'm just gonna do next Monday
I'm gonna do four sets and then there's
a good chance that by next Wednesday
you'll have healed completely you're
like oh this is great and maybe it'll go
to five cents there right now if your
performance has declined definitely
Genet volume this is a real bad sign if
the decline continues throughout the
rest of the week like if it's just an
off session you could be like just gonna
keep everything the same not changing
anything maybe there's just a bad day
but like if your Monday sucked your
Wednesday sucked and your Friday cycling
if it's through the whole week D load
that very next week right super low
volumes and intensities and record the
total number of sets through the week
for biceps or whatever body part you're
focusing on with
was maybe it was like 25 cents total if
it was you circled that 25 and be like
that might be my maximum recoverable
volume because I dot up to that volume
and all of a sudden it couldn't recover
anymore it will happen to everyone at
some point if you keep increasing volume
everyone under recovers at some point so
real super basic rule is what we're
estimating here if you're healing on
time and your performance is good you
slowly add volume until you're not
what's it so you're gonna start at a
really low volume and you're gonna say
I'm recovering good I'm recovering good
I'm recovering good I'm recovering good
volumes up volumes up flames up and at
some point you're not gonna be
recovering well and you're gonna die
shit that's too much Mr VD load and then
we could repeat the process right all
right now can you lower volume without
formerly D loading could you be like oh
five sets was too much I'm gonna go down
to three and try to ramp up again yeah
that's a little bit more advanced Auto
regulation and that's for another
lecture I think here would just keep it
a little bit more simple it's complex
enough stick to the basics and say if
we're healing great if we're not healing
and our performances subject to
degradation will just deal ode because
we don't want to risk it I'm gonna stop
your body parts we have to take it
really really seriously all right
example with a Monday Wednesday Friday
tricep routine here's the deal we could
train four sets of push downs on Monday
all right four sets of push downs Monday
no big deal on Wednesday not sore in the
triceps at all totally healed and
performance on dips that day tricep dips
is really good what's the action we
scoot to next week Monday and we go push
down and we get rid of the four sets and
we say five sets cuz we survived and
everything was great what about
Wednesday you do four sets of dips on
Wednesday and then you look at Friday
right you wait until Friday
you're not sore on the triceps or on
Friday great performance is still good
on the Skullcrusher to do that day for
triceps and that means next Wednesday's
you go from four sets to five sets of
dips awesome all right and then what
about Friday well you train for stuff so
skull crushers on Friday and on Monday
when it's time to do push downs again
you're not sore on the tricep and you're
pushing on performances good like it
went up or at state stable awesome that
means next Friday's skull Crusher's can
be increased to five cents it's
really that simple notice it's a it's a
really self-contained method because
look if you're not gaining in
performance or if you're degrading
performance or if you're not recovering
for your stool to soar that's definitely
not a time to add any phone right a
really cool rule you can use in training
is if you're healing on time you can add
volume if you're not healing on time you
need to not add volume but if your
performance is degrading you need to
reduce volume significantly D load
recycle back and try again
super super straightforward on that note
we get to the next part finding our
weekly MRV alright so as you go through
this volume ramping right rating
everything seeing if you're sore seeing
how your performances and keep going up
you're gonna eventually find your Mr v1
perform installs right and MRV maximum
recoverable volume means you can't match
your weight reps of last week so an
example of MRV is like you've usually
benched 225 for five sets of ten and
you've exceeded the amount of volume
your chest can recover from so the week
after that you bench to thirty but you
do like nine six four four one and
you're like oh my god something's
fucking wrong with me you did clearly
did not recover to twenty five four ten
does not convert to two thirty for an
average of like six reps okay that's not
you don't add five pounds to the bar and
get that many reps knocked off so
basically if you can't match your
performance anymore
if your can't match your sets and reps
as your weight going up or as your
weight is stable if you can't get the
same amount of reps at least at the same
weight or like a 10 RM formula converted
amount of reps for the new weight like
if you add five pounds you could lose it
like a rap here and there you're not
gonna lose five all right so if you
experienced a deterioration performance
especially with multiple frequencies you
know if it's two or three days a week
that you're training or two to four
weeks or days a week then you'll you'll
get if you really hit your MRV
everything is gonna go like
significantly deteriorate and probably
it worse every single session if that
happens no big deal totally predictable
you can Tran falling forever without
hitting your maximum recover volume so
what you're gonna do is D load alright
and then you're gonna go down to right
around your old MeV set numbers you're
going to note if they're higher or lower
than usual
right so you could go down to like four
sets of skull crusher and be like ooh
I'm not hitting all the criteria try me
like I'm not really sore I didn't really
get a pump and it really feel like much
then you're knew them if he might be
five or six so you note that so the next
time you come back around to skull
crushers you could know okay five or six
instead of four so you know it all those
would you come back down to your entity
numbers and then in exactly the same way
auto regulating your volume seeing if
you've recovered and increasing from
there you climb up again anticipating
that you'll hit MRV in the general area
of last time so if last time you had you
know your MeV was 10 sets and your MRV
was 25 so that's a week you know as you
pass 20 sets a week who could be like
alright I'm really time to get my
recovery in line and really make sure
that I pay attention to the numerical
amount that I'm performing to make sure
that if am i under recovering or not
because I know 25 is coming in somewhere
around there I'll probably hit my
armored V it's not a guarantee it could
come earlier it could come way later but
just keep your eyes open at that point
and when you hit it again do you load
repeat so on and so forth do you repeat
this process and add weight to your
exercises over time slowly and you grow
that's it that's the training process
logically organized now that process
could very well work especially if you
have everything else in line there is
one little problem we could run into all
systemic MRV ceilings right when you
originally start this process I would
recommend not changing anything else
about the rest of your body body
building training the rest of your
training should be the same don't change
anything just try it in isolation but
what could happen for some muscle groups
is going through this MeV to MRV
spectrum especially towards the end
closer to MRV during your mesocycles you
might get so fatigued from the added
volume that other body part training
suffers it has nothing to do with this
body part like you do so much work for
your chest but your back and leg
training start to suffer for example
that you might have hit what's called
systemic MRV right systemic MRV is is
essentially sort of you could split
recovery into two things peripheral
recovery or a local recovery which is is
the muscle recovered and its nervous
system that leads into it it what about
the rest of the body right because you
guys know that when you do a shitload of
Metro's pull ups and squats and benches
you know your local musculature is sore
fatigued but also the rest of you is
fucked up
and like if you do a really big deadlift
workout on Monday
your ability to benchpress on Tuesday is
decreased how the fuck does that work
well deadlifting is so much systemic
fatigue all around whole body fatigue it
spills over into your ability to perform
benchpress and I'll tell you this if
you're using deadlifts to bring up your
back man there's only so many deadlifts
you can do which your backs going great
but it's gonna hurt your chest training
at some point because you're gonna be so
wipe you out for everything else that
you're gonna have to sort of take
something away somewhere because you
can't your whole body recovery it just
isn't enough right that's possible all
right so what would you do is you would
reduce some of those other body part
volumes that you're not prioritizing to
around a movies or even maintenance
volumes and then run as many stubborn
body parts cycles as you want in order
to get the stubborn body part up to
where you like it so for example you're
trying to bring up for triceps but your
triceps training is really messing with
your chest training because it's so much
tricep training so what you might do is
take your chest down to just minimum
effective volume just not that much
training allow your triceps the room in
your systemic MRV window to really fill
up the space really get good growth run
through your formats the cycles of
triceps specific training your triceps
are brought up quite a bit then you can
go back to easing up on your triceps and
going to your chest why that well it
says here more than four in a row of
mesocycles especially for more advanced
folks probably not a good idea for that
specific focus you want to take a break
from stimulating stimulating stimuli
until at your stubborn body parts reset
really recover grab some air maybe lower
some adaptive resistance and you just go
to MeV or MV on the snubber body part
for just a training cycle you know four
to eight weeks or whatever and then when
you come back you can start to go
through another several mesocycles oh
you know triceps triceps triceps
whatever it is you want to bring up so
sometimes you hit your MRV ceiling and
sometimes you don't and a lot of times
it depends on the size and scope of the
body part for example here's an example
of not hitting your systemic on Rd
ceiling you want to bring up your traps
you increase your trap work from 10
average sets per body part per week
let's say you're really under training
them you just had no idea 225 average
per week
of traps which means you might go up to
like 35 at the peak of your mezzo and
start at like 15 or something like that
right so average goes from 10 to 25
that's a whole lot more work for your
traps but your traps aren't that fucking
big even big people's traps aren't that
big relative to their quads or whatever
it's not a very big muscle especially
like the upper part of it which you're
probably trying to target so you do this
in just no other body parts of yours are
affected some ones that go a man that
trap programs bucking up your back
training huh you're like nope I gotta be
honest in my traps our sword
I don't know bent rows or a little bit
interesting but I'm doing fine on those
and I'm just doing more vertical poling
and everything's great okay but your
arms are affected you're like no
honestly I could probably do double this
work on traps and never feel a fucking
thing and the rest of my body
boom you're golden it's really common
this happens the smaller muscles think
about this how much forearm training
would you have to do that warm training
masturbation joke how much form training
would you have to do in order to exceed
your systemic MRV like you can you
imagine someone's like hey man you
benching today and some like nah man
well conform trains you got you wiped
out brother what the fuck link your
forms either you look like Popeye or
some shit Zig gonna shit a zag cuz
that's probably not gonna happen
bicep training most of the time even
tricep training side delt training you
can have like an infinity side del Valle
you know probably not get a big anything
really bring up your rear delts means a
rear delts a fucking muscle this big you
know here's another one that calves
right your calf training can interfere
with your quad training but just like an
intelligent arrangement of it probably
means you're good to go
so a lot of smaller muscles or muscles
that are just sort of out of the way
Rick forums and calves and with good
grippers like versa groups or something
your forums don't really matter much
calves really aren't the way of most
training traps really aren't in the way
in most training you can add volume to
that and and probably all three of them
at the same time and probably not really
get a ton of systemic interference or
other muscles so you don't need to
change anything but here's an example of
yes hitting systemic Arviso quads your
quad work you really focus on your quads
the average set number per week goes
from 10 to 25 big fucking difference
right and then your back and chest
training begin to suffer it's not
because you're fucking Bacchus or from
your leg training is that your chest is
sure as hell not sore there's no local
fatigue but just the systemic burden is
great this happens in muscular people
that are really really advanced more
often and it's more common in larger
muscles if you prioritize your back your
chest usually your chest in combination
with your shoulder and triceps you
prioritize your glutes your quads those
huge muscles are probably gonna take a
toll at some point on the system so what
you do then is if you're really
prioritizing your quads you might have
to take your chest and where your back
and go lower on the training close to
MeV maybe even maintenance volume and
put quads are on blast and when you take
quads off blast off priority then you
can switch back to going back to chest
and back but here's the deal this isn't
a huge concern because people sometimes
get this you know responsible fuck bad I
don't wanna have to produce the speed of
everything else growing for
to fucking grow this you know other
thing yeah if you really advanced then
all of the muscles aren't really
stubborn but they're all stubborn it
sucks because you have to like move away
from muscles that you want to improve
and improve muscles just just for
regular improvements you have to
alternate which ones you're focusing on
but for stubborn muscles like if you're
really bothered by them like if you
really you're like I want to bring up my
biceps like fucking can't stand having
some goddamn biceps anymore
I want a big I don't give a fuck what I
have to do and someone tells you you
just have to train your back a little
less in your legs a little less and then
you'll be able to train your biceps more
and your answer is no fuck that I can't
I can't not get maximum growth from my
legs in my back then I guess there's
just not that stubborn for you biceps
right I guess this is not that big of a
fucking problem but if you're really
committed to making that stubborn body
part better what you'll do is you focus
on your biceps take whatever else you
have off the you know off the front
burners put them on the back burner so
especially you know biceps you probably
won't have to do that but something like
quads but you really want to bring up
your quads and people are okay you just
have to train your chest and back a
little less for a couple months your
answer should be like oh sweet let's do
it right because your chest and back are
probably so much better than your quads
that that's just gonna make your
physique look better all around as and
here's our real sort of kick to kick to
the brain if you never do prioritize
your chest and back in there great body
parts it almost doesn't matter how much
you
your quads unless something magical
happens which we'll get to the myths and
fans fucking never does your chest and
back will always be bigger than your
quads relatively and they'll always feel
like a sniper body part right they're
always at least look like ass somebody
you're gonna go on stage you're gonna be
at the beach at the gym somebody like
fuck happened that guy's quads are you
sick or something you got an injury you
know look at have a knee injury
fuck you my quads are just fine like
well why the hell are you trusting back
so big anybody mitt because I never
backed off on those till out my quads
catch up and we're not saying that you
have to back up on body parts let them
catch up but if you want the body part
to catch up and backing up is what you
have to do that's a fuckin no-brainer
is it sucked yeah totally would you is
we got a magic pill we'd love the takers
put it in your quads your quads catch up
to everything sure what am I not feeling
all right
tracking progress let's see we execute
this whole plan we want to know if it's
actually working you our best tool to
track progress is not fucking tape
measure because it's very imprecise some
body fat changes and you could fucking
see your biceps look so we're smaller
but you turns out you were leaner and
you actually gain size and your biceps
the best tool to see progress is weight
and rep effort differences on exercises
what does that mean means two things
with more weight on an exercise you get
the same reps as you did before or at
the same way you get more reps it's
really that fucking simple or a
combination of the two so let's check
this out because we want to make sure
it's not just the nervous system
improving from practice of an exercise
but it's the muscle we're gonna want
multiple exercise conformation if you
get really good on squats just from
practicing squats can we say your quads
grew maybe but maybe your nervous system
just got really advanced which happens
and that's how you got stronger even for
reps so how can we test this well if
your quads really did get bigger as soon
as you start like pressing you're gonna
start hitting PRS on light press real
quick and be like well how the fuck does
that work the nervous system the
technical component of squatting is
pretty different from light process you
know just because you're really good at
squats doesn't mean you'll be really
good at light process if it's true
nervous system strength if you if you
want to see how that works take a power
lifter it was a really really good low
of our squatter and throw him on the leg
press deep strict reps they're gonna be
impressive but not nearly as impressive
as you thought but if you let them
practice light press for like eight
weeks they're gonna be fucking amazing
at it after
because of nervous system retuns to
being able to do that motion but if way
sooner than eight weeks week two or
three they're already like pressing
fucking crazy weights back compared to
what they used to mana or the nervous
system doesn't catch on that fast man
that's probably is you're a reflection
of the fact that they have more muscle
right multiple exercises not just ones
you've been practicing if they are
increasing in performance man that's
probably really really good prediction
of whether or not you gain muscle all
right so here's an example this is
actually a personal example back in the
day a couple years back I was focusing
on my back and my barbell bent over rows
straight bar went from 275 pounds four
sets of ten like four sets of ten to I
remember I hit 315 Barbra ban rows for
four sets of ten over half a year took
me like six months to do that two things
one fuck maybe I'm hacked my back did
get bigger that's a hell of a fucking PR
- I was practicing that rows a whole lot
that exact technique so what was it well
let's find out what I did I didn't do
this on purpose this was just a journey
of discovery I had access to a cambered
bar for the first time in a long time
first time in one and a half years
cambered bar oh I'm sure you guys have
seen me row or do these things on
Instagram and I did cameras for the
first time in a year and a half and I
instantly all-time PR for reps my best
ever was 244 sets of 10 like three sets
of ten and I did two 4210 kilos for
three or four by ten or something three
by ten it was like an instant technical
PR I mean good god this exercise felt
completely alien to me but I still PR
feels alien that means your nervous
system my nervous system was not aligned
to do it properly like I fit I hit way
bigger PRS in the weeks after that but
because as soon as I hit those PRS I was
like oh shit how am i PR and with so
little practice on this year and a half
out of practice I gained muscle that's
damn near the only way to explain it now
there's better ways this is progress it
doesn't have to be instant but within a
few sessions of doing new exercises you
haven't done in a while
you should be peeing if you made
significant gains just think about it
right
you tell someone that dude my fucking
chest just fucking biggest it's ever
been bro and they're like sweet and
you're like you've asked you like you've
done inclined
process a while like Fox been months
well let's fucking throw them in the
program like sweet throw them in and you
know you do like the 90s for ten in your
previous PR is the 95 for 12 alright not
bad and the next week you do you know
the 90s for 11 and then next week after
that you do 92 5 for like 10 and we got
four that you do the 95 s for like nine
and you're like what's my PR they're
like oh yeah like 95 412 for my pecs
really bigger right is the muscle is the
bigger the muscle the more contractile
tissue it has the stronger should be Eve
it's really that simple and so long as
the nervous system is relatively
proficient which is several weeks it
should be you should be hitting PRS if
it's a meaningful size game the reality
is if your pecs really did get bigger
when that first session you might get 90
for 12 on the second session you make it
90 for 14 you're like fuck I need more
weight then you ending 92 5 for 15 right
and then when you get to you know a
couple weeks later you get 295 pounds
your previous PR was 12
you might hit for like 16 and feel like
you have more you fucking put it down
you're like fuck fuck someone's like
dude what's up with your chest training
and you're like I can clearly my pecs
are bigger because how the fuck in three
sessions that I just hit a massive PR
out of nowhere tada
you got bigger it just doesn't work any
other way right the strongest evidence
is PRS across the board on pretty much
all exercises for that body part in
which that body part is a prime mover
and it should be applied in half year
increment so what does that mean that
means let's say you focused on you pick
select exercises and for basically six
months you focused on those exercises
and getting stronger and stronger
stronger for reps well you should be
able to do if you can conclude that that
muscle really did grow just pick
completely different exercises and
within a couple of weeks you should be
hitting PRS on those after six months of
training certain exercises right what is
that a quick example that you have been
using mostly EZ bar curls and cable
curls and your biceps strength has
clearly just you know gone up
considerably because you've been
training any brother who is that neuro
technical practice or is it real
hypertrophy you go to hammer curls and
within two sessions you're doing hammer
curls with weight that you were like
holy shit I can't believe I'm lifting
this
one-arm dumbbell alternating curls you
get a PR on the first fuckin session and
the second session you blow it away by
four wraps like oh fuck and you realize
like there's not a bicep exercise you
can't just pretty much instantly PR on
or PR within a few weeks you've got
different biceps your biceps are bigger
right plain and simple
now the contrary to that is a problem if
any half year period right after
focusing on a group right if you choose
exercises after that half your period
that you haven't done in half a year or
so and you don't hit PRS on nearly every
one of them you probably haven't grown
at least much and PR doesn't mean one or
M we'll talk about that in myths and
fads
you know sets of six to twenty reps
right if you're not lifting more weight
with the same reps or you're not lifting
the same reps with our sorry if you're
not lifting more reps for the same
weight you got a fucking problem right
the most no bullshit real talk thing I
can tell you is this if your muscles got
bigger you're you're gonna know if you
have to ask you're already in deep shit
now you might just be a fucking
naysaying asshole and have no goddamn
self-confidence which is totally cool as
half of us in the sport then you can
look at your journal and be like oh wow
fuck I'm pure iron left you're right and
even no idea I think gotta keep track of
these PRS we've gotta keep track of them
and then you believe wow I really did
gain muscle you might not look like it
in the mirror or whatever but everything
else got bigger so who the fuck knows
right and that's the thing that's why
there's nothing here about like look in
the mirror see if it's bear was a calf
you're trying to bring up your biceps
but your triceps event at an inch in the
last half-year and your fucking
shoulders are bigger on your forearms
are bigger your biceps could have added
a fucking solid half-inch which is great
for a lagging body part for a struggling
one and all of a sudden you're like Bob
they got even smaller well they fucking
didn't what you did worked why is it so
important for us to say what we did work
because once we have a working system we
can iteratively apply that system over
months and months and months and years
and years and years and predictably grow
that muscle meaningfully but if you use
the illusory methods like the mirror and
shit like that to say okay did I really
bring this up you might conclude that an
effective method didn't work or conclude
that an ineffective method worked in
your real deep shit because then you're
just believing a lie and every step you
take after that is a step
probably in in a likely in a wrong
direction right but if you know you're
doing a good job via this method then
you're fucking in the clear and again if
you have to ask a lot if you you should
I see yourself like yeah you know I
fucking I think I hit a hack squat PR
but like this is a harder machine and
the one I was using and I was like dyed
it down that if you have to make enough
adjustments just fucking stop
they gotta be like meat and potatoes
just plain old PRS like me up my PR on a
certain hack squat machine which which I
admit was an easier machine was you know
for 25 for like a set of 15 or some shit
like that like 2 years ago and then this
last year on a tougher machine which who
cares right swipe it away my PR was 455
for the same number right man dirty
fucking pounds difference I'm a hack
squat and mind you my squat was up my
leg press was up but everything was up
and my quads look bigger
my lunges were up you fucking aim quad
size right good if you have to be like
on the one hand this is up on in the end
man I wouldn't count that as for sure
growth and I would re-evaluate the
strategy or just apply it for longer
alright last and least myths and fads
and stubborn body part training there's
a fuckload of home I'm not gonna cover
nearly all of them
let's just get some of the ones that
pissed me off the most that number one
do more work this usually comes from
someone that intentionally makes the
voice deeper when they talk to you for
no goddamn reason
alright and a good example is the
thousand rep arm program it was just
google it and then report the page to
Google I'm just kidding
this is a thing right like a thousand
rep bicep workout it what the fuck does
that mean that means you do a thousand
reps of biceps in one session like you
know what right so could this
potentially grow you yes I can
potentially grow you the only way in
which you could grow you this your
diagnosis is that your usual training
volume is like an order of magnitude
lower than your MRV right like you
usually train with five sets of biceps
per week but it turns out your MRV for
biceps is fifty okay that's the only way
that you could really benefit from a
thousand rep program more likely issue
bullshit you're gonna be a real sore you
gonna do more damage than gross stimulus
and it's just gonna be a wash all right
so do more work in general it's not just
a thousand rep arm program but in
general the idea of like oh you're
fucking hardgainer
you fucking do more work like it is
actually true that I think statistically
most hard gainers maybe not most I guess
the majority of hardgainers they do
usually benefit from more volume rather
than less so we police to say like hard
gaining as a matter under recovery like
it's probably not that probably not that
so sometimes it can be more work is
usually better but just quote unquote do
more work it never answers a question of
how much work how do I know if it's too
much right a systematic approach is much
better man I fucking it was it'd be easy
if little fucking memes were the only
dumb shit you need for training like
someone asked like hey man what I do for
my biceps just thought the more work
brother go fuck I guess I haven't been
listening to fucking heavy metal enough
and being a my head against the wall I
should just be doing that right they
sweet again and be awesome I fucking
love metal but that's just you got to
think about a little more deeply
especially if it's a sniper body part
usually the people that give you that
kind of advice they just look you work
really fuck lazy asshole they usually
don't have that body part or the
stubborn body part when they have it as
a stubborn body part they usually much
more nuanced in their approach like oh
let me tell you what work for me or what
might work for you right here's another
one train more often thought fuck
another super easy one right you're
training quads twice a week and
someone's just fucking training four
times a week now again there's a kernel
of truth there higher frequency programs
especially for short time periods tend
to on an average on average I give you
some more hypertrophy but you could have
it on a recovery problem or the
frequency would be too much for your
joints and then what you're fucked
and also the Train more often like do
you apply that infinitely like the
method we just described here where you
find your minimum effective values or
minimum effective volumes and you find
out your sort of workable frequency
that's a method you can continue to use
for a really long time and it Auto
adjusts to itself train more often it's
like okay so currently train device a
week for biceps do I just train four
times a week like for how long is that
infinitely approachable and if they say
train more often to bring up some body
parts why don't we just train more often
with everything and then it'll be
fucking just giant right it's not enough
thought for such a serious problem and
again there's kernels of truth here but
remember there's stumping body parts for
a reason because they are stubborn and
they probably require a little bit more
thought than stupid bullshit Instagram
memes
number three altering exercises too much
how the fuck you supposed to know if
you're hitting PRS if you do different
sets and reps in different exercises
every time you come in and a lot of
people are sort of chasing this like
novelty effect right there's something
to that effect again kernel of truth
novel exercise attend our pert review a
little bit more than the olds ones that
are way too stale but there's a middle
ground of exercise that is not novel not
stale that middle ground of you gaining
momentum on and gaining good strength
that's probably where the best gains are
if you switch exercises too often you're
probably avoiding that whole awesome
middle ground so I would say pick some
exercises run them for anywhere between
one mesocycle which is you know for
eight weeks or even up to four or five
muscle cycles in a row really gain good
strengthen good reps then alter
exercises changing exercises every
session is an exercise and probably
futility here's another one number four
chasing soreness without nuance does
saunas have something to a hypertrophy
almost certainly okay especially as a
detection mechanism for if you are
stimulating the muscle you want right
again if you are doing Wystan sumo
squats sitting back for 10 sets per
session and you're not getting sore in
your quads at all and you say to your
coach or whoever like hey I'm not
getting sore from this and he could be
like fucking soreness chasing it's
fucking stupid bro
doesn't matter how so you are it's a
fucking you know that's for CrossFitters
or whatever it's fucking dumb we don't
chase soreness with fucking science
science here or whatever like stimulate
Dylan aisle eight some other quip like
that's nice it's true as far as it goes
but it might not go far enough to
explain this example like clearly if it
takes ten sets for me to not feel my
quads get sore at all but maybe we're
just saying we're just not targeting
quads much right that's a thing so you
don't have to chase soreness and just
try to get mando crazy sore so there is
something to getting the feeling of
soreness but then again so so not being
sore doll and being like who cares
probably not for the best you probably
want to see if you can get sore at least
to confirm that you're actually training
the muscle you think you are but at the
same time soreness all the time if you
get crazy Dom's all the time almost by
definition supplying a shitload more
damage than your body can recover from
and at the same time adapt to so it
prioritizes more recovery less
adaptation all of a sudden you just hang
yourself up and down for no good reason
right now if you think that the soon
hypertrophy correlation is linear
forever why don't you just train for
like why don't you do with a thousand
rep arm program every time you train you
get super fuckin mono sore but
unfortunately it's not a sustainable way
for growth so chasing soreness without
nuance actually in any direction
completely avoiding soreness on
principle or trying to get a source
possible in principle that's fucking
stupid
my recommendation of that a nice little
middle ground if we're getting almost a
full sore but managing to recover on
time and hitting PRS your fucking gold I
mean you're enough to worry about a
thing
number five Plateau busting program okay
we just described here is a systematic
method that adjusts to your conditions
and your various nuances and gives you a
solution that you develop for yourself
that's optimized to you a fucking
program I don't know your Plateau
busting programs gonna look real
different than mine is hers and so on
and so forth just on volumes imagine
someone's maximum Ricardo volumes twenty
and the other person's is forty and you
give them a thirty rep program right oh
sorry thirtieth set program for the
forty person thirty sets is not enough
not sufficiently challenging and they're
groweth they'll stop stop a body part
sure as hell won't grow unless you
really push for the person that's twenty
they're gonna be overreached within a
couple weeks over trained within a
several months and then what you're
gonna fuck them all completely right so
plateau busting program three sets
everyone's gonna buy it on my fuckin
Instagram link all of a sudden that's
shit for the people that have their you
know you know MeV at twenty MRV at forty
and then they go up and through the
thirty they get some really good growth
but but everyone else gets fucked over
so Plateau busting program again
programs are cool for people who have
good genetics or people who have average
genetics beginners intermediates when
you're advanced programs are not good
enough Auto regulated systems or what
have to be good a coach can do that for
you on app can do that for you you can
do it for yourself but one written excel
sheet with no adjustment ability
whatsoever just do that is almost
certainly not gonna do that for you and
again it could do that for you if it's
genetically strong body part or not a
weak body part and you're an
intermediate or beginner if you're
advanced especially if it was dormant
body part I wouldn't bet on him number
six people say change the rep range like
you said dunes sets of five do sets a
ten you really get fucked up well you
really get
because a different kind of muscle fiber
type the different kind of stimulus is
being supplied and that's cool but the
thing is you went from training
predominately faster twitch fibers to
training more intermediate fibers and
these are actually just different fibers
see what from growing or maybe not
growing the fastest twitch fibers to
growing a little bit the intermediate
fibers which are still ignoring the
slowest twitch fibers and ignoring the
fastest rich fiber so you almost shift
right if someone's like you know let's
say you're trying to eat as much pasta
as possible and you get tired of that
and someone's like well let's just
switch to eating tuna and you're like oh
tuna doesn't taste like pasta this is
greater to see that well you know you
need both carbs and proteins in your
diet you can't eat just fucking one or
the other it's it's really stupid
so when people say change the rep range
they're sort of violating this the
spectrum idea and it's been shown pretty
clearly now that if you train through a
spectrum of rep ranges whether or not
that's over the course of multiple
mesocycles or within each week of
training probably doesn't matter that
much what you want to do is train heavy
and at some points train a little
lighter and at some point strain with
really higher reps to get all the muscle
fibers as good of growth as possible so
you know is it a problem if you've been
doing sets of you know five to eight
reps for a long time and not getting
growth yes the way to solve that problem
is to still do some sets of five to
eight but it may be reduce how many of
them you do and tack on some sets of 10
to 20 and some sets of 20 to 30 not take
away five to eat and replace it with
another arbitrary part of that range
what the whole range not just to stick
the training somewhere else cuz here's
the thing if you move away from five to
eight and go to 20 to 30 for example
you're fast which growth is gonna be
like dick you'll probably lose fast
which size if you'll gain slow twitch
size so your average muscle size won't
change right you'll have been more fast
twitch composition before a battle
shrink and you're slower twitch will
grow a little and it'll be the same size
but you're not here to fucking grow one
part or the other will you be more sore
yes because those slower for Schreiber's
are now getting more sore on the fast
twitch fibers more getting sore anyway
that's not the ticket the ticket is to
make sure we take that faster twitch
fibers maybe do you prioritize them a
little maybe a little bit more slower
twitch and slow as twitch if we get
everything all together so all those
oranges now we're doing a really good
job so we don't want to change the rep
rate would expand the rep range to make
sure all everything is being taken care
of here's another one this is just
fucking rock stupid number seven
attempting to bring up a body
on a deficit people just shit all the
time you see I FB pros do this they're
like yeah man coming in four weeks out
for my show dining down a limited
calories trained biceps again today
because I'm really trying to bring that
body part up you're fucking out of your
mind bring one up from what food you got
a huge fucking deficit you're losing a
shitload of tissue all the time if you
train a body part of ton during you know
you're really really high fatigue
hypocaloric state you might actually
shrink it more right you just deplete
its glycogen faster and then as
performance goes to hell faster and you
have to deal with more often and you
lose more muscle right even if that
doesn't happen you have to bring it up
especially if it's stubborn look again
genetic freaks - does not apply you know
Phil Heath might be able to bring up his
triceps during prep because it's got the
fucking world's gnarliest triceps bring
him up during any time but even if Phil
Heath wants to grow his triceps the most
he's not gonna do that during a prep
he's gonna do that during an offseason
people are starting to call offseason he
heard like it was her him growing season
or improvement season that's cuz those
bodybuilders are sharp and they realize
that this is when we actually make games
and a lot of smart body butters you talk
to you're like hey you bring it up your
quads during training in the back no I'm
not doing that look why your quads were
a weak point last year like yes I
brought them up a turn-off season now
I'm just dieting I'm treating everything
fairly evenly is this the most I can
expect out of my Lord maximum recovery
volume and I'm just taken into the show
we'll see how it looks and like what if
your quads aren't big enough
well then I'll fucking see at the show
they're not big enough and I'll have the
next offseason hyper caloric gaining
phase to actually make those
improvements attempting to bring a body
partner deficit real stupid idea and
this is forget bodybuilders there's an
easy example here let's say you're
training a college rec center or some
guy always asks you questions and using
me I'm trying to bring my biceps up oh
yeah well here's these tips and he's
like sweet I'm getting ready for Cancun
- they're like what I mean getting ready
is it gum losing thigh right now could
look get abs and you're like so you're
gonna try to lose fat you're gonna lose
weight and bring your biceps up at the
same time yeah for sure every like no
you're not okay if they're not a
stubborn body part sure you can if
they're a stubborn body part you're
fucked right so that's number seven goes
back to you know point number two or
whatever it was that first get your food
in line get your recovering line and
then everything else will follow
number eight false perception of
realistic gain rates especially of
stubborn body parts so here's the deal
people will see some kind of genetic
freak
maybe it's a trainee partner maybe it's
a bodybuilder on TV and or they'll
remember when they try
for the first six months and they will
assume that all hypertrophy forever
should look like that that you should be
able to slap 50 more pounds on the leg
press every six months forever and just
keep making gains so what people will do
is they'll say fuck man my chest is a
stubborn body part they're like why and
though it only put 20 pounds of my
benchpress in the last like three months
you're like oh my god that's fucking
great no it's not great I put 50 pounds
though three months before that are 100
pounds of your three minutes before that
well that shit's not gonna last right
it's easy with Instagram and shit like
that to get a false perception of how
fast people really are gaining strength
because it's always some fucking super
jacked up motherfucker who's got amazing
genetics and really good work ethic and
good everything and they're making the
best gains of their life and it's all
being documented on Instagram so you're
like man you know like Larry Weill seems
to put a hundred pounds on a squat every
year like motherfucker you're not larry
wheels right and if you even if you're
on wheels a couple years from now that's
just not gonna work for you anymore
right you're gonna have much more
mediocre gains so what you have to do is
have a realistic perception of how fast
or fast gain rates you have to get used
to the idea that you're not gonna be
growing like a weed forever and that's
okay because not growing like a weed is
fine if you grow nice and slow for years
and years eventually get super fucking
jacked this is especially true of
stubborn body parts look if you think
that adding 30 pounds on your bench
every three months is the normal you're
stubborn Behati parts if you add 10
pounds you know a lift for stubborn body
parts every three months you're gonna
think that's atrocious but in reality 10
pounds every three months for a stubborn
body part lift like let's say your
biceps are stubborn you curl ten pounds
more for 10 reps every three months
that's fucking incredible it's not even
accurate to call it stubborn body part
so make sure you have a realistic
perception of gain rates and you're not
constantly paranoid about like oh my god
oh my god I'm stalling like you're not
fuckin stalling you're just gaining at a
normal rate right now real quick I
didn't think of this when I made this
presentation but I might as well say now
there are the opposite of that can also
be the case some people get this whole
like sort of natty syndrome where
they're like well for furn at ease you
can expect to gain you know one pound of
muscle every five years for the rest of
your career and and you're like really
that's it again just hard gains so some
people basically have an unrealistic
expectation of beans as super slow and
they never diagnose stubborn body parts
cuz row up just just a matter of
progress and just
just just just you know inching away at
it you're like you've been inching for
like three fucking years and going
nowhere your body parts are stubborn the
wreck nam i don't know i'm drug free it
takes a long time like drugs no drugs
you suck Lakey you know who do you look
at I would ask all the naturals how fast
they're gaining in their bike naw dude I
curl two times more than you and we used
to curl the same something's wrong with
your biceps I'm like some people just
never make that connection because they
cut themselves it's not super common but
it does happen they're like well it's
just a process it is just a process but
you should meaningfully be able to get
bigger over the year so you shouldn't be
like an entire year well you're like man
I can't tell if I got bigger unless you
were like doing three shows or something
like that that year you got a fucking
problem number nine testing too soon and
testing one arms out of phase people be
like I need my chest to come up they
bench a set of ten okay and then two
weeks later of chest training they bench
for a set of ten and they didn't improve
and they're like fuck this isn't working
what isn't working
you did two fucking workouts how much
muscle you think you gained from two
fucking workouts or four fucking
workouts in two weeks
fucking almost nothing very very little
muscle you have to go months and months
and months right so I say we test every
six months or so that makes sense every
three months makes some sense every
couple of weeks stupidest fucking shit
the other problem there so it's kind of
two fallacies and one is testing one of
Em's out of phase people will do sets of
ten and we'll test them on RM after like
three weeks of steps or six weeks of
sets of ten and a bit of my god my one
hour I'm didn't go up that means any
gain muscle first of all one of em is
not the best test for muscle gain
because it tests largely a nervous
system abilities and secondly you're not
trained for runner rams if you've been
doing sets of ten you've got to spend
weeks at least doing a sets of two three
and one to get your nervous system back
and technique back to be able to hit
good one rms if you test one RMS which
you don't train for low reps you're
testing something that you're not even
training for and it's not gonna indicate
dick to you shit happens all the fucking
time guys will be like oh man I knew
this bench probe or this chest program
to get my chest big but like right after
I finished the program I want a ram hand
gone up like what was the program like
it was like sets of 10 how the fuck is
your wonder I'm gonna go up unless
you're a total fucking noob right but if
they took the time to take like at least
geez at least three weeks if you know
sets of eight sets of five sets of three
and then do one around after a little
break they probably would have PR by
like 40 pounds in there blow fuck I
guess it did
right remember only test what your
training if you're testing something you
haven't trained in a while it's probably
gonna work out that well you know if
that rep range has to be similar so when
we're talking about testing different
exercises if you actually gain muscle
yeah you can test different exercises
but it should still be in a similar rep
range don't just test one of Em's when
you're doing sets of 10 or the other way
around
lastly last myth and fad in a really
good way I think to close out this
discussion is number 10 expecting
stubborn body parts to sort of click and
grow like normal right I think some
people it's possible that like a
technical error is what's leading you to
not grow and once you fix the technical
error you get good growth it's unlikely
what usually happens is you improve your
technique and you get a little bit
better growth not normal growth if a
body part is stubborn and you've been
doing anything but not training it okay
and you've been decently trying your
best to train it for months at least and
it's still stubborn it's probably always
going to be somewhat stubborn you can
catch it up you can make big long-term
gains but it's never really gonna click
and grow like normal it's one of those
things where you're like man I used to
just struggle with arm growth but then I
fucking tweaked this one little thing
booms everything all these crazy gains
that's possible what's much more likely
is that you make three or four tweaks
like we talked about in this lecture and
the result is you get much better games
but nothing amazing and your arms still
never grow as fast as your chest or back
or dominant body parts if you're looking
for a roadmap to take you from
genetically shitty body part that
struggles to gross just like Phil
Heath's triceps if that roadmap doesn't
exist there's no path there at all
unless you get through synthol needle or
something then boom there's a portal
right to that right it's just not how it
works so we have to understand the
realism of the situation is that all of
the tricks and tips all of the
enhancements all of the systematic
approach can take us from
really struggling for no gains to
struggling hard for okay games that's a
great thing we just have to understand
that that's much more likely and here's
the thing a slightly worse news is some
body parts will like always kind of lag
right like calves some people just don't
have the fibre number and the fiber
growth potential or the muscle belly
size to just have big calves if you have
really high calves it's mostly tendon uh
a lot of times it just never gonna be
enormous calves they could be decent
calves but they're always gonna be
lagging behind everything else alright
some people think like man if I can just
make my calves the best calves in the
world and I have shitty calf genetics
all my physiques gonna be perfect you're
probably just never gonna have a perfect
physique right is that the worst thing
in the world no what can you
realistically do about it you just
accept your fate as having small cabins
know you do your logical best you work
through this system or a system like it
you bring up your body parts as much as
you can you get as much growth as you
can you're satisfied with that growth
you enjoy your physique and you're
always looking for ways logically calmly
to enhance growth with the realistic
expectations that's probably the best
you can do that's really fuckin good
that's all I have for today folks
comment subscribe whatever the fuck are
without YouTube people save this kind of
shit
see you next time with more show
[Music]