D loads for hypertrophy are grossly
overrated Dr pack here straight from the
medical ward AKA Milo house AKA wolf
coaching by his stuff let's have a very
brief look at the literature on deloads
in U a year or two ago
so this is indeed not the literature on
D loads because there was no literature
on D loads no studies what ever directly
examining the concept of D Lo up until
recently up until the good people over
around the world actually involving
including myself and Dr Wolf but a bunch
of us came together and did a couple of
well well more than a couple of studies
on D loads to really see what's up with
them before then zero direct studies on
D loads and more specifically a lot of
people preaching about the importance of
D loads about how you need to let
fatigue dissipate resent sensitize the
muscle and so on and so forth Without
Really any direct evidence and just
merely relying on speculation and
mechanism upon mechanism the first thing
we did is we looked at what strength and
physique athletes and coaches do uh when
it comes to D loing their practices
laying the foundation for future
research and also attempting to Define
what D Lo actually means and what
constitutes a proper D Lo so there is a
few Publications out there are all on
the screen obviously as you can see
those were not led by me I was fortunate
enough I was honored to be part of those
studies and help out but we did a bunch
of surveys interviews and in general we
asked a lot of the in the- field experts
and that's for you science haters and
deniers who say that it's science versus
practice when in reality even the
scientists are asking practitioners hey
why do you do this how do you use it
essentially what came out of the first
study where we interviewed strength and
physique athletes and coaches is that D
loads are used in general for the
reasons that we we've known to dissipate
fatigue and that the majority of people
use D loads not in a pre-planned manner
but rather reactively when
necessary however all that's great but
this is essentially a study reporting on
the current practices not directly
examining the Lo however the amazing Max
Coleman and the the people over in New
York City at the applied muscle and
development lab conducted the first ever
study on D Los I was fortunate enough to
be part of that study as well I
personally traveled to New York to help
out a bit with the data collection and
see how the guys did things in the lab
but obviously this was a project that
was led by Rockstar researcher wonderful
cook and very sexy human being Max
Coleman essentially the study compared
two groups one the train continuously
for 9 weeks one won the train for 4
weeks took a week off and then continued
training for another 4 weeks and
essentially what they found was that
there was no difference in muscle growth
between conditions and if anything
dealers resulted in less isometric
strength gains than the group that just
continued training a you caveat with the
study first participants were not really
ready to De load just yet and uh at the
same time they de loaded after 4 weeks a
duration that for many of you may be too
short however the idea that taking a
week off or taking a reduced training uh
volume week or an easy week of training
will magically accelerate your muscle
growth is not something that we're
really seeing even in the study with it
limitations and you know it was
literally the first study on the topic
more to come the findings of the study
that showed no benefit whatsoever to
that one week off in between training
blocks versus just continuously training
further adds to to the big question mark
around the importance of D loads for
hypertrophy training specifically so if
we look at the interview data with
highly experienced strength and physique
uh sport athletes and coaches and
combine it with the intervention data by
col madal uh Open Access study in the
description below you really see that
there is no solid rationale for
overthinking D loads meticulously
planning and manipulating each different
variable or worrying too much about what
you need to do and when you need to do
it in reality things are quite simple if
you're consistently feeling very tired
and fatigued your performance is
regressing the gym and I'm not talking
about just a couple of sessions I'm
talking about a week maybe two weeks in
a row where things are feeling pretty
rough then it may be time to take a step
back have an easy week of training and
there may be some Merit to still
training and going in the gym so you
feel a bit fresh and less s or after you
get back in the gym potentially to
maintain some neuromuscular adaptations
if you're also somebody who's training
you know for strength or you know you're
working on your squat it may be useful
to have um some light squatting in that
week but as long as you have an easy
week of training or a complete week off
your hypertrophy gains are likely not
going to be affected and you don't
really need to care about whether you
cut two sets of each exercise or one set
or whether you leave the accessories or
whatever
as long as you're doing substantially
less training volume and you're leaving
more reps in the time you do not need to
think past that with a lot of my clients
I will pre-plan their training for their
de just so they have something to see I
will tell them you know here's your
usual program with 50% off the volume
chopped off um RPS have been amended to
be uh to give you an extra two to four
repetitions Reserve but feel free to
skip a session or two if you want to
have some more time with your friends or
your family or you want to dedicate that
to your work feel free to skip a set or
two if you're not feeling like doing it
and just make sure that by the end of
the week you haven't done anything crazy
in the gym anything too novel in you and
that you're feeling rested and ready to
go to sum it up the current literature
which obviously you know there's still a
long way to go but the fact that we can
drop on expert opinion and some actual
data and then triangulate those two is
not really backing the stance that D
loads are anything super important
anything needs meticulous planning or is
anything that you really need to worry
about so the next time somebody tries to
sell you D loads tell them nice try bro
the bald F already sold me on not buying
your D Lo and buying his thing which
what is it I don't know cuz I'm not
selling you anything just yet
consultations if you'd like my website
is in the description below but other
than that just tell them the Greek guy
with a beard told you not to do it and
he has a fancy title and that's all that
matters auth authority over actual data
joking as I though the data seems to be
relatively clear at this stage but my
personal Hunt is
that we will not reach a stage where
deos are going to be regarded as an
insanely important concept for
hypertrophy assuming the D loads are
still done the way we do them now all
that to say don't worry too much about
it science Making Things easy once again
big science in the building mathematics
physics other Greek words we invented
everything like subscribe hit the
notification icon hit theing Bell in
your house which you've installed to
ring it physically every time a new
video drops and your family hit you kick
your family out of your house ring the
[ __ ] Bell let them know new videos
out two videos per week now what's
happening we are out here Free the
guys