hey folks Dr Mike Israel here for
Renaissance periodization
today's video is about how to increase
the number of push-ups you can do when
everything else has failed
when basic and even what I would call
intermediate advice just hasn't really
produced results for you this is kind of
like the tip of the Spear of more
advanced periodization to get your
push-ups increased
your problem here which is why you're
watching this video is that you want to
do more push-ups
but lately in the last several months
you haven't been able to add a single
notch or just one push-up per
several months nothing great you want to
do more push-ups maybe it's you know
you've been doing around 30 reps but you
want to be able to do around 35 reps of
push-ups in a single set
maybe it's you haven't been able to go
from 15 reps to anything bigger in like
a year maybe you're going from zero ever
push-ups to finally your first push-up
we got all the answers in here for how
to make the changes
and when I say conventional attempts
have failed to produce results
I mean stuff like first of all just
training heart as if you go on YouTube
comments or you go on much of social
media
and you ask hey man like does anyone
have any push-up tips how do I get you
know better push-ups and someone's like
just just train hard bro you're like Hey
fat thanks a lot I'll go try that you go
try it it doesn't work a lot of times it
does in this case for you it hasn't
which is why you still have a problem
you've already tried doing different
grip positions for push-ups didn't seem
to help you've tried weighted push-ups
it's a common
um helping thing a helpful suggestion
you've tried sets of one to two push-ups
at a time if you've only been able to do
a few push-ups and people say I'll just
do sets of one to two
you've tried eccentric push-ups where
you lower yourself with your own power
but then you get on your knees to come
back up
they can make gaining even more quality
work possible when you're just not very
strong in push-ups and you've tried
partial push-ups which is when you push
up to a mat or something and you don't
have to go as deep as normal it
essentially lifts your upper body off
the ground your feet are still on the
ground so the angle is lower so it's
easier
you've tried these things individually
and they seem to have not produced
results so you want
to improve your push-up ability and you
want to take a serious attempt at it
this video will be describing to you and
giving you sample programming of what a
serious attempt looks like
and it's going to take months to
actually play out
and you could say well hold on months
what the fuck I gotta I gotta be better
push-ups like tomorrow or next week or
next month certainly not months plural
but the thing is is because you've tried
the conventional attempts
it's just not gonna work for you to do a
quick easy trick quick easy tricks
usually work for people who kind of have
their gains coming anyway and they're
doing something obviously wrong
like not training hard but you're
already doing that so you're not doing
anything obviously wrong
and at the end of the day you need
something effective to actually be able
to use and chip away at whatever gains
you have coming to you
I'll say this again in the end you may
not get a crapload of push-ups out of
the scheme but you'll very likely be
able to hit some decent PRS
if you're not in the you know in the
running for those PRS if you don't
really care
forward this video to someone you hate
and then move along just kidding someone
you love someone you're totally neutral
to that's even better
here's the outline of how this
periodization structure is going to work
first you're going to want to put on
pushing muscle
what the hell does that mean it means
your chest shoulders and triceps are
going to want to get bigger first
why because a lot of the reason that
people can't get better are push-ups is
they've gotten very good technically at
push-ups their nervous system has
integrated their ability to do the
push-up motion very athletically and
very well but they're just kind of out
of raw material as far as Force
generating capacity of muscle
to do anything better you know if you
get like a V6 Honda Civic my preferred
vehicle of choice of course and you tune
it all to shit at some point is you're
getting the most you can out of a V6 and
then if you're like I still want to go
faster someone's going to be like hey
you think you need like a V8 or a V10
man I think it's the end of the road
here for your V6 that you're running so
a lot of people make uh kind of a
mistake and say hey like I want to get
more better push-ups and someone's like
hey what about growing your packs of
triceps they're like I'm not a
bodybuilder I just want to do more
push-ups and it's like you ever see
people that can do a lot of push-ups
they generally have pretty stacked just
shoulder and triceps that's not by
accident
the second phase is for you to develop
what's called basic strength and solid
technique
in push-ups
which is really really important
because
yes you can have big and strong muscles
much like myself of course but you have
to practice
making sure
that those muscles are performing as
well as they can for the task of doing
push-ups so while you may use a variety
of exercises to build your pecs in this
first phase the exercises you use to get
your pecs ready to give you the best
push-up result possible maybe at least
exercises that biomechanically load the
pecs in a similar way or the technique
moves your body through a similar way
it's just more specificity and lastly
you're going to want to take a little
bit of a peeking phase which usually
lasts just a few weeks maybe a month to
Peak for push-ups specifically because
you don't want to like try to Peak when
you're not super ready imagine that like
imagine you don't have to imagine I've
had people tell me this kind of stuff
say like I tried doing a bunch of
push-ups yesterday and I tried to go all
the way to failure with good form and I
just I can't PR I'm like I gotcha
they're like how did you warm up they're
like well I sort of didn't I just kind
of went and did them okay that's fucking
dumb uh what was your training like in
the last week you're like well actually
like the day before I was like super uh
an unbelievable chest and tricep workout
okay so you're sore hired from triceps
uh agent warm up ah
and you were surprised that you couldn't
do more push-ups than like
in retrospect no like exactly so if
you're gonna do all this work of making
your chest rolls and triceps bigger of
taking those muscles and the nervous
system making them really good at doing
push-ups you might as well take that
last peaky phase which is the smallest
fraction of the whole thing and tailor
your ability to perform push-ups and
drop your fatigue in such a way that on
that day that you're going to test your
ability to do push-ups with good
technique
you're going to put yourself in the best
possible position to have a PR
otherwise it's kind of strange you know
um when they get the whole Space Shuttle
or whatever the fuck their Elon Musk
Rockets they're sending to the to space
now you know yeah it takes like a
fucking year to make one of them shits
it's not like they're like all right
let's launch
the guy's like
when I don't know Tuesdays at Tuesday's
fine I'll check my phone no I have
nothing going on what's the weather like
fuck it it's not our satellite shoot it
up there fucking thunderstorm knocks it
out it's two billion dollars just falls
back down to earth useless they don't do
shit like that they plan ahead they even
check the weather to make sure it's
gonna be good and they do a last call
for the weather sure you don't have to
check the weather for your push-ups
unless you're doing it outside
California Muscle Beach I suppose then
you don't have to check the weather also
because it's
never rains in southern California and
if you're into really really good music
Google that
typo in here I'm deleting uh Google that
but make sure you Google it never ends
in Southern California comma
and any way you spell Tony is correct is
the group that sang that song best is a
group called Tony Tony they're from the
80s and 90s they're like grandparents
now and uh they're phenomenal and it's
Tony spelled three different ways
because I believe it's three
African-American gentlemen who are named
Tony uh don't quote me on that
unbelievable song in any case
here we go
phase one is putting on pushing
musculature
we wanna
do this for several mesocycles which
means like
two to four months
why
because it takes two to four months to
add an appreciable amount of muscle size
to your frame appreciable enough that it
actually reflects itself
in increased push-up performance
like if you're sitting in this the
second seat the back seat of a fighter
plane
Center stick not an F22
and you're like hey can we go faster
the like a pilot's you know riding you
around he's not gonna be like oh yeah
take the throttle and go like just just
push it up a little you're like I mean
it's technically that's faster you don't
want to do a bunch of training and be
like hey I had to push-up PR by half a
rep
you want to be able to like PR buy a few
reps or more which is which means you're
going to need more muscle to do that
like we want we don't want to construct
to take your six cylinder engine and
construct half a cylinder and be like oh
there you go it's a smaller cylinder it
adds power but a little bit we want to
get another we gotta get two more
cylinders in there make it a real V8 so
it's going to take a couple months again
if you're like dude fuck all those
couple months bullshit I gotta get to
push-ups now we have tons of at least
two other push-up videos about how to
get better at push-ups fast
and this ain't one of them so if you're
in the for long haul this is sweet then
you're good for it anyway
during this time you're gonna focus on
exercises that add a lot of muscle to
the chest shoulder triceps and do it not
in a way that is exactly related to
push-up but at least hit similar muscles
from some similar directions not all
because we need to keep variation High
early in this plan because as we go
through the plan our variation is going
to go down the different kinds of
exercises we're going to use are going
to look more and more and more like
push-ups until they're kind of just
push-ups
standard periodization model so you're
going to be doing bench presses
dumbbell presses deficit push-ups Skull
Crushers
other tricep work like dips and push
Downs apply as well pack flies and skull
crusher push-ups for the very Advanced
as a consideration I would give to you
and that's a demonstrated in one of our
push-up videos it's when you have a
close grip on a push-up and instead of
using your chest and triceps to push up
you leverage yourself back so that you
push with your face between your hands
and then you extend it's a skull crusher
like the equivalent of what a push-up is
to the bench press this is that
equivalent to a skull crusher it's
ruthless you sure as hell doing a lot of
push-ups if you can do one of these but
it's a great assistance exercise to help
you increase the muscularity of your
triceps
will not directly make you good at
push-ups but later when we re-teach that
muscle how to do push-ups it'll be a lot
better because it's going to be bigger
this part of the plan is a very similar
for people of all levels because
remember we have three levels folks that
are struggling to do their first couple
push-ups even their first folks that are
like that 15 range or so and then people
that are in the 30s 40s 50s plus and it
works for all of them because you need
more muscle to do more push-ups no
matter what now if you're doing a
80 push-ups in a row more muscle might
not help you much because you're kind of
in an endurance sport but we're going to
scoot those people aside and say good
job you're doing well anyway maybe
someday I'll make a video for people who
want to do hundreds of push-ups
we can call it 300 push-ups tomorrow
fucking sell my soul for this bullshit
click bait
in any case
all right so this phase is similar
for everyone
and it looks
something like this
this is a sample plan
I'm not going to talk about it much
because I could just read off the
fucking screen or I can let you guys do
it so feel free to pause this shit
take a look at it what you're going to
notice is it's four days a week
pushing
mostly sets of 5 to 15 5 to 20 reps
that's going to build a lot of muscle
size in the chest and shoulders and
triceps and it's lots of variation
that's one of the ways that you can
train so often is the volumes are pretty
small per session it's only two
exercises at a time and the
variation is so high that you're kind of
doing something different every session
which means there's no super high risks
just burning completely out now for full
disclosure I can't do this because my
muscles take longer to heal so I might
be able to do this like two or three
times a week but you can do it up to
four times a week and if you're
responsive this is great there are no
set numbers next to these because set
numbers are individual based on can you
recover by the next time you're doing
this if you can and easily add a set
here or there if you can't take a set
away or keep it stable it's just that
simple ideally you want to recover just
on time so for example if you got the
Tuesday workout the Thursday workout
after the Tuesday workout Wednesday you
should kind of be like oh it's a little
tender try this little tired and then
Thursday you should be like all right
man I'm fucking golden I'm super strong
that's how you determine volume super
easy
all right
now let's say everyone got through phase
one which took a few months
and everyone has bigger chest shoulders
and triceps the muscles critical to
being able to do push-ups
phase two
is gonna look a little bit different
for how strong you are
first one we're going to talk about is
phase two for folks that can do between
zero and four total push-ups
which is a big deal like doing your
first push-up or getting three or four
push-ups as opposed to last time you
tried you just could get one bam that's
arguably like way more relatively
impressive in the soul
um than it is like you know to go from
15 to 16 or something like that right so
first
you're going to design a plan that makes
your muscles better at the Target rep
range you eventually want to hone in on
so for these folks it's going to be a
lot of sets of three to six reps sets of
even one to two reps now on occasion
because that's what you want to get
really good at
you're still going to use plenty of
variation
and you're going to approach the target
rep range from both above and below
which means some days of the week during
this plan let's say You're really
gearing in to do five push-up reps as an
example it says zero to four push-up
three push-up reps
some days of the week maybe one day of
the week you'll be doing lots of sets of
uh one to two push-ups maybe heavy maybe
loaded maybe some a little bit harder
maybe to a deficit tougher than normal
and then another time you're going to be
doing maybe sets of oh five or six
push-ups which is a little lower a
little higher and then maybe you'll have
one day of the week which hits close to
that Target that way it keeps stay on
this down because like just trying to do
sets of three all the time will burn you
the fuck out guaranteed but it keeps you
so close to the actual thing that you
want that it's all Gucci and you're
gonna get a really good training
response and eventually bring yourself
to a state where you're ready to Peak
and really show off
Additionally the exercises included in
this phase versus the last phase phase
one would you do an exercises that kind
of maybe sort of resemble to push-ups a
little hit some of the same muscles but
this phase now was more seriously
looking at like stuff like okay how much
like a push-up is this getting it a
little bit more specificity to push-ups
so much as reintroducing push-ups
themselves
one big thing you'll notice
is that
well back to that plan here
if you look at the plan from the last
slide
there actually is
very little
actual push-ups being done as a matter
of fact zero the closest thing is on
Thursday there's a deficit weighted
push-up but a deficit push-up is
different than a regular push-up it
stops at a different uh point the total
duration of the push-up is different
where your muscles are taught to
re-engage and push back up versus slow
in The Eccentric is different as well so
we're really getting away from push-ups
altogether and now we're going to start
reintroducing them at least exercises
look a lot like them deficits and
partial push-ups but definitely a chance
to do push-ups themselves we're for sure
we're gonna do lots of push-ups
themselves in phase three the peaking
phase but we're gonna save that uh for
just a little while from now one of the
big benefits of leaving push-ups the
hell out of that first few phases
is it really allows you
to reduce the staleness and also the
psychological toughness of push-ups
because if you've been stuck at a lift
for a long time a specifically if you
call it push-ups call it pull-ups call
it low bar squats doing that lift is
psychologically fucking awful because
you're like here I go being fucking weak
again not hitting PRS again but a lot of
times you've trained that lift so much
trying to get it to go up which is smart
on your part because specificity is a
big deal you end up just kind of
overreaching on that lift and it becomes
really stale for you and it just
aggravates you physically
psychologically so by moving away from
it you can really really build some
awesome muscle while at the same time
making that lift in this case the
push-up Super Fresh when you come back
and as you guys all know newbie gains
are a real thing so if you're making
fresh push-up gains with now bigger
muscles that's a fucking big deal
all right phase two for the folks able
to do zero to four push-ups currently
and want to do a few more
on Monday you'll see that we are going
heavy
in bench press which is unrelated and on
Wednesday we're going heavy in knee
push-ups to a really big deficit
on top of that we are doing some lighter
work after all those
could we go high and low like we will
with the other groups of folks yes the
thing is zero to four reps there's not
much to be gained from going low because
it's just super stressful low volume max
attempts so most of the folks that are
in that zero to four push-up group they
need a bit more repetitions and volume
simply because it will add more muscle
mass and continue to add muscle mass
even through this phase and give them
lots of practice at these push-up and
pressing movements
you'll notice a big thing is that the
volume is lower because the overall
frequency is lower this is harder
training now much more focused training
and they're stronger and bigger from
their last phase it's three days a week
and Friday you'll see there's only Skull
Crushers because we want to give the
chest and shoulders a little bit of a
break so you can come back fresh next
Monday and hit bigger and bigger numbers
phase two for folks that can do sets of
five to ten push-ups and want to do more
like maybe 15 or something like that
still exactly the same approach
as for the other folks except much more
of a distinct Hi-Lo pattern which means
if you look at the sample plan
on Mondays
these folks will do sets of three to six
reps
uh that's lower than five to ten on
average if you keep in count and then on
Wednesday these individuals will do some
other work that's in sets of 10 to 15 so
we got a low and we got a high Friday if
you're good at guessing it's set of five
to ten actual push-ups at one to two
reps in reserve and it's competition
style slash Cadence which means
you are pretending that there is a video
camera and a whatever stopwatch or a
metronome and someone's counting you do
the push-ups exactly like you plan to do
them in competition which means no
bullshit no intentionally slower
eccentrics
however you do competition push-ups
that's how you want to do them because
here begins two things one great like we
got well we got low we got high we got
right in the middle so we checked that's
the middle five to ten but also we're
getting ready to really configure our
abilities for push-ups specifically and
of course after that we'll do some Skull
Crushers and get the fuck out that's not
a very hard day Friday it's a little bit
more of a little bit of a stimulus
drop some fatigue for the low volume and
sharpen the tip of our spear a little
bit more for push-ups every single week
now
folks who are in that 30 plus range
like I said earlier 30 is just a kind of
a placeholder for really High Reps you
can do anywhere between 10 and and 50
plus reps and all these upcoming
examples work again the basic outline is
the same you're going to design a plan
that hits into that Target rep range a
little bit above a little bit below
right at we're going to be doing a
little bit more specific training and
more push-up light movements including
push-ups themselves so
on Monday is our slightly heavier day
for these folks sets of 10 to 20 15 to
20 and on Wednesday it sets a 15 to 20
and 30 to 40 so we're going over what we
typically do
and then on Friday we have a more
challenging version than a regular
push-up so it's a deficit push-up for
sets of 15 to 20 which will fuck you up
really bad
and
Skull Crushers are now for sets of 30 to
40 repetitions why
well because you need triceps endurance
to do lots of push-ups and triceps
endurance with high repetition Skull
Crushers that's just how you get the job
done is it going to suck yes are people
going to be confused looking at you yes
is it going to hurt oh yes are you going
to get to a place where you're doing
push-ups and your triceps aren't
cramping anymore absolutely which is
great
all right lastly is peaking
peaking is about building a plan that
gets you the performance you want when
you want it there's nobody gives a shit
if you did XYZ push-ups unless it's on
tick tock and I can do more reps than
Tick Tock video limit allows you win
tick tock
your gift is the Chinese government
takes over your life
maybe I'm kidding maybe I'm not in any
case
if you want to take this really
seriously and I suppose yes you do
because here you are watching this video
about very seriously taking push-ups you
want to take about four weeks total
including your last week just before you
test the push-ups
and generally speaking these Peaks are
going to look like if you're between
zero and four Reps for push-ups you're
going to Peak a lot like a power lifter
does
if you're in that five to ten range
you'll Peak more like a strong man so
you could do like 15 reps or something
and if you're in the 10 plus plus range
which means like shit you know out there
in the 30s you will have an interesting
Peak that looks a bit different than
most of the stuff you've seen before but
the Common Core because you may not want
to use these sample programs you may
want to make your own program which is
almost always a better idea
so intellectually you want to know what
the common core is for what peaking
looks like for all of these things and
here it is first
as the competition gets closer you're
removing less specific work
you're going to do some dumbbell presses
and flies and all that other stuff early
potentially but as you get closer to
peaking it's just kind of whittles down
to mostly just push-ups
because your body has really to get good
good at only push-ups and all of the
really great qualities about the other
movements you're doing they
are adaptations that you can keep for
weeks on end without training them much
which is sweet because then you can
train the only very thing you need and
allow all of your resources to go to
second thing is you're going to be
reducing rirs reducing reps in reserve
which means going closer and closer and
closer to your limits then you rest a
little bit and then go all the way to
your limits makes sense because you have
to adapt in such a way like you can't
just do all your push-up sets five reps
away from failure and be like yeah like
I'm doing enough volume I'll get good at
these you will get good
but a lot of the getting good of peaking
is learning how to grind in that last
few reps and the only way you're going
to learn how to grind and the best way
possible is fucking grinding so you get
a little bit more grindy towards the end
no matter the Reps you're doing and
lastly you want to reduce kind of end
run fatigue one of the reasons why we
pull out a bunch of exercises that are
unrelated is because we don't need them
anymore another reason is because
everything we got out of them we now
could put into push-ups another reason
is well we want to limit the amount of
fatigue they cause and increase the
amount of training we can do for
push-ups themselves and the last reason
is we just want that whole system's
fatigue to come down so that when you're
in that last session and you're testing
your push-ups you feel spry as fuck you
don't want to come into a testing
session for push-ups and someone's like
hey how's your you know training been
you're like amazing bro I'm fucking
ready and they're like are you like not
really I'm sore as fucking tired of shit
I hate push-ups now
interesting that sucks you don't want to
do that you want to come into a
situation where you've reduced the
volume substantially
such that when it's right when it's time
to do push-ups and tests you can't
fucking wait to do a bunch of push-ups
so
peaking sample
for zero to four push-ups is right there
I'm not going to describe the whole
thing because that would be
preposterously long what I will say is
this
you'll see here things like deficit
push-up on The Eccentric knee on the
concentric let me tell you what that is
you do a deficit push-up which means you
put your hands on mats and there's space
in between and you go below where your
chest is nice and deep Big Stretch two
or three or even four inches below and I
know something about that smaller number
of inches
hey
I was gonna say I hope your kids weren't
around to hear that then again what do
they know we're talking about in any
case
you use you're doing a normal push-up
off the feet super deep
and then when you get down you get down
on your knees which you're probably used
to from your day job and you push up off
your knees which is easy but that allows
you to get a huge eccentric destruction
but then still come up you get all the
benefits of a full range of motion
eccentric phase specific to what you'll
be doing in the in the actual testing
the push-ups but you may not be able to
come up concentrically from a d push-up
because you can only do zero to four
push-ups at this point so this makes it
a very very good tool for that
again on Monday Wednesday Friday thing
and then we have some modifiers as to
what to do in the last week for example
if you scroll all the way down to Friday
you'll notice that you just do one set
of competition style push-ups that last
Friday what why am I even going to the
gym because that one set gives you
practice like like an athlete nervous
system practice and metabolic stuff in
order to get you to basically just not
get any worse at push-ups
but because you're doing so little work
your fatigue is falling down
such that when you come in next Tuesday
notice extra day normally you would
train Monday Wednesday Friday in this
plan you come in on Tuesday why that
extra day gives you an extra break and
the last thing you did was Friday
usually like one fucking set of some
shit
and there is a flat press machine in
here that you also do on most Fridays
that you don't do anymore on that Friday
you literally come in and do one set of
push-ups
and then you come back
Tuesday and do warming up and do your
big set okay right there
just over to my it's got the video guys
that were the shit appears yeah
excellent I was here the whole time
um
you're going to want to make sure to
take a nice warm up and that's detailed
right below do not just come in and
start doing push-ups warm it up because
you get one try at this thing and
technically you could try it every other
day but you get one good solid fucking
decent try at this you want to be nice
and warmed up
next sample plan for folks that are can
do so that's a five to ten five to
Fifteen push-ups and want to do a few
more
you'll notice the similar structure a
few differences again there's that
removal of shit in the last week
it's a really big deal feel free to
pause this and really take a look at it
uh you know screenshot it on your phone
copy it down use it yourself no problem
just give me all the credit I just want
all the credit for everything you've
ever done is that too much to ask
you know like shit like oh hey like got
this RP strength push-up thing and I did
five more push-ups and I asked my wife
to marry her and I I want a new car and
a sweepstakes and that's all thanks to
Dr Mike he's great he did it all he has
friends
that last one's A Hard Sell but try that
see how much you can give me credit for
shit
phase three for folks doing crazy
push-ups is intense
there is a lot going on one thing you
will see that is going on is on Monday
we have a very tissue disruptive day
there is deficit push-ups which fuck you
up there's competition style push-ups
which lock you up because you're so good
at them now you can do a lot and really
get tired and there's a crapload of
Skull Crushers with a whole shitload of
volume
on Wednesday you will notice that you
actually just go to mats to a partial
push-up and you save a lot of fatigue
most of the fatigue and push-ups comes
at this bottom stretch also most of the
benefit so think of Monday as a big big
day to push some games
Wednesday is a day to take it a little
bit easier and then Friday is like a
mini test day now you will do some flat
machine pressing after blah blah blah
but you do sets of three to zero RAR
every single week you chop off a rep in
reserve and of course there's just one
set in the last week and that last week
set you cap a three to five reps in
reserves last week is super easy but you
basically have the structure where
Monday is really tough
some of Monday's fatigue will carry over
into Wednesday Wednesday is much easier
and then Friday you generally feel
pretty fucking good
which is sweet because Friday is when
you're kind of gonna start to get close
to your your show up and the first thing
you do is sets of competition style
push-ups so in this peeking style
another benefit is it's not just like
hey do these weird sciencey things and
then hopefully you're gonna push-ups
kind of every Friday you find out where
you are if you're like wow that was like
two reps in reserve and I hit 42
push-ups like fuck man I'm PRN already
this is great you're certainly going to
have an idea of how things go but here's
the really cool benefit of this kind of
system the Friday is tougher sorry
Monday is tougher Wednesday is easier
the last week
Monday's still pretty tough
Wednesday is pretty easy
Friday is super fucking easy and then
you don't compete show off until next
Tuesday that means that by the time you
get to next Tuesday you are gonna be so
fresh and so limber and so fucking ready
to do push-ups physically
and psychologically because it's going
to be like almost a week since you kind
of trained push-ups or anything remotely
chest Trice up hard promise you you're
gonna be like I can't wait
I'm gonna be on the bus going to the gym
some old lady's going to bump into you
you know the usual she's like sorry
Sonny and you're like fuck bitch I know
push you up
don't do that don't go to jail but in
any case think it before you show up to
the gym all right
last thing I'm not going to read it out
loud catch that bottom of how to warm up
for push-ups if you're in this position
it's uh a little wacky but it works
hey
kind of my advice on everything in any
case
here's the thing
what can you expect doing all this as
far as typical results
well you're going to expect to do a lot
of work because a lot of work is
required to make the kind of changes
that you have to make if you're in a
position where making change is
difficult and you are that's why you're
watching this video if I was like Hey
the easy changes we wouldn't say any of
this stuff about hard work
in addition to this I want you to be
super attentive
to modifying the plan on volume and
frequency that is how many sets per
session you do and how many sessions you
do per week based on how your body
responds which is to say performance
if you notice if you do push-ups three
times a week you just tend to make
better gains than if you do them four
times a week or any kind of pushing
workout four is too much if you notice
that you've done two and it's worked
okay but you add a third and it works
way better three is better
the one is soreness we want to make sure
that almost in every case except for
that last thing I described where Monday
is really hard and Wednesday is pretty
easy
you want to just not be sore or at least
very sore on the pecs and shoulders and
triceps before you begin your next
push-up workout
if you are getting too sore there's two
ways to fix it the best way to fix it is
just do less Volume last time you did
five sets of pushing stuff and you got
sore Monday you did five sets of pushing
stuff you're still sore Wednesday do
four sets next time do three sets next
time all the sets will add up I promise
you want to show up ready to roll for
all of your workouts the other way is to
say look okay I'm doing some kind of
push training
four days a week and I'd have to do like
half a set to not get tired and sore for
my next workout well then fuck that fuck
the four just go to three or two and it
seems like you just take a little bit
longer to recover later you could start
to get much better at recovery and add a
session no problem just be mindful of
that sometimes there's not a whole lot
of volume moving you can do you're just
training too goddamn off
there is no golden set number
how many sets should I do is a question
that has no answer
except for the best possible answer
which is how many sets can you get a
decent stimulus from and also recover on
time
really kind of the same thing
if you can show up every Monday
Wednesday Friday for example
your Chester tries to pretty healed up
or ready to go hard again that's the
amount of volume that's probably very
close to being best for you it sounds
like nah man 10 cents and everything is
great and you do that it should show up
sore and tired and more sore and more
tired every single day for two weeks
you're gonna have a bad time on the
other hand if someone's like man it's
all about one set I read the science
article that said once first sets your
best sets just do just first sets only
bro one set every day and you're like
all right you do it you're like I have
some warm-up
that's it that's it man you're gonna get
strong as hell you come back a bunch of
weeks in a row doing one side you're
like I'm getting smaller and weaker like
oh it's not enough of the stimulus so
don't follow the pack don't follow the
trend on this
start out with a small amount of volume
just a few sets of everything
if you're recovering really well and on
time add a little bit if you're
recovering way way ahead of time add a
little bit you might have to do that a
few times but if you're really pushing
the recovery boundary you're feeling a
little bit tired day to day and a little
bit sore do less
folks I'm gonna say this once but I'll
probably say it a bunch more
doing less is something that we in the
iron culture so to speak are afraid to
do
but we're insulting our own intelligence
because if your system is maxed out in
adaptive capacity here
and you're like fuck dude less bro and
you do this much
you're a fucking moron and you're over
stretching the system and you will get
worse
period
it's okay to do less as long as you're
not bullshitting yourself and just being
lazy but the good thing is it's really
easy to figure that out you know when
you're being a fucking I was gonna say
another really really bad word
starts with a c and it's something women
say to each other when they're very
upset don't be that be honest with
yourself and do as much volume as hits
that little Goldilocks middle of the
road zone of solid good workout but I
can still recover for next time and
don't put any value judgments on it
you're going to want to compare like how
much how many sets do you do go random
gym friend it's cool to know but at the
end of the day who gives a shit because
you have two different bodies unless you
have the same body
that sounds cool
like twins maybe oh no your two
consciousnesses in the same body
yeah weird would you touch yourself I'm
gonna stop this is not that kind of
Channel
all right
doing this it is possible within geez
four to eight months half a year so
to put like five reps or more on your
push-ups
I know that is not crazy but you're here
because everything else didn't work
you're here because six months ago you
had the same push-up PR as you do now or
better or like you you PR by one rep in
the last six months
so if this is not impressive to you do
something else do go type in Dr Mike
push-ups enter on the YouTube search and
then we'll we have a shitload of videos
on how to do that
um
if you do need this then you could be in
a position where work as well as it does
right and as usual the verbatim stuff of
where I put bench and Skull Crushers and
this and that Monday Thursday that all
makes sense in the context of a
hypothetical plan applied to you know
some random lifter if you're not a
random lifter and you're sure as hell
not hypothetical you're a real person
and what you have to do is take the
concepts away like the idea that a
peeking phase tapers down the idea that
you first build muscle then get good at
the thing then Peak those are the
concepts I want you guys to take away
from this so that you not only can build
your own push-up to Perfection plan but
let's say uh one day you're working out
at the gym and this is gorgeous uh
Scott's video guy give me a hair color
but Jesus
boring this gorgeous blonde just living
her life her hair is fucking doing this
doing that just tons of hair like a
Super Saiyan except except down like to
her knees
this is getting weird anyway she walks
in and she's like hey you can you help
me do more push-ups or do I have to fuck
somebody else to do it
and you're like
wait
I know how to do this because I've seen
that stupid Dr Mike video where he makes
weird analogies at the end does he have
a problem this is he not getting laid at
home
see you guys next time