[Music]
extra
space is an airport
just take a screenshot of it
yeah yeah I always this is
good huh you can stay there if you want
to but I just need to take a picture oh
yeah we were we just had our camera set
up here wait you we're going to stay in
the photo of
yours if you want to
yeah
okay I got
you bro how catabolic are you feeling
and I haven't had protein in like 8
hours like
seriously no it hasn't been 8 hours I
had like a protein shake at 11: so it's
been 6 hours it's felt like longer ago
bro you might as well just quit now I
guess I should intro the Vlog so yeah
guys we uh left Sacramento and now we're
in Long Beach we're going to go in and
get some
chickf I think I'm saying that right
chickf Chick fil chck and uh I have I
have no idea what I'm going to get I
don't know what people usually get here
but I know that like YouTubers eat there
a lot so it's probably something that's
like macro friendly in high
protein so going to eat that do some
shopping and then go check out our
Airbnb do some work lots of different
options
here
thank we're Canadian so I've never eaten
here before yeah a lot of my friends say
it's really good I bet oh oh okay so
just take this to this oh okay oh the
Fat's definitely not bad let me know
what it is though just here chilling at
Chick-fil-A not sure what the macros are
like on the grilled chicken nuggets I
hope they're good I got 12 of
them okay so we got 34
protein
34 protein six carbs and 4 and2 fat for
200 calories in 12 yeah damn man that's
those are good Mac fries might get 24 so
I got 12 um grilled nuggets waffle fries
and a bunch of different sauces so I'm
going to try all these out so far I've
had chickfila sauce this was really good
I'd give this like 8 out of 10 this was
really good too this was like kind of
more spicy 7.5 out of 10 10 N9 out of 10
it's like really good got medium on this
one this one's like this one's like a 6
out of 10 this one here is just plain
barbecue sauce it's like it's just like
normal barbecue sauce this is like this
is like 4 out of
10 no it's not even that good bro it's
legit it's like it's like mediocre
normal but that's no good you can have
that one what do you think of these two
I actually kind of like colan's pretty
good man it's like a solid seven Buffalo
tastes like Buffalo yeah I like it
though is I like the honey mustard the
Chick-fil-A sauce is really good man
this one here is really good it's not
coming into
focus focus on my
[ __ ] got a few tanks couple scoop necks
some like distressed sleeveless hoodies
just trying some new stuff so I'm going
try this on
[Music]
get hello hey how are you going to
Venice Venice okay well you guys not
from here no we're from Canada we uh
came down for a bodybuilding show that's
why yeah yeah we're staying
Airbnb okay yeah it's a little
cheaper see dring right here I'm going
to get to oh yeah you're smart to see I
be down there yeah
blacke
peas what's the DAT
today it's Wednesday Wednesday the 20th
yeah what's up everyone it's Wednesday
July the 20th we're on our way to Venice
Beach Gold's Gym it's my first time
training there and uh Pat and I are
pretty excited uh we're going to be
hitting a chest shoulder and arm workout
and now we're in our Uber on the way to
the gym
I just like the
sound we' already ran into like a couple
of Pros it's yishi Charles glasses for
you over there um so it's pretty surreal
to actually be here um we're going to
start off with a shoulder press I'll
just take you guys through the whole
work workout kind of in person in real
time set of 15 with the plate now we're
going to put on a 25 and do a set of 12
then 10 and then eight so it'll be four
total sets with an asending pyramid in
weight so the boad will get heavier reps
will get lower just doing that really
just because I don't want to jump right
into the heavy weat CU I still do have a
back injury um so that'll give me a
chance to kind of get acclimated to feel
what it is unable of
[Music]
doing set number three we're going for
10 to 12 reps yeah set number four we've
got two plates and six to eight reps we
do three sets of 15 and every fifth rep
we're going to do ISO hold at the bottom
so five reps P the stretch the bottom
for 5 seconds under tension five reps
and we're just going to keep going with
[Music]
that
just finished with a flat press now
we're going to try this leverage incline
press we're going to go 20 15
10
guys we do three sets of 15 reps start
high go middle go
low
now we're doing some arm stuff so take
it off PRS and this machine is actually
pretty cool because you have like all
the degrees of freedom superate through
the movement so that's the way I like to
do it so I come down and a hammer and
then come up and I squeeze it the top
[Music]
I just like the
[Music]
sound
[Music]
all right guys so we just finished up
our workout at Golds what a cool
experience like I just can't believe um
how many people we ran into like saw
Charles Glass talking to him for a
little bit uh Dexter Jackson um Sean
Rhoden we're going to head to the beach
now but I think that my phone is my
camera is dying so don't know if I'll
get many Clips there um but
[Music]
yeah
you
you you
you you got it you
can