so you can do top end partials you can
bench like this and and get plenty of
muscle growth tons of ifb pros and
jacked up juice heads do it and they're
still jacked but from an efficiency and
Effectiveness perspective all those guys
could have been bigger if they went in
for that really deep stretch so to me
that's a big part of really good
technique a lot of those studies are
showing that the Deep stretch just
causes more growth now it's 5 to 10%
more growth you even got clever studies
where people train one leg with a deep
stretch only bottom third and the other
leg they train only with a top third of
leg extension that's a big deal cuz
autocontrol it's not like genetics
doesn't matter nothing matters the same
body you got to split test the left and
the right how great