go through my full setup with you guys
uh for the Sumo deadlift uh a few things
I want to just note up front uh yes I do
still have powerlifting aspirations in
the future uh that's basically the main
reason why I'm performing uh this
movement uh from a strictly bodybuilding
perspective um I might slightly favor
the Sumo deadlift because I am aware of
some EMG data that has shown a very
slight increase in glute activation uh
as well as more quad involvement uh
however glute and hamstring activation
were uh pretty much the same between the
two this I would imagine that the reset
at the bottom of a deadlift and then the
you know accompanying loss in tension uh
could have potentially negative
repercussions for
hypertrophy um however from a
powerlifting perspective uh I do think
that a full reset between reps is how
the deadlift should pretty much always
be performed formed in training so as
you guys can probably see here or have
already seen I am using straps in this
workout and the reason for that is that
I am just a little bit fearful of some
muscle imbalances that could result from
uh the over under grip I'm going to
break this down into some steps for you
guys uh the first thing that you want to
do is uh find your stance width um if
you are using straps you'll notice that
the first thing that I do is actually
strap in and I'll keep my my stance
narrow and then I'll find my stance so
how wide your stance will actually be is
mostly going to be dependent upon your
adductor flexibility and your Mobility
at the hip um if you would like to work
on getting a wider Sumo stance since
this generally is advantageous from a
biomechanical point of view uh I would
recommend performing some simple static
stretches for your reductors uh and in
the past I've found three sets of 20 to
30 second holds with the uh Squat and
reach stretch uh to be pretty
helpful um and yeah the wider stance is
what you should be going for generally
speaking um from a strictly
biomechanical perspective uh really just
because it allows your hips to get
closer to the bar uh reducing that
moment arm uh and if you look at my
girlfriend Robin uh when she pulls uh
her toes are all the way up to the
plates um
and you want that bar to be right over
the midline of your
foot um so then the second thing that
you'll do is you know find your degree
of foot flare um generally pointing your
toes out towards the front end of the
plates is sort of a good ballpark
estimate uh but you're going to have to
play around with this and find out what
allows you to maintain your balance and
yet also allows you to uh keep your
knees out your feet are too flared
outwards you'll lose your balance uh if
they're too pointed too far forward
it'll just feel really awkward and it'll
sort of force your knees inward into
like a weird vus position so step three
you know reach down grab the bar uh you
want your grip width to be straight down
uh so you want to make your effective
arm length as long as possible uh for me
with a 5' two wingspan I will take
advantage of every bit of arm length
that I can get long arms are ADV
vantageous in the deadlift uh simply
because you don't have to drop your hips
as low to actually reach the bar so the
range of motion that you have to go
through is shortened um it also allows
you to get your hips a little bit closer
to the bar uh reducing that moment arm
again so rather than uh taking a wide
grip or too narrow of a grip I put them
straight down uh step four you want to
sort of simultaneously or at least
sequentially uh lift your chest up high
you want to push your knees out over uh
your toes or in the direction of your
toes um and you want to take the tension
out of the bar and then simply lift the
weight uh and by take the tension out of
the bar what I mean is not just going up
grabbing the bar and just ripping it off
the ground uh if you do this you'll find
that the bar will come up solid as soon
as the plates are about to leave the
ground uh so instead what you want to do
is pull up on the bar until you feel
that little bit of resistance from the
plates and uh then once you've pulled
that tension out of the bar itself it's
already going to be bent to some degree
then you can just you know lift your
chest up sit back and initiate the pull
from there um as a final note I will say
that throughout the movement uh as
you're pulling um the knees should be
the first thing to lock out and then you
should lock out the hips haded to do
those uh Touch and Go style because
um well for one I think that the Centric
component of a deadlift is important for
bodybuilding purposes and also not sure
I could do them if I had to reset so
after the first rep felt that it was
already about RP 9.5 so figured rather
than cut this set short I would um just
do them touch and go and that little bit
of bounce off the bottom allowed me to
get uh those last two two reps and
finish out the set strong so guys then
it was on to front squats uh won't go
into any technique or anything here uh
we'll just go over the base
biomechanics uh the reason front squats
are programmed here is where I was just
doing a uh hip dominant movement this is
more of a knee dominant movement and the
reason for that as you can see in the
figure there in this in the corner uh is
that by placing the bar more anteriorly
or more to the front you basically force
yourself to stay more upright in order
to keep the load balanced over the
middle of your foot uh and as you can
see in that figure there uh this forces
the the moment between uh the load or
the bar and your knee to be much greater
in the front squat than in the back
squat uh
so effectively this makes it a more quad
dominant than a hip dominant movement so
after the front squats it was onto some
basic leg extensions after that it was
single leg leg curls I do perform these
movements both bilaterally and
unilaterally and the advantage of
bilaterally obviously is that you uh get
to move more load uh the advantage of
unilaterally is that you can isolate
each uh leg individually and so uh you
make sure that one leg isn't uh you know
taking more control or taking more of
the load than uh the other and then I
finished out this workout with some
seated toe presses on the leg press
machine
[Music]
and here's a quick posing update for you
guys uh really feel good about where
things are sitting now at 13 weeks out
uh my macros still haven't been dropped
or anything and I think that the
physique is still looking nice and full
energy levels are good uh hunger levels
are certainly
manageable and uh as you can see you
know my deadlift strength has dropped
off a little bit but nothing too drastic
at this point and I feel really good
about how the prep is going so far so I
want to thank you guys again for
watching this video I appreciate all the
positive feedback on the previous one
and if you're enjoying this kind of
content please don't forget to like the
video uh comment below if you have
anything interesting to add and uh don't
forget to subscribe if you haven't
thanks
guys
B