hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization a little bit of a video
for you we'll see how long ends up being
on a really cool method that I
personally like to use with myself and
folks that I've trained in the past and
this is how I like to program and it's
an awesome progression method in a
mesocycle for how to put load on the bar
or add reps to your sets in a way that
uses or IR and autoregulation but keeps
it super super simple so that you don't
end up overthinking things or getting
way way too complicated because
sometimes our IR is really difficult to
apply reps in reserve and we can get
ahead of ourselves and things can get
really really complicated this is a
method I like to use and I'm gonna
explain that it out of it but afterwards
I'm gonna basically let you explain it
in like three sentences it's a super
straightforward way to just make sure
you're training not too hard
hard enough and harder every single week
through a mesocycle accumulation phase
so you get the most out of your training
in a quantitative way not just a
qualitative way so we'll talk about what
RER means and what it means for
progression we're gonna talk about what
our IR should be over the course of a
mesocycle I'm going to talk about how
sometimes it's tough and there are some
difficulties in estimating our IR reps
in reserve we're gonna talk about a way
to get around that the way to improve
that call the rep match load progression
process how to increase your load how to
decide how much to go up I am load and
then the rep beating rep progression
process where if you just increase reps
you can use a very similar system and
then we'll talk about some real-world
ways to implement this in a simple
straightforward fashion so here's the
deal our IR is reps in reserve it's how
many reps you have in any given working
set left before we hit
mechanical failure with good technique
which is also called technical failure
like can't bench anymore and falls on
you rights if you have two more reps to
go and you stop that's two RIR right
it's a very very important feature of
growth training or hypertrophy training
because best results in growth have a
pretty wide referee
like anywhere in sets of five to six of
30 grows muscle relatively similarly so
someone says we got a train lighter you
gotta train heavy both people are kind
of correct the volume range for effect
is really good you got people like
Dorian Yates or whatever they're trying
to do lower volume programs getting a
lot of success Ronnie Coleman doing
higher volume getting a lot of success
so volume actually is a very big range
and generally is a trend that higher
volume programs are better but there's a
lot of nuance there so you can say you
know volume is important but there's a
lot of wiggle room there's a big wide
range you know load is important but
there's a big wide range however reps in
reserve is a much narrower range okay
it's pretty clear that anywhere between
four EPS and reserve and zero reps and
reserve those were really optimal
hypertrophy gains lye anything much less
or much more - it's a confusing
nomenclature here anything much further
than four reps away from failure you
know so for example you have you know
you stop when you have ten reps left in
the tank is it very very not promoting
of muscle growth and if you go beyond
failure all the time it's so fatiguing
it just turns out to be very
unsustainable so that's zero to four our
a our range is a very tight range it's
not like the loading range it's not like
the volume range thus making this a very
important variable it's not something
you want to screw up so we're gonna have
a good method of making sure we get into
that range
every time that we train which is really
what this lecture is about because
because it's not a range and because
it's very important we got to make sure
we fall right into it right you can move
the wraps around quite a bit you can
move the volume around quite a bit but
you have to hit that rir target it's a
small target for your best results what
about over the mesocycle so how does our
arte over the mass cycle life at all
well our hours of three or four are
minimally effective but they also very
very low in fatigue generation it just
don't create a lot of fatigue so don't
grow a ton of muscle but then don't
create a lot of fatigues if you do lots
of sets of three or four are you can
actually get a pretty good stimulus to
fatigue ratio on the other hand are a
hours of zero going all the way to
failure are very effective probably more
effective than our our three or four
percent but they can rate ton of fatigue
so they're not very sustainable so you
can really start a mess of cycle with
training to failure could be soar know
where to go your fatigue rises really
quickly in your mouth cycle ends up
being short you get a lot of progression
you don't get a lot of time spent
training productively thus you get less
muscle growth
the average rir if I had to be an a
betting man my examination of lurcher of
practical experience it's the optimal re
on average which is not sale the time
he's probably to two reps and reserves
not being too short of failure on
average he's probably the best trade-off
of stimulus and fatigue and thus is
probably the best way to train but we
can probably do a little bit better than
that at the beginning of a mesocycle we
can probably start at 3 or 4 IR because
we're really sensitive to growth we can
get good growth not pushing it super
hard and also that we will generate a
ton of fatigue the climbs really quickly
as the mesocycle draws to a close we
train closer and closer to eventually
get all the way to failure or very close
as your or I are what are I are I'm like
squats and ship it'll kill you if you go
to failure and that way at the end of
the mountain cycle we get this peak
super awesome affect the fatigue
skyrockets we don't really care because
we deal it anyway right so what this
ends up being is that you know if you
start a mesocycle you should probably
start at 3 or 4 ir and then slowly the
reps and reserve should deteriorate
until you get to zero reps in reserve
and that's pretty close to where you end
your muscle cycle you take a deal out
and then recycle again an example of
this just an example would be like if
you did a four-week accumulation week
one would be three reps in reserve on
average week two would be two reps in
reserve week 3 would be 1 rep in reserve
week for the last accumulation week the
peak week would be zero rep serves are
basically an average everything is taken
to true failure and then week 5 you d
load which is like 10 reps and reserve
or something like that so it makes kind
of a pretty decent amount of sense if
you'll feel free to pause the video and
look at the slider longer and it just it
makes a lot of sense it could you say
like let's just simplify and train - are
all the time sure but then someone could
say like well you could be getting
easier gains at the beginning doing 3 or
4 or a lot of much 40 they probably
right and then somebody can also say
like look if at least in the last week
you order true failure you'll get lots
of great absolute gains which you can
realize over the deload week and the
fatigue doesn't matter cuz you get to
deal it anyway and they probably right -
so there's definitely some nuance there
to look into now in a given week let's
say the goal is to rir in that week to
two reps and reserve stopping two reps
shy of failure you can plan to hit this
with the you know last slide it's all a
plan
it's not really clear that that's really
easy to do in all cases for at least two
reasons first of all why are estimates
can wide widely vary even for the same
person like you know sometimes you think
okay this is definitely to rir and you
do a test where your friend pushes you
and you go go go and you get like one
more rep but you're like romantic yes it
wasn't to RIR and sometimes you miss
estimate maybe some different exercises
or something some different techniques
and what you thought was too RR was
really 6r and ours has been studied
pretty well some people are off by as
much as 10 or more reps and reserved not
as common but it happens right so
there's an error of estimate there that
sort of like K if we just every week
estimate our IRS our reps and sets our
sorry our reps and loads every week can
be pretty variable because it we really
are just not good at estimating not as
good as we want to be and to that point
emotional preparedness alters our our
estimates greatly so for example if
you're like really who really bought
down one day like then you know you
might not perform super well and
estimate your RS too but it's really
like six and if you're really jazzed up
you think re are too but it's really
like zero so and you end up pushing way
way differently and even if you know
you're jazzed up and it's really a true
RR - a true are too jazzed up versus a
true IR - not jazzed up could be the
difference of like four or five reps
like it really was true or I are both
times but different emotional up
regulation or down regulation means it's
a different number which is again tough
to do week to week to week trying to
increase variable smoothly there could
just be a lot of stochastic involvement
there where things move around a ton and
it's really difficult from a tracking
perspective it's really difficult to
know if just being lazy or if you're
actually for example hitting your MRV
like hitting Aaron Murphy is when you
can no longer maintain your performance
you say well I think it could have
maintained my performance if I went to
failure but I did two hours so my
performance fell a little bit but maybe
I had a few reps it starts to fuck with
your head a lot and you don't really
know if you're being honest right so you
know 275 and a squat hit for 12 for one
week and then the next week you get
super amped up just do it all for no
reason your friends are there and music
was good something like that and you hit
280 you know you're sort of planning to
you know go up a little bit and load you
end up like getting three more reps and
also you did 15 for what if thinks to I
are and one of those is just very
incomparable to the other as far as
levels of that Ferb and remember big
levels of effort difference sometimes
can increase injury risk or sometimes
you know what do you do next week are
you really gonna get that more jazzed up
to provide another maximal overload it's
pretty confusing on the other hand you
know you could feel some pretty bad
about something that happened at work
instead and then the second week to 80
instead of 15 you hit for age and it
really does feel like a to rir maybe you
could have stoked the fire a little bit
if you had a baseline to hit that you
knew you weren't messing around with so
just pure RA our estimates are subject
to so much variation on so much
variation based on emotionality and
mental preparedness that ends up being
with if you just guess our RS for every
single set independently every single
week like you start you go to bed regret
280 pounds there's no rap target I just
have to hit our IR - if you do that it
ends up having our very huge variance in
training and the worst part is you could
be training too hard the Sun sustainably
and you sort of fall off the cliff soon
or perhaps even worse not hard enough to
where you realize you're just
bullshitting yourself your entire
mesocycle like it's very obvious that
you know you do 315 for a set of 10 and
then later in the next week you feel
like sorta not as great re are - you hit
it for a set of nine and the week a set
of eight and you look back am I getting
weaker like what the hell is going on or
like just not challenging myself it's a
very difficult to know again if you
don't have a baseline so what might
really be cool is if we had a process
but which we could do essentially three
things first is hit three to zero IR in
every week because that's our big
checkmark of falling right into that
window of maximum hypertrophic effect
and this process would allow us to
essentially lower our AR on average on
most weeks so as we increase our march
towards accumulation the micro-cycles go
you know week one two three four ideally
this method would allow us to decrease
our RR or rather train closer and closer
to failure that would be great and for
number three we want this method to be
able to be adjustable on the fly so that
if we really screw up an estimate from
one week or another we could have some
adjustment to keep ourselves a little
bit more honest okay so those are our
three criteria we're looking for let's
see how we can get there enter the rep
match
load progression process okay here's the
deal you're in a situation where you're
increasing the load on the bar how much
weight you're using every week to hit
the RER target of that week I remember
like week one is like three RER week
twos to re are we three is one RI are in
each one of those is harder and harder
and harder close to failure and you're
increasing the amount of load on the bar
to try to match those RI ours right so
you can estimate our ers every single
set of every workout like we talked
about but that's tough to do especially
because you can't really ever quite tell
if you're working too hard or hard
enough it's a lot of what's a lot of
guess and check right so instead what
you can do is this and here's the method
you hit your first week all of your sets
and reps you hit three RI are what is
your best guess of it
just three are just the one time once
you do those reps your next week week 2
is very easy because all you have to do
is just pick a weight in which you think
you'll match the reps from last week
with the RER target of this next week so
for example you do week 1 275 pounds 12
reps at 3 RIR that was a real weak one
that's what you got that's where you run
your notebook week 2 you come in and you
know you have to get 12 reps at 2 IR
right ish but you don't know what load
to pick but you already have a big part
of the equation you have the AR AR and
you have the reps before all you had was
the RIR now you have the reps because
you know it's gonna be in that range
right so this week 2 is really
straightforward you know how strong you
are relatively speaking you know it's
gonna be around 12 reps right and and
you know what weight it's gonna be
around 275 you know how strong you know
how fast you adapt week week because you
didn't start training yesterday so all
you have to decide is really like am i
adding 5 pounds is it going to be 280
isn't gonna be 285 or is it gonna be 290
that's gonna get me at 12 reps which is
my goal cuz I know that's my baseline
from last week and a little harder than
last week to re are instead of three
right if you err on the side
of less you might accidentally hit three
rir again so he did 275 for three RR
then you need to 84 3 R er that's really
cool that's an adaptation actually got
stronger if you err on the side of more
you could add a bunch of fatigue you'd
have to get rid of it later it sucks but
if you make a mistake and you go to 80
you actually hit it for 12 but it's for
sure 3 RI are like man I stopped at 12 I
could have kept going why don't you do
this for your next set do 285 and then
so you have 280 comma 285 285 and then
the next week instead of doing 280 for
this one you do - 90 - 90 - 90 or
something like that right so you can
adjust this set to set the set keeping
yourself honest but the huge thing is
and I'm gonna repeat this a few more
times that baseline of weight and reps
and RI are especially those reps because
the weight is something you're gonna
have to change but you know your RA our
target every week known you know your
rep target which is the reps you got
last week all you have to do is figure
out what weight am I gonna need to use
this week to match those same reps and
get that RR of my target not that big of
a deal it's really not that confusing
right so that huge benefit over the
first weeks writing down of reps and
using it as the target is the baseline
you get you can always push a bit harder
a bit easier in the upcoming weeks but
at least you have a very good idea of
what the minimum reps are for that week
right you don't have to use every week
as a shot in the dark to be like okay I
think my RI r3 is this many reps and
during the set is a tough time to
estimate re alright that sucks you're
like doing bench presses you're like a9
trained fires like one more and you have
two on the way down or that one more you
like this a three or two yet I don't
know
fuck that you did 10 last week this is
five more pounds do 10 again and you'll
get either real close to your re are
close enough for the nobody cares limit
to be hit and it's still good it's in
that target of 3 to 0 AR AR and because
you added weight it's getting closer and
closer on average to zero ir unless
you're gonna be getting stronger forever
which is an even better problem to have
right so by matching the load if you're
very fatigued so let's say you do 275 in
the first week this week you feel like
real fatigue coming into the session
maybe you don't go up and load it all he
hit 275 again you say okay at least I'm
gonna hit 12 reps at least I'm gonna
maintain my stimulus to get a really
good stimulus again I'm not gonna go
down to like 225 or something like that
or I'm not gonna renown to six wraps I'm
gonna do 12 reps at 275 at least
maintain and you can increase it a
little a moderate amount or a lot based
on how you feel your progression is
going so for example you know let's say
you're dead lifting and you do three
3,500 345 and match the reps in week two
but it was a super super easy like it
was a two-hour like I was supposed to be
like it might have even been four hey
next week don't go to 355 go to 365 and
all of a sudden it's actually two RI r 1
RI r whatever it was and it's actually
the same number of wraps you know wow
that was a great adjustment so it's an
awesome thing to have this baseline from
which you could auto regulate up and
down versus having no baseline and be in
my binders I guess I'm just finding my
arse like a like a the newborn bird
every single time you don't want to be
in that right so this matching of the
load and matching of F sorry matching
the reps and then going either a same
load a little higher or quite a bit
higher gives you the ability to do those
three things and gives you three a zero
are every week on average it lowers re
are most weeks because if you just keep
adding load eventually they are IRS will
sneak up higher it just has to happen
unless you just keep getting stronger
forever which is again a better problem
and it'll lets you adjust on the fly to
make sure you're hitting the our IRS in
that three to zero and it's going down
all the way right so you know if the
load was 280 last week and you really
felt like it could have been 285 next
week or even in the next set of this
previous week you can go to 290 no
problem whatsoever you have that
baseline to guide you right so here's a
really good news familiar with my work
and the stuff we do at our PE we're
advocates of unnecessary when needed
adding sets as the week's go on so you
might have four sets you're doing in
week one five sets in week two would
hold on a second we don't have any reps
to match right we did let's say ten
eight seven six reps with 140 pounds in
week one what are we doing week two for
the fifth set if we want to
well it's not a shot in the dark because
look it's probably if it was ten eight
seven six
now let's say this work out you go up a
hundred and forty five pounds that one
forty get ten eight seven six
question mark you got a shot in the dark
set it's not a shot in the dark because
look it's not gonna be eight you're not
just gonna magically gain two wraps and
be like all the shit I really was
holding back maybe but that's unlikely
it's not gonna be three cuz holy shit
you mean dropped off from eight to seven
to six you're probably not gonna drop
off to three and what the hell happened
between those two sets where you rest in
the same good amount look honestly shoot
for five cuz like ten eight seven six
five just makes sense it's probably
where it's going as you shoot for five
you can mark down okay a hit five and
four very advanced people as they hit
the fifth one they can make the decision
okay is this good I'm gonna rack or when
they get hit two for they're like nope
four that's it that's our our two or
they can say okay nope I'm not gonna
rack I have one or two more I'm good to
go that's for the very advanced for
intermediates or more beginner folks
what they can do is just hit five just
stop stop five and then think back on
five me like what's that really two are
like it was the target and usually the
answers would be like damn fucking close
enough right but it was really really
easy you can mark it down in a notebook
that like next time try six right we're
foods really really hard to be like next
time desperately try to hold onto five
something like that now what this ends
up doing is here's the process super
simplified right you choose an
appropriate load for your rep range in
week one okay so that's a five to ten
okay I think like gonna start with sets
of like roughly eight and I could do
like 320 pounds roughly three are for
around the set of eight we just say okay
first week three hundred pounds five to
ten I'm gonna do it and when I get three
R I'm gonna stop it okay cool I got
eight reps or I got something sweet
Market on your notebook then once you
have recorded those wraps and done them
you just add a little bit of weight to
the next week and hit the same reps and
then a little bit of weight after it hit
the same reps eventually you'll either
fail to match reps at some point your
reps are gonna not match it's gonna be
you know a set of twelve and the next
week is gonna be a set of eleven
that is technically you've probably hit
your MRV and it's time to deal o door
time to take a little break from that
muscle group being smashed awesome
actionable item or you'll just keep any
stronger forever
I've had to actually a question posed to
me on social media which is in
retrospect completely absurd like well
what if I just keep adding load but I
never hit you know I never match my reps
like I always exceed I always keep going
it always match my raps like you'll be
Brian Shaw in like three years
congratulations your strongest man right
very very unlikely eventually you're
gonna hit the top you're gonna learn
about yourself a lot in the process
during this time be realistic
listen to your body and remember that
adding a little bit of load being
conservative is better than adding too
much because you don't have to backtrack
you're not stuck with a bunch of fatigue
going a little too conservative in one
week means you can always do a little
more on the next week but if you do too
much in one week you're gonna have to do
some clean up an extra fatigue you don't
want to have that time in your program
unless it's the last week of
accumulation then it's time to be a
little bit more bold perhaps so next
part very very quick very simple the
loading stuff is the same fundamental
structure let's talk about if you're
adding reps okay so sometimes adding
load is unrealistic for example you're
doing bodyweight movements at home with
you know a backpack or you can't add any
more load in there or just pure body
weight push-ups and stuff we're even add
load you can't put weights on your own
back okay how does that work now in
addition to that even when you're in the
gym dumbbell training often doesn't
allow load additions to be reasonable
for example you do in the tens for
lateral raises in one week you're not
going to move to the 15s and next week
in the 20s after that that's insane
that's like squatting a hundred than
squatting 150 there's quite a two
hundred was completely different rep
ranges and some of those might not even
be tenable it might be beyond your 1rm
so sometimes adding reps is a good idea
how do you use this process it's almost
an identical process first of all you
choose an appropriate load for that rep
range you want a week one stop a three
rir record those reps then you add a rep
or several in the next week using the
same load and then in the next week you
do that again
you do that again you do that again so
you might start with sets of roughly
fifteen and push-ups and at the end of
an accumulation and with sets of roughly
22 or 25 that's awesome because you hit
that baseline right every training is
for sure hard enough because you never
let your reps drop you at least match
the reps you got and potentially even
add a few so it's a great method by
which to get from 3ish rir all the way
to zero by aggressively calculatingly
with enough room to you know you can do
it and a few reps here add a few reps
here out of here up here either you fail
to match reps one of the weeks probably
indicating a Marvine time for D load or
you'll gain endurance forever and
eventually you'll be able to do with the
same body weight 150 push-ups and you'll
be God finally being worshiped like you
damn well supposed to be so what does
this look like here's a really good
example and you can always pause this
and take a look at the nitty-gritty here
week one you do 20 reps of let's say
push-ups or something at rir of three
okay awesome in week two okay if you
feel very weak that week you at least
hit 20 at whatever are our results at
least 20 because we have that baseline
we're not gonna go any lower you'll
probably feel better next week and
you'll be able to beat that in week 2 if
you feel ok just add a rep do 21 right
and that works for all the sets right so
if it's 20 comma 18 comma 17 go 21 19 18
or something like that you don't even
have to add them on all the reps just
some right or all the sets just a drop
son at least something and then a week
to if you feel amazing you can add two
reps
alright forego from 20 to 22 and again
there's functions for any sets and what
you want to progress now what is the
next week look like let's see choice and
week to that middle path you did 20 reps
a to rir okay this week week 3 you have
to hit one RIR what are you gonna do you
221 wraps at to our last week if and we
through you feel very weak just do the
same match at least rights my match or
beat system so 20 were ups at whatever
are are totally fine if you feel good
then you can do 22 reps in one hour
if you feel great or amazing you can do
23 reps that's two reps added at one
hour
imagine if you feel amazing every single
week you can add in like six or eight
reps over the course of a mouse cycle
with the same load you do to mess two
cycles like that and all of a sudden you
were lateral racing the ten pound
dumbbells you can move up to the 50s
with basically the same reps
spend three or six mezzos doing the 15s
and cycling up wraps and cycling up
wraps and cycling are perhaps eventually
you go from sets of 10 with the 15s two
sets of like 20 with the 15s and you
move on to the 20's and all of a sudden
your delts are way bigger your rep
progressions are awesome they work great
and there's not a damn thing wrong with
them you just have to go about them in
that intelligent way where either way
you slice it your minimum reps at least
if not trend up every week or at least
stable providing a minimally hard
workout so you're not like doing sent a
twenty one week and then you felt like
sheds you did a set of twelve where
you're just kidding yourself at that
point right and they give you a goal to
hit so you know like when you do
push-ups you're not like it's really
also something I didn't mention it's
psychologically debilitating sometimes
especially with high fatigue towards the
end of a mesocycle to look at your
logbook and be like alright push-ups I
got a hit these 1ri are like what the
fuck is one arm
what is zero or how much mental focus
doesn't get does it take you to get to
true failure sometimes the world it
takes everything so you think man like
how many reps do I really have to do the
great thing about the system is you look
back at your logbook and from the week
before it's like well it's 25 reps you
did at one hour are guess how many
you're gonna have to do to get to zero
motherfucker it's gonna be like I don't
know man 25 26 27 something like that so
you say okay whatever I did last week
let's say it was super simple example
this is 20 last week one rir man at
least 20 my goal is 20 for sure and when
I walk out that 20 that's what I'm gonna
fuck with myself and look more more more
I got more and then you go all the way
to failure and do 23 and a half and
collapse and throw all about yourself
but if you're really beat up if you're
really psychologically down then you
know you might get to 18 reps with no
logbook and no match or beat system and
be like oh you know people that do that
bullshit fake failure really oh that's
it huh you know yeah chef feels really
you could really convince yourself that
it's failure but that minimum effort is
there that baseline is there preventing
you from doing that shit and it's really
easy to detect MRV because all of a
sudden when you get 26 last week you try
to do 27 you get 25 and you're like
super beat up and everything sir oh shit
I think this is it you take a deal owed
you come back you start again at a
three-hour our fresh estimate and you go
from there voila progressive training so
this is the real world approach here
folks rir can be really confusing to
apply and it can lead to big swings and
loads and reps and a lot of over
performance by trying to be here Oh too
soon in the metal cycle and under
performance by being overwhelmed and not
shooting for what you could reasonably
get with a lot of psychological focus
right if you know your baseline it's
easy to challenge yourself by doing just
a bit more if you don't know your
baseline you can really trick yourself
into thinking you're working hard when
really you're not working all that hard
at all right so with that first week
minimum sort of three rir effort you can
set that awesome baseline and then each
week you can match at least or beat your
raps in load so that way you continually
either hold your ground or progress
forward right at some point those
additions have to bring you from 3 RI r
to zero R because you can't progress
forever
and this method really guarantee is that
on average over the meso and really most
micro cycles that you are training hard
enough but not too hard right so a
couple of questions that folks might
have just answer them right now in this
real world approach ok first question
people say well can I add reps and load
in the same exercise like I did 275 for
12 last week in a squat in order to this
we can I do to 80 for 13 totally if
you're ok with the complexity you can
absolutely combine them and there's
times and places to do that but you
don't have to you can train them I would
recommend you start with just reps or
just load progression a lot exercises to
make it simple once you get into that
you could make it more advanced but both
give you a baseline and if that baseline
that's super important next if you
really screw up your first week or any
week you get too close to fail or too
far from fail
what do you do well of course you could
modify the reps in the next week right
you can like basically look at week one
and do to 15 reps and then week two
you're looking at it you're like man
that 15 was not through ir bro like
there's that girl I like in the gym and
I went to failure so then this week what
do you do well here's an advanced tip do
14 right it's it's not 15 so it's not 1
RIR which should PI be for you then
because you adapt it a little bit but
you know your goal is to or I are maybe
14 so do 14 oh that really was to where
the next we can get 15 in the week after
you get 16 those are all excellent
excellent workouts and that first one
doesn't have to start like like a crazy
charge charge for the whites of their
eyes type of shit because people do that
right they be like I got 15 in the first
week that means I have to do 16 this
week well motherfucker 15 was failure 6
you only never get 16 you do 15 you fail
and then accumulate fatigue Rises week 3
you're like I had at 17 you get 14 and
then you get 12 what are you doing now
you're training over MRV that's really
stupid so if you make one mistake don't
be afraid to fix it or on the other hand
if you say okay week one I did 14 but
week when I was being a little baby baby
bitch man I could totally have pushed
harder man honest with myself instead of
there's going for 15 in this next week
go for 16 or 17 you get 17 you like boom
that was Rachel RER and then the next
week your baseline isn't 15 and still
dragging you down for no reason
next time your baseline is 17 you can do
18 so on it's over so you could always
fix it every week there's always a time
for honesty the baseline just gives you
a really really awesome backbone from
which to apply your autoregulation so
you're not just shooting in the dark
next one do you have to target specific
are hours each week like can't you just
match your reps yeah you really can now
if you add sets you're gonna have to
have some kind of re our target but you
can even just you know if the last set
was five and then you have to add a new
set to be like alright I'll just do one
last or something for I just do the same
five that's totally fine to be honest if
you hit that three rir ish remotely
close to it in the first week you can
just increase weight and reps by a
little bit and be guaranteed that you're
within three is zero are
sure the second week you might fall to
four or something but then it'll quickly
rise back up so you don't actually have
to be super preservative if you don't
want you Bogart it's week three
everything's one hour hour you can be
like it's week three I need 15 raps on
my first week 16 on my second it's gonna
be 17 this week it is that on average
you gonna get you one are I are yeah
absolutely especially for being honest
based on how hard weeks wanted to work
how close to feeling they were TL DR if
you just fast for her to this part
here's the deal in the first week of
training give a good solid effort use
the reps and weight of each week
including the first as a baseline for
the next you say at least I'm doing this
much and if I feel really good maybe a
little bit more and then the next week
after that match or beat your
performance every single time that's
gonna start you from a minimum effective
relative effort right 3 RR so and it's
gonna guarantee that you up and up and
up and eventually end up giving
everything reaching your MRV D loading
and you have an awesome productive time
it's that simple
start hard make it harder slowly with
that baseline in mind and the baseline
Rises every single time folks let me
know what you think about this in the
video comments below and if someone has
a question you feel like you can answer
help them out thank you so much and
we'll see you next time for the next
video