what are the best back exercises for
muscle growth to understand the answer
we first need to look at the anatomy of
the back
muscles first off it's worth
understanding that the back is arguably
the largest set of muscles with a
variety of functions indeed there's a
lot of muscle groups involved and they
all have different functions so if we
want to maximize growth of the back we
would want a selection of different
exercises to effectively Target
different muscles within the back in
this discussing Anatomy will simplify
things and focus on the main functions
of larger muscle groups indeed many of
the smaller muscle groups often have the
same functions as larger muscle groups
for example the terce major and the lats
actually share many of the same
functions and so we can simplify things
quite a bit by including these muscle
groups together first the lats or
latissimus dorsi and terce major are
predominantly responsible for shoulder
extension and adduction the lower and
middle traps are responsible for
adduction of the scapula and upward
rotation meanwhile the ROM voids also
contribute to adduction of the scapula
but instead contribute to downward
rotation of the scapula besides some
functions at the neck the upper traps
are basically only responsible for
elevation of the scapula and so sem
isolation work for your upper traps is
likely warranted the final major muscle
of the back that we need to account for
that most people don't is the erector SP
muscle and it's responsible for spinal
extension of a variety of sections of
the spine so let me give you a brief
summary on each of these muscle groups
and their functions for the lats we
primarily want to Target shoulder
extension and adduction for the lower
middle traps and rhomboids we primarily
want to Target adduction of the scapula
and upward and downward rotation of the
shoulder blades for the oper traps we
want to primarily Target elevation of
the scapula like in a shrug and finally
for the erector spin muscle we want to
Target extension of the spine compared
to other muscle groups I've covered
previously like the triceps and
shoulders you might have noticed that
there's a variety of functions here so
we'll definitely want a variety of
exercises to Target all these muscle
groups effectively at least one per
category another implication of this
complex Anatomy is that we likely want
to involve a variety of grips when
training your back as I mentioned your
lats for example are responsible for
both shoulder extension but also
adduction and the grip you select for
example on a lat pull down can impact
the joint function you'll be targeting
for example if you adopt an underhand
grip you'll be mostly targeting shoulder
extension whereas if you adopt an
overhand grip you'll be mostly targeting
shoulder adduction so because the grip
you use can impact which function you
target I would recommend using a variety
of grips across the week for example try
an overhand grip on Monday an underhand
grip on Wednesday and a neutral grip on
Friday with that being said if you only
focus on the function of the muscle you
might think that a variety of exercises
can work and they do however we need to
figure out which is the best exercise
and that's where criteria to gauge
exercises buy for muscle growth comes in
there's a few things to pay attention to
the first is that we definitely want to
Target one of the primary functions of
the muscle we're trying to Target across
your whole exercise selection we want to
make sure we target a variety of
functions often times a compound
exercise can Target multiple functions
at once the exercise we pick for
hypertrophy should also be reasonably
stable as too much instability can
compromise Force production next one big
thing for hypertrophy is that we want to
make sure the target muscle is the
limiting factor in the exercise when you
look at something like a snatch grip RDL
or even an RDL more broadly it isn't
going to be your best choice for upper
back growth why because plenty of other
things can and usually do give out first
like for example the hamstrings or the
glutes or the adductors which are
actually responsible for lifting the
weight off the ground and to lock out
contrast this to something like a
machine row where the main functions
involved are shoulder adduction or
extension and scapular movement making
it much more likely that your upper back
will be the first thing to give out this
will make sure that your back muscles
are being trained sufficiently close to
failure to maximize hypertrophy next we
want to make sure whichever exercise we
pick for hypertrophy is stretched
friendly let me break down what that
means there are three components first
we want to make sure that it places the
target muscle group in that lengthen
position so we get a good stretch on the
target muscle group in that exercise the
second thing is we want to make sure
there's a decent amount of tension
involved in that lengthen position it
shouldn't feel like there's no
resistance when you're in that stretch
position instead it should feel
challenging as an example compare the
cable pullover to the dumbbell pullover
and the cable pull over there is some
resistance throughout the whole range of
motion however the lift will typically
be hardest around midpoint of the lift
to the shorten position this is where
most people will fail a cable pullover
in contrast with a dumbbell pullover the
resistance is greatest when your lats
are most lengthened thus potentially
offering more hypertrophy finally the
exercise we pick should also be lengthen
partial friendly because most exercises
that you train your back with have a
pretty difficult resistance curve in
that they're hardest in the shorten
position but quite easy in the lengthen
position and this is the opposite of
what we desire for hypertrophy in our
likelihood we want to pick excise
exercises where you can perform just a
lengthened part of the movement to make
that part of the range of motion more
challenging and potentially promote
greater muscle growth indeed because the
resistance curve on most back exercises
like pull-ups pull Downs row variations
are all such that it's hardest in the
shorten position length and partials are
probably most applicable in muscle
groups like the back we also want to
pick exercises that minimize involvement
of other muscle groups for example when
you're picking between a bent over row
and a machine chest supported row the
bent over row will involve more muscle
groups that are required to stabilize
the weight and the motion in this case
the hamstrings the glutes the adaptors
will all be involved isometrically not
only does this not add anything to
stimulus for your upper back muscles it
also creates a little bit of additional
fatigue for your hamstrings glutes and
adductors wherever possible we want to
sit down or lie down and minimize the
involvement of stabilizing muscle groups
this can also be seen in the cable
pullover versus the dumbbell pullover in
the cable pullover failure is often
harder to gauge because you are standing
up whereas in the Dumbo pullover you can
often tell when you failed simply
because there are fewer moving Parts
here are a couple of bonus points to
consider more carefully depending on
your situation the first is is the
exercise time efficient certain
exercises are more time efficient than
others typically when you're doing a
dumbbell exercise or a stack loaded
machine exercise this is more time
efficient than something like a barbell
exercise where you have to set up the
barbell load up plates and then get
started the second point is microl
loadability or essentially how small is
the smallest increment that you can
adjust load by week to week to progress
this isn't a huge issue for hypertrophy
because you can simply add reps week to
we before adding weight which is what we
call a double progression but it is
worth considering if you have the choice
to pick an exercise that is more microl
loadable rather than not so now that we
understand what the back actually does
in terms of functions and what some
criteria for exercise selection are
let's break it down to three categories
lat Focus upper back focus and upper
trap Focus first let's hit on lats the
single best exercise for lat growth in
my opinion is the dumbbell pullover and
here's why first as I mentioned earlier
it's substantially more stable than
something like a cable pullover indeed
the only real moving part is to an
extent your torso but mainly just your
shoulder and elbow joint this makes it
easier to gauge failure compared to a
cable pullover where your hip position
might be shifting around to make the
lift easier there are fewer stabilizing
muscle groups involved potentially
reducing fatigue overall and it's far
easier to get a full stretch in the
dumbb pull I find than in the cable pull
next I think the lats will be the
limiting factor I know there have been
claims made online about differences in
internal leverage between for example
the sternal chest and the lats leading
to the chest being the first thing to
give out or get the main stimulus during
a dumbo pullover however it's worth
pointing out that to my knowledge there
are no actual studies looking at
hypertrophy showing that differences in
internal leverage truly do lead to
differences and hypertrophy so while I
would consider it to some extent in my
excess selection I would value something
like getting a full stretch in your lats
and having a good deal of tension there
more important as we do now have about a
couple of dozen studies broadly showing
that lengthen training is beneficial for
hypertrophy so we don't want to miss out
on an exercise that offers these
benefits in favor of something that we
have no evidence for at present indeed
the dumbbell pullover is hugely stretch
friendly one it offers the most
resistance in that fully lengthened
position two the resistance gets easier
as you shorten the lats and you don't
even get to a fully shortened position
and therefore it becomes a length and
partial by Design indeed you get a full
stretch on the lats at the bottom but
you only get about halfway up about a
halfway shortened position for the lats
the Dumbo pullover also very obviously
targets one of the main functions of the
lats and that's shoulder extension now
the Dumbo pullover isn't the only good
lat exercises here are a few on Ru
mentions honestly I think most pull down
variations will do a decent job of
training your lats especially if you
adopt a somewhat narrower grip in order
to lengthen the lats even more and if
you try some lengthen partial indeed one
of the main shortcomings of pull Downs
as opposed to pullovers is that the
resistance curve gets harder and harder
as you shorten the L for hypertrophy we
likely want the opposite and so by doing
length and partials and only targeting
the lengthen portion of the full range
of motion we can load the that pull down
a little bit more heavily and make that
lengthen position more challenging than
it would usually be you can use an
overhand grip for more shoulder
adduction or a neutral or underhand grip
for more shoulder extension likewise
pull-ups are cool but they suffer the
same ations as pull downs and they are
slightly more fatiguing relatively
speaking due to the amount of
stabilizing muscle groups involved for
example your abs might be involved to
stabilize your spine and they have a
little bit less rep range flexibility
all right for most people while you can
do sets of pull Downs for 20 to 30 reps
if you wanted to most people won't be
able to do pull-ups for 20 to 30 reps
unless you're super jacked which if
you're watching this channel you should
be it's worth mentioning that because of
the complexity of the lats I would get
one to two lat focused exercises a
weekend at least least with a variety of
grips don't just stick to one grip like
a neutral grip try a variety maybe you
do overhand once a week and maybe you do
underhand once a week maybe do neutral
once a week and overhand once a week
just switch it up to a decent extent
within the week next let's move on for
the best exercise for upperback growth
and here's what I think it is I think
the three best upper back exercises are
the ink dumbell rope the seal rope and
the chest supported tall row and here's
why the incline dumbbell row and the
seal dumbbell row are both highly time
efficient you don't need to load a bar
if you have a seal bench at your gym you
don't need to set anything up if you
don't you can use the inkline boru
instead set up properly all three of
these exercises offer a good stretch on
the upper back and by providing chest
support all three of these variations
minimize fatigue generated in the Alors
hamstrings low back glutes etc for the
upper back rowing variations are
generally good just like with lat
focused exercises try and get one to two
a weekend at least again just like with
vertical pulling try and get a variety
of grips in don't just use the same grip
every session since rows have the same
limitation as pull downs and pull-ups
where the resistance gets higher and
higher as you reach that shorten
position there are a few things to keep
in mind one consider using lengthened
partials to make that lengthened stretch
position more stimulating two if you
have access to Prime machines I've used
Prime row machines in the past use them
and selectively load the lengthen
position when it comes to rows you kind
of fall into one of three categories and
here's what they are you're either
looking to maximize time efficiency
stimulus or minimize fatigue if you're
looking to minimize fatigue from rowing
try chest supported variations like the
ones I just mentioned if you're looking
to maximize time efficiency pick
dumbbell or machine variations
specifically stack loaded machines where
you don't need to load the plates on
yourself finally if you just want more
stimulus out of your rows for your upper
back try exercises like the t- bar row
or the chest supported t- bar row which
on account of the way the bar moves
during a T Bar Row the resistance will
be larger in that lengthen position
compared to something like a barbell row
and so you might notice that generally
some something like a chest supported
t-bar row offers a lot of the benefits
for stimulus and minimizing fatigue but
it doesn't offer the benefits of time
efficiency you have to consider the
trade-offs whenever you select your best
exercise and finally the category no one
actually wanted to hear about what's
best for your upper traps I think the
seated dumbbell shrug is the single best
upper trap exercise provided you have
sufficiently heavy dumbbells around
personally I try and do seated dumbbell
shrugs once to twice a week they work
great as a fatigue efficient time
efficient drop set by sitting down
you're minimizing involvement and
fatigue of the glutes hamstrings
adductors and lower back stabilizing the
weight likewise using dumbbells
minimizes time cost you can simply grab
the dumbbells do a couple warm up sets
and get straight into your Lu set no
need to set up a barbell in a rack load
the plates Etc most shrug variations
ultimately have very similar resistance
curves offer a pretty similar amount of
stretch on the upper traps and so any
shrug variation really will do that
being said a seated variation will
minimize fatigue using dumbbells or a
stack loaded machine will maximize time
efficiency so seated dumbbell shrugs or
seated machine shrugs if you have them
are great if not if you're not too
strong you can try cable shrugs for time
efficiency anyways that's the video I
think the dumbbell pullover some sort of
chest supported row and some sort of
seated dumbbell shrug will be your best
options when it comes to the lats the
upper back and the upper traps
respectively put a lot of thought into
this video researched a lot of anatomy
hence the uh anatomy chart in the
background here left right it's all very
confusing to a sports S software like
myself I hope you enjoyed the video if
you did please consider commenting
liking subscribing if there are any
other muscle groups you want me to break
down for you as far as the best
exercises according to the science leave
a comment down below and I'll get to it
in the meantime enjoy your day and I'll
see you next time peace