the proper understanding of
high-intensity training will provide you
with the knowledge required to ensure
optimal results from your efforts
optimal best for everyone in every case
it's not just an effective method that
you can try like the RP hypertrophy app
with over 28 it's optimal I think that's
one of the reasons why Mike mener is so
inordinately popular even today is
because he had this Aura of there's all
this bullshit out there and there is
ideas about how to train so much fucking
noise he was like you skinny kid in the
back Harry Potter looking motherfucker
look up and you're like yes I got the
answer for you and it's two things
insanely simple and brutally difficult
what do you say they're like what that
sounds like it matches my male pseudo
rightwing proclivities quite well sir
sure does kid here's hit go be an
adherent of it and get in our comment
section and fight other people about it
I ain't lying