and do squat uh PewDiePie could go down
double the distance and get way more
gains with my perfect form okay I don't
want to hear anyone complaining about my
[Music]
form hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance priorization and I also
happen to be a professor of exercise and
Sport Science at Leman College in the
Bronx in New York City man New York City
see yeah see what why did I Port over to
20's guy and girl I'll tell you why
because we're going to be reviewing Mr
PewDiePie's workout I don't know his
relationship to the 20s I thought that
joke would materialize better than it
did but you see PewDiePie is a person on
the internet who does internet things
but he recently got pretty jacked and
ripped and I'm going to see if the way
he got there is most efficient or least
efficient or probably new on December
between let's find out hello everyone
today we're going to go through my epic
workout he's not from
America Scott the video guy where's
Pewdiepie from Swedish I'm from the
countries of Sweden he's not Magnus no I
am also Magnus and in my free time my
name
PewDiePie and I have a Viking sword and
humongous YouTube following I'm like Tor
but with more followers and more
relevant to today's isues I love the
accent I can't get enough of it if
you're Nordic I want to hear you talk
that in your beautiful gorgeous
amazing accent I'm not just talking
about the ladies y fine as hell
up there the men send me the men oh look
PewDiePie he's a man from the countries
of North let's see let's see what he has
to say here so you also can look epic
gamer huh the screen went red he he was
angry hopefully he used some anger in
the gym first off let's go through my
setup my workout setup which is the same
goddamn setup that I've always had and
here's my gym setup who that's low budge
I thought this mother was making like a
trillion dollars an hour on
YouTube respect for not spending your
money on dumb like gym equipment
what do we got uh Universal dumbbells
those are always a good investment by
the way pug great dog for training
partner doesn't give a will fall
asleep won't bother you bench that's it
you can get in pretty decent shape like
that training legs is tough but through
a combination of goblet squats heel
elevated
squats dumbbell stiff legged deadlifts
and lunges you can actually get pretty
jacked legs too and the upper body is
super easy to train if you just have
that setup so let's see what he did the
only difference now is that I'm in our
living room that's all you need baby oh
he trains in the living room oh he moved
it from the garage I use these weights
called Power block power Block's
excellent I have only good things to say
about the power block my workout is
pretty much more or less the same as I
used to exciting I've only changed up a
couple of things here and there I think
I used to do five days a week guys I'm
noticing a trend here everyone who makes
lots of money on YouTube has a gaming
chair which brings me to my next Point
Scott the video guy you equipped this
studio in which we work in its entirety
where the is my gaming chair we'll have
one for the next video they're generally
a little bit hard though and I know that
you don't like it hard I do like it hard
from the back but mostly the bottom am I
right do you guys know what I mean by
that I want to be very clear I mean that
I like consensual gay
sex hey guys if you like that and you
want more I don't know why you would but
I'm judging you already we have a member
section with extended unfiltered raw Tri
xx rated Cuts what see you guys there I
start
off like most people oh my God I didn't
know he was this good-look Scott how
dare you not prepare me for this just
the way he like casually flips his hair
like it's no big deal but I've got the
full head of hair and I hope that ass
whole Dr Mike is jealous he is jealous
PewDiePie now that you know that I exist
or anything got to start up with chess
it's the
best did he just say based I was trying
to make his accent sound worse than it
is or more extreme rather because it's a
good accent
and I failed because he it's even more
extreme at times nothing wrong with
starting with chest it's all a bro in US
me I'd like to have a few Bros in me at
the same time how does that work the
thing with dumbbells is they're quite
hard to get up like to get to the Scott
his chair reclines almost fully try and
reine that one see if it
does it feels like a different place
here now that's not fully get me a
gaming chair
Scott um I was so proud when I hit the
yeah okay so this isn't terrible
technique ideally we would like to see
Mr PewDiePie go down slower and get a
much deeper stretch and because it's
tough to get a deep stretch with the
dumbles being that big they just end up
hitting your chest either as he goes
down he should rotate him into neutral
or he should have them at neutral the
entire time so that he can get
significantly below his chest stop for a
second or two down there really open up
that chest get a huge stretch trust me
you will feel it and then come back up I
definitely been pushing myself more I
try to push myself to the point where
it's like okay here I am one more rent
if I can do one more ramp there will be
world peace and everyone will be happy
that is excellent training motivation I
use that daily so I do chess I do
incline
chest chest is a muscle group not an
exercise it is called a press and being
a pedantic just for more content
at this point which is good too and then
I do
Scott after that I Do
shoulders which when when you're already
tired from chest yeah you know the
technique is okay again he could go
slower on the way down he could go
deeper for a big stretch you actually
want to touch the inside of the dumbbell
to the outside of your front delt that's
a huge big Mega stretch at the bottom
that would mean you have to use less
weight better for your joints better for
your muscular development but what he's
doing isn't bad at all and also like
shoulder pressing in general for
physique development purposes as long as
you're doing chest pressing at a flat
and incline angle is just way overrated
and way overused plain and simple oh
yeah and then after that I do a super
set where I combine oh yeah look at that
these I don't know what they're called
they are called tricep kickbacks they
are terrible exercise because muscles
grow best when at the Deep stretch you
have the most external load imposed or
the most internal load and at the
contraction the least Kickbacks at the
bottom gravity isn't even affecting them
so you get nothing and that's the top it
gets harder and harder and harder and
while you feel the tricep Contracting
significantly um it's just not an ideal
movement does it work yes is it close to
the best movement no a better movement
would be to take the dumbbells one in
each hand lie down on the bench and bend
at the elbows to touch either your face
or to out side of your ears you can do
it neutral grip you can do it regular
grip either way it's going to fry your
triceps way way way better the um
kickback is uh it's an exercise you just
wish would die and go away kind of like
my mom told me my whole life until I
moved out like she'd say like why
are you still here who are you she'd
yell at me and throw pots and pans I was
five and then uh lateral raises I guess
like that like I like I he's guessing
about what exercises he did but I try to
make it into one set okay decent
technique again folks rushing thaty
Centric you get up there you're milking
out a ton of muscle growth stimulus if
you go slower on the way down get up
quick slow on the way down I finally
come to a point where I'm more
comfortable pushing myself before if I
ever felt like I'm pushing myself so I
could almost throw up which which can
happen I think especially when you're
building muscle it can happen happen
easier than you think I have thrown up a
lot in
training one of the reasons people throw
up is because they're so untrained their
circulatory systems are underdeveloped
their cardiovascular systems
underdeveloped that's definitely a
reason people throw up but if you get
sufficiently big and strong you can
throw up just because your muscles
produce so much waste product that your
body's a dude something needs to go and
you start vomiting that's a at least why
I tell myself I thr up after the gym
it's not cuz of my body image
issues I was supposed to promote the new
g-fuel tub look at that it's awesome I
drink every day that's the kind of
organic influence or promotion we pay
good money for as supplement companies
Jesus Christ 10% muscle increase of
course that's false but you got to
promote you got to promote it's not a
pre-workout it's just epic drink epic
gamer drink
what it's not a pre-workout it's just an
epic gamer drink I'm confused as to what
it does does it make you better at video
games if so by what mechanism moving on
to the next day number two Tuesday whoa
Tuesday looked bloody holy leg day
makes sense and do squat H we maximize
muscle growth by getting deep into a
stretch position so PewDiePie could go
down double the distance and get way
more
gains with my perfect form okay okay I
don't want to hear anyone complaining
about my
form like it's this weird thing where
while I'm doing it I'm not that tired
but as soon as I stop I'm just like I
need to sit down oh
God legs will you up what I always like
to say
is you can work out your upper body but
you train your legs it's a process for
sure no one likes leg day some of us
masochistic weird love leg day matter of
fact I just did leg day today loved
every minute of it if you like leg day
you're lying okay oh oh my opportunity
how dare you white glove slap
slap put White Glove back on champagne
glass sip uh after deadlift I do the
split squat thing lunges that's it dope
look he turned into a man of at least
half African descent outdoors in an
excellent workout attire strange three
sets of that and then I do the calf
raises where you go on your toes BL blah
bling blah blah BL and then I'm pretty
much done you know I don't I'm not that
you know legs yeah sure it's done yeah
if you're into just having leg bro
muscles like a classic gu
physique legs are overrated I'll be the
first person to say that I love having
big legs but there's definitely a thing
in it of itself know it's uh legs you do
for the soul I find myself to be with
workout it's so easy to make excuses for
yourself like Oh I'm a bit tired today
or oh yesterday I had blah blah blah or
today was a long day or blah blah blah
one thing I have that really really
helps is my watch because I can time my
sets if you had the RP hypertrophy app
will make sure you're progressing on
track monitoring and adjusting your
workout at all times so for all that
work you're doing you can be sure you're
getting the best best
[Music]
results it tracks your weight and your
reps and your sets and gives you little
green check marks to press and it says
finished workout congratulations would
you like to see your next day oh I love
it so much I even made it myself I try
to use my phone I try using an app to
time my w timing arrest is largely a
waste of time Scott is there any way we
can link that video yeah let's do it
another thing I do is I drink uh
pre-workout sometimes I even drink
g-fuel just because I know gfu is not a
pre workout what the is gfuel here's
what I know so far it's not a
pre-workout it's a video gamer juice I
thought video Gamers were powered
exclusively by Mountain Dew and
Doritos then on day uh four I do I start
off a little bit slower again where I do
uh pulls and the great thing about the
was that picture the animation budget is
falling all the way through this video
working out at home is I can uh be
shirtless oo that
ass anyway I assume there's an ass
underneath those baggy pants a man can
dream and it's not
cringe oh God what is
that yeah that is a dumbbell bent r with
one sixth of the range of motion that
you should be using Folks at
home hinge at your hips B your knees a
little bit to hinge even further so that
you're as close to parallel with the
ground as possible while your lower back
isn't rounded so flatten out that back
hinge at your hips and your knees just a
little bit to get nice and deep and you
should feel tension in your hamstrings
in the back of leg that whole time then
when you're in that position you stay
there fixed do not move your legs and
torso at all let your arms fully stretch
you at the bottom and then fully come up
at the top to try to touch the D
dumbbells to just below your shoulders
and then all the way back down nice and
slow that is a dumbbell bent row that'll
be really really good and worthwhile
this it's going to cause some back
growth but my God that's a short range
of motion and a deeper stretch is King
in the hypertrophy
world I start off with um single arm
rows then I do two arm rows then I do
overhead extension back and triceps very
well and then I do uh
double arm row but reverse grip then I
do biceps and then I do uh hammer curls
hammer curls are humongous waste of time
for most
people uh they hit the muscles of the
forearm and the upper arm that are hit
by every other row that you could do
pretty well I might add so having the
Palm face up and curling like that is
probably 90 some per of the time going
to be superior it's kind of hard
finishing up with bicep and hammer curls
cuz you're kind of tired at that point
but what I find to really elevate my
work at is my Spotify playlist where I
listen to a bunch of like industrial
techno or in Sweden We only listen to
the finest musics we don't listen to the
look at this first song is called World
spawn it's by Nikki isty that mean he's
a Nordic person Mick Gordon which is
probably not that good this sounds like
an Anglo person not very hard core or
like metal or metal god I could listen
to that all day oh that Nordic
tongue that sounded weird I'm sticking
to it I like it either way that's
another accidental thing I said that has
two meanings I do like it either
way it sounds so cringe but once you
were there doing those bicep curls and
that it work why does it sound
cringe folks
pause the number one way way to sound
cringe is to accuse someone anyone in
any circumstance of being cringe do you
know what's embarrassing being
embarrassed own your I used to
listen to like podcasts and maybe
YouTube videos sometimes just like
whatever in the background and I don't
think that makes you as focused as when
you if you put on music that you really
like it really motivates you and like
I'm really happy that he drew us the
world's worst chart to illustrate that
that being said uh it good music is
great I personally don't listen to a lot
of music under most circumstances when
I'm training because I'm already
crazy Ben uh after I do my poll
exercises day five I like that poll
exercises was a picture of him pushing I
used to do leg on day five I like leg
just one leg in Sweden we don't have the
plural so it's leg only leg how many leg
do you have I just have leg folks do you
want me to play video games and
commentate on it is that some way you'll
find me
useful what's it called twitch should we
do twitch let us know in the comments
below hey hold on hold on I'll give you
a
preview see I can twitch it sounds so
cringe sometimes I do Kendo which I
found to be a really fun kind of cardio
to be honest it's it kind of tires you
out pretty well and it's fun to try out
something different this is like when
you're 14 and you have a play sword and
you do this in your bedroom and your mom
yells go to sleep it's
10:00 before that I used to do other
stuff as well I was jump skipping Jo
what's it called jumping
rope mother how old are you plays video
games sword fighting jump rope trains
with dumbbells at home Scott I was under
the impression this is a
multi-millionaire Ultra successful
business person and I do a a workout
that's sort of a combination of the
entire week except leg of course cuz leg
is cringe oh God that whole several
sentences hurt my soul I will continue
on for you the viewer I do chest I do
shoulder I do bicep I do all the Epic
stuff epic dumbbell at home shoulder
workout is epic I thought epic was when
you like walked a hundred miles through
the cold on bare feet bleeding out of
your souls to save the only one woman
you've ever loved and destroy a whole
Army but apparently that latter thing is
a typical day in Sweden and you know
funny enough because we're actually epic
people that are the descendants of
Vikings what we really think of as epic
in the modern world is training the
bicep and shoulder on the same strong
day day six no substances no steroids
marids mother what you mean no
substances what the is in G fuel we know
it's not pre-workout must be
steroids all right so that was cool
truth be told with all total respect
actually never seen a video of
PewDiePie's before um I like to play the
video games like Mario
Brothers instead of watching other
people play them but I've heard he's
cool and this my first exposure to him
and he's not only handsome and has an
amazing accent but it also seems just
like a really decent reason able person
and you know what that's a 10 out of 10
in my book for just winning it life and
uh PewDiePie wherever you are please
continue to know that uh when the cold
Nordic winds blow on your face that I
was going to say something about blowing
on faces but that wouldn't be nice
um a warm wind blows through my heart
for you Namaste and I'll catch you guys
next time all right if you like that
video right over here click on this one
the YouTube algorithm assures us you'll
like it too see you guys next
[Music]
time