same rates of progress are not around
anymore and it's time to adapt here's
one way in which you can adapt if you
like to run eight weeks of successive
training until you take a deload or a
break as a beginner you used to do that
and you'd put five pounds on the bar
every single week and you could just hit
PRS PRS all the way through now you
can't do that anymore try this every
other session put five more pounds on
the bar and every other session just do
the same reps you did last time with the
same weight just try to get the
technique a little bit better better
mind muscle connection a little bit
better external technique and really
high quality reps so you have a
challenge week and a Mastery week and
that way instead of oh let's say 40
pounds to the whole process you may
progress only by 20 pounds but it's
actual progress because remember 40
pounds is illusion you can't progress
like that anymore in two months because
you would hit these Mega plateaus you
get Ultra fatigue you take deload weeks
in the middle of your plan it throws
everything off that's the deal