[Music]
yeah yeah
yeah morning everyone so it's August 2nd
and today we're going to the concert so
just woke up and was doing a bit of
reading uh the gene by sarta Muki maybe
a sixth of the way through it but it
basically covers the whole history of
the Gene and so I found it to be like
kind of fitting for my genetic science
explain video that's coming up if you're
looking for something new to read That's
sort of sciency but yet like really easy
to understand
[Music]
guys this is meal number two kale salad
and chicken breast we're going to go
actually back to the same gym that we
went to yesterday and hit a leg workout
Pat and CJ and Stephanie are out here
again and we're going to do we're going
to do legs so you need to hand me the
high volume
please go so what you having today so
because it's still morning going to go
with Pro iic this is the stimulant based
pre-workout also has pump product in it
this is pump only so I have this one if
I'm training late I'm going to go it's
going to be a late night anyway I'm
going to go two prolific and two high
volume for this workout oh I got my
Travis Scott Rodeo hat on ready for
tonight true Fanboy we're going to get
we're going to try to go early to get
band or tour shirts merch yeah soz I
feel like this is one of those tours
that's going to be like iconic like a
decade down Woodstock 78 Wood stock
Smoke tour Snoop Dog and Dre but this is
going to be nuts like I hope that the
Rogers Arena can support some of the
like effects that they do what are you
having I'm having two prolific and then
one high volume this is my favorite
flavor combination yeah this is a good
flavor combination I'm going to mix if
you're going to be mixing these two
which you don't have to do by the way
the the uh pump this is a pump product
as well as a stimulant product this one
is pump only so you can take them
separately but I like to stack them up
just because then I find the pump is
even better Paradise cooler plus Sunrise
is a good uh blue raspberry and cotton
candy that was that's horrible don't do
that
one should play some dram what the [ __ ]
he does I think you're
cute this one broccoli I use this in a
video it's not
copyrighted I know but I tested the
original song it's not copyrighted so if
it does get copyright in the future does
all that Revenue get returned no no no
no you keep the revenue and then just
from there on you can't take yeah
anything if they didn't make the claim
then it's not copy there's nothing they
can do they can't be like yeah I used to
have this like like no you didn't make
the
claim
[Music]
yeah all right so we just got back from
our leg workout I just wanted to quickly
take you guys through what it was that
we did and I'll roll a few Clips up on
the screen so we kicked off the workout
with a hack Squat and normally I'd in a
perfect world start out my workout with
some kind of heavy back squat um however
my lower back is still giving me issues
I have been back back squatting and I
worked up to like 185 lbs but it's not
enough of like a hypertrophic stimulus
for me to feel like I'm really
challenging my legs in anyway to be
honest I've sort of moved away from my
powerlifting Centric goals and right now
I'm just focused on building the best
physique that I can and the hack squat
is a viable alternative for me in so far
as it's virtually the same movement
pattern as a back squat but because it
has that support pad on my lower back
it's a lot easier for me to load it a
lot more heavily and we did it for 8 to
10 Reps for three sets basically I try
to activate the glutes a little bit more
uh because this is more of a quad
dominant squat with the legs so far in
front of the Torso um so to do that I
basically just take a slightly wider
stance and just point my toes out a
little bit other than that I treat the
movement more or less just like I would
a normal squat with a big breath at the
top before every rep and I brace sort of
brace my core and keep my upper back
tight as if I had a barbell on my back
and then in terms of depth it's the same
thing as a barbell squat or more or less
the same thing in terms of like what is
comfortable for my back so I try to go
to the point where I negate any Butt
Wink that I potentially have uh but I
still try to go through that full r
range of motion um where the hip joint
is going down at least two or below the
knee so after the hack squat we moved on
to the leg press and for this movement
and more or less all the movements that
follow I tend to follow a higher rep
structure just because I find if I do
subsequent exercises with high loads the
weight will just be too much of a demand
on my lower back so I try to get a very
high intensity threshold by keeping the
Reps relatively higher and then keeping
the weight relatively lower uh so for
the leg press I think we just worked up
to four or five plates for 15 to 20 Reps
for three sets to make the movement a
little bit more glute and hamstring
dominant I'll point the toes slightly
out put the feet slightly higher on the
platform and a slightly wider stance in
terms of depth for the leg press you
want to think about going going to the
point where your lower back would start
to round uh but don't go so deep that it
actually does uh start to round um so
that'll be different for different
people but deeper is not always better
when it comes to Light press after this
I typically follow it up with some sort
of hip extension based hamstring
movement so like a dumbbell Romanian
deadlift or barbell Romanian deadlift
however one thing that I find when going
straight into that movement is that I
still feel quite fatigued from the leg
press especially where I'm working with
higher reps and I find I'm not able to
get as good of a mind muscle connection
with my hamstrings I find my lower back
takes over a little bit my glutes will
take over a little bit uh so what I've
been doing is starting out the hamstring
Focus work with a simple leg curl uh so
this can be seated or lying um today we
went for the seated variation and I do
treat these as proper working sets uh so
we did three sets of I think it was 10
to 12 reps on these however they also
sort of function as like a preactivation
thing where if I get a little bit of a
pump in my hamstrings and I sort of get
used to Contracting them when I switch
over and do more of a eccentrically
loaded or stretch-based exercise like a
Romanian deadlift I'm just able to feel
my hamstrings working so much more so
after the uh seated leg curl we moved on
to dumbbell Romanian deadlifts and
another thing I've actually been doing
here is reducing the weight a little bit
uh I used to work with like 100 or 120
lb dumbbells on these however what I
found was my glutes in my lower back
would take over the Brun to the work and
I'd leave the exercise feeling like I
had almost no hamstring pump whatsoever
and I didn't really feel the stretch in
the same way I'll just lower the
dumbbell to the point that it's just
below my knee really feel that stretch
and then I'll come up and I won't lock
it out like I would say a conventional
deadlift where you have the chest held
high and the shoulders back and the
glute sort of locked I'll sort of just
keep that constant uh tension and slight
constant stretch on the hamstrings and
I've found that this is a way to really
get them firing a lot better in this
exercise and I think that isolating
actually isolating the hamstrings in
this movement is important because we've
done a ton of glute work with the
squatting and the leg pressing and a
good deal of quad work with with those
as well and so here we really want to
have the hamstrings doing the brunt of
the work um so after that we finished
off with a lower back extension exercise
and this can be a glute Builder I
covered that in my glute science explain
video uh but essentially you just want
to sort of uh round the lower back and
it'll help activate the glutes a little
bit more they'll kind of contribute more
to hip extension uh but in my case I'm
doing this more so as a spinal erector
exercise and that's because in my
opinion I think that the spinal Erectors
are going to be a lot less active on the
Hat squat than they would with the freee
weight barell back squat to make sure
that they're getting enough work so that
those muscles can strengthen and stay
thick like most bodybuilders want a
really thick lower back spinal erector
area um and so I'm kind of missing out
on that I think without having a a
barbell squat in my program so at the
end of the workout I'll do some light uh
lower back extensions for 15 to 20 reps
and I also do think that that's been an
important part of helping rehab my lower
back so that was it for the workout
after that we went and got some sushi
which was really really good and now uh
we're going to play a drinking game so
we've got the concert coming up in like
a couple hours so it's 4:00 the concert
starts at 7:30 Pat and I are going to
run to the liquor store and we're going
to pick a YouTuber and we're going to uh
pick out something that they say a lot
and then every time they say it we're
going to have a drink uh so this is a
game Steph and I played uh a little
while ago with uh CH with Christian and
every time he said excited or guys we
had a drink um so we're going to like
maybe use pick on Christian again but
maybe someone different we're going to
run to the liquor store right now and
I'll check in with you guys in a
minute I want something fruity and yummy
and good let's get some flavored brate
what
about what do you think of this P yeah
I'll down split that peach oh the peach
was cute I bet you Peach would be really
good yeah you want to get that it's
done someone wants to play like a Jeff
Nipper drinking game for YouTube what
what word would you use study however
study however
research I hate saying research has
research I still can't say it research
has shown research has shown try to say
research has shown that's pretty
research has shown
yeah I think I think white monster you
should get two white monsters and get um
a red yeah oh that would actually be
good too what do you want a diet soda or
a diet 7 up oh the one that I like I
love the watermelon oh this is my jail
right here oh that's that's cute this is
this is Bomb so we're going to all just
share these five and then C over for
real I
know oh that's dope I like that
nice so we're just here getting some
merch and we've been waiting line for
like an hour but like the show doesn't
even start for another 2 hours and just
check out like how
H
the [ __ ] you listen close though you
listen all right so we just got back
from the merch store as you can see we
all went with our own unique
style and now we're going to play the
drinking game so what YouTuber I voted
already I voted Max tuning yeah I say
Max Max I say Max who do you
say this is your chance to plug your
channel bro we're going to do Max tuning
um I've actually never met Max so I I
love Max so I'm a big fan every time he
says dude dude every time Max says dude
we have to
drink so this is the this is the max
shoting video this is the video right
here don't let me down Max what's next
hi welcome to the video like $500 what's
up Max okay we need to add another claw
so everybody pick a word and you s pick
dude I'll okay you pick Sushi I'll pick
uh Jim Daryl okay so this sushi
dude back from
Sushi you know
like well I know a lot of you are
interested Pi he was like he did a
informative voiceover which he like
never does so I'm going to go Rich Pi I
say God damn it I would say he's going
to say babe I would say he's going to
say protein a lot protein say mother
mother what what do you what do you say
he doesn't have a ref say babe all right
or right I'd say right or the f f word
any any f word okay that's actually good
that's good you don't do on a first
[ __ ]
date you don't [ __ ] sit and talk
about yourself shut the [ __ ] up let the
girl talk
incred are you serious oh [ __ ] that's
all the girl wants just wants my dick
right so she just wants to see my dick
to see if she likes my dick so I got to
show her my dick and then she wants my
dick hide behind a chair and like you
guys are watching too much [ __ ] porn
you guys have it all wrong girl is life
is not a [ __ ] porn girls are not just
all about look they I don't want to see
your [ __ ] dick
and but also don't talk good about an ex
either my ex was so [ __ ]
hot F like it was
I feel like I'm going to feel hard when
I that was that was Heavy
fny oh my
God any want
part
handina
don't do this at
home that this should be
theil this should be the real thumbnail
in right it's 6:37 the doors just opened
at 6:30 so we're going to head over to
the concert right now I'm going to take
a few Clips on Steph's phone um so yeah
thank you guys so much for watching the
video if you're new Please Subscribe
like the video if you liked it and if
you have any new topics you'd like to
see me cover um in science explain if
you'd like to see me uh cover any topics
in a science explain video uh just
comment below let me know and I'll see
you guys next time peace time for the
concert are you glad we avoided this
SL this is thing
ever boy like this [ __ ] bright lit
right okay my friends honestly love
that's actually really good so good that
just made my whole night look I here for
the buddy I'm here for [ __ ] Kendrick
L and he's [ __ ] amazing and he's he's
where's that right look there's only
[ __ ] seats out in Geor street
though
[Music]
[Music]
the mood buddy she don't want none of it
then I start talking newy to her my son
now buddy up here buddy Travis Scott be
sounding like [ __ ] B JY up on stage
my
son that is about to be
crazy [ __ ]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
sh oh my
[Music]
God okay I got a C got a C 202 but I
can't see nobody can't see nobody I open
Illuminati Illuminati this
[Music]
be
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
take
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
DNA how look now y don't even know how
to r n look
okay I
me I
know
[Music]
you keep rather you
me keep
[Music]
it
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
I wait your let me do
the your break it
down
unless who that [ __ ] thinking that
heting on
make some [ __ ] noise for
yourself right
[Applause]
[Music]
now