[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of the science applied series in this
video we're gonna be hitting a full
upper-body workout
that's day two of our new upper lower
split and these workouts are based on my
new upper lower size and strength
program however the program itself is
more specific in terms of progression
periodization and variation from week to
week whereas these workouts are meant to
be more generalizable while still being
effective and challenging so today's
workout is gonna be day two of six and
just jumping right in even on upper body
days I think it's important to get your
full body warmed up and you want to
break a light sweat before doing any
lifting to reduce risk of injury and
improve performance so I'm doing five
minutes on the incline treadmill here
and after that I'll do a dynamic
stretching routine which I'll play in
fast motion here but I can cover that in
more detail in a future video that's
something you guys would like to see so
from there we're gonna jump into the
barbell overhead press for two sets of
four reps now something I've always
found with the overhead press is that
people tend to hit failure quite
suddenly on these and what I mean by
that is you can be doing six or seven
reps fairly easily and then out of
nowhere you just can't get that ether up
so I think it actually makes sense to
keep the rpe quite high on the overhead
press since leaving even like two or
three reps in the tank here won't
actually feel that challenging at all
rather than blasting this movement with
a lot of ref William we're gonna be
progressing by adding one set every week
so and week one will do two sets of four
three sets of four and week two and then
four sets of four in week three before
returning to two sets of four but with
more weight in week four now one thing
I've been working on myself with the OHP
is really pulling my head back out of
the way by lifting my chin up I found
that I have a tendency to want to move
the bar forward to clear my face and
then bring it back in an arc or is what
I should be doing is really tilting my
head back so I can move the bar up in a
perfectly straight line okay up next
we're moving on to three sets of six
reps on a wide grip pull-up
I've mentioned the research from doumitt
and colleagues here before
which basically found that while there
was no significant difference in the lat
activation between a pull-up and a
pulldown the pull-up did come out on top
for the biceps the end of the spinal
erectors which give that appearance of
back thickness all the way up the spine
so I think that both a pull-up and a
pulldown can have a place in your
routine but you could make the case that
if you're leaving a pull-up out of your
routine you're most likely leaving some
back thickness gains on the table so
here since the reps are lower and we're
using this as our main heavy pulling
movement I'm loading these with a thirty
pound dumbbell but you really just want
to make sure that you're getting
reasonably close to failure on that
sixth and final rep so if you're newer
to the pull-up or had a heavier body
weight you can definitely use bodyweight
only or an assisted pull-up machine and
in terms of technique one thing that I'm
working on mastering here is maintaining
the same lifting tempo for rep six as I
did for rep one and this is something I
think so many people miss on the pull-up
now they'll start with a nice 1 second
positive and one or two second at
negative for the first few reps but then
by the time they get to rep six even
though they may not be cheating too bad
they start to move up and down way
faster than they did on the first few
reps and in my opinion I would classify
this as a more subtle way of cheating on
these I'm so the next time you do
pull-ups pay close attention to your
cadence and try to make it consistent
all the way through from rep to rep and
set to set and if you can't do that then
consider lowering the weight okay up
next we're doing two sets of 10 reps on
the close grip bench press you know
we're doing another simple double
progression here where we'll do 11 reps
in we to 12 reps in week 3 and then 10
reps again in week 4 with more weight
and one of the main advantages of the
close grip bench press from a physique
development perspective is that it does
target the upper chest better than a
wider grip with the majority of EMG
studies showing that a narrow grip leads
to proportionally more activation of the
clavicular head now one mistake many
people make with this movement is taking
the exercise name too literally going in
way too close
ideally you want to have your wrists and
elbows stacked from the rear so just
about a shoulder width grip is what I
would consider to be close and going any
closer than that is pretty much a
guaranteed path to wrist pain so after
that we're super setting
three sets of twelve reps on a wide grip
seated cable row in three sets of 15
reps on an incline dumbbell lateral
raise so with the cable row here first
we're using a wide grip to emphasize
transverse abduction and scapular
retraction over shoulder extension
basically by having your arms and more
out to the sides
you're gonna target more of the mid
traps and rear delts than if you had
your arms tucked in close by your sides
with the elbows down and having a closer
grip and tucking your elbows down and in
this is really gonna turn on the lats
and on the flip side flaring your elbows
out and focusing more on pulling back
rather than down it's gonna hit the
traps and rear delts more and since it's
relatively easy to fatigue the lats with
pull-ups on their own
I think turning this movement into a
more trap focused exercise makes sense
especially since natural lifters tend to
struggle more with trap development and
back thickness than they do with lap
development and back width in many cases
and we're super setting this with a
lateral raise just for the sake of time
because there won't be too much
interference between these two movements
and you guys know I normally do lateral
raises leaning away on a cable about
holding up two separate machines at the
gym is a bit selfish so we're gonna use
the dumbbell variation here which is
also still totally fine especially if
you modify the exercise in two ways
first we're gonna lean forward by about
fifteen to thirty degrees either by
bracing up against a steep incline bench
or by just leaning forward by hinging at
the hips without chest support and the
idea here is to put the line of pull
more in the direction of the orientation
of the lateral delt fibers while keeping
the actual raise in the scapular plane
and the other modification is to stop
the range of motion about ten to fifteen
degrees from the very bottom and this is
gonna accomplish two basic things first
research from mcmahon and colleagues
show that the bottom part of the range
is mostly handled by muscles of the
rotator cuff and the lateral delt it
doesn't really take over until later in
the range of motion so you can emphasize
the lateral delt by simply cutting that
last part of the bottom end out and
there's actually no tension at the
bottom anyway since the dumbbell is
positioned straight down directly
beneath the shoulder so gravity can't
act on the dumbbell to produce tension
in the shoulder muscles at all and if
you'd like to hear some more
weeks on the lateral raise I'd recommend
checking out my cap delts technique
Tuesday video which I'll link down below
okay up next we're using another
antagonistic superset of cable
crossovers in rope face poles now so
basically we're gonna set up the cables
low and fly upward to get more shoulder
flexion involved and hit more of that
clavicular head of the upper chest and
after 10 reps of that we're gonna raise
the cable up to shoulder height and then
bang out another 10 reps to really burn
out the sternal head and after that
we're gonna replace the D handle with a
rope and do 20 reps of face poles now
because the face pole has a relatively
short range of motion you want to use
lighter weights for higher reps and
really focus on keeping constant tension
on the rear delts and mid traps here
we're just focusing on using an
underhand grip and externally rotating
at the top hit more of the rear delts
and strengthen up the rotator cuff and
you can think of this like doing a back
double biceps pose where you're
basically flexing your biceps from the
back with each rep all right after that
we're gonna finish off the workout with
some bicep work and here we're doing a
pretty standard three sets of twelve
reps on the supinated dumbbell curl you
guys may remember from my biceps
technique Tuesday video that I recommend
holding the dumbbell closer to the
outside head so your pinky rests more in
the middle into driving through your
pinky and I've gotten so much positive
feedback on that cue and it seems so
many people feel their biceps engaging
so much more and feel their forearms
taking over so much less by using that
cue and another thing that I'm doing
here is I'm finishing all 12 reps with
my right side first
since my right arm is a bit smaller and
weaker and then simply matching the same
reps with the same weight with my
stronger arm after that meaning it'll
get a slightly lower RPE which in theory
should even them out over time now one
thing my new program has built in is a
semi adjustable weak point
prioritization section so you can add
additional volume for whatever your
specific weak point is so for this
workout I'm doing some direct neck work
and if you've seen my neck technique
Tuesday video then you know that I've
been using the neck flex head harness to
do most of my neck training for the last
few months so I'm gonna do 3 sets of 20
slow and controlled reps on the
crab-walk
neck curl super sided with 3 sets of 20
reps on the push-up style and neck
and if you're interested in checking the
neck flex out now they're actually a new
sponsor here on the channel and it comes
highly recommended so you guys can check
that out at the link in the description
if you're interested ok so guys that is
a wrap for this workout thank you guys
so much for all the support on the
launch of my program it's so cool to see
so many of you guys running the new
program and I really appreciate all the
tags and messages on social media and
the feedback has been amazing so far and
if you want to jump in and start on the
program it's not too late you can find
it on Jeff nipper comm and I've decided
that for the launch of episode number
two here I'm gonna put it on sale again
as you can get it for $29.99 so that's
ten bucks off but I'm only gonna leave
it on sale until the end of this weekend
so on Monday it's gonna go back up to
$39.99 and I probably won't do another
sale until sometime in the fall so it's
a six day per week program but there's
an explanation of how you can modify it
to a five day per week schedule if that
works better for you and the program
also comes with coaching cues and video
links for every exercise as well as a
full written section explaining the
progression behind the program and a
full list of scientific references and
it's a nine weekly teen but I think
ninety-five percent of my audience could
easily run this for at least six months
or so and continue making progress
because of how the progression schemes
are set up so you guys can pick it up at
Jeff nipper comm at the discounted price
for today and tomorrow and I'll put a
link to that over here next to my head
so thank you guys so much for watching I
really appreciate it don't forget to
leave me a like if you enjoyed the video
subscribe to the channel if you happen
to be new and I'll see you guys all here
in the next episode