what is going on everyone so before we
get started with the topic of today's
video which is going to be rep ranges
and load so how heavy should you go I
want to quickly let you guys all know
that my fundamentals hypertrophy program
is now live on my website so you go to
Jeff nipper comm you can check out there
very quickly it's basically three
separate routines so is the upper lower
split the full body split and the body
part split which actually modified in
the program to make it a little bit more
optimized from a frequency perspective
but anyway you've got three full
eight-week full-body programs the
program was designed for anyone with I'm
going to say zero to two years of
training experience or anyone who hasn't
yet established a solid strength
foundation I'm so if you're someone
who's been kind of just fluffing and
pumping in the gym for however long this
program will be suitable for you since
the goal of the program is to lay that
hypertrophy foundation for the first
week of launch I'm gonna be selling it
for $29.99 and then after the first week
it'll go up to $39.99 go check it out
and further ado I hope you guys all
enjoy part three of the fundamentals
series okay welcome everyone to the next
installment of the fundamentals series
before we dig into the main topic of
this video which is going to be load and
intensity I'd like to do just a quick
recap of the ladder as we've set it up
so far so if any of you guys are
interested in skipping the recap I'll
put a timestamp up right here of the
time you can go to where we dig into the
new stuff but just very quickly I would
set up our ladder over here or we've got
the two uprights of the ladder being
safety and enjoyment I'm sort of routine
has to be safe one that we can do over
the long-term and one that we enjoy so
will adhere to it better and that is
what forms a sustainable approach next
up we've got effort so after we've got a
sustainable approach now we need to
apply effort no matter how optimal the
rest of the stuff is if you're not
exerting yourself appropriately it's not
going to do much work for you then we
also need to apply a progressive
overload and key prioritization in my
so we want to be doing more every
training week whether that's more reps
more weight or better technique and so
on and also prioritization we want to
keep the goal the goal you want to
prioritize your weak points and train in
accordance with what is most important
to you and then finally up here the top
rung of the ladder we've got the
training variables and we've already
covered two of those so volume and
frequency so volume is how much work you
should be doing and we set out 10 to 20
sets per body part per week has a good
optimal ballpark for most beginners and
I actually did a follow-up video to that
where I pay lip-service to some newer
research that suggests that perhaps
higher than 20 sets could be better for
more advanced trainings or those who are
installed and then we also talked about
frequency so how you should split that
volume up and we covered I think 4
sample splits of how to make sure that
you're training each body part at least
two times per week and I think my
favorite out of those that we discussed
was the upper lower split but we also
looked at a full body split which i
think is good and then the classical bro
split which I think isn't the most
optimal but does get a bit too hard of a
bad rap in my opinion and then we also
looked at the push-pull leg split which
I've covered in length in another series
but like I said in the last video I
think that's a little bit more of a
slightly advanced or intermediate
routine and also if you guys are anxious
to learn all this stuff before I get the
videos is put out I'd recommend checking
out the 3 dmj muscle and strength
pyramids videos there's a lot of overlap
between these and Eric Helms over there
does a great job of going into a ton of
detail probably more detail and a
slightly different perspective than what
I'll get into here but without further
ado let's jump right into load in
intensity so this term intensity is one
that you'll see a little bit more often
in the actual scientific literature and
it confuses some people because I think
it means basically how hard your
training but what it means in the
literature is basically just how heavy
is the weight so we can
both of these terms interchangeably load
intensity basically means how heavy are
you going and there's this age-old
question in training culture whether
high reps are better or whether low reps
are better for putting on muscle and you
have people who are just as vocal on
either side of this debate some people
will insist that you need to use plenty
of high reps to really break down the
muscle and fatigue the body and that's
what sort of causes the muscle to grow
and you have other people that say you
have to lift heavy weights for low reps
and that's really what creates that
tension gets the muscle to respond and
as well see there's a bit of truth to
both of these sides but in particular
what I want to look at is two studies so
they both came out of the same research
group led by dr. Bradshaw one felt the
first one was published in 2014 and this
study compared two different groups so
they gave one group a program where they
were doing ten reps in another group
where they were doing three reps and
just for a bit of context here of course
if you're doing low reps that means by
default that you're doing heavy weight
so low reps equals heavy and high reps
equals white so these are at the extreme
and then obviously here in the middle
you have moderate reps which using
moderate weight so you had one group
doing very heavy almost powerlifting
style training and you had another group
doing more typical bodybuilding style
training with ten reps and that was the
first study and then the other study
compared again you know more like a 10
rep typical bodybuilding range with a
very high rep range so 25 to 35 reps and
that was a year later in 2015 and both
of these studies found that across both
groups you saw very similar hypertrophy
in fact of statistical significance you
saw basically the same hypertrophy with
very heavy weights and low reps moderate
weight and moderate reps and then very
light weight and very high reps so all
of these rep ranges are effective at
causing hypertrophy now there are a
couple of caveats that I'd like to
highlight here the first is that effort
has to be equal the
these groups so you can't do these ten
reps sort of half-assed and really go
all out on these probably get perhaps
better hypertrophy and the one where
you're exerting yourself hard
I'm sorry in these studies they have to
control for effort or the best that they
can and they basically do this by just
taking all sets to to muscular failure
and that doesn't mean that all sets have
to be taken to failure we covered that
in a previous video on effort but I
think that you should reserve failure
for the last set of the last exercise
for a given body part however I think
that you need to be within some
reasonable threshold of failure and
usually that's leaving no more let's say
two to three reps in the tank so I would
guess that if you were leaving two to
three reps in the tank the tank then you
should see similar hypertrophy across a
broad spectrum of rep ranges the other
important caveat is that these groups
have to be volume matched so we know
from the last video that volume is
probably the main driver of hypertrophy
and so what we can say is that as long
as effort and volume are matched then
you can see the same hypertrophy across
a wide spectrum of rep ranges so I would
say that the very heavyweight low rep
camp and the high rep lightweight camp
both have validity to their arguments
they're both right and that they can
both cause very significant hypertrophy
now one thing that I also want to
mention is that there is a difference
between strength and hypertrophy in
these studies I'm so in this series
we're focusing mostly on muscular
development however if you do care about
strength development you do have to lift
heavy weight so in both of these studies
the lower reps heavier weight groups
gained more strength so that's a very
important thing to keep in mind however
if your goal is simply hypertrophy we do
know from this body of research that you
can achieve significant muscular growth
with a wide spectrum of rep ranges with
all of that said you'll often hear
coaches and personal trainers and even
evidence-based or science-based trainers
talk about a magic rep range I don't
know if there's
magic rep range but at least a practical
rep range and that's usually something
like six to fifteen reps or six to
twelve reps or what have you and that's
kind of been classified as the sort of a
hypertrophy rep range and I think that
this actually holds in practice I think
that something like three quarters of
your training volume should come in this
six to fifteen rep range and you should
reserve sets that have reps higher than
fifteen reps so 15 plus rep sets and
less than six rep sets for only about a
quarter of your total volume you can
split it up between these two different
reps owns and there are a few main
reasons for this so down here I've got a
continuum where you've got six to
fifteen reps here in the middle and then
over here you'd have more than fifteen
so this would be fifteen plus and then
over here you'd have less than six so
less than six over here and as you start
to get more up towards this high end rep
zone you run into the issue of
accumulating fatigue if you've ever done
really high rep sets especially on say
the squats it's extremely taxing you get
a ton of lactate build-up you tend to be
really sore for a long time afterward
the the training session is done and so
in this sense it can really impede your
recovery so fatigue becomes an issue as
you start to get higher in the rep zone
which is why you want to use it more
sparingly and then on the other hand
when you get into the lower rep zone so
less than say six reps I think you do
increase your injury risk as a power
lifter myself to sustain my own share of
injuries and I know it's very common in
the powerlifting community to see that
happen and I think that that is a
function of the very heavy strength
focus training if it gives you similar
hypertrophy so if you can get similar
hypertrophy with three reps of ten reps
but you have a lower injury risk over
here with the ten reps and the ten reps
is the more rational choice and
interestingly in this study they did
find that the dropout rate amongst their
subjects was way higher in the three rep
group
so you had people either getting injured
or they just couldn't handle the
training because it was just too much
too heavy weight and their joints
couldn't take it out so they had a lot
of subject to drop out here but not many
in the 10 group if any now so your
injury risk is greater also actually
accumulating volume can be problematic
in those heavier rep ranges so in order
to match volume in this study for
example the people doing the 10 reps
only had to do 3 sets but the people
doing 3 reps had to do 7 sets if you
take that even to a greater extreme
imagine you were doing only 1 rep max
training you would have to do so many
sets just episome even just to match say
a 10 rep set you might have to do 10
sets in order to get there so your
workouts are gonna get very long and
they're gonna be very high in terms of
asset volume and so actually getting
enough volume in it can be problematic
but for all that there are a couple
potentially good things about using the
higher and lower rep zones so for the
higher one it does train muscular
endurance a little bit better and by
that I basically mean that you're gonna
be more fatigue resistant so basically
when you train in this rep sewn you
might be able to handle handle more
volume and not get quite as tired quite
as easily because you've built up that
sort of work capacity from the high rep
stuff also it's a little bit
controversial but we think that
metabolic stress the build-up of
metabolic byproducts can signal for
hypertrophy so including some high rep
stuff might be a good idea from time to
time like I said use it sparingly and
then the heavier stuff can be helpful
from a periodization perspective as a
periodization is something we're gonna
get to in a later video but basically I
think that if you occasionally do very
heavy training that can allow you to be
stronger and push more weight in that
sort of hypertrophy zone and so in
theory that would mean more tension on
the muscle and what hypertrophy overall
so if you do want to dip down in these
lower strength zones once in a while or
even periodically in a you know the
regular routine of your program I think
that that's okay it's just that when it
gets excessive you can run into these
problems over here
all of that said I think that the bottom
line here is that using a spectrum of
rep ranges is actually a good idea but
the majority of your volume should come
in this 6 to 15 reps um and I would call
this the practical rep zone for
hypertrophy um so guys that's gonna
conclude this one on load and intensity
I think I'm actually gonna wrap this
video up here and cover the remaining
topics in separate videos just to keep
these a little bit more digestible so if
you found this to be informative please
leave me a like if you do happen to be
new now don't forget to check out the
other two videos that preceded this one
in the fundamentals series and don't
forget to subscribe if you haven't
already and I'll see you guys all here
in the next video for we're going to
talk about exercise selection so our
certain exercises
better than others and how do you go
about picking them so I'll see you guys
all then
[Music]