hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization as always as usual as per
standard check this out a little while
back we put out a video basically that
said cheating is a bad idea when it
comes to exercise technique
and it was very well received a lot of
people agree with it and some folks had
a few follow-up questions
sort of to the tune of like well hold on
a second you didn't cover x y and z
other reasons totally hear you we do
read the comments so here are
a few responses and considerations of
some of the awesome excellent points you
guys brought up to try to give a bit
more nuance to this discussion of are
cheat reps a good idea or are they a bad
idea here are some more reasons not to
cheat we'll get into the details here we
go so
a few folks brought up the following
here basically it is
can you
cheat on the concentric
really oomph it up for example on the
curl to ride out the centric of a load
or rep you couldn't lift with a
concentric
there's a scientific term in literature
for this it is abbreviated eal
eccentric accentuated loading it is
essentially doing more load on the
eccentric phase on the lowering part
than you would on the concentric phase
there's a bunch of different ways to do
this there's some customized machines in
which the concentric is actually
programmed lower than eccentric these
are really cool pretty rare some of them
are kind of clunky but you can sort of
ghetto do this if you just swing the
curl on the way up get the concentric
with the weight you probably couldn't
for whatever reps you were trying and
then milk the eccentric is this a good
idea well so what are the benefits
here's the deal
eccentric accentuated
loading has been studied pretty decent
amount in strength in performance sport
and a little bit in hypertrophy
and the literature just isn't clear
about its benefits
that's not to say it doesn't have them
but there's not a compelling body of
evidence that says hey for sure
eccentric accentuated loading is this
awesome thing that definitely boosts
hypertrophy more than just doing
standard reps right that body of
literature as far as i can tell the
current time making this video doesn't
exist
now
because you have to swing the weight up
and because you have to ride out
eccentrically a weight that's really
really heavy and very hard to lift
the stimulus can be pretty high but the
fatigue is also going to be high for
that so the stimulus to fatigue ratio is
likely not as good beyond concentric
failure which is to say with
eccentric accentuated loading as it is
with just conventional training
in addition to that
some pretty decent animal data where
they got mice doing the weights it's
actually brutal how they do it they like
put the mouse into like
sort of like a squat machine contraption
and they electroshock the motherfucker
if he dips below a certain point so he
just keeps doing this terrible what they
do to those mice but they benefit from
getting jacked which is kind of cool so
animal data shows
that
some slight different pathways for
hypertrophy are activated by isometric
contractions concentric contractions and
eccentric contractions to some extent
there's tons of overlap but to some
extent they all independently stimulate
hypertrophy so it's not like this thing
like well the concentric phase or the
isometric doesn't really do much we
really you know growth is really
eccentrically
uh sort of caused that's not really the
case there is a good argument for doing
all of those phases in classic
conventional training no accentuation uh
does all three of those really really
well
and
for a while
uh i would say in the late 90s early
2000s there's some data that showed that
the eccentric phase is particularly
hypertrophic and i remember actually
getting into a facebook discussion with
a gentleman
who
i you know i made that claim and i was
like you really want to milk the
eccentric and he was like you know is it
really true that the eccentric
is uniquely hypertrophic or more
hypertrophic than like concentric or
isometric
and i was like yeah of course and he was
like i don't think that's true and i was
like i'll show this asshole i did a mini
lit review and i was like fuck
he's right
so it turns out that yes the eccentric
is a very critical part of the
hypertrophic process
but it might not be so critical and so
unique and so superlative by itself that
we really can justify milking it at the
expense of higher fatigue
so maybe cheating on the concentric to
milk essential crepes works
but the stimulus to fatigue ratio maybe
isn't that good the raw stimulus
magnitude of just getting the gains
whatever the fatigue cost is probably
pretty good but in the context of a
well-structured program you can't just
always think about raw stimulus
magnitude you have to wonder at what
cost of fatigue something is actually
happening so
can you do these with the cheat reps the
to sort of slow down the eccentric and
accentuate it you can
i wouldn't be so excited about this as a
huge net benefit i would personally need
much more compelling evidence that
accentuating the eccentric is very
hypertrophic stimulative versus just
doing classic conventional reps where we
have an isometric phase a concentric
phase and an eccentric phase in every
single rep and they're sort of
relatively evenly prioritized or at
least concentric and eccentric are
evenly prioritized so maybe there's
something there it's just to me when
people say but what about uh you know
milk and eccentric i used to be like
definitely it's worth it but now
given the state of literature
i'm not so sure that's like the greatest
idea in the world maybe for the
literature or reveal it actually is a
good idea but for now it's not something
we get so excited about that
we are easily willing to pay the cost of
the fatigue incurred so to me it's kind
of like a 50 50 and maybe not the
greatest idea in the world in addition
to that
cheating on the concentric and writing
out the eccentric the marginal increase
in injury risk is probably legit nothing
crazy but you know is it worth the
trade-off i'm just not so sure it is so
as far as reasons too cheat i wouldn't
say it's ultra compelling maybe it's
something to try but i wouldn't just go
running home and be like this is it
cheating's the greatest thing in the
world
next up is the idea of matching the
force curve
people will say like well you know
tension grows muscles and i can't
produce a ton of tension
when the muscle is at its sort of fully
length and in anatomically relevant
position i can produce a ton of tension
like i can only lift the 40 from here to
here but i can lift the 80 from here to
here
shouldn't i get the 80s
cheat a little bit to get to this
mid-range and then pump out reps and
then put it down why would i do a strict
only 40 because it's only 40 pounds of
tension versus the 80 i could be using
okay
seems like something to think about for
sure excellent point that you guys
brought up however
muscle seems to grow predominantly if
not solely
when
per fiber
force is actually generated not whole
muscle
each individual muscle fiber when it's
generating a lot of force
that's what stimulates that muscle fiber
to grow not the total force so the
weight of the dumbbell isn't the concern
the concern is each muscle cell how much
force is it really producing now
secondly and super importantly
internally how much muscle
uh how much force the muscle is
producing is what causes growth if we
say we lift the 80 from here to here
that can be the same amount of internal
muscular force as the 40 from here to
here but the only reason the 80 is
liftable from here to here is just the
leverage advantage your muscles are
pulling just as hard at that stretch
position the internal force generated
per fiber is ultra high with the 40 from
here to here just as high as the 80 from
here to here and here's the real kicker
muscles seem to grow even better when
they produce maximum internal per fiber
force at a stretched position stretch
plus tension seems to cause more growth
than just tension without a stretch so
interestingly enough
going and using the 40 pound dumbbell
all the way from a stretch all the way
either for a full range of motion or
even just the bottom position probably
grows just as much muscle at least just
as much and probably more than using the
80 in the range of motion and leverage
through which you can actually lift the
80.
so
the verdict on that is that because
loaded stretch seems to grow muscle the
most and the internal load can be
maximized at the stretch you just got to
pull really hard and yeah even though
you can only lift a 40 the muscle
is internally still producing just as
much force to the tendon and each muscle
cell in there is producing just as much
force as it can same amount of force it
produces with the 80 it's just better
leverage to lift the 80 than the 40 down
here and because that stretch adds a bit
of hypertrophic stimulus skipping it and
going to the you know cheating out of
that range and getting right into the
business range for the heavyweights is
probably actively a bad idea and it just
seems to be another excuse to lift more
weight so if someone says fuck man man i
gotta cheat up to get the 80s to here
and then i do this and i put them down
you could say well if you didn't cheat
you just use the 40s and you did a full
range of motion or even just at the
bottom wouldn't the internal force and
stretch make a bigger stimulus or at
least the same stimulus without having
to cheat the answer is fucking yes so it
seems that if we think about it like
well hold on a sec my force curve is
optimized here i got to lift more weight
yeah external weight that's true but the
internal load generated by the muscles
is higher when they're in a
disadvantaged position another way to
think about this and this is a cue we
actually use in training sometimes a
jared father and i is you want to expose
the musculature to the highest internal
tension you don't want to leverage the
muscle to produce as much force as
possible externally because then you
lift more weight sweet but that doesn't
actually hit the muscle up as much as it
could
for example if you want to leverage the
glutes to produce as much external force
as possible
partial deadlifts are amazing because
you can lift fucking like a trillion
pounds but if you do ultra deficit
deadlifts it stretches the glutes out
like crazy and all of a sudden you go
from deadlifting 400 for reps totaling
200 reps but the glute musculature
itself produces basically the same
amount of force it's just that the
leverage sucks the external load has to
be lower however because it starts from
a stretch position deficit deadlifting
probably is more hypertrophic for the
glutes so this argument that we have to
match the force curve
it's nice if the goal is to lift as much
weight as possible and for power lifters
and strength athletes you definitely
want to match force curves to get into
the real life ability to lift heavy ass
weight like if you're an arm wrestler
for example and the business end of your
range is here to hear
cheat curls are probably a fucking good
idea cheat on the concentric real nasty
centric amazing motherfucker you're not
an arm wrestler you're trying to get
jack that's why you watch this channel
if you're an arm wrestler first of all
please don't snap my shit in half second
of all total fucking respect and then
cheating in a sense of sport specific
but if you're not an arm wrestler you
just want to get jacked you don't want
to have to put yourself at an extra risk
of getting hurt and an extra high
fatigue from how to fucking cheat curl
225 in order to get the same gains or
even slightly worse games than you could
from just curling 100 and putting your
muscles
at a leverage disadvantage so that
internal force at the stretch is what
has to do all the work
so that one dies a quick death
next one
what about a finishing move people say
look after my last set of strict curls i
do some cheat reps on the concentric you
know to finish off my arms
swell swell idea not totally wrong
however some problems are sort of
questions to ask about this
first
the stimulus to fatigue ratio of cheat
reps because you have to use a ton of
systemic drive because you have to use
other muscles the stimulus to fatigue
ratio kind of still might suck all right
so that's a problem we have to deal with
and really you could ask yourself
another question and say okay
we're finished doing our normal training
the finishing move is to kind of put
like a cherry on top an exclamation mark
to go beyond
are there other ways to go beyond to
continue to milk that close to failure
zone that do not involve cheating and
thus do not involve
the really not so great sfr and slight
injury risk enhancement of cheating and
the other things tracking problems so on
and so forth that we covered in the last
video well yeah so for example why not
drew do a strict rust pasta if you do
100 pounds for 10 in the curl you can't
do any more you put it down you could do
three or four more reps by cheating
totally valid or you could put it down
for three or four seconds
and then do another three or four reps
completely strict
as far as the muscles are concerned
that's really similar stimulus but no
need for cheating and all the other
risks and downsides associated with it
what about a downset
you did 100 for a set of 10 you failed
yeah you could continue to go cheating
or you could calmly take some weight off
leave 70 on the bar and then do another
set of like six or seven with 70. still
again going beyond milking that close to
failure zone really putting the
finishing touch on the muscle but no
need to cheat so secondly okay fine rest
pause is great we have another option a
downset so what we do there is
we go to 70 pounds 100 we stopped go to
70 rest a normal amount of time and then
just do another set of 10 or something
at 70 pounds again it gets us close to
failure again it's a great finishing
touch no need to cheat
you could also do a drop set and this
works well if you don't have to take
weights on and off the bar because drop
sets are pretty fast so if you're doing
cable curls 100 pounds you reach close
to failure number 10 put it down take
the weight out put it to 60 or 70.
as long of a rest as that takes do
another three to four it's that same
effect at the local musculatures
cheating gets us without having to cheat
without having to tax our lower back and
our glutes and our systemic fatigue etc
in order to get those crazy heavy reps
we just because our muscles are more
tired we just make the weight lighter
and continue to push our muscles beyond
and give a really great exclamation mark
to that training so
the verdict here for the finishing move
is that cheat reps can be fun and they
can be effective
but they rarely make the most sense
logically at least in this context
now
to sort of wrap all of this up until you
guys get back in the comments maybe
we'll have to make a third cheating
video
so in the vast majority of cases
my thinking here is that strict lifting
is is best right
in some unusual cases just not the norm
some cheating might actually work better
than totally strict stuff it can for
sure maximize raw stimulus magnitude
like if you do a set of 10 100 pounds in
the curl and you do some cheat wraps
holy fuck it fries you out it's a big
fatigue cost though so the stimulus is
amazing but the fatigue could be so high
that it rarely maximizes stimulus to
fatigue ratio
so in the context of something you
regularly do in the program it rarely
justifies its inclusion
now
here's the actual last word if cheating
gives you great tension great burn great
pump all the indicators of a high raw
stimulus magnitude
i want you to try give this a shot
try to get the same
effects from strict er lifting at least
stricter or just a very strict lifting
by altering technique exercise choice
execution downsets drop sets etc rest
pause blah blah blah
if those don't seem to give you the same
thing cheating does and cheating still
gives you an amazing perception of
tension burn pump etc more than those
things do
then absolutely do it up you have my
blessing be as safe as you can
cheat with as little bullshit as you can
so like in curls don't like you fucking
do a gymnastics flip to get the shit
back up do a little oomph and get
another rep and a little oomph right you
don't want to be that clown at the gym
that like is doing horizontal hip
thrusts with a fucking bar and someone's
like did you fail that shit 10 reps ago
what the fuck are you doing you don't
want glutes to be 90 of the force
production and biceps 10
you want glutes 10 biceps 90 then that's
like a reasonable way to cheat if
cheating is in fact the thing that is
left as the most effective after you've
tried to do the strict drop set down set
my rep stuff and that seems to not work
as well
that being the case after you check all
the boxes and really try to get those
last sort of few burn reps in a strict
fashion with drop sets downsets etc
um cheating wins that as still the most
effective in probably like one out of a
hundred cases so if i walk into the gym
and i watch you cheat do cheat curls
after a set of strict curls
i'm gonna guess that you're being a
fucking moron you just didn't think shit
through now there's a chance i'm wrong
there's a chance you really thought it
through and this is actually the best
rsm or sfr exercise that you have
available to you and that's totally cool
just make sure that you're not using any
justification you can
to continue to cheat just to use more
weight i know i've been there like back
when i wasn't as strong as i am now it
could fucking bullshit like you program
your curls you know what the fuck 55
pounds this is dumb as fuck the girl
next to you is curling 65. fuck you
supposed to ask that bitch on a date if
you're weak in the hurry yeah i noticed
you uh
curling 65. it's kind of hot you know
i'm
kind of on my way up there myself maybe
one day but maybe we'll catch some
coffee before then you guys like that do
you feel seduced you should that's right
i got game
in any case the number one reason for
cheating
by a long shot i said people just want
to use more weight
be patient try to use the other
techniques you will get bigger and
stronger and then producing a stimulus
is actually easy as fuck when you're
super jacked because everything fucking
stimulates you because you're so goddamn
strong and in tune with your muscles if
cheating
seems to be a net balance good thing for
at least raw stimulus magnitude for you
and ideally stimulating fatigue ratio
you have my blessing to do it do it
intelligently try to track it as best as
you can but 99 times out of 100 it's
still a whole bunch of bullshit folks
thanks for tuning in comment like
subscribe do youtube things see you next
time
you