isometrics are a staple here at rise
Movement we use them all the time to
help increase strength and stamina at
different joint angles oh God isometrics
are one of the worst objective ways to
train technically speaking there's an
infinite number of joint angles between
something like here and something like
here if you train it only very specific
angles with isometrics you do get that
sort of specificity response if you want
to be ultra strong right here it's good
to train right here but if you do
Dynamic work which means you have a
concentric component and an Ecentric
component
then you get stronger and develop more
General ability to have stamina through
that entire range of motion and because
acting for a physical roles is such a
diverse thing you have to basically be
totally in charge of your body you guys
see that
athleticism you have to be totally in
charge of your body and be able to
master it through every conceivable way
it can be moved and isometric holds
don't um prepare your joints for that
kind of pounding and let me tell you
preparing for pounding and now I'll
cancel that one