hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization you want to know how to
build muscle as fast as possible and I
have answers as a matter of fact I have
10 tips for you now you may have seen
other videos claiming to tell you about
how to build muscle as fast as possible
and unfortunately many of them are lying
they are trying to show you some magic
supplement some magic formula some magic
approach some magic diet all that shit
fails there are precisely two things
that can build a lot of muscle very
quickly one is an adherence to proper
measured scientific training and diet
and two is copious amounts of
potentially insanely hazardous anabolic
steroids that's it since this is not a
steroid video we have those on the
channel if you're curious to Google them
let's talk about how to train for
maximum size fast
first
you want to train six times a week
because six time a week training allows
you to train your body harder and Signal
more muscle growth than training four or
five times a week you could say but Dr
Mike I get great get great gains you
tell me off of four days a week training
dope you would get better gains if you
train six days a week most of the most
serious bodybuilders in the world train
five or six days a week sometimes they
even do two a days where they end up
training nine or ten times a week but
six days multiple sessions per day
a lot of training is critical remember
this is not a video about how to grow
muscle well it is a video about how to
grow the most muscle you're going to
train a lot next each muscle group that
you train you're going to want to train
two to four times per week
that means if you're training your
biceps your shoulders your triceps your
forearms your calves they may be done
three or four times a week in their own
workouts or workouts integrated with
other muscle groups if you're training
muscles that take a little bit longer to
heal like hamstrings quads glutes chest
sometimes back you can be training them
two or three times a week every time
they are not sore or not tired you train
them again and you design your program
appropriately
if you think training six days a week
means you train legs once and back once
and chest ones and shoulders once you've
got another thing coming multiple time a
week training it's a lot of training
when you're actually in the training
every single set you train at least to
three reps in the tank
when the bar starts to slow down and
really fight you
at least that hard if I watch you do a
set at the gym and
Iraq if that's a work set that's not a
fucking work set that's a warm-up
at least three reps in reserve and
really at most if I'm saying that
properly and potentially all the way to
failure and beyond that doesn't mean you
have to go to failing and Beyond to get
your best growth but it should be hard
the bar should notably slow down and
fight you at the end of every single set
and then you know you're working hard
enough
and
doing usually four to ten sets per
muscle group per workout
that means let's say it's six sets when
I train biceps Monday six sets of biceps
Wednesday six sets of biceps Friday I
have more time to heal after I do eight
sets of biceps that's a lot of bicep
work but you wanted the fastest growth
remember
now you're getting it
every time you come into the gym every
week
you add a little bit of load to each
exercise and you try to hit the same
number of reps or you add a repetition
to each exercise and you hit the same
load for a slightly higher number of
reps so you started squatting for sets
of 10 then it's 11 and actually gets 12
then it's 13 then it's 14 then you'll
probably delude and recover
or you started squatting with 100 pounds
then it's 102.5 then it's 105 107.5 110
Etc progress is critical to your best
games you don't just go in there and
train hard you train hard progressively
and of course with excellent technique
next when you're unable
to add reps or add load when your
performance crests and starts to fall
back because you're too fatigued after
four to eight weeks of consistent
training like this probably closer to
four if you're really doing six days a
week hard you're going to want to take a
deload week that's a week or you just
take completely off of training or you
come in and train like twice really easy
just a few sets of five to ten really
far from failure get the blood and the
muscles recover go home eat a bunch of
food sleep a bunch relax really get
pissed get really ready and then you'll
have another hard month of training
ahead you can't consistently train this
hard that I'm describing without taking
deload weeks every 48 weeks by the way
the RP hypertrophy app link in the
description programs all this for you in
advance
next on the nutrition side you want to
make sure that you're eating about a
gram of protein per pound of body weight
per day so if you weigh 150 pounds
that's 150 grams of protein you can eat
more than that but no more is beneficial
less than that probably unwise you want
plenty of protein
next you want to spread your protein and
the rest of your food into four to five
evenly spaced meals roughly evenly
spaced meals throughout the day that
means you wake up you don't just fuck
around or intermittent fasting you wake
up within 30 minutes you eat breakfast
an equivalent amount of protein through
meals is super super important so if you
eat 160 grams of protein per day and you
have four meals that you eat each meal
has 40 grams of protein or thereabouts
you eat breakfast
you eat lunch you train you eat dinner
you relax a bit you have a midnight
snack you go to sleep consistency is the
key for growth if you want to get huge
you need like one or two meals a day the
shit ain't happening sure shit not as
fast as it could be
next Point number eight you want to eat
at a surplus the thing about getting big
is that it requires you to add size the
only way you can add size is if you eat
more calories than you burn
if you eat 1000 more calories than you
burn you're going to get really fat very
fast if you eat 100 more calories than
you burn no one's going to notice that
you're gaining anything but somewhere
between 250 extra daily calories and 500
extra daily calories which reflects
gaining roughly half a pound to a pound
per week for 12 to 16 weeks on end
that's going to add some size
if you don't do that you will not get as
big as you could have got
Point number nine enough sleep every
night I know too many people that are
doing all the right stuff except they
don't get enough sleep they have an
exciting life they do lots of cocaine
fuck if I know why they're not sleeping
disco ball dancing all night long
sleep is when you do a huge fraction of
your growth it's when you do a huge
fraction of your deep systemic recovery
that allows you to train hard and
benefit from nutrients if you're
chronically under slept even for a few
nights in a row every time you eat more
food much more of it turns to fat and
much less of it is poured it into muscle
than you would expect if you were well
slept sleep is critical and I know it
sounds lame but it's true how many hours
a night do you need that is a question
for you to answer what keeps you well
rested throughout the day could be seven
hours could be nine hours could be
anything in between usually it's about
eight a lot of individual differences
there so make sure you're well rested
lastly
all of the points I gave are nothing
without consistency
some weeks you do some of these okay
other weeks you're really kind of bad
you're not going to gain the maximum
amount of muscle
consistency is King applying these
techniques that I just taught you
consistency day in day out sure you'll
have some bad days some good days keep
it up
week and week out month in month out
three or four months of this sort of
program that I'm describing you will get
much bigger
you'll get as big about as you can
because this is really leveraging
everything we know that for sure gains
size all in the same apparatus
if you'd like help in the description we
have a download for the RP hypertrophy
app it will organize your training
exactly like this you have to tell it
you want to train six days a week and
you have to make sure you're going hard
and use a good technique and all that
other stuff but it will plan the rest of
your progression for you and tell you
literally set number two week number
three I want you to do this much weight
for this many reps and that's exactly
how many reps you need to grow your most
if you need help on the diet front the
RP diet coach app is also something you
can download and it will plan a diet for
you just choose your Surplus amount
choose how many weeks you're doing it
and it's going to display all the meals
you need to eat you pick your favorite
foods it tells you when to eat and voila
you're putting on size do you have to
download our apps to do this no
absolutely not you can do it on your own
and a ton of people are successful so
apps are not make sure to implement this
knowledge be serious about it be
consistent and don't fall for BS at one
new type of creatine what about four
straps that all makes almost no
difference it's the core Basics you have
to hit hit these 10 Basics see you next
time when you're way bigger
foreign
[Music]