what if I told you that you could make
gains in the gym by just going to the
gym for about an hour a week and this
few is five sets per muscle per week
that's actually exactly what I'm telling
you today let me break down the
signs back by popular demand not me the
sweater people lost their minds last
time I posted the sweater I will keep
the source confidential I can't be
spreading the anabolism to everyone Dr
mild wolf today with you PhD and Sport
Science with wolf coaching channeling my
inner Dr pack here talking about the
minimum dose for muscle growth what's
the least you can do in the gym and
still make gains ultimately I'm sure
you're a busy guy gal Etc and you don't
have much time to be training every week
and let's say you only have about an
hour in the week let's say two half an
hour sessions to make gains can you
still make progress it turns out yes you
can based on a couple of metanalyses by
sh and Felding colleagues and by rasing
colleagues from 2017 here's how much
progress you can expect to make with
different volumes with just 1 to four
sets per week per muscle in terms of
muscle growth you can expect to make
about 60% of your potential overall
hypertrophy gains conversely with
strength that number actually goes up to
80% generally for strength you'll need
fewer sets than for muscle growth if you
jumped up the dose to 5 to 9 sets per
week now you're getting about 80% of
your maximum hypertrophy and finally if
you want to optimize hypertrophy you may
need to train with 10 to 30 sets per
week per muscle but all in all there are
heavily diminishing returns to how much
time you spend in the gym how much you
train and how much hypertrophy you see
that first half an hour to a couple
hours you spend in the gym every week is
the most meaningful as far as muscle
growth goes so even if you can just
spend an hour or two in the gym a week
you can still make gains now to optimize
muscle growth or even strength you will
need substantially more than just 1 to
five or 5 to 10 sets based on some of
the recent evidence that we've recently
broken down over on Strong by science in
their podcast series if you spend about
7 hours listening to us break down each
study on that topic and give that
podcast to listen and these two met
analyses by Shen Felding colleagues and
Ralston and colleagues aren't the only
ones broadly finding that you don't need
a ton of sets a week or a ton of time in
the gym to make gains in fact a more
recent metanalysis on volume by basalin
colleagues also found that the best
hypertrophy was mostly found between 12
to 20 sets with only slightly better
hypertrophy potentially with over 20
sets and keep in mind these numbers are
in the context of one low rest times
typically around a minute between sets
and two When you're counting volume for
multiple muscles at once for example a
set of bench wouldn't just count as a
set for your chest but also a set for
your triceps and so if you're doing
three sets of benching and three sets of
tricep walk twice a week that is 12 sets
for your triceps already you're already
in the 12 to 20 set range again if you
want to maximize hypertrophy there is a
chance that you'd want to do over 20
sets a week per muscle but for a good
amount of hypertrophy you certainly
don't need that many if you've noticed
the discrepancy between the results of
basal and shenfeld you'll notice that
basal only looked at train lifters and
in general if you've been training for a
few years you may need at least five or
so sets per week per muscle to see any
appreciable muscle growth but even then
five sets is not a lot and that's once
you've been training for a few years now
you might be saying 12 to 20 sets a week
does sound like a lot of sets like that
would take me a good amount of time in
the gym right the bottom end of that
range 12 sets might sound relatively
high but the 2 30 minutes sessions I
published on this channel recently get
you six sets very close to failure for
multiple muscle groups at once in just
half an hour so with two to four of
these sessions of half an hour each you
could be following in this 12 to 20 sets
per week per muscle recommendation for
most if not all of your muscle groups
and by hitting this recommendation you
might just see about 70 to 90% of your
total potential hypertrophy you could be
getting by spending an extra few hours
in the gym past that and in fact Let me
throw in a further tip let's say you
can't get to the gym you're busy you
have kids you have busy jobs some days
you just don't get to the gym at all
there's other ways that you can get
those sets in have 5 or 10 minutes
between two whack meetings do a set of
push-ups channeling my inner Andre Tate
that I didn't know I had here apparently
but get the up wrong with
you do some push-ups let's get back to
the situation and there is quite a few
movements you can do with next to no
equipment that are actually effective
for hypertrophy again are they maximally
effective no are they still pretty
effective yeah do some push-ups for your
chest and triceps do some pull-ups for
your back and biceps if you're strong as
hell do some overhead push-ups for your
front belts do some pistol squats
reverse Nordic curls or squats for
your quads and finally do some Nordic
curls for your hamstrings or if you have
any resistance available you could even
do some single leg RL and you can
even train your calves with
single-legged calf raises there's
actually a deceptively large number of
pretty effective exercises you can do
from your home and so in a worst case
scenario where you're not able to get to
the gym at all for a few days getting a
few sets of this stuff in might still
get you like 50 to 70% of your
hypertrophy again there's a reason why
Elite bodybuilders and Elite athletes
have to train for hours and hours each
week but if you just want to get better
not necessarily maximize stimulus all
the time you have other stuff going on
in life you do not need to spend that
much time in the gym in just 1 to 2
hours a week you could be getting the
vast majority of your potential
hypertrophy gains in closing let me give
you a few more tips if you're pressed
for time focus on the big rocks there's
certain things you can do to save time
and still make solid muscle growth gains
one get yourself one of these anabolic
sweaters if you like me to slap a wolf
coaching logo on this sweater and sell
it to you for a huge premium leave a
comment down below first actual big
takeaway take each set close to failure
a recent met aggression by Robinson
colleagues did find that The Closer you
take a set to failure all us being equal
the more muscle growth you see from that
set and this applies all the way to
failure so if you can only do five sets
a week per muscle or let say 10 take all
of those very close to failure if not to
failure cuz it turns out provided you're
not stressed out of your mind if you're
only training twice a week three times a
week recovery almost suddenly won't be
an issue for you you can take your sets
very close to failure and as long as
your volume isn't crazy high you should
be fine second tip use time-saving
strategies like Drop sets and paired
super sets a met analysis by Coleman and
colleagues found similar hypertrophy
between drop sets and traditional
straight sets across multiple studies
with a caveat that drop sets reduced
training Time by about 50 to 70% do a
hard set drop the Low by 20% do another
hard set and repeat for as many sets as
you have time for generally capping it
out at five sets and the second
technique paired super sets are when we
switch back and forth between two
exercises by su setting two exercises
with minimal overlap in the musculature
involved you're able to maintain
performance on both exercises but cut
down on training time substantially by
up to 50 to 70% again I have a whole
video on both of those techniques that
you can check out on my channel tip
number 3 with just 30 to 60 Minutes or 1
to 2 hours a week in the gym you're
potentially getting up to 60 or 80% of
your total respective growth potentially
and so don't think that just because you
don't have a ton of time to get in the
gym that you can make games don't be
defe tip number four do not be silly
with your warm-ups if you're in the gym
for half an hour or an hour a week or
even just a couple hours spending half
of that time warming up is not going to
do you any favors opt for a minimalist
warm-up essentially just doing a couple
of sets of the target movement really
quickly before getting into your walk
sets and once you're warm going from one
movement into the next you may not even
need to warm up next because it doesn't
take any additional time but it does
potentially increase stimulus focus on
getting a good stretch in all of your
movements pick movements that focus on
the stretch position and potentially use
length and partials the next tip is to
use machines and dumbbells wherever
possible for your exercises as they
limit the amount of time taken to load
up the bar get the exercise set up and
so forth it is essentially just plug and
play you grab the dumbbells and you get
going and if you've been Lifting for a
while a fun little challenge is to just
take machines within the gym full stack
them do them for at least five reps and
move on to the next machine my little
brain can't remember what weight I used
plus how many reps I did breaking it
down to just how many reps I did does
save time and finally by a small margin
especially if you're suers setting
different exercises using paired super
sets using bilateral movements where
you're training both sides of your body
at the same time might save a little bit
of time compared to doing single arm or
single leg movements if you're pressed
for time you don't need to spend a ton
of time in the gym to make any gains you
can make gains with relatively little
time shout out Dr pack I just need to
shave my hair dye This Ginger I guess
and acquire a thick Greek accent and one
day I will be more like him on a serious
note he did his PhD on the minimum dose
for strength and he's doing some further
research into the minimum dose for
hypertrophy and so if you want to see
plenty of content just like this in the
same sort of vein check out his Channel
that I link below in the meantime please
comment like subscribe if you enjoyed
the video leave a comment down below
letting me know how much you enjoyed it
and what other topics you'd like to see
me break down from an exercise science
perspective as always go ahead and have
a phenomenal day I will see you in that
next one back here in the studio peace