this is not a thing where they hit us up
and they're like here's ten thousand
dollars just go say nice things you
don't mean we don't do that and we never
will do that every video you'll ever see
us endorse machines we mean everything
we say there's tons of machines I hate
you won't see them on this series
because I hate them
[Music]
yo
Atlantis went and did it
they decided here we're gonna put out an
incline press machine
and just like you all know with the
latest model of Lamborghini I had to
have it so I told my Butlers hey hey you
I said the butler number 19. why don't
you go out and get me one of these
Atlantis incline presses he said
something I don't really care squared
away a couple days later this shows up
Mint Condition let's talk about how
awesome it is let's talk about how maybe
in future Generations they can improve
on some things in any case lots of
things to say let's start saying them
already
[Music]
some absolutely great features of this
machine
first of all the movement is ultra
smooth super important it doesn't shake
it doesn't rattle there's no weird
angles it's amazing
next thing
two different options for handles some
people are comfortable this way some
this way this accommodates both you're
thinking hold on a second one of these
is too low and too high not so fast we
have a selectorized ability to move the
actual seat height if we want
and thus we can accommodate folks with
long torsos short torsos everything in
between making both of these handles
super viable options you guys will
notice we have chalk on these that's
because we actually use them last thing
I'll say about this we have a very rare
ingredient here the unloader you press
this up and all of a sudden you get the
weight right into your hands you do all
your reps this allows a really big deep
stretch at the bottom without hitting
the bottom and as soon as you're done
you step off
step into the unloader takes the weight
away squeeze out and you're perfectly
done
[Music]
a couple of tips to you folks doing
hypertrophy training crazy as it is this
machine is almost ideal for sets of five
to ten
don't let it wig you out but if you're
trying to do High Reps on this for some
reason I tend to notice that with not a
lot of weight I get close to failure
with with reps I thought I could do more
often I'm like this I guess I really am
weak I put a lot more weight on and my
reps Fall by only a slight margin I've
got an amazing results here it feels
super safe and stable to do sets of five
to ten with to really get bigger and
stronger with at the same time you can
do sets of 10 to 20. I will say that
once you do sets of 20 to 30 the
frictional component of the machine
makes so much up of the force that it no
longer becomes a very high stimulus
ratio movement in my experience so
that's a five to ten especially sets of
10 to 15 are perfect on this machine
it's super kind to your shoulders it's
got basically no axial fatigue super
kind to the elbows if you're loading up
dumbbells for Incline dumbbells you have
to pick them up you have to put them
down as a huge pain here all you do is
you selectorize the stack no loading
weights you press up on that plate get
your position
on unrack release do high quality
amazing reps no spot are needed no
chance of injury none of that crap water
something could go but no chance of
injury from the machine malfunctioning
or from you being pinned under it as
soon as you're done you press on the
weight plate again you get out you
depress no problem as far as a high
quality machine I'll tell you guys this
if you're traveling somewhere and you
see one of these and it's a push day use
it really make some love to this machine
play with the seat position play with
which handles you're doing play with
grip it makes a big difference on this
machine if you're close grip or if your
wide grip it feels Ultra different it
could feel both good but hitting
slightly different parts of the
musculature it really is a lot of
machines in one from this perspective
and if you get a chance to use it I
highly recommend you do my only qualm of
it if I had to really Doctor Mike does
the red team analysis thing is that I
wish it wasn't converging I wish it was
just linear but I'm weird like that and
that's what I seem to prefer most people
like the converging element but it's
subtle it's not over the top so that
would be my only real critique another
maybe tiny critique is I'd like a little
bit more movement in this chair
to you know adapt to folks with really
short torsos and really long torsos but
it's really good as it is now it could
just be that little bit of extra the
foot plate is Flawless change nothing
I've actually I I I have outside of the
frame of the shot I have another chest
machine which is super super well
assembled it's super great it feels
amazing it doesn't have a foot plate so
it's just every time I started into that
machine and try to wiggle in I'm like
damn it I wish this was the Atlantis
piece this machine just represents sort
of the standard of what I've come to
expect with Atlantis equipment very
reasonable prices for the effect that
you get on this machine the stimulus to
fatigue ratio is incredible
and outside of that is an incredibly
well engineered piece everything works
like it's supposed to the selectorized
stack moves unbelievably fluidly there's
no coercing the machine there's no
working against friction it's well built
by people who care and by people who
clearly train with weights it's a
knockout one of my favorite pressing
machines ever give it a thought folks
we'll be back with more of this series
trying to figure out which machines are
great which machines are maybe not so
great we're going to talk mostly about
machines that I love every now and again
we'll sneak in a bit of criticism so
when you go out into the world and
you're choosing which machine to use or
you're deciding between gyms and one has
a few of these machines and one has a
few of these others or you're a gym
owner and you know somebody has or you
have to get your own garage gym your own
private gym please keep tuning into the
series because we've got all sorts of
machines to talk about that are some
combination of awesome and really
awesome usually and this is one of these
things where if you know more about the
stuff you can make the right purchase
and why am I ranting about this I've
really thought about this all the
machines I have here are select purchase
machines and even though they are I wish
I had time to train with them for a few
months because some of them turned out
to be not that great the machines I'm
cutting you guys here the real deal
there's we approached Atlantis to do
this they're not like hey live for us on
TV none of that happened we're never
going to do that so these are all real
world reviews
if I review a machine well
there's a very good chance you'll love
it there's a chance you won't like it we
don't all agree on machines a lot of
that's individual but I'm cutting you
guys the real deal this is a wonderful
beautiful machine and I could maybe ask
it out on a date no no I'm married no my
wife and I could ask an a date together
that's what I'm doing next I'll see you
guys next time
foreign