you shouldn't be training to fail your
first strength development if you're a
pter you should not be failing your
lifts consistently if you're
overshooting your rpes there's a good
chance you're shooting yourself in the
foot as far as strength improvements go
indeed met analyses on the topic
consistently find that going closer to
failure on a given set does not increase
your strength gains likewise a recent
study compared the effect of doing the
same sets and Reps when taking sets to
RP 4 to 6 RP 7 to9 7 to n and taking the
last set to failure or taking every set
to failure on the squad bench press and
guess what the best strength games by
and large were seen in the 46 RP group
and in the 7 to9 RP group there's simply
no need most of the time to go all the
way to failure or to rp1 for strength by
going closer to failure you'll get more
fatigue but no additional strength gains
there are going to be some exceptions to
this rule specifically when for example
you're close to a meat and you want to
practice the skill of grinding out a
heavy single in that case I would
recommend going a bit closer to failure
likewise if you're in the offseason and
trying to gain muscle size you may
better off going a little bit closer to
failure far away from a competition