his training partner is helping him on
the concentric part of the movement
these are called for stps this causes a
massive amount of fatigue but it also
causes a pretty decent amount of growth
stimulus if you can recover from the
sort of thing especially every blue moon
it's fun and it zaps your ship if you
have a muscle that's not very hard to
train but also doesn't seem to get a big
stimulus for stps are a real sharp idea
let's say your biceps youing curling and
you're like I don't know it's not hard
but also nothing's happening taking the
sets Beyond failure with four stps might
be a good idea and the best part about
four stps and bicep curls is your mate
your training partner will be standing
in one of two positions one is right in
front of you helping you curl the weight
he gets closer and closer and closer
you're looking into his eyes he's
telling you more harder push it curl
that one doesn't make any sense or he
could be standing behind you dick to ass
Titanic style basically hugging you guys
the best way to get stronger in the gym
is together go and love someone stop
watching this stupid video go to your
gym and give somebody a hug better if
they don't know who you are