I wanted to like this I really did we
always keep the heavy primitive work did
you say primitive you guys I did
actually examine the anthropological
record just yesterday and while we do
see cave paintings people hunting
gazelle we have yet to see someone do a
safety
squat whether it's squats or deadlifts
we want to keep the muscle coordination
at a high squats and deadlifts require a
very small amount of muscle coordination
these are some of the easiest lifts you
could do in the world Olympic
weightlifting requires substantially
more muscle coordination and you know
what requires even more combat training
like ostensibly they were doing to get
him in shape for the scoll and get him
ready to do some sort of fall combat
squats and deadlifts are really good for
building size in the lower body and
through the back they're really good at
building overall strength but like
coordination and all that shit uh
movement complexity this just a very
simple movement man there's like three
joints involved in each one fuck that
and they it's really slow and very
predictable the same every single time
also he's not going very deep