these are four incredible chest Builders
you probably aren't doing that all
emphasize a deep stretch first the
dumbbell Guillotine press this is a
safer option for the barbell Guillotine
press which was popularized by
bodybuilding Legend fince Gera unlike a
powerlifting bench press use a flatter
back shrug your shoulders up and flare
your elbows while lowering down to your
neck now obviously if you drop the bar
you're cooked so I'd suggest using
dumbbells instead if you feel any
shoulder pain try tucking your elbows on
the negative and then flaring on the
positive next three second paused
deficit push-ups stack two bumper plates
and hit a 3se second pause at the bottom
of each rep then explode up on the
positive third bottom half dumbbell
flies dumbbell flies offer huge tension
in the stretch but zero tension at the
top so to turn them into a great chest
Builder simply cut out the top half of
the range fourth bottom half incline
press people clown on Jim Bros for
cutting the range short but they may be
on to something still include full range
presses but doing some long length
partial reps is smart just make sure you
have a spotter