step two is finished and you're
recovered and adapted don't worry we'll
figure out how you can tell when you are
you hit step one again and over and over
and over we do this and like little
steps up huge Chinese temple woud on
mountain or some shit like that but as
you climb the temple steps you get more
and more jacked which I guess would make
the climbing more difficult cuz you
finish the steps you're like 380 with 0%
body something I typically walk around
[Music]
at hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and I want to
talk to you about how muscle growth
works Works in a way that's pretty
simple so that we can get an
understanding for the process not the
crazy chemistry and Physiology we might
dive into that eventually if you guys
are interested but kind of the grand
scheme that if you know this grand
scheme of how muscle growth works as a
process you can do two things pretty
well make sure that your program that
you're doing checks all the right boxes
and make sure that your program or your
approach to any kind of the recovery
stuff doesn't check any of the boxes we
don't want checking so just keeps you
right on the straight and narrow like if
you aliens came to Earth and they're
like how does this highway system thing
work they just explain to them we see
the cars get on and they all go in One
Direction and they get off when they
need to and they loot back around and
you explain the process of how Highway
Works aliens and be like okay yeah that
makes sense and then potentially if they
figure out how to drive a car they could
get on the road and do their thing so
for muscle growth why am they making
such a fundamental basic video quite
frankly a lot of people just get this
wrong like crazy or wildly misunderstand
understand so in any case P.S for those
of you new to the channel I'm Dr Mike
Israel I guess how you read my name I
don't know I'm impersonating this guy
it's my first day on the job he's uh
unattractive looking and well I got a
lot of surgery to look like this well
here I am how did it am I un attractive
comment below I'm a professor of
exercise and Sport Science I'm a
competitive bodybuilder in Brazilian J
Grappler and I want to teach you guys
about how to train and eat and all that
stuff so you can get
jacked and lean and sexy the sexy part I
just know from Theory so so at its very
core muscle growth is a two-step process
step one is you do training and that
training stimulates the growth processes
if it's hard training it works even
better so step one train hard to
activate the muscle growth Pathways the
chemical sequence of events that
actually leads to muscle growth but that
activation switch isn't enough to grow
muscle we need part two step two step
two is to allow for recovery and
adaptation to take place over the course
of well at least several hours and
usually several days such that you put
the plan into motion and then the plan
goes you stimulate the gains with hard
training because you don't actually put
on muscle in the gym and then you have
to rest and be easy and not take that
muscle and train it hard again for at
least some time until it heals it's
recovered it's grown a little bit or a
lot of bit and then you repeat that
process again so it's step one stimulate
step step two recover and adapt when
step two is finished and you're
recovered and adapted don't worry we'll
figure out how you can tell when you are
you hit step one again stimulate and
over and over and over we do this and
like little steps up a huge Chinese
temple woud on mountain or some shit
like that some uh Crouching Tiger Hidden
Dragon ass shit you uh climb up but as
you climb the temple steps because it's
stimulus and Recovery adaptation you get
more and more jacked which I guess would
make the climbing more difficult cuz you
finish the steps you're like 380 with 0%
body fat something I typically walk
around at now there is a term for this
phenomenon that's expanded out of these
two steps these two steps are combined
into one phenomenon one principle of
training called Sr stimulus recovery
adaptation you got to stimulate and you
got to give time for both recovery and
adaptation and generally those two
things can be lumped into one step
because they happen at a very similar
time scale that doesn't mean the same
but it means very similar and a lot of
the stuff that helps recovery helps
adaptation not all of it but a huge huge
huge commonality there and the structure
ends up coding for What's called the
session rest session Paradigm in sport
Science you don't just like kind of
train and then kind of not and then kind
of train then kind of not most people
who get into pretty serious training end
up doing this thing where they train
hard when they understand that's time to
wake up that's time to go do it and then
they just don't train for some amount of
time until they really get their mojo
back and then they train hard again so
you have session rest session rest
session rest that's the Paradigm that
unfolds it is a necessary Paradigm
because something very special happens
when we're training hard that cannot
happen at its best rate when we are
recovering and resting and relaxing and
growing and also that resting and
relaxing recovering growing can't happen
during hard training because how the
hell do you relax during hard training
it's a psychological and physical
impossibility so because we have these
two very different things that play with
each other we have to make sure we
sequence them one after another one
after another that is the fun
fundamental way how all training design
begins now on the margins there's a lot
of variation in there you can train
Ultra hard and then you need plenty of
rest and then you recover and grow a ton
you completely heal or heal enough to go
again and then you go again it could be
four five or six days after you trained
very good results like that you don't
train too often but you train so hard
that you stimulate a crapload of gains
on the other hand you can train pretty
hard but with a not so voluminous
session just not a lot of stuff maybe 30
minutes of working out or 45 as opposed
to an hour an hour and a half and then
you stimulate robust but the amount of
adaptation you stimulate isn't as much
and the recovery doesn't take as long so
you can have harder workouts less often
with plenty of time between to rest and
recover and adapt or you could have
workouts that are very hard but not as
voluminous not as much of them you could
call them less hard from a how much
stuff you have to do perspective smaller
workouts that occur more frequently
still time to rest between all of them
you're not just training all the time
but it ends up being because the
workouts that were not as difficult that
were not as large
didn't require as much time to get all
the gains from them and to recover you
can do them more frequently and get
actually very similar results and a lot
of the results in between on the margins
are are very very similar indeed so do
you have to train chest six times a week
for it to grow the most or is two times
a week the best well it's actually the
two lead to very very similar gains as
long as your two time a week chest
workouts are pretty gnarly and have lots
of all kinds of chest movements in them
and if you're training chest six times a
week maybe it's like two sets each time
not a ton of stimulus but also not a
huge recovery demand so you can
restimulate every day of the week
similar growth is from occurs from all
of them in either one of those scenarios
and however you lay out your training
you are trying to avoid one of two
states you don't want to get into either
of these two states the first state you
don't want to get into is if you're
trying to train hard again after resting
recovering from some time when you're
clearly not recovered yet how would you
know that
huge sign and there are two of them
actually first big sign is your strength
is still down if you leg pressed on
Monday and you want to leg press again
on Wednesday but you leg press again on
Wednesday and your quads are tired and
you can feel it and you can't hit the
same number of reps that you did on
Monday you're not recovered yet your
strength is down how are you supposed to
stimulate the newest best gains possible
if you're stimulating from uh an
underdog position you're not even
recovered enough to do a great job in
training look training is all about
pushing the body well G is kind of close
to its limits and if you can't even get
very close to its limits oh man like you
might not gain a whole lot of muscle
you're better off taking a longer time
to rest or next week doing a shorter
session on Monday so that you can
recover very robustly on Wednesday and
have your strength be at normal or even
slightly higher than normal levels
that's awesome but if your strength is
down substantially and whatever it is
you're doing in the gym that day it's
the message is not getting through
nearly as much as it could it's a loss
in efficiency and another way to tell
that you're not recovered is that you're
still sore so if you have delayed onset
muscle soreness in your biceps and you
have to train them again that happens
every now and again it's not a big deal
but if it happens consistently that
means that the very processes that are
supposed to recover you have not come to
fruition yet they haven't completed yet
it's like your parents take you to
Chuck-E-Cheese and like it'll be the
time of your life and you're like
amazing and just when you're having your
first slice of pizza it's it first bite
is in your mouth and you're sitting
across the table from Chester E cheese
the the in Mouse character the whole
thing whoever the guy in there is
probably a chain smoking 55-year old man
and you're just having an unreal time
and you're just like yes I hope this
never ends and your parents just yank
you out and you're on the freeway you're
crying you got pizza crust oil on your
hands and just memories of
Chuck-E-Cheese and how amazing he was
for those several minutes damn you Mom
and Dad why did you pull me away like
that well that's how your muscles feel
when you beat them up and get them nice
and sore and they're absorbing nutrients
and growing and you're like hey guess
what muscles they're like we get to say
it Chuck-E-Cheese longer like nope you
got to go and get trained again they're
in the car your muscles are crying you
guys know the story already so if your
strength is down probably not a good
idea to train again for muscle growth if
you're still sore like you really feel
it probably not a good idea to train
again so whatever training frequency you
pick has to be a slightly more expanded
in that case however you can make the
opposite mistake so mistake number two
that you can make is being already well
recovered but uh you're not training
again yet for some reason now look
there's a buffer zone if you are as
strong as you've ever been and totally
not sore for one or two extra days after
your workout you just heal really
completely and have a really amazing
next workout and the scales balance out
if you train just after you barely got
your strength back and barely healed
from soreness yeah you're not going to
have the greatest workout ever but it'll
be good enough and because now it's so
frequent because it's right after that
session healed then you get more
sessions in the week and you have
amazing results just the same what you
don't want to do is legitimately wait
three or four plus days after your
strength is already back to normal and
your sorus is healed to train that
muscle group again now you can if you
want totally you will not get your best
results like that somebody could come up
to you in the gym and be like what you
train today and you're like yeah man
just came in to do some cardio I didn't
want to hit anything I'm kind of kind of
still recovering they're like okay so
you like your chest is sore and and
tired you're like d man chest feels
strong man and I'm not sore at all
you're like okay so you just kind of
just healed you're going to hit tomorrow
like no man I healed three days ago
you're like okay why aren you training
your chest right now there should be a
compelling answer there so a lot of
times people will train you know they'll
really want their forarms to come up and
get bigger and they'll train forarms
once a week you can bash the dog shit
out of your forums that's right I'm
talking
about.com Scott are we allowed to
mention these website names or we
getting canned for this maybe we'll
addit that out go to all your favorite
adult film sites but use weights on your
hands you guys I'm not teaching you but
you teach me how to do this I follow you
guys for this kind of stuff your
forearms might get sore for a day and a
half two days if it's your first time
doing it and they might get tired and
your strength might be down for two or
three days but if you train forums once
a week I could ask you the question of
like why did you spend five days with
your forarms totally healed totally
strong totally not sore totally ready to
hit another robust muscle growth
stimulus great workout to begin
recovering again why why did you just
wait instead there's not really a good
answer there so here's the real Secret
Sauce to building muscle stimulate when
your strength returns back to normal or
even a little higher than normal and
when you're no longer sore and you feel
fresh and really good pretty soon after
that that day a day later maybe two days
later usually a day or so hit it again
hit another kind of workout doesn't have
to be the same one that hits that same
muscle group and that is the fundamental
logical core of training deviate in any
direction from that and you will get
worse gains you'll still get some decent
gains maybe some good ones too but not
the best gains that you are capable of
getting under the
circumstances now these are the two
steps that make muscle grow the most
stimulate recover and adapt that's the
most direct underpinning theoretical
construct for how muscle growth training
actually gets you jacked but there are
at least a few other factors to talk
about that are kind of um underlying
factors that feed into these that
support these things there are at least
two of them that are in their own
category because that's how important
they are here they are you can apply
them to whatever extent you can and they
magnify or reduce how much actual
results how much muscle you get from
applying that training resting training
resting process the first one is eating
believe it or not you may be crazy if I
told you this but muscle is made of
stuff and if you don't eat the stuff
from the outside world your body can't
magically make stuff out of nothing that
violates at least a few laws of
thermodynamics last I checked the
physics textbook so you should be
getting enough of a certain number and
kind of nutrients and if you download my
nutrition app it'll I'm just kidding
I'll save you guys that shit we'll talk
about it in a little bit really it's
three very important things and
everything else matters but to a much
smaller extent one is eating enough
protein your body needs enough protein
to have the excess amount of protein to
do the luxury building of muscle that's
extra than your body needs to survive
your body doesn't like really want to
build a ton of muscle it doesn't really
care because as long as it's keeping you
upright it's totally fine so
extra muscle than you're genetically
supposed to have by training is kind of
bonus so your body has to be look look
if we're going to do bonus shit we have
to have bonus money lying around money
and in this case the currency is amino
acids the building blocks of protein so
you have to eat plenty of protein how
much we got tons of videos on that but
something like a gram per pound of body
weight per day so if you weigh 150
pounds like 150 grams of protein is with
some wiggle room in there up and down is
a really good start if you eat much less
than that your body literally doesn't
have the raw materials to build as much
muscle as it can that's like you're
building a SC scraper in Manhattan and
uh the Foreman's like so when are we
going to build it you're like fucking
hit it now fellas let's do it you know
what I'm saying 20 20 29 we got a build
date we got to we got to open like gu
this there's no glass and steel though
on the premises what are we supposed to
build out of you're like there's a
couple beams here get get get go get
going chop chop and they're like we need
10 times more glass and steel I think is
supposed to be 110 stories and you're
like sorry you know I didn't uh didn't
buy the protein cookies at the fucking
store today so you got to eat plenty of
protein otherwise you're literally just
not supplying the physical raw materials
to build muscle and here's the thing you
could be training hard as fuck you could
be recovering like a maniac just
everything you live in a fucking I don't
know like a fucking steam room SAA
combination where people massage their
feet other things get
massaged you only sit in a bedet Scott
video guy can you imagine never having
to get up to defecate or urinate you're
just like a bedet is a super comfortable
chair that you kind of Professor X style
float around in Paradise Paradise you
could do all that if you don't have
enough protein coming in you could get
very underwhelming gains or technically
speaking if you under protein enough no
gains at all that would be
terrible here's another thing under that
category of eating more food calories
just straight up food your body can
absolutely take protein that you eat and
a portion of to muscle growth but if
your body is an insufficient number of
calories coming in it's going to take
most of that protein and just burn it
for energy and for Vital functions if
your body has to make a selection but
between okay do we feed the neurons that
are literally the brain or do we feed
your skeletal muscles for extra inch on
your biceps they make that decision very
quickly and it's the same way every
single time your muscles get the middle
finger and your brain gets thank God its
neurons maintained so you want a decent
level of calories to be able to grow
muscle now how many calories do you need
exactly
2,951 and it's the same number for
everyone all right that was great see
you guys next time no wait wait that's
total lie what you want is enough
calories in most cases to at least
maintain your body weight or even
increase your body weight Slowly by oh
something like a third of a pound to a
whole pound every week on average so you
have to collect averages and stuff the
RP diet coach app uh that we do promote
because it's our app does all of that
for you but and it'll also determine
your calories for you and tell you but
you can run the math yourself and it's
really straightforward so if you're a
really big person you might need 4,500
or 5,000 calories a day to gain that
little bit of weight that you need to
optimize the process or at least
maintain it if you're a really teeny
person you may need a thousand calories
a day and that's plenty enough for you
to grow muscle can you grow muscle if
you eat so few calories that you're
losing weight yes if you're losing it
slowly you can still gain some muscle
especially if you're like a new beginner
to this whole thing a couple of other um
you know unusual situations for most
folks their best muscle growth will be
at a slight Surplus so for many people
that's an extra oh 250 to 500 calories
per day than they normally eat and then
you ask the question of calories of what
and that's my third part of that whole
uh uh eating situation is mostly healthy
food now I didn't do not mean all
healthy food if you eat a cookie your
muscles do just melt off your body
unless that cookie had like salmonella
in it and then absolutely that will
happen but typically 75 or something
like that 75% 3/4 of most of your food
should be like from good healthy sources
what does that mean that means veggies
fruits whole grains lean proteins
healthy fats things like nuts nut
Butters avocados olive oil things like
that the kind of stuff you see in
healthy food Tik Tock reels it's not
rocket science we have tons of videos on
the RP Channel about what healthy food
is doesn't have to be all healthy food
you can have an ice cream cone here and
there as long as your protein is good
and it's mostly healthy food you're good
to go so if you have enough protein
plenty of calories at least uh in most
cases just a little bit more calories
than you need to maintain your weight
and you get mostly uh your healthy food
that way into your body and a little bit
of junk is totally fine then you are
checking that huge green check boox of
eating and here's the emotional part of
this all that hard training and super
dedicated recovery you're doing is
Multiplied in its effect because you're
supplying the process it's a little bit
of a tragedy when you see someone just
crushing it in the gym and their diet is
so bad or so inconsistent that they
barely get any gains it's like but that
you're paying for nothing it's like
going to Chipotle ordering a burrito
poking your fork at it and throwing it
away someone's like that wasn't good you
want another one you're like no I got I
got a really good experience out of this
right I'm met Chipotle I took a picture
on Instagram I told my friends it's
great like you know you're supposed to
be eating a burrito y get the fuck the
fuck out of here oh shit I just spent
fucking $11 on seemingly nothing that
same thing can absolutely happen to a
very similar extent if you train hard as
nails and you screw up you're eating and
let me put this in one last way eating
well is not like oh well yeah but it's
not one of those it's like yeah this has
to happen this must happen in order to
fuel that process and the better it
happens the more for the same level of
effort in the gym you grow the more most
muscle and you guys are probably trying
to grow muscle that's probably why
you're watching this video so I just
want to cut you the real de number two
underlying factor that we have to
mention is rest relaxation and sleep aka
the recovery process enough sleep which
means generally for most people 7 to
nine hours a night or tons of videos on
the specifics of how much sleep you need
the way you know you're not getting
enough sleep is if your eyes are groggy
through the day and you need caffeine to
stay awake you can probably sleep longer
sleep is critical because sleep it's
probably the most anabolic muscle
growing thing you will do that actually
grows the most muscle especially you're
eating enough food sleep just is what
the time you grow muscle and every
single part of your body recovers in a
huge Ultra complete way just would not
occur if you never got any sleep even if
you relaxing wrestling all time sleep is
a non-negotiable again similar to eating
you like um back when I was an undergrad
I would train really hard I would eat
okay and I would sleep very poorly and
if I could teleport back in time first
of all i' bitch slap the fuck out of
myself clear across the lecture hall but
when my older version of me or earlier
version got up maybe was still alive I'd
be like you better start getting sleep
you little bitch or I'm gonna come back
and do that shit again but harder zap
and I disappear off into the ether and
my old self is like okay we have message
received Jesus Christ also is that me in
the future God I lost all my hair fuck I
sure hope I'm getting late at least the
answer is I don't get
late
training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same so in any case enough sleep is a
big deal regular relaxation probably one
to two hours a day at least I don't want
to say at least and have you guys quit
your jobs and go it's not it is the more
the better but a core of one to two
hours a day usually at the end of the
day where you can really just woo on
relax watch some bullshit Netflix crap
have a few snacks really chill on the
couch take a walk with a significant
other take a walk and listen to emo
because you know you'll never have a
significant other and the emo gives you
emotions that you typically can't feel
in real life because no one talks to you
uh shit like that anything that relaxes
the living crap out of you not just fun
so scrolling Doom scrolling does not uh
count debating Uh Russian troll accounts
doesn't count you got to do something
relaxing for a few hours a day and
that's huge in actually dropping that
fatigue so you can come back strong as
shit for your next training session
that's a big deal and lastly this one's
a tough one as the little stress as you
can realistically manage now look you
got a job you got pets you got a
significant other which is a lot of
stress you don't have a significant
other which is a lot of stress and
either way you slice it work school blah
blah blah traffic you know like you're G
to have to fucking live your life and do
your shit understood we're not all
professional athletes me included and
we've got shit to do I got to do this
and fucking record the shit talk you
guys think I like doing this I fucking
hate this shit I hate being on camera
hate being social hate the sound of my
own voice I'm just full of hate but I do
it anyway because uh somebody gets paid
Scott who gets paid off of this Nick
Shaw CEO uh of RP he says that
eventually if I do this long enough I
can see my family he's a nice man he's
so reasonable in any case yes do your
work do what you got to do I'm not
saying quit your job but there's a
difference between necessary stress and
extra stress so if you're driving to go
to work yelling at people um their
commutes because they don't understand
the laws of the road gives you extra
stress maybe if you can chill out you
can save that yelling for yelling at the
weights at the gym which actually gets
you jacked or at least scares the
weights enough that they feel lighter
when you lift them so as little extra ST
as you can imagine which can mean that
you know it could be good stress or bad
stress in a sense if you're really
serious about muscle growth and you go
out with your friends Friday and
Saturday every week because you're young
and that's what you fucking do amazing
God bless you but if your friends are
like hey man Thursday night you want to
fucking go out and get drunk and get
crazy and go dancing maybe if you're
really serious about muscle growth a
couple weeks couple months you could be
like you know what fellas I'm just going
to catch you on Friday Saturday I don't
need any extra even if it's positive
it's going to Tire me the fuck out it's
going to make my workouts not as
productive so I don't want to do it and
obviously negative stress uh things that
are experiences the stress you out there
aren't that fun is also something you
want to minimize in your life one of the
really core things about hanging out
with professional athletes and I've been
in a few locker rooms in my day some of
that a couple of those lawsuits are
still pending my lawyer
says don't uh don't enter the state of
California until anyway um professional
athletes are really interesting people
because you almost expect them to be
like super ey the tiger and they are in
the gym and then one thing that really
baffled me when I first started
interacting with professional athletes
is a lot of them not all but a lot of
them are so chilled out the rest of the
day they like kind of barely do anything
and they're really easy at just not
getting roused up or like they're just
like whatever they're chill and they
just play video games they talk to their
friends they just sit on the couch they
eat they recover that's a fucking big
deal they're not trying to go out and
get extra stress in their life and some
of them when they do have extra stress
it affects the process big time they are
bodybuilders who have done not done well
as shows because they had like emotional
girl drama they're on the fucking phone
yelling at people all the goddamn time I
told you Cynthia never again click shit
like that and that drains you so as
little extra stress because if you
really care about muscle growth you
understand that the processes of stress
cause a degradation of the processes of
muscle growth is really is up to you to
figure out okay how much just yelling at
my Uber driver for arriving five minutes
late get me in real life nothing and
he's upset and I'm upset no one wins I
could just rate him I rate every Uber
driver I'm ever in one star because I'm
I'm a kind of motherfucker that thinks
like you can always do better right
dress for the job you want not the one
you have so I just give everyone one
star but in any case if you just didn't
yell at your Uber driver you would be
able to save some emotional energy lower
your stress and grow more muscle so
that'll be even better right so those
are huge eating and then rest relaxation
SL sleep AK the recovery process in
general is really really big that's
about it as far as the processes of
muscle growth works now if you apply
this process how much muscle you get out
of it because everything I talked about
so far is under your Direct Control you
control how much you train and how often
and how hard you control what goes into
your body eating wise at least when
Scott the video guys around I have
mostly of control of what goes into my
body but in any case I'm should shut up
now because he's right over there he
gets very testy if I talk about him he
doesn't fucking like it you control at
the end of the day to a large extent how
much rest and recovery and sleep that
you get here are some things you don't
control but maybe have some modum of
control around them usually not really
these are things that just have to
happen or things that are conditions
that kind of determine how much muscle
you grow at any one given time the first
is hormones like you can't just go like
this and your testosterone goes up it
doesn't doesn't work like that um how
much do hormones matter well one of the
main not the only but one of the main
reasons why men are more jacked than
women on average is that men have more
testosterone by a factor of like 40 or
some shit like that and so like yeah
it's tough when you don't have hardly
any testosterone to gain a ton of muscle
you can gain plenty but not as much as
you would if you have lots of
testosterone and another one is okay
well that's just genetic differences uh
what about if we inject the testosterone
ah now you're asking the right
questions enhanced versus natural you
guys have been on the internet for shit
this apparently you're on the internet
right now and if you look at people who
are on tons of
steroids I wouldn't know any versus
people who are drug-free there are very
big differences in how much muscle that
one has gained versus the other because
that stuff absolutely matters now it
doesn't replace any of those other
factors it just augments them over time
so if you like start doing a crapload of
steroids and someone's like dude I
noticed you don't sleep what's up with
that you're like man fuck sleep bro I
don't need that shit I'm on Trend you're
like they don't they don't think I think
if you're on trend the more sleep you
get the better that's correct so if
you're enhanced or if you have more
testosterone just because you're male
the harder you train the better you
recover the more you eat to a point of
course so the higher quality your diet
is all that stuff the better your sleep
is magnifies your results it's all an
additive and a multiplicative process
it's not either or so these things don't
trade each other out that's first
hormones they're a big deal so sometimes
people will be like man this
motherfucker is just preaching the
basics like I get it like rest and eat
and train but like that doesn't explain
your results you huge weird headed
YouTube freak agreed hormones are a big
part of that but they're a big part that
the icing on the cake that rusts on top
of that look sometimes it's a lot of
icing you know you know one of those
cakes is a half icing half cake that's
me but uh it's sure a shit important to
stack as many of those things together
as possible next another determinant of
how far you go in your muscle growth
Journey at any given time here is real
talk it's genetics right and genetics
actually more important than hormones in
most cases right so if you have like
Nigerian super person guy um Sometimes
some people are just built better right
and they start lifting weights and they
just shit just happens where some people
have like Harry Potter genetics where
they live for a couple months and
they're like I think my bicep maybe got
sore once and maybe grew a little bit
and you're like look kid pick up racket
ball or some shit like that no kidding
that's at the extremes and everyone's
somewhere in between but genetics are a
big deal and some people who you think
know things about training and know the
process they just are really really good
genetics and they're on well a ton of
hormones and they eat plenty and they
sleep okay and they don't know the
details but like th those are such
important factors so genetics is a big
deal genetics in this conversation we've
had a few videos we're going to be
making some more about how genetics uh
has a role in the actual results but
genetics even codes how you respond to
hormones so if you have a high level of
naturally produced testosterone but your
genetics for the sensitivity of your
muscle cells to testosterone is poor you
could have like all the signs of high
testosterone like higher blood pressure
receding hairline but you're not jacked
and people are like but you don't have
low testosterone you get it tested it's
very high the doctor's like you don't
need trt that's for sure and you're like
damnn it your genetics could be such
that you're very low sensitiv to
testosterone you could have the other
side of the genetic coin where you don't
produce a ton of testosterone your
doctors actually say you're technically
hypogonadal your testosterone is like
250 nanograms per deser liter which is
just below the 300 cut off of what's
considered mostly normal in most cases
but you're like pretty fucking jacked
people like how the hell does that work
you just have a crazy Androgen
sensitivity in your muscle cells when
they expose to testosterone they're like
fellas drop everything you're doing and
grow and that's what the cells do that
is hugely genetic which is why a lot of
people will take exogenous hormones like
they'll get on trt or they'll you know
get on their local drug dealer trt and
just get steroids I don't know what it
Scott the video Guy where people get
steroids behind the dumpster at the GNC
yeah that's that's where I get mine so
uh
JK um some people take a bunch of
steroids and not much will happen or
something will happen but it's not very
obvious that they grew a ton of muscle
and you're like what and it's because a
lot of times their own genetics for
response to the Androgen hormones
specifically testosterone and all of its
related hormones that are all the
steroids uh is just not that great when
you have other people who will take like
a little bitty something a little little
pill of anavar or something they just
boom they'll blow up and you're like how
and it's because of their genetics
genetics is a big deal and at the end of
the day you don't choose your genetics
yet hopefully we can change that in some
time but until we can change our genes
you just have to do the best will you
have and apply that process and don't
look at people who have good genetics
that are not doing a good job with sleep
or training or something else and be
like what can I learn from them you can
learn from them that you can have really
great gifts and just piss them away you
don't have to look into this much
further lastly the last factor that can
magnify your results is the biggest
factor that can magnify your results by
far and it's time it just takes time
applying your serious hard training and
recovery and eating to gain a lot of
muscle
one of I get two questions very often
when I'm out and about traveling and
stuff going through walking through
airports sitting on airplanes talking to
people I get two really common questions
one of them is a little bit elcer uh as
to how anyone's learning anything from
this and the other one is actually a
very good question that really does hint
at what's going on sometimes people will
like observe that obviously I'm a little
bit more muscular than average and
they'll ask the question of how many
days a week do you train or how many
times a week do you train like I say
whatever like six to eight depending on
on the
situation and uh oh interesting and I I
don't know what they think they're
learning from that uh do they want to be
this jacked yes you might have to train
that much but sure shit not going to
happen in a couple of a couple of weeks
of training that's not going to happen
but other people ask another question a
much more pertinent question they go how
long have you been at this for and then
I go yeah 25 years and they're like okay
they learned something very very
important to get really your best level
of jacked it's not weeks it's not months
it's a year now in months you can do
some really cool transformation but in
years is where you slab on real pounds
of beef so you take all the stuff that
we've talked about so far making sure
you are training hard making sure you
are resting well making sure that your
next training session is an appropriate
time just after you finished recovering
from the last one being consistent with
that then kind of more or less out of
your hands hormones and genetics but
what is in your hands completely as time
because time is only measured when
you're consistent when you're
consistently training your measurement
clock of time starts to wind up for you
and that time measures how that clock
measures how much time you spent
actually gaining muscle and because
muscle growth happens very slowly if you
run that clock for a few weeks cool shit
happens but then not much for a few
months much cooler shit happens you
train for a few years you'll really see
what your body's capable of you'll
finally become more muscular then
finally that one girl in college who
never sat next to you cuz maybe you
smell maybe you didn't uh she might talk
to you even and remark about how big
your arms are beginning a whirlwind
Affair that ends in Romeo and Juliet
style tandem suicide I got fucked up
real quick in any case if you're
interested in training that
automatically chooses how much of
training how hard the training is and
times your training out doses it out
through the week exactly to fit your
recovery the RP hypertrophy app does
that for you for like a dollar a day and
if you're interested in getting that
entire diet situation completely sorted
for you the RP diet coach app is also
just a click away it costs even less
than the hypertrophy app and it will do
all that stuff for you do you have to
get the apps no fuck no no you can do
this all by yourself just with a paper
and pencil just like grandpa taught you
but if you want download our apps they
do get me paid and Scott the video guy
has a really really
nasty several types of drug addiction
that cost money please support Scott's
habits buy stuff click on things see you
guys next time