oh this is a terrible example Scott
we're getting cancel you run an
orphanage and there's a certain amount
of food that Charities just give you
every week same amount if some kind of
disaster hits and you get 10 more
orphans to your orphanage of 20 people
everyone's going to have to eat a little
less and that's just a fact because you
got to spread the food around same idea
with systemic resources One does not
simply add something and not see a cost
to growth of other stuff now in that
pushing the limits systemically case
take a muscle out completely you're you
know forearms calves or you
take your forearms and calves down to
maintenance volume all of a sudden the
systemic recovery potential the systemic
recovery excess pool has greatly
expanded and now that can pour into the
other muscles of the body and
significantly increase the growth in
your glutes and your quads and your
chest and everything else you're still
training as hard as you could