hey folks Dr Mike here from renissance
periodization and I'm here with five
rules of failure training not training
to be a failure which if I had to write
a book on or make a video about boy do I
know a lot about that thanks for nothing
dad but training to muscular failure in
the gym and here are the rules there are
five of them certainly there are way
more somewhere but if you're curious
about more in-depth intellectual content
Our member section has really nerdy
videos in it and our team full ROM
subscription which is like 30 bucks a
month has an you can ask me any question
you want and I answer it via video
service sort of guaranteed and there's
tons of other members in the Forum and
they're all super smart most of them are
smarter than me it's kind of unfortunate
and a call the Smart Ones if you want
that stuff give the links in the
description to go and sign up but here
we go anyway the video that's as long as
the ads here we'll ever get maybe a
little
longer rule one is that failure training
is gener not for beginners H but I
wanted to go to failure mom hold on son
let me explain beginners tend to break
down in their technique as they get
closer to failure that exposes them to a
higher likelihood of injury not a big
concern because they're too weak to
really hurt themselves it does teach
them the technique wrong and then you
have to unlearn the bad technique later
evidence typical Jim bro bench press
technique you're like dude you suck what
the hell are you doing and they're like
well yeah my third day here here's what
my Ben looks like and then later it's
their third year and the bench looks the
same because they never learn the
technique properly because they're
always just grinding a failure all the
time so don't do that and the good news
is you're not missing out any gains
because beginners grow so quickly and
get strong so quickly they don't even
need to get remotely close to failure
three reps away from failure or four
reps away is as close to they ever need
to get for their Optimum results with no
technique trade-offs so that's really
good rule number two is you do not
generally do pretty much any failure
training in strength training for
hypertrophy for muscle size yes
occasionally once a month or so going to
failure is probably pretty good and has
its uses in strength training almost
nobody goes to failure because you're
literally planning to miss a lift and in
strength training weights are so heavy
and a little bit more dangerous failing
with a lift is a bad news for either you
or your spotters or some combination of
you dro the bar on yourself and your
spotters three people die it's terrible
it's on the news you don't want to be in
the news for something like that you
want to be in the news for some Florida
man shit man bites aligator alligator
sues supreme court hearing
tomorrow
number three rule number
three as you go closer to failure your
number one goal number one goal should
be preserving your excellent technique
you're doing the curl with the biceps
not the whole body rule two or sorry
Priority One mixing it up this is Rule
three Priority One best technique as you
get close to failure priority number two
go as hard as you can notice Priority
One is a good technique never ever push
harder than your Technique allows and if
with a perfect technique the weight's
not going up anymore well that's it you
hit failure and if you could schmig it a
little bit could you get another rep yes
and other people in the gym May count it
as a rep but remember God looks down on
all of your reps and if you do a rep
like that he'll actually look down at it
she like appears out of nowhere you're
like God you drops your feet he's like
Yay hear
me the fuck was that and you're like it
was a curl he's like zap motherfucker
lightning bitch all the way down to Hell
motherfucker and in Hell Satan's like
like my rep hack squats you're like
no in any case technique is first and
then push big big rule rule number four
is account for the fatigue training to
failure beats you up way more physically
and mentally so if you want a program to
Designed in which you go to failure
often because it's fun it's fun I agree
then make sure instead of doing like six
sets of squats per workout like you
normally would if you were couple up Shy
of failure drop it down to like four
squat sets per workout it makes sure you
don't get way too overreached too much
fatigue too soon and then you can
survive to lift another week another
week and another week and that's how
progress occurs no one week ever makes
or breaks your shit four or six weeks at
a time that is where gains come from
lastly rule number five make sure you're
still counting stuff so that you
progress occurs and if it doesn't you D
Lo take an easy week of rest come back
and ease back into the training a lot of
people who go all the way to failure all
the time they don't even cut reps
anymore I've seen this a whole bunch
which is cool it's like a great very
effective set but then how do you know
next week if you've gotten weaker or
stronger you go to your dark place you
go to failure you still don't count reps
sometimes people don't even care about
the load they'll do drop sets where
they'll just put the pin and I don't
know is that a 50 or 40 there smudge on
there who knows how do you tell Weeks
Later months later if you've gotten
bigger and stronger because if you have
some element of your program that's off
your diet is off your supplementation is
off your sleeping poorly go to failure
all the time you may not even be able to
tell am I progressing because you never
count reps you know how much weight
you're lifting but you could be like
you're putting more weight on all the
time but your reps are declining subtly
and you can't even tell you might have
been maintaining for six months you just
didn't even know it so even if you go to
failure just put your fucking camera up
there iPhone press record count back the
Reps later at least count one top set
for all of your sessions for the whole
week or the whole month and then you can
be like oh wow I actually am gaining
more reps over time and if you're not
take a D Lo wash out repeat and if you
really aren't gaining anymore stop
training a failure all the damn time
train like a smarter person start at
three reps in reserve or so at the
beginning of your me cycle all the way
and take one week to do all the failure
train you want right before you deal it
in any case folks like comment subscribe
we got a member section team full ROM
and um no matter what anyone tells you
you have a certain Beauty to you that's
right you that nobody could ever take
away and don't you ever forget that and
we'll see you next time