the forums are one of those often
neglected muscles like a cab even the
neck I can make a big difference in
terms of how completeness is equals many
bodybuilders and trainers suggest that
there's no need to train the forms
directly and take a heavy grip intensive
barbell exercise like deadlifts and rows
while other bodybuilders have offered
more alternative training advise young
kids young guys if you masturbate
pessimist not many trainees realize just
how complex the forearm is with roughly
20 different muscles functioning between
the elbow and wrist the forum is split
into anterior or front and posterior or
back compartments the anterior muscles
perform flexion of the wrist and
phalanges or fingers while the posterior
muscles perform wrist and finger
extension not many people realize the
muscles that move the fingers are
actually located in the fora and operate
the fingers via long tendons like a
puppet by strings so that the fingers
can remain more slender for handling
precise tasks this is why grip intensive
exercises like farmers locks are
effective for the forearms even though
they don't take the wrist joint through
flexion or extension the anterior
muscles are contracted by symmetrically
to keep the fingers flexed or fists
clenched about five of the 20 muscles
perform elbow flexion like curling and
pronation of the forearm of these will
just focus on the most prominent
brachioradialis muscle which unlike
other prominent arm muscles such as a
flexor digitorum superficialis doesn't
cross the wrist joint you need can see
trains to risk flexion or extension
according to a paper titled the function
of brachioradialis it's equally active
in a neutral supinated and pronated
position and since the biceps are
strongest when a forum is supinate or
when the palms are facing up it's best
to perform curls with a pronated or
reverse grip for the brachioradialis
another paper from Murray and colleagues
published in the Journal of biomechanics
found that peak torque for the
brachioradialis occurred between 100 and
120 degrees of elbow clutch while peak
torque for the biceps is closer to 80
degrees so performing partial reps in
the top-end range of motion might help
target the brachial radialis over the
biceps so my top brachioradialis builder
is the reverse grid barbell
finishing with partial reps in the top
half of the range hammer curls are also
a good exercise but like most curls
 the biceps to a large degree
and isn't as great for isolating the
brachioradialis a 2004 study looked at
the effect of 12 weeks of forum specific
training in high school baseball players
one group did a typical full body 3 day
per week training program including grip
intensive exercises like Romanian
deadlifts and bent rows the other group
did the exact same program plus 6
forearm exercises including wrist curls
and extensions after 12 weeks form
specific strength was measured and
although only one measurement reached
statistical significance it's worth
noting that every single strength
measure showed a greater increase in the
forearm training group and given the
tendency for strength gains to correlate
with hypertrophy to the longer duration
study design I expect to see hypertrophy
differences as well although it's also
worth noting that the resistance
training only groups still made
significant strength teams in nearly
every forearm strength task indicating
that heavy compound movements can
promote forearm gains without any direct
forearm work but may not be enough to
optimize the road so if forums are a
weak point for you adding in isolation
exercises will help them grow faster so
what are the best forearm exercises well
you should include at least one wrist
flexion and one wrist extension based
movement my preferred choice for the
former the dumbbell wrist curl with the
forearm braced against a bench and I
prefer to the barbell variation which
puts too much strain on my wrist the two
wrist extension based movements I've
favored in my own training are the bench
braced dumbbell extension and the
standing dumbbell extension since the
standing extension requires a good deal
of grip strength and can be loaded more
heavily it's probably my number one for
training the back of the forearm a grip
focused movement should also be included
especially if you don't do a lot of
heavy pulling my favorite is the plate
pinch where you progressively add
10-pound plates to increase not only the
weight but the thickness as a form of
double progression fat gripz or similar
equipment can be used to strengthen the
grip as well but I don't advise adding
them to exercises you're already
performing since they can detract from
the load you're using for bigger body
parts and you don't want your back or
shoulder work to suffer at the expense
of improving forearm strength
farmers walks and heavy barbell holds
are also effective just keep in mind
that they can lead to recovery issues if
you don't correspondingly adjust
workload for your trap
that volume recommendations will be
individual and I make them in my forearm
training guide but generally speaking I
recommend eating for 10 to 20 reps with
relatively lower weights for both
forearm curls and extensions and heavier
weights can lead to joint issues and
might not maximally stimulate the
smaller muscles of the forearm before
the larger ones fatigue due to the three
exercises per workout in two to three
sets per exercise he should be performed
at the end of an upper-body workout
since you don't want your grip strength
to suffer for that training session and
as part of your regular arm training
include a reverse rip curl at least once
per week to target to break your radio
research shows that when volume equated
training the forearms 10 times per week
doesn't lead to better strength or size
gains than 3 times course so more
frequency isn't necessarily better and
given the high carryover from other
exercises to the forearms I think
hitting them 2 to 3 times per week is
sufficient like most muscle groups
consistency and progression reign King
so if there's an exercise that you enjoy
and feel working your forearms well be
consistent with it 2 to 3 times a week
don't be lazy and neglect your weak
points and as always be patient with
your result wise what's going on
everyone thank you so much for watching
the video I want to quickly say thank
you to Dollar Shave Club for sponsoring
this video a lot of people will ask me
about my beard and keeping it nice and
tight and clean so it's really excited
when Dollar Shave Club reach out to me
and I first actually heard of them from
Stephanie who uses their service and
apparently the razors are also really
good for shaving women's legs but for me
I just like to clean up the neck and
cheeks and for this Dollar Shave Club is
the smarter choice because you'll get a
great shave at a great price with
high-quality razors delivered right to
your door you'll never have to go
shopping for blades in a store ever
again
which just makes everything so
convenient so for a limited time you can
get the executive razor with a tube of
dr. Carver's shave butter only $5 for
the first month with free shipping
that's a $15 value for only 5 bucks and
after that razors are just a few bucks a
month there are no commitments no
hassles just high quality sturdy razors
delivered right to your door every month
so if you go to dollarshaveclub.com last
Nippert you get the first month with the
executive razor and
carvers shave butter for just $5 so the
first link down there in the description
and that's dollarshaveclub.com
last nipper so thanks again guys so much
for watching if you're new to the
channel don't forget to subscribe and
Stephanie and I are actually in the
process of moving we're going from Tampa
to Jacksonville Florida so and all the
boxes in the apartment right now but if
any of you guys happen to be from
Jacksonville or maybe you train there
let us know what gym we should go to
like June we should train at and just
comment below and let us know thank you
guys again so much for watching and I'll
see you guys next time
[Music]