foreign
[Music]
ization and I have a gym and it's in my
home and it's amazing and it's finally
finished check it out
[Music]
I wanted a home gym for a few reasons
one
the number one reason is I really like
my work at RP I like making videos for
you guys I love designing the RBI
hypertrophy app and the RP diet coach
app and making all the changes to them
they do a lot of work and I just want to
do more work I'm workaholic it's a
problem anytime I have to drive to a gym
20 minutes there and back the nearest
gym to me is about 20-25 minutes away
that's every day I do six workouts a
week at least sometimes two a days that
is every day 45 minutes to an hour of
driving I would love to save that time
and work more so that I want to just be
on my own property walk 50 feet outside
my house and boom have a gym when I
build this gym I wanted it to be good
enough to have close to Optimal workouts
for myself and for my wife this is a
2500 square foot facility which is just
not that big I know it looks big in the
thumbnail thanks Scott the video guy
it's not a huge gym but it has every
foundational machine and implemented
free weight that we need and I
legitimately have the best workouts I've
had anywhere right here in this gym but
also it has curated by Scott the video
guy and Scott the video guys lighting
slash electrician friend and Mr Jared
feather the king of good gym lighting
himself the lighting here has been
specifically installed to get you the
best possible look and to quote Scott's
video guy after a workout he had here
he's like I don't really look like this
in real life this is all fake so
definitely love the gem for that I can
like have my machines rigged and set up
I'll show you guys in a bit some of the
wacky setups I have and nobody changes
it nobody yells at me I can train
shirtless I can train pantsless between
sets like shake my cock around the
typical things everyone does at the gym
but for the law and gym policy that will
let you do that in corporate chip at my
gym you can rub your cock all over all
the machines I can use chalk I can put
on any music I like and that's Jack it's
so hard to beat enough Mike let's see
some cool stuff
free motion machine costs about a
trillion dollars once you have one never
want to give it up much like a
Lamborghini as a matter of fact
so this thing obviously it moves up and
down these levers if I can actually move
it can scale all the way up and down
they can go super Sky High they can Arc
in and out this allows you to use almost
any cable movement from any angle I do
curls on this I do free motion lateral
raises I do wrist curls I can do rowing
on here it's an awesome machine if you
have a home gym and you have some money
lying around I forgot how much this was
like seven thousand dollars something
absurd it really is worth its weight in
gold not literal gold because then it
would be like billions of dollars it's
an awesome machine and I love it I love
having it around
kind of one of the center pieces of the
gym is this whole multi-point rig here
you got pull down situation you got
cable crossover situation and two
independent uh selectorized you can move
these things around
so we have this whole situation going on
here and you have a rowing situation
here I also rig my own row here with
this heavier stack this is kind of one
of those Universal machines here we got
Pull-Ups here if you want to do them it
just does a lot of the main stuff
anything I do with cables pretty much
that's not free motion I do it on here
Works super well the Atlantis lateral
raise Superior dominant amazing I love
it every minute of it excellent select
dry stuff we filmed entire Series in
this machine before I had to have it and
interestingly enough because we put it
behind this whole setup it kind of looks
like it's connected to everything aha
tricks all right obviously adjustable
bench I have two of these it goes flat
it goes incline this is a great bench
because this thing moves as well it goes
up and down and what do I use this for
well of course a dumbbell set and I have
everything all the way from five to what
is it a hundred pounds I don't barely
ever mess with that because I use full
Ramen pauses so I hardly ever need the
heavy dumbbells we have the whole set
these are awesome they don't take up a
lot of space it's been a really good
purchase and that's kind of core
critical stuff you have to have in any
decent gym deadlift unloader anytime we
do stuff like a deadlifts rows anything
like that loading the weights is super
easy when you have the unloader awesome
anyone who wants to do deadlifts here
amazing this floor is like I don't even
know like three feet of concrete beneath
it or something and then a rubber
matting above so you can deadlift on it
no big deal there's no weird no deadlift
rules at the gym you can do pretty much
anything you want and of course the
Atlantis leg press hack squat situation
also adjustable you guys have probably
seen this before in my other videos
worth its weight in gold amazing and uh
it's just really great to have this much
variation uh I have a lot of other lag
machines you will note by the end of
this video but I have very many leg
machines because legs are important to
Trey
pendulum squat works just fine
next
the winning strength Matt winning
belt squat amazing belt squat I love the
leverages I love how smooth it is I love
the adjustments my wife is a short queen
and I'm of course short King and we have
to put a lot of pads on here in order to
make the leverages better now we can
actually do this with a pretty decent
range of motion without pads but if we
put it on the pads we actually get the
highest forces at the bottom of the lift
the lowest force is the top of the lift
due to lever arm and that makes this an
even more effective exercise I didn't I
had this machine for a year before I
ever used it it's just something I
needed to have and then I started using
it oh my God a slow eccentric pause
squats on this
miracle I can't recommend this highly
enough another adjustable bench this is
flat and incline good old trusty power
rack you really don't have a gym if you
don't have a power Rack in my opinion
and just chilling in here smoking
doobies the Transformer bar from Kabuki
strength Mr christophen is the man I
love the American flag on here as well
and uh it's just a great bar this bar
allows you to do low bar High bar good
mornings all that other stuff it's got
essentially I think 24 ways to
reposition the bar with these
adjustments and you can even put the bar
pins lower or higher if you have a rack
at home and you want instant variety
this bar is an absolutely great
investment and yes it is expensive but
you get so much out of it it's totally
worth the money in most cases Rogue bar
holder
right next to the power rack of course
we have a camber bar this thing is
amazing we got a few of these straight
bars good for redundancy and multiple
people training at the same time I think
we have three of them and then a long
power rack worthy easy curl bar which
comes in handy a bunch we have another
easy curl bar somewhere lying around
here that's a shorter variant and a bit
more of like a tricep bar these are all
great if you have a home gym you don't
have a ton of equipment unlike me when I
have a ton getting bars can be a really
cost effective way to increase variation
and to that end the next thing I want to
show you guys is how to increase
variation a ton if you have even one
selectorized cable stack come walk with
me real quick my friend built me a
custom
bar hangout area cable attachment
hangout area this is great because I
have a ton of attachments if you have a
limited space which technically I do
2400 square feet is not the infinity gym
then if you just have one even just one
selectorized cable attachment you can
buy tons of different bars for it and
essentially multiply with every new bar
these bars are usually like 20 to 50
bucks that's another machine essentially
that you can use I can't recommend
having more of these anymore at your
home gym as many of these is great it's
just the return on investment is massive
different grip different angle different
position multiplies how much variation
you have if you have a limited space A
lot of times you're like man I suppose
they do the same stuff all the time you
won't have that problem if you get a
bunch of attachments and holy crap I
have a bunch I'm always collecting more
hey in the comments throw me some links
to some attachments maybe they block the
links on YouTube I don't know just at
least mention the cool kinds of
attachment I do have all the Mad grips
and stuff already I have all kinds of
different stuff my favorite one probably
of all these is this red bar first of
all why is it red I have no idea what's
the advantage here looks like a pull
down bar it doesn't rotate and if I
strap into it and it's also a thin
handle when I do pull Downs or when I do
any kind of cable rolling I can't let go
of the bar my grip doesn't fatigue at
all immense back workouts
Arsenal leg press
so far as I can tell best leg press in
the industry and we have the pads here
already down these are precisely the
pads I use when I leg press it's got an
adjustable plate even or an adjustable
seat should be all the way at the bottom
for almost everyone and it's just a
great machine and I love having it this
was one of the core things I definitely
want in the gym I got it and it's
awesome oh we're still filming I was
just taking a break in one of my many
fold out lifting chairs this is like a
fat person camping chair is that
politically correct it's just true
these are great for you doing leg
workouts and we just can't stand up
anymore maybe you don't want to lay down
just yet sit on the chair scroll on your
phone it's great stuff two things to
show you here one is the prime leg
extension which is a great leg extension
allows you to accentuate The Eccentric
and especially the Deep stretch I think
it's great I barely ever use it because
I barely ever do like extensions but
people who come and train for other
reasons here at the gym they love this
machine and number two one of the two
speaker systems that Scott the video guy
set up himself because we booming out
here baby
think I mostly train in silence but
every now when I get I need that real
extra motivation inspiration that drive
that thing comes in handy Atlantis row
chest supported row I just got this
recently they put a bunch of handles on
it that I didn't like so I had my
friends saw them off uh put some tape
over it it's actually now back to being
the best chess supporter I've ever used
I love it and I actually used it in a
really weird rigged way before so I have
I have to for the first time ever yet to
use this new setup after I saw it off
all the handles I hated and I can't wait
because I know for a fact that even the
way I was reading it early was already
great being able to really grab it is
going to be amazing Prime seated leg
curl
allows you to accentuate the stretch
best seated leg curl of business as far
as I'm concerned so I had to have it and
here it is I use it all the time I think
it's pretty motion lying leg curl Works
totally great unfortunately I want more
stretch at the bottom than it gives me
so I have to put all these things what I
do when I actually do it is I take all
this stuff I move it down
so that it's all the way down at the
edge here cover it with this so I'm nice
and comfy get in and do some leg curls
and then What it lets me do is because
I'm propped up higher
it allows me to get a real deep stretch
in the hamstrings that's the downside of
this machine it needs to be rigged the
upside is it's incredibly smooth and
it's very loadable I have a gym pin on
there for extra weight because I have my
hamstrings are finally strong enough
that I stacked this machine yay science
and by science I mean pharmacology two
things first of all this is a chalk
stand with chalk in it it is a resident
of the gym and always will be that's the
first thing the second thing is any gyms
that don't allow chalk are not real gems
sissy squat machine
cheap I bought it
it exists
Prime seated row my all-time favorite
back machine and I have to own it I love
love this machine as a matter of fact
after filming this video I have a back
workout schedule I'm gonna be on it I
can't wait dip stand this is a very good
dip stand because it's Ultra stable has
platforms for short Kings like myself
and then it has a huge angle to it so
that you can grab exactly where fits
your body best a lot of dip stations are
positioned uh totally in parallel and
then it's kind of like if you're a
little wider or narrower than the
average person it feels all fucked up so
this is great believe it or not it took
me a bit to find this on the internet
they just don't really make these things
anymore hmm Nautilus impact chest press
not in love with it I don't hate it
I can stack it for sets of 20.
cool humble brag weird Flex Dr Mike the
chair doesn't go alone enough and I'm
five foot six so think of that they
didn't test this on anyone but
it works decently well the prime
pullover machine it's a very good
machine
I'm a little too wide for it believe it
or not so it feels weird to squeeze into
but uh the force curve and everything is
excellent I actually have yet to use
this machine in any mesocycle since I
got it and I got it late it's only been
here for about oh nine months long
enough to father a child with but uh I
haven't bothered any children with it
just haven't used it yet but I will one
day who won't I yes Nautilus hack squat
it's just good it's really good
but
I am a member of the royal family and
undersized thus I am a short King and I
need a short King adjustment which means
I got some mats here and uh with those
it makes everything right as ring the
Atlantis incline chest press excellent
machine I love the fact that it has an
unloader so you can get really deep and
then if you get pinned down there you
can push everything and get it out
lovely machine excellent uh rounds out
the gym really well if you're curious
about the ins and outs of this machine
we have a whole separate video
discussing all of its merits and you can
find that wherever Scots
assisted dip and pull-up machine I love
this thing it's really good it even has
the swivel handles for narrow Kings and
wider Kings plenty of different hens uh
selections here uh it's really good and
I can't it just it works and an assisted
pull-up is something that doesn't even
exist at most gyms and it's just an
amazing thing and before you ask how's
the surface gonna pull down try it it is
the Smith machine you guys knew I had to
have one this one's great it is
relatively smooth the only demerit here
is that it seems to get easier at the
bottom and harder at the top which is
the opposite of what you want for
hypertrophy but generally the stimulus
to fatigue ratio on this is so good it's
still very good even though it has that
flaw you guys may be asking yourself a
very logical question what the hell's
with this dangling duct tape bullshit
yes it is duct tape you got duct tape
handles and these duct tape things why
well let me show what a high bar squat
looks like right now
[Music]
yeah
all right
I got too big to do proper High bar
squats and whatever bodybuilder you see
is bigger than me that can still high
bar amazing their flexibility where do I
find their cock to suck on
it's my reality folks so I made this
duct tape situation so that I could do
this
and this
and I also realized at some point that
sometimes I can't rack if it's a lot of
weight this mechanism doesn't work so
what I'll do if I have over 400 pounds
is after I do my last rep
I get out of here this I put in front
so if I pull down it racks it's super
easy
this is Peak ghetto engineering and I'm
all here for it the dildo cover
it exists in my gym because my wife and
I have some very close friends that live
close by and they use our gym and one of
the friends who shall continue to always
go unnamed us this is a heinous crime
we're admitting them too not even a
gender there they wanted to have this
because it made them more comfortable
with the squat
ah I just throw it down if it wasn't a
piece of equipment that someone paid
money for if you ever come over and you
see this that ain't me I don't stand for
the shit let me tell you guys about the
RP hypertrophy app with over 28 preset
programs already in the app you could
choose to make your own you could modify
an existing program or you could just
run the programs exactly as they were
written by me personally this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the app adjusts to
your unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
the mirrors in this gym are actually
these really dope mirrors that are on
Wheels and you can move them around and
I don't want to touch it too much but
it's actually a film it's not a mirror
so it's super light I can lift it with
one hand anytime you need to like be
doing rows but you want to see like your
anal cavity while you're doing them easy
mirror setup you just move it to
wherever you need to this is great for
posing shots you can roll the mirror to
anywhere there are like at least 20
places in this gym that have legendary
down lighting with moving the mirrors
you can catch them anywhere you want of
course this isn't one of them because
I'd look fucking better if that was in
one bro
and of course a lane in the middle of
the gym that I can lunge
I mean
how
[Music]
are you supposed to do walking lunges if
there's no Lane
so when we design the layout of this gym
from day one we knew that it was going
to have a lane
that's part of the lane is that it ends
exit to the gym let me show you guys
this if you're ever lunging
and you rack the weight and you're like
I'm just done with the shit no worries
you lend yourself all the way to the
garage door
right to the outside you can kindly
leave
and never return what does this gym look
like from the outside well it's just a
normal building I guess and I I think
some of the neighbors thought we had a
grow house here at the beginning and
they called the authorities on us and I
was like look I consume marijuana I
don't produce it that's nonsense they
make it at the store or whatever as far
as I know in any case guys thanks so
much for tuning in hopefully the gym
tour wasn't a gigantic disappointment as
is the rest of my life
if I can reflect on it the gym building
process was really pretty good most of
the machines I'm really happy with
I do fault myself for one thing I wish I
had tried out and hand-picked every
single machine that was in there I'm
mostly happy with them some I had to
sell and some extra I had to buy but
really if you're gonna build a home gym
don't just look at catalog pictures and
assume that machine is going to look
nice even if the specs line up just
using the machine will tell you a lot
problem is using new machines is tough
because not all the gyms have them but
it's worth a little bit of time thinking
about at the front end I had wished I
had done that you won't make the same
mistake as you learn from my mistakes
anyway all right
time to go work on another Lambo
purchase these homies
[Music]
thank you