if the end of your set consistently
looks like this you may be missing out
on about half of the muscle growth you
could be getting
soon to be Dr Milo wolf from Wolf
coaching here today we're going to talk
about how close to failure you should
train to optimize your hypertrophy I
recently read a paper about trading to
failure for hypertrophy and for strength
that actually changed a lot for me with
regards to how I coach people and how I
train myself for muscle growth I
actually made a meme about it and posted
it on Instagram and it got a lot of
reactions so I thought I'd make a longer
video going into what I think about that
paper my thoughts are on training to
failure versus training not to failure
rapidly and kind of dissect that for you
for a long time there were kind of two
camps although the Bros that trained to
fail you religiously that said unless
between a failure you can't make it you
can think of [ __ ] Mike metzer Fanboys
as an example equally you had the
evidence-based Camp which based on the
evidence and the best reviews at the
time thought that actually you could see
pretty similar hypertrophy whether
you're training to three reps shy of
failure or two failure so actually it
didn't matter whether or not you went
all the way to failure or at least it
made a very very small difference that
you could easily make up by just doing a
few more sets and to be honest I was
kind of in the second Camp right I'm
relatively evidence-based and I thought
that hey if DM says that we can grow the
same muscle training a few reps shy of
failure versus training to failure
that's a good trade-off however that
changed with the publication of the
preprint by Zach Robinson and colleagues
looking at the effects of how close to
failure you train on hypertrophy and
strength so to summarize what happened
was as a study had participants train
closer and closer to failure you saw
more growth so actually going from about
five reps in reserve or six reps in
reserve all the way to failure seemed to
about double the magnitude of muscle
growth so on average let's say trading
at five represent Reserve you see about
a five percent increase in muscle size
from starting a program to the end of
the program when you train to failure
you might see about a 10 increase from
the start of the program to the end of
the program so actually a pretty notable
Improvement now that's where hypertrophy
and importantly failure is a bit
complicated to Define right so when
you're talking about failure ultimately
it's extremely difficult or even
impossible to tell whether or not
failure actually occurred you know let's
say you finish a hard set of squats you
do the last rep it takes you a couple
seconds and you think wow I couldn't do
another one that's what we would call
volitional failure so that's ending a
set when you think you can't do another
rep you think you're done you think if
you tried another rap you fail on the
other hand if now you're doing that same
set you were thinking the same thing you
went for that rep you got it halfway up
you really got it for like three four
seconds and it just wouldn't move and it
came back down that's what we would call
momentary failure so essentially you try
to rap and actually failed it despite
your best effort it's worth noting that
in practice in the research in practice
as well in your own training and in my
own training you can never truly know
whether you hit failure it's kind of
impossible to know you can only do your
best ultimately but it is a limitation
of research and of practice that you can
never truly know whether or not you hit
failure you might think you give it the
best effort but did you really did it's
basically impossible to know here's what
they found Not only was there a
relationship between how close to
failure you trained for example trading
at 10 reps in Reserve versus five versus
failure seemingly increased growth as
you got closer and closer to failure
pretty linearly but then actually there
was something called
non-linearity as you're approached
different degrees of failure right so
from about 10 reps in reserve to what we
call volitional failure so ending your
set when you think you can't do another
one that was a pretty linear growth and
increase in hypertrophy as you went
closer and closer to volitional failure
however here's what the researchers did
they also distinguished between the
volitional failure and momentary failure
momentary failure when you try a rapid
can't get it is actually closer to True
failure than a bullish no failure
because with emotional failure you're
ending a set when you think you can't do
it at one but who knows maybe you should
try it in a gauntlet so when it
distinguishes that way what they saw is
that going from just a volitional
failure to all the way to actually
failing your app further increased
muscle growth but not just linearly as
it was doing before but actually
non-linear relief it increased muscle
growth even more than you would expect
if it was simply a linear relationship
between how close to failure you train
and hypertrophy so actually a very
consistent and very notable Improvement
in hypertrophy the closer you get to
True momentary failure regular Watts
actually fail in your repetition so
that's really interesting here's a few
quick limitations of this review paper
first one thing I did well was that it
actually looked at how close to failure
you train as more of a continuous
variable previously review papers had
kind of dichotomized it into either a
trade failure or you don't but that's
not very informative because ultimately
in practice you don't not train a
failure or train a failure you might
train with two reps of attack or three
or four or five and those might have
different effects on hypertrophy and so
with this type of review paper what we
really want to know is how does
hypertrophy change at different
intensities when we create a two Epson
Reserve versus five versus failure and
that's what this review did and that was
really cool one strength and limitation
of this paper though was that they
include a lot of studies that didn't
explicitly look at repstone reserve and
hypertrophy but rather they looked at
different designs like for example
cluster sets where people did sets of
two with their five rep max right so a
weight that they could maximally do for
five reps if they gave their best shot
and so we know that if they do sets of
two as cluster sets we'll say 30 seconds
rest instead of two 30 seconds rest a
set of two we know that each of those
sets would have three reps in reserve
and they also included those studies now
in some of these studies estimating reps
and Reserve was pretty challenging right
it's not always easy to there's
assumptions that go into it so it may
not be perfectly accurate and that can
generate a bit of variance or a bit a
bit more uncertainty about the exact
size of the effect of going to failure
versus having a rep in the tank what
have you it's a bit more difficult to
estimate but it did add more data to
their analysis and thus in my opinion
was a pretty solid analysis now you
might ask okay that's cool but at least
that is they generally use like one
exercise or maybe two and they do maybe
five or ten in practice as someone who's
read some literature you might be like
cool bro I do 10 to 20 sets a week so
does that really apply to me and here's
the interesting thing in the synopsis
they performed other analyzes too and
one of them was looking at how that
relationship between reps and reserve
and hypertrophy changed as more sets
performed and actually even when we're
looking at higher number of sets say 10
to 20 sets per week that relationship of
seeing more growth when trading to
failure versus training sub maximally
still existed albeit to a lesser extent
so this shape of that curve for
hypertrophy stayed the same but the
difference was just slightly lower so if
you're training with very high volumes
going from say training with two reps in
attack on average to training to failure
is still going to make you see more
growth probably you can recover in
everything else but it will be a lower
Improvement compared to if you're doing
say only five cents a week now the
million dollar question is why why does
trading closer to failure improve your
hypertrophy and to be honest in my view
there's a few potential reasons number
one the kind of traditional
thank you ambulance shout out to
ambulance as you feel me the number one
reason and that's the reason they
hypothesized in this paper was something
called motor unit recruitment so
essentially your nervous system it
attaches to your muscle fibers right so
the way you contract is your central
nervous system sends out some signals to
your muscle fibers and say hey it says
hey we need to contract right now we
need to lift this weight so we call the
motor neurons or essentially the the
cables let's call them the wires and the
muscle fibers they attach to we call
those motor units and the amount of
cables we fire electrical impulses
through and signals to the muscle saying
hey contract contract contract plus the
weight depends on how much force you
need to produce right so if you're
lifting your max by definition because
it's your max your central nervous
system is going to recruit and send
signals to all the motor units and all
the muscle fibers available however
depending on the weight you're lifting
not every rep is going to recruit every
fiber let's say for example you do a set
of 30 reps on the first rep it's a
pretty easy wrap you're not fatigued the
weight you're lifting isn't very
challenging challenging it's not very
heavy and so you may only recruit 20 30
of your muscle fibers to do that job as
you get closer and closer to failure
though some muscle fibers will fatigue
and so incrementally your body will have
to recruit more muscle fibers of
different muscle fibers to accomplish
that job of lifting that weight that was
initially easy but as fatigue set in you
have to recruit every single muscle
fiber and that's potentially a reason as
to why going close to the failure
recruits more muscle fibers when you
recruited muscle fiber they then produce
tension and by producing tension you
initiate hypertrophy so when you're
doing say a set of 10 with 5 reps in
attack or 10 reps in a tank some fibers
in your muscle they may not be getting
recruited they may not be getting used
they may not be producing tension and
tension eventually will stimulate
hypertrophy so by going to failure
you're making sure that every single
muscle fiber is being recruited is
producing fansion and is then being
stimulated for high pressure and that
might be the reason why going to failure
and even volitional failure as opposed
to monetary failure the ladder will
produce more growth is because the
further you push the more you
essentially ensuring that every single
muscle fiber gets activated recruited
and thus stimulated that's the main
mechanism that's been hypothesized for
why going to failure is better for
approach fee substantially so actually
than not extreme failure before we jump
into practical applications and
takeaways from this research and how I
would approach your training now let me
make one thing clear as I mentioned the
relationship between Trend failure and
hypertrophy did change meaning it
decreased as you did more sets but I
think one thing is worth keeping in mind
the most recent data we have on trailing
volume and hypertrophy suggests that
actually the effects of going from say
10 sets per week to 20 sets per week or
about the same size as trading say with
three or five reps in reserve restrained
failure or sometimes lower so actually
in terms of importance it's possible
that training to failure produces more
hypertrophy than say going from 10 sets
a week to 20 sets a week so in other
words pushing yourself and doing all
your sets at three optional Reserve all
the way to failure May produce more
growth than going from say 10 sets a
week 20 cents per week so the trade-off
in fatigue may actually be more
worthwhile trading to failure versus
small training failure compared to doing
20 sets versus 10 sets even though both
modifications meaning going from 10 to
20 cents or training to failure with
small train failure will produce
additional fatigue the additional growth
you get from a trade-off and fatigue may
be superior when you're trained to
failure versus doing more sets it's not
super cool yet but that evidence does
exist practical takeaways a lot of
[ __ ] about research but what are the
actual takeaways well I think most of
you trading for hypertrophy should be
pretty close to failure how I would
approach it if you have sufficient time
to train at your disposal is to store
your exercises the first step should be
about two reps in reserve then gradually
as you know you reach into set two or
three or four or five you gradually move
closer to failure so that your last set
you either hit volitional failure this
is for exercises where you think failing
isn't that safe so I could think for
example of squats or bench pressing
without a spotter or you can also go all
the way for your last set to momentary
failure so this is for exercises like
income normal pressing or dumbbell rows
or pull Downs where failing is actually
pretty safe that's where I would go to
all the way to momentary failure for
that last set this is where the
interesting caveat comes in the reason
why I wouldn't take every set of failure
necessarily although you could if you
take the first few sets of a session to
failure the rest of your performance
during that session will take a pretty
big hit because you're fatigued right if
there's anything to needing a certain
workload overall you know lifting this
number of reps this number of sets this
number of reps across the session to
optimize hypertrophy by going to failure
on every set earlier in the session or
earlier in exercise you may actually be
shooting yourself in the foot a little
bit as far as how perch feels so that's
why I wouldn't necessarily take every
set to failure that being said here's
the second takeaway I think that if you
don't have enough time to train training
to failure is a very good idea for
hypertrophy so if you're someone who can
only train twice a week for like half an
hour or an hour each probably every site
you do should be very close to failure
there's other time saving strategies
like supersets which I'll make a video
on if you want leave a comment down
below if you want to see that or like
minimizing warm-ups I can make a video
about warmth if you want again leave a
comment down below if you're interested
but going to failure for every set seems
like a very time efficient way to
improve your hypertrophy so if you can't
train seven days a week for an hour each
or even five days a week or even four
days a week going to failure may be a
very good strategy to increase your
approach for you anyways that's the
video if you like the [ __ ] video
please comment like subscribe and all
the other cringe [ __ ] every YouTuber
ever says but this isn't cringe you feel
me look at that anyways see you guys on
the next one peace