when you go to the gym and lift weights
your muscles visibly get bigger however
this superpower is shortlived and you
soon return to your normal human state
that is what we call the pump and it's
terrific and it feels different it feels
fantastic it's a satisfying to me Asing
is and so can you believe how much I am
in heaven I am like getting the feeling
of coming in the gym I'm getting the
feeling of coming at home I'm getting
the feeling of reading scientific papers
on hypertrophy when I perform lengthened
partials
I get the same view feeling so I'm day
and night I mean it's terrific right but
what does the pump actually tell you
about muscle
growth welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
today with wolf coaching PhD in sports
science what you may not know about the
pump is that it's actually been the
topic of academic investigation first
what is the pump well that's what a
paper entitled the muscle pump potential
mechanisms and application for enhancing
hypertrophic adaptations by Brad
shonfeld and bread contrs try to answer
the pump is an acute or short-lived
alteration or change in the balance
between intracellular and extracellular
water balance during lifting the veins
that take blood away from your muscles
are compressed reducing the blood flow
away from your muscles meanwhile the
arteries are continuing to deliver blood
flow towards your muscles this creates
an increased concentration of blood
within your muscles this then leads to
some weird pressure Dynamics where
you're adding blood into the muscle
which increases pressure and eventually
what this means is that more plasma is
flowing into your muscle importantly
though it's not the actual muscle fiber
that is swelling but rather the gap
between them what we call the
interstitium that is swelling you can
think of it as a tire as you try and
pump more blood into the muscle the
pressure builds up lo and behold you
achieve the pump and here's a fun fact
muscle swelling from a session can
actually last up to 48 or 72 hours after
for recession if you've ever stopped
Lifting for a few days or weeks you'll
notice pretty much instantly you get a
little bit smaller because of this
researchers actually have to wait for at
least 48 or sometimes 72 hours after
participants are done training in a
study before they measure their muscle
size that's all well and good and the
pump is a beautiful side effect but how
does it actually cause muscle growth or
does it even cause muscle growth first
off what you get during your session you
know the visually bigger muscles the
feeling that's not actually muscle
growth however could it lead to muscle
growth when you get a pump again and
again well maybe there is a hypothesis
that an increased pressure within the
cell eventually leads to the cellular
membrane or the cytoskeleton detecting
it deeming it a threat to Cellular
integrity and initiating a Cascade of
responses to reinforce cellular
Integrity what's the evidence for muscle
cell swelling actually contributing to
hypertrophy as opposed to just a more
evolutionary rationale for white might
well in a variety of other cell types
like immune system cells and breast
cells cellular swelling actually
functions as a way to regulate the
functions of the cell notably faster
twitch fibers which are the biggest
muscle fibers you have appear sensitive
to muscle swelling for example in rats
cell swelling has been linked to the
uptake of glutamine which is amino acid
that eventually leads to protein
synthesis and potentially muscle growth
another hypothesis about cell swelling
and how it plays a role with hypertrophy
is that it increases satellite Cel
activity leading to the addition of
myonuclei to muscle fibers I have a
whole video on myonuclei here that you
can check out but the long story short
is the addition of my nuclei into muscle
fibers might be an important preparatory
step before substantial increases in
muscle size can occur and therefore by
helping out in this process cell
swelling could help with hypertrophy in
the long term however what I want you to
take away from this section is that
while there are mechanisms that could
lead to a benefit of cell swelling for
hypertrophy it's not super clearcut yet
it's still relatively misunderstood
however do we have any evidence in
actual humans of the pump directly
leading to more hypertrophy or at the
very least being something that we can
look at and say because this causes more
of a pump we can say that this is better
than that for example you might get more
of pump from a like press versus a light
extension and thereby infer that the
like press is a better exercise because
it gives you more of a pump well we do
have a few studies in humans but they
might not be that convincing let me
break them down first we have two
studies in humans that try to assess
correlation or essentially the link or
the degree to which these two things
happen together of muscle swelling AKA
The Pump and of increases in muscle size
over time the first is a study by hirono
and colleagues from 2022 where they
performed leg extensions for 6 weeks in
that first training session of those 6
weeks they measured how much their
quadriceps swo up from before the
session to after the session including
right after the session 5 minutes after
the session 10 minutes after the session
and 15 minutes after the session then
they had participants trained for 6
weeks straight and measured the change
in quadricep size from before the study
to after the study in nine different
sites on the quadriceps first the
participants quadriceps absolutely Grew
From before the study to after the study
Additionally the session did provide
them with a pump their quarters swo for
at least 15 minutes after the training
session additionally the swelling that
they experienced during that first
session was correlated with how much
growth they saw over those 6 weeks
however first the correlations were
about 0.5 in other words if you look at
the cell swelling and look at the
hypertrophy only about 25% of the
hypertrophy could be explained by the
cell swelling experience at the start of
the study what does this mean in this
context well it means that this study
really tells us participants that saw a
pump at the start of the study then were
also somewhat more likely to grow more
during the study what this doesn't tell
us is that if this exercise C cuses more
of a pump it will then also lead to more
hypertrophy that is a very different
thing because they didn't compare two
different protocols here they just
looked at the swelling from one exercise
and saw whether or not that was
associated with hypertrophy over the
study and there's another caveat here
they measured cell swelling using
ultrasounds you are not an ultrasound
what you feel is a subjective experience
of the pump and that comes with a lot of
things baked into it not just how much
the the actual cells swell and
importantly a as far as how your feeling
of a pump and actual cell swell in
correlate whether or not they're even
the same thing whether you feeling like
you have a pump really is the same as
you having a pump that's pretty
invalidated we just don't have research
for the time being saying that your
assessment of how pumped you are
actually is correlated with how much of
a cell swelling effect we see and just
to give you an idea of how novel this
area is in the discussion section the
authors didn't even really try and
discuss the mechanisms behind why cell
swelling might have been predictive of
hypertrophy it's just a pretty new area
but there is a second study
unfortunately this study hasn't been
published yet but it's a conference
abstract AKA a study that was presented
at a conference by Odo and colleagues
from 2023 they once again tried to see
whether the swelling of two muscle
groups the ponus breus and the ponus
longus would correlate or be associated
with growth over 8 weeks in this case
they perform two sets of 100 reps each
time three times a week for weeks for
either their ponus brevis or their ponus
longus and wanted to see whether muscle
swelling measured in that first session
of those 8 weeks would correlate with
growth across those 8 weeks they also
use the ultrasound to assess both muscle
thickness and cross-sectional area once
again there was a significant
correlation between increases in
cross-sectional area from before to
after the first session AK their pump
with their hypertrophy of about 0.68 the
issue there once again is that this
study didn't compare different exercises
or different rep ranges it just gave
participants an exercise to perform
looked at how much of a pump they got
and then how much growth they saw over
the course of 8 weeks the issue there is
that the participants that saw more of a
pump may just have been more pre-exposed
to growth perhaps they have better
hydration better nutrition less stress
more sleep there's a variety of
confounders here that really make it
difficult to say that the pump is what
caused the growth or even that the pump
as you experience it is a meaningful
predictor of hypertrophy and indeed
that's where the story gets worse
because while only have two studies that
try to measure swelling and hypertrophy
thereafter we have other studies that
just measured swelling didn't try and
have participants come back in for say 8
weeks afterwards to see how much they
would grow from that same exercise but
studies that just measured swelling in
response to a protocol for example
casano and colleagues in 2023 looked at
the swelling of the gastrus and the
Solus muscle the gas trol at both a
medial and lateral site in response to
four sets of 20 reps on either the C
calf ra or a calf ra with your knees
extended they use the ultrasound to
measure swelling after the straight like
calf raises participants saw more
swelling in their medial and lateral
gastrus compared to the seated cafr
conversely in the seated cafr
participants saw their Solus swell more
compared to when they were doing the
standing calf so assuming that swelling
correlates and predicts hypertrophy you
would expect seated calf raises to be
better for the Solus and standing calf
raises to be better for the gastrus and
yet that is not true we have two studies
now comparing the seated cafr to a cafr
with her knees extended and looking at
hypertrophy one by kinoshita and
colleagues and one unpublished one I've
actually been a part of at Brad
schoenfeld's lab in New York first
kinosha and colleague study on the
standing versus seated cafr found that
the Solus grew similarly from the
standing cafr versus the seated cafres
so if you expected more growth in the
Solus and the seated cafr based on those
swelling findings that didn't pan out
him like likewise the study from our own
lab found something similar the standing
calf raas resulted in more gastrous
growth but actually resulted in roughly
the same Solus growth so even though we
saw greater swelling in the Solus in the
casano study across two studies that
didn't actually lead to more growth in
the Solus importantly these aren't the
same samples they're not the same
participants in all the studies the
methods differed slightly but still it's
just something to give you pause when
considering the pump as something very
important essentially the same thing
happened with the flat bench press
versus the ink bench press a study by
alberello and colleagues tried to
measure surface EMG and muscle swelling
as measured by ultrasound yet again
during the flat bench press versus the
incline bench press interestingly
surface EMG and muscle thickness were
actually pretty discordant and in
general I wouldn't use surface EMG as
really much in terms of hypertrophy
training but let me break down the
muscle swelling results for you guys
essentially in this study they saw
similar or slightly greater upper chest
swelling with a flat bench but
substantially greater swelling in the
lower chest with a flat bench compared
to the incline bench now wait a minute
does that mean the flat bench is as good
for the upper chest as the inine bench I
mean first you probably don't buy that
and neither do I and here's why we
actually have one study comparing actual
muscle growth in the lower chest and the
upper chest stemming from Flat benching
versus incline benching and that's a
study by traveis and colleagues they saw
substantially more upper chest growth
when doing the incline bench versus the
flat bench these results are a bit funky
and I can go into a whole video about
that at some point if you want but this
just further shows that swelling doesn't
seem to really predict hypertrophy very
well yet again one limitation is that
the sample in this study and the
alberello and colleague study is not the
same so you can't make a super strong
difference but it's still just something
to give you pause so in these two
studies they actually tried to measure
swelling from two different exercises
the casano study in the Cales and the
Alber and colleague study in the bench
press both of these studies really
failed to predict actual hypertrophy in
other studies and even more importantly
this was muscle swelling as measured via
ultrasound not your own subjective
perception of what your pump is we have
no data suggesting that that's the same
thing let me summarize what the pump is
what it does and what you can and can't
use it for first the mechanisms
regarding how much the pump actually
matters for growth and why it does are
still relatively poorly understood the
pump may have some value in predicting
who will grow more not necessarily what
will grow you more as in if 1X gives you
more of a pump and the other less of a
pump that is not a good reason to pick
one exercise over another there's a huge
issue with using a pump as a
justification or a rationale for using
one approach over another you are not an
ultrasound
AR until we have data saying you're an
ultrasound I would take this with a
pinch of salt that is to say until we
have data suggesting that your own
subjective perception and rating of a
pump is the same or at least reasonably
similar to what we measure using an
ultrasound for example I would be
skeptical of using your own pump as a
justification for a certain strategy
here's a big important message do not
use the pump as a means to select a
strategy over more important and more
evidence-based principles like for
example training of longer muscle
lengths in the case of training at
longer muscle lengths we have a body of
evidence of about 20 to 25 studies
sugges that hey longer muscle length
training is likely to be better for
hypertrophy in the case of the pump we
have minimal evidence that is relatively
inconsistent with the additional caveat
that you are not an ultrasound so if
you're picking an exercise that is for
example training you at shorter muscle
lengths over an exercise that is
training you at longer muscle lengths
with your rationale being that the
former gives you a better pump you're
making a mistake in all likelihood the
only time I ever really pay attention to
a pump besides getting a sick picture
from my Instagram for my YouTube is if I
don't get any pump whatsoever from what
is seemingly on paper a pretty
reasonable protocol that might be
something worth paying attention to
because there might still be some
correlation between your pump and
Effectiveness but as long as you get a
pump I wouldn't really pay much more
attention that is the video did a deep
dive on the pump as a means to predict
hypertrophy and guide your training the
truth is it shouldn't guide your
training if you enjoyed this video and
you want to see more videos basically
reviewing all of the research on a given
topic leave a comment down below letting
me know what you want me to break down
for you comment like subscribe and I'll
see you guys in that next one
peace you can leave that in if you think
it's funny you can take it out I don't
really care just said it intra
intracelular intracellular and
extracellular fluid balance let repeat
that hard words