remember every cell in our body is
exchanging with its outside environment
it's eliminating waste it's repairing
it's detoxifying it's detoxifying is one
of those terms that if you hear someone
who thinks they know biology say you
typically have to raise an eyebrow to it
it's a Hokey Pokey hippie term and it
does Ring the Alarm Bells uh let's see
where this goes it's regenerating so if
we can enhance that process you start to
begin to understand okay he said five
things and then he said if we can
enhance that process there are thousands
of processes that all Vector into these
different outcomes you cannot call that
a process and exposing cells to just one
General thing like some electromagnetism
has so far not yielded an overall net
balance Improvement in all cells
processes I wish there was a way to
shoot some into the human body to
get General Improvement of Health out
but I don't think that's a real thing