[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization come and at you with the
hypertrophy made simple series 16 videos
so far of all of the fundamental ways in
which to design hypertrophy programs and
troubleshoot as quickly and to the point
as possible if you want jargon if you
want science if you want deep
explanations what you want is the
hypertrophy guide central hub on
Renaissance period ization website or
any of our other longer form YouTube
videos let's get right into it
how do you choose the exercises that
you're going to be using to grow muscle
growth well here's the deal how can you
tell you're growing muscle you can tell
acutely and longitudinally in a couple
of ways acutely that is at the time of
which your training or right around it
if there's tension in the target muscle
that's probably going to cause growth if
there's a burn on the target muscle from
an exercise especially in high reps
that's probably gonna cause growth if
there's a pump in the target muscle
after a few sets that's a good sign and
if there's fatigue disruption and
soreness in the muscle during and after
that's also a good sign something is
happening that's gonna lead to growth in
the longer term your repetition strength
trends upwards and that's a good sign
that the muscles are getting bigger so
how do you choose exercises well you
want to choose exercises to do a couple
of things
they cost tension and burn in the target
muscle that's a really big important
thing so if you feel bicep curls and
your biceps that's a very good sign they
give you the best pumps the ones that
give you the best pumps are probably the
ones you want to use more for
hypertrophy I want to make sure that
they zap your target muscle the most so
if you're if your quads you use some
kind of leg press or hacks what just
destroys your quads that's probably a
good thing you probably want to keep
doing that exercise for a while you want
the exercise to stress your joints the
least because that is a very sustainable
thing that you can continue to train
hard with and you want the exercise to
do this without a ton of needless
generation of systemic fatigue you don't
have to work as hard if you have to
exercises they give you the same pumps
and burn everything else and one is
pretty easy to do the other one is just
really hard to do and takes a lot out of
you the easier one is the better choice
so when you're choosing exercises and
you've got exercises in your plan
how do you know if you want to keep them
for next month of training or take them
out and replace them well here's the
deal you want to keep doing exercises
that give you great tension burn pumps
and disruption an exercise that is easy
on your joints and is worth the systemic
fatigue that is it's really great for
training relative to how much systemic
fatigue could cause you how much it
wears you out
you want to keep that that's really good
and if that exercise is steadily
climbing in rep strength that's a good
thing awesome keep it don't change it on
the other hand you probably want to
consider replacing an exercise with
another one if that exercise no longer
gives you very good tension burn pumps
or disruption it's just like math right
if it's getting tough on your joints and
it saps strength for the rest of your
program if it takes you like an hour to
get through some kind of deadly ferry
and it just beats you up and you can't
even barely train afterward maybe you
want to replace that and lastly a huge
one if your strength is plateauing on
exercise especially for over the last
month there's just hasn't been any gains
in rep strength it's probably a good
time to switch up exercises what this
means is that some exercises you'll
rotate every other month and some you
can keep for years on end because they
just continue to provide excellent
results folks that's the super quick and
easy guide to choosing exercises see you
next time for the next video
[Music]