[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization the hack squat it is
loved it is hated people do it right
people do it wrong let's try to focus on
how not to do it wrong and figure out
how to do it right with these common
tips tricks and fixes remember the
purpose of the hack squat used to
hypertrophy your quads so let's get
right into it
common mistake number one with the hack
squat is folks not going deep enough
going super deep on the hacks what
allows your quads to be exposed to a
crazy amount of nearly isolated tension
they are super super very much the
limiting factor if you start cutting
depth then you can do more reps but for
what in addition to that cutting depth
sometimes on hack squats put your knees
in a really interesting position which
is not the best so a lot of times folks
will put a lot of weight in there
because you know the whole point of the
hack spot is to impress people who don't
give a with how much weight you're
lifting and they'll set up a pretty good
set up and all of a sudden you know
they'll come down and they'll notice
okay here it's getting really tough I
better come up and then okay I could go
down but there's no way I'm coming up if
I go deeper so I'm not gonna do that put
less weight on the bar a lot of times
that's what has to be done make sure you
feed a set in and expose yourself to
maximum tension by going all the way
down until you can literally sit on your
calves as long as your heels are
touching the ground you are as the kids
say
Gucci this is the way to do a proper
hack squat all the way down now you may
have every very good intention of going
deep enough but when you go low when I'm
up happening is the Machine actually
hits the bottoms and it stops you may be
right here or maybe right here here's a
solution to that problem
as you can see walk with me for a second
what you can do is put mats onto the
hack squat just like these now for my
short ass we need three mats to make
this machine work and actually go to
full depth if you don't have mats like
this at your gym it can be tough you use
the machine for as much range of motion
as it gives you but if you do have mats
like this layer enough of them make sure
they're nice and solid don't go killing
yourself now and then you'll test it out
remember that as the weights get heavier
your body compresses more you may need
to add in another layer of math you
didn't know you had to when you just did
the warmups for me it takes three mats
for you who knows if you're of an adult
height unlike myself I never grew taller
than a child if you're an adult height
you may not need this but especially if
you're female unfortunately many
machines are just not designed for
females with their shorter stature you
may need a couple of these after you get
them it's going to make a world of
difference next mistake sometimes people
try to go for extra credit and they go
super super deep and what ends up
happening is they actually get into a
position which is not super safe and
doesn't produce a ton of force so a lot
of times people want to get all the way
down what they end up doing is they
around their back at the bottom
sometimes their heels cop and a bunch of
other stuff you only want to go as deep
as you can with a nice straight lower
back and your heel still on the ground
this down here is extra credit nobody
needs you you lose a ton of tension
through all of your muscles your injury
risk goes up a little bit but
fundamentally you're just not getting as
good enough of a workout for your quads
so go deep but not so deep that your
backgrounds your pelvis tilts and your
heels come off the ground
next mistake is not having a
standardized range of motion now even if
you're trying to do a full range of
motion what I'm it's up happening is
sometimes make sure I get my feet right
here sometimes you go down pretty quick
and you sort of hit your calves and you
come back up sometimes you go down a
little slower and you sink in that extra
little bit and you come back up so it
ends up being very close to standard but
not quite and it can throw off your rep
count your and how much overload you're
producing week to week to week so if you
did 20 reps with 240 pounds last week
you 21 reps this time or you go from 240
to 245
maybe you cut more of your reps a little
high this week and actually didn't
outperform yourself it's tough to know
if you're keeping track their maximum
recovery volume via performance if
you're always doing a little bit
different so my recommendation is
twofold
a good recommendation is when you go
down gently slow down and then come all
the way back up because when you slow
down and almost stop you usually get
almost the same depth another one your
call which one you do and you can
actually use both for variation one of
these for some number of mesocycles
another for the other is to come all the
way down to a complete stop and come all
the way back up now you don't need to be
sitting for hours down there but a full
stop for a second can stand erase every
single repetition and have you doing
these no problem the same way over and
over
great for stimulus great for
standardization great for tracking next
mistake we have a combo of feet too
close to the platform and feet too far
away from platform or if you're really
crazy both in the same time I'm just
kidding all right so the first one
pretty rare because in this one if you
have your feet too close you usually
can't produce a lot of force which means
you can't put a lot of weight on the bar
so most people don't even bother us on
us sometimes you know if you're diligent
and you just want to do a good job you
may end up putting your feet really
close to a platform here's what happens
first of all it feels really really
nasty in your quad tendon sometimes but
some people are resilient and or like
myself just bullheaded and will just do
it anyway the real bad stuff happens
when you get low enough it turns out
that you can't keep your heels down this
radically drops a ton of force
production and now you're using so
little weight and getting so little
tension to your quads your
growing them as much as you could be the
solution to this of course is what you
do is you put your feet up a little bit
to where now you go all the way down
your heels are stable producing a lot of
force and everything's fixed you can
take that fix too far and many people do
and put your feet up really really high
when ends up happening then is at the
bottom notice my lower back is coming
off the seat its rounding and then
sometimes when they come up this happens
to where they hit into the bar not so
great for injury reasons for the lower
back also now you're using muscles like
your glutes more that aren't really
supposed to be used at time you're
turning the head squat more into a
regular squat inside of a machine you
want that happy middle ground notice
something I don't know if you can see
this on the camera hopefully you can we
actually have this hacks what marked
with a little bit of chalk right there
these little white notches to make sure
that we know we're in reference our feet
are and all of us who trained on this
thing here at my staff strength the
lion's den gym we actually know exactly
roughly exactly roughly you guys like
that where our feet go in relation to
these so we know where we're good to
make sure that every squat is the same
every time you come in for a session we
have this really good position where
we're going low enough our heels are
still touching and we're producing tons
of force as opposed to going too high
and rounding the crap out of your back
or too shallow and losing tension to
your quads by having to get onto your
toes sometimes even with your best
intentions you end up coming up on your
toes as you hack squat way way way too
much
well actually any is really bad you
always want to have the force centered
in the middle of your foot and if
anything closer to your heel if you
can't do that we have at least two
things you can try other than as already
explained moving your feet up or down on
the platform because it could be one of
these things where if you move your feet
up enough for your heels to touch then
your lower back starts rounding that's
no bueno so we have two potential fixes
one as you see me now have a
weightlifting shoe
they're amazing if you are a bodybuilder
or someone who trains fryer purchase
you've known weightlifting a power
lifter yeah you don't know about
weightlifting shoes is they will
turn your quad training upside down in
the best possible way everything will
come from your quads the leverage you'll
feel perfect they're super tight nothing
moves around it's awesome
that extra heel in there make sure that
when you go super deep you're still on
your heels
it's amazing highly highly recommend
investing in a weightlifting shoe if you
don't really have one now the
alternative thing to do if you don't
have a weightlifting shoe is sometimes
in this hack squat is not one of them
there'll be a notch or a lever here
right on this part where you can
actually move the platform up and down a
little bit a lot of times tilting the
platform further away from you lets you
sit more on your heels and less on your
toes and can actually fix the problem
it's like a sort of built-in weight
lifting shoe that downside is if you
tilt it too far you start to slip and
there's a ton of tension in your knees
because there's tons of shearing force
so make sure you don't just push the
platform all the way down play around
with a little bit but push it down a
little bit so that you can get a really
good perch on your heels and do the best
job possible safely producing tons of
force for your quads the next mistake
isn't so much a mistake it's a little
bit of dogma of people wondering where
they should put their feet as far as a
width should I put my feet out super far
should I have my feet super close here's
the deal there are literally zero
correct answers here only a guidance and
the guidance is this what produces the
most tension in your quads while not
being limited by other muscles like a
doctor's and glutes and also feeling
pretty good on your knees hips and all
the other joints involved so here's the
deal if you really feel with a wide
stance by the way this also concerns
which way to point the feet wide stance
feet pointed out you feel an awesome
amount of tension of stretching the
quads they really are the limiting
factor for you amazing no pain in the
knees no weirdness your hips are aligned
your backs not rounded and that's how
you like the hacks lot
have at it on the other hand if that
feels weird a and you like to keep
your feet really close pointed
completely forward and go all the way
down and that's how you get a ton of
tension in your quads and everything
else feels great
that's absolutely on you it's super fine
to do it anything in between is good my
training partner Charlie actually has
the speech super close
with his toes pointed super far out it's
like a duck in water there are no hard
rules here would do whatever is hitting
your quads hard making sure they're the
limiting factor so for example if you're
doing this wide stance because it feels
pretty good on your quads and your
joints are good and knees are good and
after you know when you get closer to
failure you're like it's like my quads
are fine but I know like a my a doctor's
the muscles bringing the knees in
they're the ones getting really really
tired really fatigued and starting to
cramp maybe it's not the best because
you're a doctor's we'll get most of the
training your quads will themselves
never approach failure not exactly quite
exercise anymore unless you're using
hats lots of training adapters which is
cool even though there's 50 other
exercises for them not the best idea so
even if bringing in your stance doesn't
quite let you lift as much way to maybe
doesn't feel as good for your joints it
still feels fine if your quads are
really the limiting factor now that's
probably the better way to go use those
as your guides and also last thing you
can do them all for a few weeks at a
time you can do wide if that feels good
and then a few weeks at a time or
several men cycles at a time you could
do narrow and anything in between hey
you can even do this on one day of the
week let's say you train hack squats
twice a week which is totally fine you
can go heavy with a wide stance and then
another day of the week you can go light
possibly after heavy squats or something
with a closer stance feet pointed more
into really really isolate the quads
more again no right answers here just do
the right thing to your joints and to
your muscles all right next mistakes
super common is to not have a controlled
eccentric and to rush it and to dive
vomit here is the thing when you've got
a set of 15 or 20 hack squats ahead of
you it's really tempting to be like you
know what this hurts so I'm gonna get
these reps done as fast as I can so you
go down real quick and then or you come
up and whoop you drop in real quick and
you come up cool thing is you get to
write 15 or 20 or whatever number of
raps on your worksheet sweet you're the
man nobody gives a the not cool
thing is that you missed a ton of
hypertrophic stimulus milking out the
eccentric phase which is important for
growth it's not like
show more important phase but
concentrate eccentric an isometric are
all important for growth so you don't
want to miss out here's the deal
this does not mean that you need to do
one of these like 18 second he
soundtracks really well I wonder what
I'm doing later oh look I finished her
up trying to come back up that can
needlessly reduce force production it's
a funny way to train but not the best
any eccentric phase that's controlled at
all is good so I'd recommend something
like two seconds on the way down all the
way up to five seconds if you'd like but
pick a standard so for the next two or
three mesocycles two seconds on the way
down and then as fast as you can come up
on the way up so maybe look something
like this control and up control and
feel your quads and up and you can do
all the way up to five seconds to us
you're gonna control and then come up
and then control just the same way same
set and come up both are cool and
anything is cool in between just don't
dive bomb them and don't take forever to
take load off the bar locking out is it
fine or is it gonna kill you what should
your reps look like should you go down
and then come up just shy of lockout and
then come down and then come up or when
you come up should you go and lock your
knees here's the thing you're not that
lady from the crazy ass leg press video
if you don't throw up or pass out from
really disturbing things YouTube the
 out of that video
leg press accident lockout lady there's
plenty of those floating around the
super disturbing the some of this lady
is incredibly incredibly flexible
probably not very strong
she hyper extends her knees and they
Bend all the way back I know
super super messed up and it's a huge
disaster you're not that lady the human
joint in almost every case is designed
to lock out under load okay that this is
totally fine unless you have a way too
much weight in the body have no business
of doing or you slam
purposefully and try to hyperextend your
knees but you're not doing that almost
all people with any semblance of
athleticism as they come up they reduce
the velocity in them lock they're not
like jumping into the so if you
don't do crazy crazy purposeful
super-powerful lockouts which are
pointless you're totally fine locking
out if you prefer to do a few reps maybe
eight to ten almost to lockout to keep
the tension on the muscle and build up a
ton of metabolites and then after you've
done let's say a trap so you're almost
at failure you can lock out breathe two
or three breaths and then do another set
like that that's totally fine as long as
you standardize the number of rest
breaks you take you're like okay for the
next mountain cycle I'm taking two
breathing breaks of three seconds each
in every single set of hack squats of
thought that way you can really track
your performance because you can always
do a couple more reps if you breathe for
a while
as long as you're doing that you can do
that method or you can lock out every
single rep or you can do each one of
your sets to almost lock out and when
you can't do it anymore when you lock
out once you rack the weight it's your
call if you don't like to lock out no
big deal if you're locking out it's
totally fine and over time it is not
unsafe for your joints to lock out
there's a huge myth that needs to die
[Music]
last mistake and last tip for hack
squats before we sign that off of this
going too heavy or going too light
there's a really no such thing as too
heavy for light the hack squats an
incredible machine you can do anywhere
from sets of five two sets of thirty no
problem here's the thing though sets of
five to ten a lot of times because the
hack squats so much biases force in the
direction of your knees away from your
hips it can leave your knees and quad
tendons feeling a little bit not so
great especially after multiple weeks of
training for most people we'll be fine
may not be worth the risk especially
since you're free squatting and maybe
Smith machine squatting is totally
awesome to do in the five to ten rep
range so it's not that it's bad you
might just not need to do it on the
other hand hack squats can do sets of
twenty to thirty reps totally fine but
you've got leg extensions you have leg
presses you have lunges all of which
have less axial load pressing down on
your spine thus less systemic fatigue to
do with those super high rep sets so
my best recommendation to you is most of
the time use hack squats between sets of
10 and sets of 20 it's a big range
within that range find what works best
for you and hey don't be afraid to use
both parts of the range so earlier in
the week you can do sets of like twelve
reps or so and later in the week you do
sets of like eighteen wraps or so gets
you an awesome high tension stimulus in
the first part of the week an awesome
metabolize stimulus in the second
everything's super good and
fundamentally if you feel like your
quads are the limiting factor and if you
don't have any joint pain and you're
systemically not limited any rep range
for hack squats just totally fine folks
thank you so much for tuning in to this
hack squat video I wish I had more tips
and tricks here but it's really very
straightforward exercise do it ease into
it because it can make you sore as hell
it's gonna build you enormous quads if
you do it right you do it over the long
term and you get stronger slowly don't
be tempted to throw tons of hundreds on
there and do a shitty job take your time
to get stronger for a long time
I was only hack squatting in the 300s
and my quads are already really big sort
of embarrassing you could say not I'm
hack sweating close to 600 pounds my
quads have grown for sure but I did it
right the entire time I didn't have to
get hurt a bunch or caught up in my ego
if you have any questions shoot him into
the comments if you have any suggestions
for other machines or other exercises we
can demo and talk about shoot them in
the comments as well and folks if you
want to answer some questions and help
us out if you know what you're talking
about
by all means help out your fellow
youtubers like subscribe share whatever
 youtube people do folks thank you
so much for tuning in
catch you next time
[Music]
oh did you hear that it was like Bob Lee
and gurgly things happened in my
that I'm not proud of