most of our research is on trained
individuals and when we finish a study
more than three4 of them will say that
it was the hardest they've ever train in
their lives they just don't most people
do not go a
[Applause]
failure hey guys Dr Mike here for RP
string I'm here with Dr Brad shonfeld
professor and the world's ranking expert
on muscle hypertrophy research
Brad like wow sounds like the uh the
dialogue in John Wick where they just
look at each other like
John um relative effort is a term that I
love in a term that I learned from you
and it's an excellent term but people
don't know it what is relative effort
yeah so in simple terms it's the force
exerted during a given exercise relative
to the total muscle producing Force
producing capacity of the muscle so how
much force can a muscle produce versus
how much effort actually was expended
there are a couple of proxies for it rpe
we won't get into it's an okay proxy
really adopted from strength spores
itself adopted from endurance
testing R reps in
reserve what is it and do you consider
it a decent functional proxy for
relative effort yeah so reps and Reserve
is a metric by which someone it's the
perceived proximity to failure so an rir
zero would mean that you feel you can
not get another repetition at the given
load uh an R of one would mean that you
think you could have gotten one more but
not two more reps Etc and yeah I do
think it is a good proxy because it it
really exemplifies the definition that
you are if an R of zero is Max effort
the maximum Force producing capacity of
the muscle uh a sub Max rir would be
some relative effort to to achieve that
goal I typically like to lie to people
and anything even if I fail and the bar
crashes on me visibly in public I like
to tell people after I get up and dust
myself off that I had two more do you
support that sort of uh I do not I never
lie on my RS excellent very well just me
um what has the research shown about the
relationship of r or relative effort and
muscle growth is there like a range we
want to Target is there uh an
unequivocal this is too low of an r or
too high tell us a story about that
brand yeah so full disclosure uh I come
from my my Beginnings were as a true bro
where uh I was the go go all out or go
home so I would do every set to failure
many sets with forced repetitions or
drop sets so it was all about going
Beyond quote unquote Beyond failure and
uh somewhat to my surprise
um the literature does not show that and
I've really done a I don't want to say a
180 but certainly a
90 um over time in terms of my view on
this uh and that we've we carried out a
mate analysis on this topic and there's
been a couple others now that do not
show uh failure going to allout failure
is necessary for maximizing growth and
um the general consensus is somewhere
around a two again we don't have trying
to quantify an exact rir gets very
difficult but uh recently a colleague of
mine Martin REO from Australia great
researcher great researcher and did a
really terrific study on this it was
trained subjects it was a unilateral
design so he was able to control the
lifestyle factors Etc and he showed that
for for legs for lower body quad growth
no difference between a zero R versus a
2 rir scoop for you I'm collaborating on
a study with a group out of vascula
University of vascula in Finland shout
out
toomi um where uh we had one group
training for 10 weeks out of one rir the
other group did a descending R across
the study so the first couple weeks it
was a four R then it went down to a
three then a two then a one in the final
couple of weeks that's how we do it at
RP
interesting some people might be copying
you well we paid to have the results
biased I'll just be flat out with that
the scoop for you is um and this paper's
in review now but I hopefully that'll
get published soon
um no no diff certainly the uh one R
wasn't better and uh for the tri we
looked at quads and and tricep
hypertrophy the for the triceps there
was a suggestion of a slight not much a
slight benefit for the uh descending
group so it certainly didn't seem to
show negative effects of uh not training
close failure all the time but uh might
even show some positive Ben but but it's
easier because you're not correct so the
we did RP too and the RP was of course
less y uh so it was easier to to carry
out and by the way that from now for
bodybuilders they'll do what like you
you and myself back in the day that's my
next question we do whatever uh you know
is required but for the general public
uh not having a high rpe can be a
benefit to adherence
totally and even I would say if you're a
serious bodybuilder and you're really
pushing the limits on everything sleep
diet sometimes pharmacology training as
hard as you can if there's unequivocal
results that show that training not as
hard can let you have the same gains
you'd have to be real weird not to try
that because it's like you can at least
do your routine for longer and have more
time before you need to de lo in any
case a really funny story about uh
Martin Ruffalo is he um his Instagram
and you guys should absolutely follow
him is Mr Fitness it stands for Mar
Ruffo Fitness but everyone thinks it
stands for Mr Fitness and he'll always
try to correct you I'm like no you know
what it's Mr Fitness so go follow Mr
Fitness on Instagram next question for
you Brad is how comfortable are you
personally in extrapolating the research
on R from uh studies on mostly
undergraduates that have lifted for
several years mostly not wholly to
realworld people of two kinds at least
one
is folks they're just trying to get to
the gym and build some muscle so
their wives look at them again for the
love of God just notice that on here
please anyone wife anyone the other
group is bodybuilders serious about
gains is there a difference in
extrapolation are you like more lukewarm
about telling bodybuilders to stay away
from failure or even more insistent upon
it um for example one of my friends BR
Chavez who coaches bodybuilders is on
record saying training to failures one
of the stupidest ways to train
especially for bodybuilders because the
amount of stress response you get out of
it is insanely High compared to the
roughly the same gains you get from two
or three reps and reserve and stress
over time is the great killer of
physiques in his opinion um that's an
interesting take I tend to agree with
that but what do you think are you okay
just looking at the studies and going
right to the real world do we need to be
a bit more nuanced about it I think it's
a very fair point so look the studies
that we have have certainly have some
limitations now refo study was in pretty
well-trained individuals now they
weren't high level bodybuilders but they
were Australians so are they really
people that's true and our study uh the
study I mentioned in Finland you could
kind of say the same thing are just
they're just better they were they were
trained individuals but again not
highlevel bodybuilders so how can you
extrapolate that in particularly these
are natural athletes they're not a
natural LIF they're not on gear like you
yes they're not on gear so could that
throw a caveat into it look um to the
point of the individual you mentioned I
would kind of push back on that to some
extent in saying that you can't think of
failure and this is another by the way
another limitation with the literature
is that they've looked at multiple sets
uh studies all sets to failure versus no
sets and it's not a dichotomous option
necessarily you don't have to do all set
like I used to do all sets had to be to
failure that's not a necessity that you
have to do so what I would say is is
that I still think hold out the
possibility I'm not saying it's so but
we'd have to carry out a study and
bodybuilders and good luck with that uh
you volunteering to do a can routine I
have my own thing to do but you could
say that look going to failure is
another way to progressively overload to
push someone beyond their present
capacity and in a very highly trained
lifter you want to try potentially use
all the tools you have uh could just
selective use of failure training I I
certainly think it's true that going to
failure on all sets is
counterproductive um but do I still hold
out the prospect of possibility that
some failure training may be uh
effective or or an effective strategy to
generate somewhat greater gains in very
high level individuals I think there's a
rationale for it and I don't think
really there's a negative I I don't
think that's going to kill your game
like the inro into your fatigue when
you're doing let's say last set to
failure on a few select exercises
whatever here's another thing though
Mike that's important that again I think
gets lost sometimes it also somewhat
exercise dependent so going to failure
on a squat is a lot different than going
to failure on a leg extension or in a
lateral raise I don't know you've never
seen me wrist curl to failure chaos I do
not know many people like they finish a
set of lateral raises and it's like they
fall on the for I'm crushed you know and
but you do a set of squats to failure I
mean you're you're winded the demand as
much higher correct so I think these are
all nuances that we have to tease out of
the literature and they're just not well
at this point in my opinion delineated
to make uh good to draw good conclusions
I think on an overall from an overall
standpoint from a general standpoint we
can say that failure training is
certainly overrated that for the most
part you don't need to go to failure and
certainly you don't need to do it on all
sets I think that's I'm quite confident
in that conclusion but to say you never
need to train the failur is it I think
that is somewhat equival and to add to
that too we're talking hypertrophy there
actually is a negative effect certainly
on doing all sets to failure for
strength so if your goal is strength
which I know you're a big powerlifter um
I was never I'm never big and I was a
terrible powerlifter but thank you rad I
gotta give you props oh thank you so
much so but anyway but if you're
interested in strength that fail your
training actually be can be
counterproductive yeah and it's also
kind of strange to be getting weaker for
reps in your program and convince
yourself you're actually getting bigger
it's a bit of a the technical term I
think is mind
um Brad if I choose to go to failure all
the time which I totally get like
there's a spirit energy thing you know
like your wife yells at you
before you leave for house you
go to work your boss yells at
you on the way you know to the gym
people in traffic yell at you you get to
the gym you just want war and you're
everything to failure for the soul if I
just love going to failure are there any
ways you would recommend that I can
adjust some other elements of my program
to make sure I'm not like um not able to
survive the program all the way through
get the most out of okay I'm going to
failure in everything do I reduce my
volume do I choose certain exercises
over others I have to go to failure
that's my number one rule everything
else I'm willing to be iffy about what
do you have any recommendations about
how to change things up to accommodate
my strange request yeah so I mean it's
real hypothetical because I'm you know
if you had to do I'm not sure why I
would never recommend doing that but
let's let's go with your hypothetical
that you just need to I don't think
reducing volume is the answer because
the volume studies that we have
generally are all sets to failure so
there's going to be issues with
maximizing that volume but cutting the
volume I don't think if your goal is
maximal growth would necessarily be the
right strategy I would think per perhaps
in giving this some general thought um
uh having it on less complex exercise so
not doing your squats your rows so Focus
or let's say dumbbell barbell R so
focusing more on your machine type work
on single joint exercises would probably
be the strategy that I would go with
there which are less as you said
systemically demanded sure okay that
makes perfect sense um a lot of the push
back we get and some of it is very well-
intended on the training to failure
research or r R research is that people
say look look people can't estimate R
anyway so why even bother what do you
say to that yes so I'll give you two
different answers to that number one uh
untrained individuals definitely true
they cannot uh estimate R well you have
to be able to you have to have trained
to failure pretty consistently for a
given period of time to understand what
it's like and it is even excise uh
dependent that certain exercises if
you're like on going to failure on
squats is different than going to
failure on leg extensions again so being
able to estimate your proximity to
failure is somewhat different but and
also even with most trained individuals
quote unquote trained
individuals when we we most of our
research is on trained individuals and
when we finish a study more than three
qus of them will say that it was the
hardest they've ever trained in their
lives they just don't most people do not
go to failure so they're going to have
difficulty in terms of getting a
proximity to failure which by the way is
why in general in our studies we choose
to have everyone train to failure
because trying to teach them
standardization yes it's just easier to
standardize in that way it's something
we can control better but if you teach
people uh train lifters generally they
do quite well in the study that I just
mentioned to you uh that I'm
collaborating with the vascula um we
train we had an acclimation uh week
where we taught them first of we had
them go to failure on the sets and then
taught them how to do the
r within the acclamation period a short
period of time they were able to
generally get within one rep wow in
terms of estimation and even better we
actually reassessed them after the
10-week period and they improved in the
bench press they were almost exact in
their ability to uh wow and that's just
in 10 weeks very serious thought about
am I going a failure I think people's uh
the thought now again as I mentioned if
it's just someone coming in out of the
gym and say saying hey give me your R R
I think there are issues but is someone
who is trained in this and obviously in
studies you're hopefully going to be
doing that you can be teaching them
properly I think we can extrapolate
pretty well from the research that we
have excellent that makes a ton of sense
I'm glad my iPhone keeps turning off
it's really Pleasant
um is there any evidence at all or would
you be willing to speculate and Grant it
we announce it a speculation that there
are individual differences between
people in um rir response like are there
people out there who for them two and
three R are just the bee's knees and
going all the way to failure just wrecks
them or there other people who just
don't get as much out of two to three R
and when they go to failure they just
get notably better results is that
evident in the research at all or not
from the research you know I've uh I've
not been able to EXT extrapolate that
from the research in any of the studies
that have been carried out and I don't
any that have specifically tried to look
at individualized responses but
certainly there's a logical base of that
Mike that um if you are going to failure
I mean your various lifestyle factors
have to enter into that so we again
without any research we uh we downgrade
to the next level of evidence which
would be logical rationale and um I mean
your sleep your stress level your
nutritional status um all of those
things are going to be go into play by
the way another thing I think is
important to point out where individual
differences may come in is an age that
as people get older they have less
recovery ability and of course you
talked about that uh why did you point
to me when you said when people get
older I don't want to you know go down
that road um but seriously hey
um in all seriousness if your recovery
if you're going to have inroad into your
recovery from a lot of failure training
even some so it at least conceivably as
people get older and there's really not
good research in other individuals sure
sure Dr Shan felt that was incredibly
elucidating as you science people like
to say at the end of your abstracts and
uh thank you so much for being on the
channel folks I've been Dr Mike go out
into the world and
fail a lot that was weird see you next
time
[Music]