folks Mano henselman is back again with
even more exercises that you might find
are hypertrophic for your needs they're
quirky they're fun they're European they
come with a cigarette and a laxidasical
attitude about the future of the world
ready
ready lean in lateral raises a lot of
people they do lateral raises they do
them standing like this standard lateral
raise right or they use the scap
plane some people they do a lateral race
where they they lean like this and great
you get extra range motion at the top
doesn't make a lot of sense especially
in light of the recent literature on
stretch media hypertrophy the top
position for some people the shoulders
don't like it and you're probably not
really getting any more hypertrophy with
that if you do that do a butterfly
lateral raise an overhead press a
different type of exercise I mean it's
not a variation that's wrong it's just I
don't really see the point of it but I
do see the point point of get some heavy
object and do a lean in lateral race so
you do it like this so now I still have
tension in the bot position right no
tension tension so if you do the lateral
raise like this lean in lateral raises
you get a nice resistance curve putting
good tension on the delt in the
stretched position in my opinion much
better variant especially as your
default lateral race exercise nothing
wrong with cables and other exercises
this is just a nice alternative note
about these exercis by the way is that
as you're reaching failure you'll see
that your range of motion almost
inevitably starts becoming a little bit
shorter I think for exercises like this
it's fine to train to complete failure
and actually start losing some range of
motion I think that's true for exercises
where you have a very pronounced
sticking point at the very top same for
Row for example if you stop your row at
the very first loss of any range of
motion you're leaving a lot of reps on
the table especially the Reps that will
probably stimulate more stretch Med
hypertrophy so think for exercise like
this you can go to failure or at least a
bit closer to failure than you would for
say a squat or a bench
press so you see that mic crosses over
that's also good you will hit the front
belt also a little bit more but you also
get more L of motion so you'll hit the
front fibers a little bit more like you
will shift the distribution of which
fibers you hit a little bit forward but
also get more stretch so also a very
nice variant
let's talk about calfs training for
those that need to train calves that
didn't have Zeus like genetics standard
calf raises
great however most people don't have
like a a hard hitter for the calfs enter
calf jumps calf jumps are calf race that
combines eccentric overloading with
maximum range of motion getting a super
deep muscle stretch with Ecentric
overloading so this is like a calf
splitting stretch if you do this well
you'll feel it immediately if you do a
normal calf race right you keep the legs
kind of in position and you just go from
if you do full L motion which you should
then you go from stretch to lock out
lock out
optional calf jump big difference is
you're going to cheat and jump
essentially up to lock out full lock out
you actually want you need the passive
resistance from the lock out cu you're
going to use substantially every heavier
weights then you can even squat if you
do this well and now with the knees in
position straight legs you get that full
stretch with a much heavier weight than
you could otherwise have lifted and
again now to get the weight up you
cheat
jump full
stretch
jump full
stretch
jump full stretch
and repeat for your
[Music]
set do you train CS yes my CS are not
genetically big I earned all these not
like Jared not like
Jared so this is me teaching Mike an
exercise that I learned from Mike this
is a very Niche exercise it's basically
what I learned when I start training in
this gym and we don't really have like a
hip extension bench or reverse hype or
something like that and this is an
exercise you can do if you just have a
rack a Smith machine great for people
with home gems also if there's an
obtrusive line or somebody is doing like
a million sets of German Fon training in
the gym right and you just want to
finish your workout do some hip
extensions this is a surprisingly easy
way to get a deceptively hardcore
stretch in your hamstrings you stand
with your thighs against the bar you'll
need some padding and you put your legs
as far forward as possible I cannot
stand up normally this way so you put
them as far forward as they can go and
now you're going to do a Romanian de
lift essentially stiff legged deadlift
so you're going to bend over forward
from the hips you'll have very limited
range of motion as you'll
see
because I'm also not that
flexible this this level here is a
really really intense hamstring stretch
so
you can add weight like this you can
also hold a
dumble and then I like to keep the
tension so that you don't need that much
weight because if I recall correctly
Mike actually tore his hamstrings with
his exercise so the the stretch you get
is pretty intense so three things one
this is a sweet exercise two I
did pull my hamstring doing it once in
Vegas um and it's probably just a fre
freak accident I'm very likely going to
try to thread these back in nice and
easy if you do it with like I have a
very long torso for my short little
doxen legs so if you have a big upper
body long torso and you can't use a
counterweight then what you can do is
get like a just like a regular Pole or
even a 45 pound bar and as you lean you
can walk your way down the bar with
support hold for a second and then come
back up do the same thing and lastly I
stole this exercise from Trevor
Fulbright the king a full range of
motion and so give Trevor a follow on
Instagram anyway this is a sweet
exercise super minimal equipment and if
there's somebody behind you they can
probably see your whole which is
good so most people when they do lag
extensions they feel like you have to
sit up in perfect military posture and
people like nice angles you know 90°
maybe 45 degrees up perfectly vertical
that seems right in the case of a leg
extension though it actually probably
isn't ideal if you sit up perfectly
straight like this do your leg
extension fine but the rectus for moris
which runs in the middle of the quads
here when you are upright and you're
flexed at the hip which is leaning
forward and you're still leaning forward
quite a bit if you're seating upright
especially if you're you'd be sitting
all the way like this the rectus for
moris like this middle of the Quad
muscle it's very shortened and that
means it's not experiencing stretch
mated hypertrophy and it's also so so
shortened that it's not producing a lot
of force in fact if you go all the way
like this and then you try to straighten
your leg it can even go into what's
called active insufficiency which means
it literally cannot produce tension
anymore the actin myosin cross bridges
are basically too bunched up to further
have a crossbridge formation so the
muscle is literally it's too shortened
to produce good levels of tension what
you can do therefore is make it more
like one of these old benches and put it
back all the way back there was a recent
study on this that found that you get
increased levels of muscle activity
which is interesting because that's what
I would have predicted based on the
biomechanics but I wouldn't expect that
you also get higher levels of
recruitment which EMG suggests EMG is a
very rough proxy I think the
biomechanics is probably more of a
compelling argument but it's interesting
that we have both EMG research now
showing that you can get higher muscle
activity in the retive for morus and
also biomechanically you should get
higher tension which gets you that
middle head of the quads which other
remains a bit underdeveloped it's nice
to get the sweep nice to get the
teardrop but you also want the middle
head especially if you're competitor
then it becomes really important to
develop those muscles because then if
you flex your quads you get that insane
level of detail perform the exercise
leaning back all the way back as far as
comfortable based on the study it is
possible to lean back too far about 45°
lean back was optimal in that study but
whatever still comfortable and just lean
back as far as yeah you still feel
comfortable with do the exercise like
like this and you'll notice you should
actually be stronger compared to if you
are doing the exercise with a lot of
forward lean so if you're doing the
exercise with the lean back you should
be able to lift more weight more weight
equals all else equal more tension on
the muscle so I've tried a variety of
leg extensions I hate almost all of them
that's just a personal thing you guys
don't need to listen to me on that the
lean back is by far my favorite and the
problem is most machines are just not
designed for your Lean Back luckily
Prime doesn't miss their
lets you lean back apparently 45° like
meno suggested that study set is optimal
so that's really cool so give this a
shot it's something that if you don't
really love you can always just never do
it again but definitely give it a shot
another thing is make sure you're going
as deep into stretch as possible
sometimes you can put some extra padding
here to make sure that you get a ball or
 stretch don't perate on that
Peak contraction because it might not
have a ton to do with
hypertrophy you will feel your rectus
fous here start out with just a few sets
maybe one or two cuz you can get really
 sore from this and like you
actually have trouble walking cuz a
rackam designed to lift your leg forward
when you walk I've done that to myself a
few times give this a shot you might
find it compelling I might start doing
this for my next contest prep because my
quads are big but my rackam is
basically non-existent and I've
generally been of the opinion that I
don't give a flying but the
bodybuilding judges seem to think that
I'm a idiot and that's probably
wrong so maybe you'll see me like
extending my way into happiness all
right that was super fun M I love
learned a lot give these exercises a try
menow I follow you on Instagram that's
where I get a ton of amazing lit review
kind of stuff from you I follow you on
YouTube where it's more of that but in
much bigger depth is there anything I'm
missing as far as where people can find
you Instagram and YouTube is mostly
where I'm at but if you're new to my
content then men.com you'll get a free
email course with lots of content that
were the most popular the most well
received probably that's the way to the
best way to get into contact with my
work if you're completely new to it boom
see you guys next
[Music]
time