if you think 30 minutes isn't enough to
get an effective upper body session in
you're wrong here's what to do this
workout uses the power of a scientific
technique called antagonist paired super
sets to maximize time efficiency within
the session first do a couple of warm up
sets on the incline dumball press and on
the incline dumball row we'll be super
setting these two exercises performing
three sets of 8 to 12 repetitions on
each next since you're already warmed up
just do a quick warm up set on the Easy
Bar preacher corl and on the dumbb off
French press on the Easy Bar preacher
corl and the dumb off French Press
perform three sets of 12 to 15
repetitions finally do a quick warm up
set on the incline dumbbell later and on
dumbbell wrist CO as the final two
exercises within this 30-minute session
do three sets of 15 to 20 reps on each
one congratulations you've just
successfully trained your Opera body in
30 minutes give the session to try and
let me know what you think