[Music]
someone's like hey here's this way to
bring down inflammation don't just be
like that's good or be like well that's
stupid inflammation's great ask that
next deeper level of
question hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and I have to
ask you a question is inflammation
always bad the answer is no sorry didn't
give you a chance to think that one
through let's talk about this because
there are a ton of Industries and people
people and celebrities and doctors that
are always trying to get you to buy
products or do protocols or pay them
money so they can help you squash
inflammation and G whiz inflammation
seems like it's everywhere the gut is
inflamed your body is inflamed your
joints are inflamed you name it it's
inflamed and it's always a bad thing and
it's always a problem and more
anti-inflammation always seems to be
better problem there is not just one
type of inflammation
there are at least two categories of
inflammation that concern Us in order to
try to open up this intellectual
conversation to learn some shit from it
the first is local inflammation like my
elbow is inflamed the second is systemic
inflammation which you can do with a
variety of blood markers and other scans
we say yeah like your systemic
inflammation is a little higher than we
like to see because of XYZ reasons at
the very least those two things are
different
and potentially how you would address
them or if you even would are also
different next Point inflammation so
first of all there's not just one type
of inflammation first fallacy or part of
this problem second is that inflammation
can be a good thing what what how the F
how is that possible that it could be a
good thing well hold on a sec local
muscle
inflammation the delayed onet soreness
and tightness and weirdness you feel a
few days after your muscles or a few
hours after your muscles get trained is
a big integral critical part of the
remodeling an upgrading that your
muscles receive in order to become
bigger and stronger and we know for a
fact pretty much that if you take high
does powerful anti-inflammatories around
your workout window you reduce the
propensity for muscle growth from that
workout what but I thought squashing
inflammation was a good thing in all
cases cuz it's always bad well it turns
out that's not the casee there is even a
very convincing body of research that if
you break your arm or pull a tendon off
the bone and you get surgery to fix
those things the recovery from that
traumatic injury not even just muscle
growth bone growth tendon growth that
recovery can be muted to some extent
slowed down less complete if you rely
heavily on anti-inflammatories much of
the time versus if you take them
gingerly in the first few days to really
keep the crazy swelling down and then as
soon as you're feeling better you either
reduce the dose significantly or you
stop which is to say high
anti-inflammatory use leads to
incomplete or a reduced rate of bone and
tendon and connective tissue healing and
ultr structural
revision uh that's not good but yes like
we thought inflammation was all bad but
it turns it's critical to not only
muscle growth in its fullest potential
but also injury healing okay and
interesting it gets
complicated short bouts of local
inflammation are very important to heal
all sorts of damage including wound
healing bone and joint healing and
muscle healing that causes hypertrophy
over really all those systems and gets
you back to normal and even above
so is that it inflammation's good but is
it bad of course it can be bad
inflammation is usually bad when it's
excessive by a long shot even locally if
your elbow is this big 2 feet out is
probably too much inflammation the
body's inflammatory response is a
general response that's uh designed to
heal but sometimes so much inflammatory
response enters that the pressure on the
entire structure and the actual damage
itself because of the inflammation and
all the fluid that it brings in is so
high it's actually doing a little bit of
secondary damage and potentially
limiting the healing process so
sometimes even local inflammation can be
reduced a little bit when it's excessive
and that's your doctor's decision in the
injury process as to when to make that
call and usually they're very very good
at
it but another thing is is inflammation
is systemically
high often that's a bad thing often that
means your health could be better and
maybe the inflammation can be brought
down temporarily with drugs but the
better answer after that is to look at
why chronic sorry why inflammation is
high systemically because a lot of times
it can be like wow like actually your
liver is not doing the things that's
supposed to be doing and glad that we
did this inflammation test now we can
fix your liver and the inflammation will
go down and all that stuff so
inflammation can be bad when it's
excessive often bad when it's systemic
and especially bad when it is chronic if
your biceps get inflamed after training
and then a day later they're no longer
inflamed and then you train them hard
and then their cycle happen s shit
you're winning awesome just acute bouts
of inflammation are good for you they
make you stronger and more resilient and
are part of the Adaptive process itself
but if the inflammation is chronic it's
always hanging around and a way that
does that without driving you completely
insane is if it's chronic and low level
if inflammation is chronic which means
it's kind of there all the time if it's
lowlevel that's a good thing in the
sense that it's not fucking making your
life hell right away but a bad thing in
the sense that if it's low level enough
but above Baseline it's always there and
you can barely or can't tell so you
don't do anything about it you might not
even know about it and lastly if it's
systemic that spreads out the detection
problem even more people who are
unhealthy especially people who have
metabolic syndrome and are highly obese
tend to have a
systemic low-level chronic total body
inflammation now that shit is really
fucking bad that demands attention of a
medical professional it Demands a
rigorous course of action to try to undo
the bad stuff like being of very large
physical size and high level of atopos
low physical activity poor nutrition uh
not taking various medications having
too high blood pressure so on and so
forth these are the things that need
fixing because in that context
inflammation is actually very
bad what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now
tldr if you hear about inflammation
someone's like hey here's this way to
bring down inflammation don't just be
like that's good or be like well that's
stupid inflammation is great ask that
next deeper level of questions now hold
on a sec what kind of inflammation are
we trying to bring down are we trying to
bring down inflammation during wound
healing even though it's not excessive
and just a little bit annoying bad idea
don't do it let the inflammation do its
thing which includes almost all muscle
and strength stuff even if you have
surgery or get into a really bad
accident and you have to heal most of
the inflammation you're going to get is
good you don't want to try to squash at
all because it is temporary and it is
healing you but if if the inflammation
is excessive way too much impinging on
various other structures and stuff like
that but especially if it's low-level
and systemic and chronic then yeah that
anti-inflammatory stuff might be
something to look for and the last thing
I'll say about this is the following in
a treatment of patient sense sometimes
it's smart to just deal with the thing
when it is but it's also smart to try to
figure out why it was if you come to the
hospital with a massive headache they
don't exactly go through like 18
trillion things of screening to find out
why the headache is they're going to be
like well how bad's the pain you're say
10 out of 10 I'm fucking screening
they're going to try to give you
headache medicine I promise does Motrin
or morphine depending on the intensity
of your headache actually treat the
underlying potential cause of your
headache in most cases the answer is no
but first they squash the symptoms then
we try to look for the cause then we
squash the cause then it doesn't come up
again the same thing may be true with
inflammatory
response if someone says hey look you
can take this herb and it'll bring your
total body inflammation down that might
be a good thing if normally the body
produces too much inflammation and
that's a bad thing but that's not likely
to be the case what's likely to be the
case is that because of bad health for a
variety of other reasons you're
overweight you're not physically active
enough your diet's not healthy enough
you have too much psychological and
physical stress in your life then your
inflammation is high and if you take
that herb temporarily hey shit you're
squashing some systemic chronic
inflammation and that's a good thing
probably but what's even a better thing
is yeah take the herb and shit like that
but also try to figure out where is this
High inflammation coming from could just
be genetic your doctor's look you're
doing everything right some people just
have a high chronic inflammatory
response and because you're taking this
herb or this new medication you're just
going to live longer and happier because
your your your body just built like fuck
shit somebody God was like H fuck you
zap you get chronic inflamation little
bitch get out of here go be an embryo
right all right fuck that that happens
but in most cases that's not the case in
most cases it's some shit you could fix
that if you start attending to that
getting into Better Health in a bunch of
other ways you can eventually still take
the herb and have really low
inflammation or just not have to take
the herb anymore because you fix the
underlying problem so when everyone
tries to give give you the solution
first this is the problem inflammation
and we have the solution try to take
back a few steps open up your thinking a
bit and see if you can do just a little
bit better folks thank you so much for
tuning in and I'll see you next
time