hey folks Billy Mays here for OxiClean
haha just kidding
he was great though dr. Mike
unfortunately here for fortunately
Renaissance period is asian folks thanks
for tuning in for another informative
video hopefully testing your one
repetition max for cracking size gains
for our trophy is it a good idea is it a
bad idea let's find out turns out there
are some upsides of testing your 1rm to
track muscle size gains and some
downsides we'll take a look at both then
we'll talk about the best way to
actually test your strength for
hypertrophy and wrap up with some
take-home points so what are the
theoretical upsides of testing your one
repetition max on certain lifts for
hypertrophy well size literally cause
the strength and the fact that if your
muscle is bigger all else being equal it
produces more force because the physical
muscle is what produces the force it's
like what causes a racecar to go fast
the giant engine has a lot to do with
the ticket physically causes the car to
move right so you know if you got
stronger you probably didn't get smaller
there are ways to get stronger and get
smaller if your neural and technical
adaptations go up really high but your
muscle goes down just a little bit you
can actually get stronger than that
balance but gee I wouldn't bet that that
happened if I'm getting stronger I'm
feeling pretty good about my muscle size
and especially if you got stronger while
not training those neural factors a lot
in technical factors like if you're
doing high rep bodybuilding training and
your water MS went up holy crap you
almost definitely gained size because
you're not even training for strength
but you got strong or training for size
that's a really really gusset you must
use you gained almost no neuro abilities
you must have just gained so much raw
mass that even your 1-hour REMS went up
if your intermediate or advanced that's
a really good sign if you're a beginner
you still build a lot of neural
abilities and technical abilities even
if you're training for high reps so
beginners I don't know what this says
but I look beginners gain muscle anyway
all the time so who cares about them you
know mean the advanced yeah if you're
one rms go up and you haven't been
training for arms yeah you almost
certainly put on muscle which is a
really really good thing
lastly the best upside here by far its
objective okay you could lie to yourself
all you want you can flex in the mirror
and be like I think my biceps bigger
think my back up bigger I don't know but
if your one rep man
deadlift and squad an overhead press
operator Oh weighted pull-up dip if they
go up man like something's got to be
given there right like if they're not
going up maybe you're gaining size but
calling me skeptical and if they're
going up by leaps and bounds if you're
just getting fucked hung stronger you're
probably putting on sighs unless you're
training like a power lifter
specifically for neural adaptation but
if you train with lots of volume lots of
sense plenty of reps and you're still
getting stronger you're 1rm man you
almost certainly putting on some muscle
size so it's very objective there's not
much wiggle room for you know pretending
that you got stronger and actually the
result is that you didn't however
however plenty of downsides
unfortunately for using one repetition
max testing for hypertrophy first of all
the testing doesn't cause any gains by
itself
why the hell is that relevant the tests
not supposed to cause gains we'll get to
later that the best way to test
hypertrophy actually causes tons of
gains itself you also move we got both
right
it's like testing the maximum airspeed
of an airplane while it's actually going
somewhere useful versus just launching
it going really fast then coming back
down like if we can go so we're useful
to that's really ideal one RMS they
don't cause you to increase any muscle
size so there's no gains in itself right
and tests causes a lot of fatigue so you
got to cause a ton of fatigue and then
wait for it to come down and that entire
time you're not growing any muscle right
you don't just test your own rooms and
the next day show up and start doing
your program probably not certainly not
know if you want optimal results you
want to rest a day or two before do the
1 RMS rest to be or several after and so
on and so forth so the fatigue is there
and look one or I'm testing both for
psychological reasons and the crazy
heavy loads causes a lot of fatigue
maybe even worse than that it does
elevate your risk of injury
substantially not a crazy amount but
it's something notable ok people in
powerlifting get hurt more often than
people and bodybuilding that's no
surprise at all
when you're pushing super heavy weights
the forces absolute forces through your
tissues are higher your chance of acute
injury is there right if you never do
one hour Em's your chance of getting
hurt is lower than if you do one of Em's
regularly and if you do want arms for
testing you're doing them regularly so
it's kind of like if maybe you could get
a good progress indicator without
to max out maybe don't max out you know
especially folks that have been hurt
before for example let's say you've
pulled your chest before doing heavy
bench presses and someone's like alright
every month we test our one rep max you
looking at the wonder max you're not
pecks kind of feel we're like man do I
have to do this and they're like what's
wrong like I want to get hurt and you
imagine getting hurt and someone's like
why'd you get hurt
training hard right you're like not even
training I was testing to see if my
training was working maybe I could do
that a better way so definitely some
downsides there to consider another one
the test is pretty imprecise okay how
you're one rms end up going has a lot to
do with how much fitness and fatigue
you're carrying right there Fitness part
of that component is how much muscle you
have but neural adaptations technical
adaptations architectural adaptations
there's a lot other noise also the
fatigue is a huge noise so you could
just have a bad day and then your one
hour ends are down and what do you do
and you just conclude you haven't gained
any muscle when I rims are up and about
there they change and sometimes you know
just because you really have one shot at
your 1rm if you were feeling like crap
that day I might tell you something
about how strong you are how much muscle
you have and it might not so there's a
little bit too much noise there ideally
there's also what we call in sport
science poor ecological validity your
peak strength can increase due to a lot
of non hypertrophy factors muscle is
shaped differently it points in a
different erection those are called
architectural factors your nervous
system can get better at pushing your
muscles or your technique can improve
which means your nervous system is more
efficient and doing the same amount of
force production with any given muscle
size so if your 1rm goes up it could be
that those things went up right and then
did you is your program effective for
hypertrophy because it's really what you
want to find out did I grow a muscle and
the answer could be like maybe maybe not
right you can increase your shoulder
press by 15 pounds with a good coach
just adjusting your hands for you for 30
minutes it's like holy crap did I gain
decided size and my delts from doing
this with my no of course not right so
there's definitely some wiggle room
there in intermediate and advanced folks
after they do strength training for
awhile if they come back to hypertrophy
training is there neural and
architectural factors and even technical
factors because I'm not practicing the
strength lifts as much like go from LA
of lobar to lots of hacks Watson high
bar all those factors decline while
their size of course when perfect
retaining is increasing but there 1rm
strength after like three months our
Java training goes down what the hell
are you supposed to conclude that you
lost muscle doing hypertrophy fees
that's nonsense right just the same way
after you do a low volume maintenance
phase which usually means you're
training a bit heavier but low volumes
your fatigue Falls a ton way more than
normal you will show between the
beginning of that phase in the end that
your one or at Max's went up does that
mean a maintenance phase with really low
volumes resulted in muscle gain no it
just dropped your fatigue so your
preparedness went up so there's so much
noise in all of this it requires a ton
of interpretation to actually figure
does my one rep max increasing may mean
that I'm bigger and a lot of times you
just can't tell and a lot of other times
it takes months and months and months of
waiting to be look ok at the end of this
phase last year and I gotta wait for the
same phase this year then we compare
look if you have to wait six months to
see if you gain size and it's not
obvious in some way and your physique
don't worry about it you didn't gain
size okay so not the greatest thing in
the world there's a better way the best
way I would say that I have found to
test strength progression for
hypertrophy applications here's the
thing nearly every mesocycles end peak
of accumulation you're gonna be going to
one rep and reserve or zero reps and
reserve or true failure anyway
technically that's considered a maximum
test of performance you're pushing as
hard as you can go at the end of every
mesocycle right next time you do that
just write those numbers down like I
benched 255 pounds per set of 10 8 comma
6 comma 6 that's what I did that was my
peak workout for you know using the
bench press for example okay if you're
training properly you're using a lot of
the same core exercises and multiple
back-to-back massive cycles so you know
just like bench one mesocycle and then
the next one you do only incline acts
when you do only dips you probably like
bench bench bench and then second
exercise would be like incline incline
dips
and then third exercise might be tricep
extensions skull Crusher's and then
overhead extensions so some variation
occurs later in the workouts usually the
beginning of the workouts for the
heavier stuff especially then all
attempts for a lot of the movements you
really just generally tend to have for
two to three men cycles usually a block
of training a lot of the same exact
exercises so because you're using those
same exercises and because at the end of
every single accumulation you're getting
a very good result of maximum pushing
ability one rep from fail or zero reps
from fail all you do is you compare your
rep strength between every single mezzo
and hear more good news at the end of
every single man cycles accumulation you
D load and that clears the fatigue and
you rebuild the fatigue so you
essentially have very similar levels of
fatigue a lot of it every time you test
right so at the end of mezzo one you
squatted 315 for a set of you know eight
and then seven and then six all right
best your best workout here at the end
of mezzo two you squatted 325 for the
same reps at the end of mezzo three
we're still 325 but you added an average
of two reps per set are you getting
stronger yes are you growing muscle
probably right because how the hell are
you adding with the same levels of
fatigue fundamentally you're adding
abilities and you've been squatting for
a while you know how to squat there's
probably not a mean neural and technical
adaptations you're making especially if
you've been training for multiple years
it starts to look like you're probably
on to something and the best news is it
doesn't mess with any if you're training
at all you don't have to take a special
time out and do a wandering max the very
stuff that you're measuring testing
those Peaks quad or bench or whatever
workouts are the ones causing you your
best games anyway right it's the same
idea as we're flying a plane
from you know New York to LA and it's
carrying passengers and sometime during
that time we go really fast and see how
fast the plane can go but we have
passengers we're actually doing a good
job instead of just taking the plane out
going to fly really fast turning around
and then coming back down for no reason
right you're still there so it's really
really awesome way to test you compare
peak strength for reps over multiple
mesocycles and you get a really really
good indicator not the only one and it's
not perfect of hypertrophy over the
timescale now the best indicator isn't
just your peak set it's not like I
squatted 315 for 12 and then whatever
number of reps after and then here I
squatted for 13 here squatter for 14 or
as 3 15 25 35 it's all of the sets that
you can compare so for example over 4
sets right how much weight times reps
did you do in the squat because the
biggest guys and gals are not always the
best at this but man
very often the biggest people aren't
necessarily the peak strongest but
they're the ones that can do the most
impressive amount of work over multiple
sets you show me a guy that benches 550
I'll show you a guy with really really
big pecs for a single you show me a guy
that benches 405 for 5 sets of 10 holy
crap he's for sure gonna have big packs
almost for sure so that work capacity
multiple sets rep strength is a really
really well correlated so don't just
look at one set comparisons peak sets
look at all of the working sets which
also incentivizes you the lifter not and
a peak we just to try really hard last
set and then slack off and the other
ones you gotta try hard on all the sets
which is good because that's how you
grow muscle best anyway right
so in addition to this you want to test
all the Rangers so peak week means you
go zero
are AR or 1 or a are very close to
failure on every single exercise pretty
much which means that on sets of 5 to 10
sets of 10 to 20 and sets of 20 to 30
you're gonna push it really hard and
you're gonna have some comparison data
and you're gonna test all exercises but
especially you're gonna test all the
main exercises because remember you're
not testing you're just training really
really hard take-home points 1rm testing
is cool it's not terrible it's got its
upsides but it's needlessly fatiguing
its needlessly risky it's not very
precise and it's ecologically invalid
like fundamentally it doesn't tell you
exactly what you want to see not even
close
tracking your rep strength however
mesocycle to mesocycle and longer
block-to-block macrocycle to macrocycle
with the same exercises is way better in
almost every respect and here's a sort
of bonus round tip if you're getting
stronger in a single muscle group for
example the back on one exercise over
months that's a good sign that our sign
is if you're getting stronger on two
back exercises the best sign is if
you're getting stronger on every single
back exercise you do you're hitting PRS
because then you're assessing the muscle
from multiple angles and multiple rep
ranges for example if your barbell bent
row increased and that's the only thing
that increased all the other exercises
didn't really go up and it increased
only in the set of 5 to 10 rep range ok
sets of eight went up when it's good
though is better than it going down but
maybe you just got really good at doing
bat rows and someone looks at your
program and dude you've been doing a lot
of been wrong and your technique has
really improved and you've really been
putting into that exercise but yes like
so did you grow a muscle maybe but how
about this if your bent row goes up sets
of 5 to 10 and sets of 10 to 20 if your
cable row goes up in sets of 10 to 20
and 20 to 30 if your pull downs and your
one-hour rows all go up in all the
different rep ranges and all these
different exercises they all go up guess
what you got a bigger back almost
certainly so what you want over time is
to train a variety of movements through
a variety of rep ranges make a maximum
effort at the end of pretty much every
single mesocycle track those numbers and
make sure they're going up over time and
if they are you're doing great you're
probably getting more jacked especially
if you're eating and sleeping is on
point because you need new tissue
somehow if that's not occurring if
you're testing all that stuff that
you're not increasing you can tell
yourself my triceps are bigger you like
they're you know I'm saying the
horseshoe kind of looks a little
different in the light and maybe that's
true maybe somehow you added hypertrophy
without increasing strength I wouldn't
bet in it use this system to make sure
that all of your best efforts to get you
jacked are actually working folks thank
you so much for tuning in see you next
time