computer workouts are not something that
typically works on a full-time including
basis you're not like yeah I've been
doing bicep theater workouts for a year
like that's probably not the smartest
way to do it
hey folks Dr Mike here from Renaissance
periodization feeder workouts should you
be doing them
so
Peter workouts
are a thing that I have been asked about
approximately nine trillion times that's
a rough estimate but order of magnitude
it works
and what the hell are feeder workouts
first of all just to clear you guys in
that are not in the know but if you
Google it a lot a lot shows up
basically feeder workouts and I really
just don't I I don't understand what the
term
feeder where that term comes from and I
I can commentately don't care enough to
find out and don't tell me I don't want
to do not tell me in the comments where
feeder workouts term comes from
but I can Define it for you feeder
workouts are when you do like usually
one to two sets maybe a few more of an
isolation movement typically
on your off days from training or on
your training days for another muscle
group just later in the day
and you do these usually often so
they're kind of extra workouts that are
just one or two or three sets of an
isolation movement taken close to
failure and you kind of sprinkle them in
throughout the week outside of your
major sessions of training for any
muscle and even that muscle itself so
for example you would do like three
feeder workouts for your biceps a week
where you would do two normal workout
let's say you train chest and then
biceps
between back and then biceps another day
and then a couple times throughout the
week you get like the 20 pound dumbbells
and you smash like two Maya rep sets or
something of dumbbell curls like you
know you studying at home and then after
you you're done studying like for 30
minutes freshen up just do some curls
and go back to studying that's how I've
seen it done before
and so these workouts are like the
ultimate hack everyone thinks that this
is how you get jacked and this is the
thing that works and it's obviously if
you haven't tried them you're an idiot
you're just not available to the secret
you know incel Reddit part of the
internet that knows how to get jacked
but apparently never post pictures of
themselves stay calm in cells I am
actually yes talking about you so
the upsides you guys thought I was just
going to shit on it but no worries there
are actually upsides
if you have a constrained schedule and
you don't have as much training time for
big two-hour long workouts
just getting in some work here and there
one or two sets at a time every few days
can let you get way more volume in in
that constrained schedule for a muscle
or two that you're targeting for extra
growth totally
another benefit is that you're kind of
always hitting that muscle fresh I mean
if you do a feeder workout for biceps
you just start with biceps and end with
biceps it's two sets or one set or three
sets of biceps you're fresh you're ready
to go no problem
the thing is is that some muscles
recover much faster than the rest so for
example if you're training your rear
delts and you train them twice a week
with other muscle groups it could be
that they're recovered like later that
day some muscles can be trained five or
six times a week and recover just fine
between training sessions and if you're
training them with just one or two sets
at a time they can for sure recover on
time so that's definitely a good thing a
lot of people say well feeder workouts
are stupid because he's trained once or
twice a week for every muscle and that's
good enough for some muscles it is you
know your glutes your pecs they'll take
a few days to recover for sure maybe
longer but like your forearms your
biceps your side delts something like
that maybe even your calves and under
some circumstances
they can recover quick so if a muscle
can recover quick and if you're already
recovered enough to train that muscle
and you want the best gains and you
maybe train that muscle and then it'll
work and that'll be great
and lastly slower twitch muscles and
some people have proportionately uh
higher fraction or slower twitch muscle
than some muscle in their body like
slower twitch biceps or forearms or
triceps or whatever and those
individuals with a high proportional
slows which muscle fibers is not really
a good Dependable way outside of muscle
biopsy that you can find out if your
muscles will slow twitch or not but you
will find out through a variety of
proxies one is like they respond better
to higher ups and low reps and two they
recover really fast like people who take
days and days to recover between muscle
groups are typically on average by a
small margin have more faster twitch
fibers people who can recover very
rapidly are typically slower twitch
which also means they're typically not
as strong it means the joints of
connective tissues won't take as much of
a beating they can recover within hours
or days instead of days and potentially
even up to a week and they also struggle
to grow as much and the muscle turnover
rate is faster so
four people
who have that muscle fiber
characteristic or more of it rather
feeder workouts may actually be just the
more logical prescription because if you
recover faster and you need a more
consistent stimulus to grow theater
workouts are just that more consistent
stimulus so kind of uh nobody lost
somebody found problem Auto solved
there are downsides however so let me
get to those first you need to have
equipment around where the fuck are you
supposed to do a feet of workout if
you're working an office I'm just gonna
get fucking two trash cans bro and just
curl these shits you curl the first one
the garbage dumps on you you're like
well fuck it I might as well dump the
rest of the garbage and then that one
girl from accounting locks in and she's
like oh my God Frank there's garbage on
you and you're like Sandy and you kneel
down this is appropriate in these cases
and you're like I fucking I'm just
garbage in your eyes
please step on me and she's like oh my
God yeah but okay and then you're in
but if you're not in it's just like
another sexual harassment lawsuit which
is like I'm saying ticker tape that shit
your boy's on number 51. anyway you
don't have barbells and dumbbells laying
in your fucking room or your house and
you actually go to the gym feeder
workouts are sort of out you can do them
with body weight stuff but that really
limits things
next your warm-ups need to be very
limited to save time because if you're
doing workouts with Intense or an
intense complete warm-ups you know three
sets to warm up gee you know this is
gonna be like a lot of time you spend
now it's not a feeder workout really
you're just like training a lot and it
takes a lot of time and maybe gives you
better results but it's just another way
of saying high frequency it's not a
special thing the thing with feeder
workouts is that you're kind of like
your set is the working set and the
warm-up set so a big rule which I'll
repeat again later is high rep training
is the only way to do this if you do
this heavy sets a five to ten even sets
of 10 to 15 too heavy you can get hurt
um or rather more technically the
probability of getting hurt is I find uh
not reasonably worth the trade-off since
the 15 20 25 30 reps yeah you can just
pick up some dumbbells isolation
movement especially if you go slow on
the eccentric and kind of maybe get a
little going quickly on your reps as you
go through the set and feel warmer then
it's totally fine in that case but
um a lot of times it's a little bit hard
to go uh hard to go hard it's a little
difficult to go hard on a set and really
activate some muscle fibers if it takes
like you're not clued in yet like
warm-ups really activate you now to play
The Dream Within A Dream fucking
sequence here if you are more slower
twitch
and
you want to grow your muscles and the
vast proportion of your muscles that
you're trying to grow the muscle fibers
are slower twitch then actually they're
fully active in being stimulated
hypertrophy Without You ramping the
nervous system a ton you got to ramp the
nervous system a ton to hit the bigger
faster twitch motor units and if your
muscle that you're trained with heater
sets isn't really super fast twitch
anyway it's kind of like well that's
okay as soon as you start rep one you
know the hypertrophy gains are coming so
it reminds you they're very small gains
but with higher frequencies and a good
dedicated block of this kind of stuff
you can make some progress
another downside
the literature on this is uh not Ultra
compelling but it's also at the same
time pretty clear anabolic resistance
accumulates in proportion to how much
volume you do and in proportion to how
frequently you do that if you train your
legs once every three or four days it's
going to take you like oh four to six
weeks to get pretty resistant
anabolically to more leg growth before
you deload or take some time away or
switch exercises or something but if you
train like every day for the same muscle
or even every other day definitely every
day you know just a few weeks later
you're you're going to be spinning a lot
of Wheels more than you are growing
you'll still grow but but the magnitude
of growth quickly levels off so feeder
workouts are not something that
typically works on a full-time including
basis you're not like yeah I've been
doing bicep eater workouts for a year
like that's probably not the smartest
way to do it I'll talk about what a
smarter way to do it as a sec but it's
probably not training ultra high
frequency for weeks and weeks and weeks
and months and months and months because
anabolic resistance your propensity to
grow muscle from further exposures to
training it starts to fall off
if you choose the wrong movements or
your Technique is off and you're
training that five or six times a week
with no warm-up you can wreck
temporarily of course your joints and
connective tissues they just put them in
a real bad way
so you've got to be careful about this
kind of stuff and this is a distinct
downside someone's like yeah man the
fucking elbows hurt okay yeah what have
you been doing like fuck theater
workouts try some extensions every five
hours Christ I can tell you why your
elbows hurt it's the fetal workouts
every five hours there's no there's no
run-up to that joke
lastly
a big downside is you know you make a
lot of progress warming up and doing
basic compound heavy shit
in your actual dedicated two to four
time a week per muscle
hypertrophy or strength training
sessions
and if you do too many feeder workouts
between sessions you're going to be
sapped and not recovered and not
progressing in your actual sessions it's
like trying to get as many calories in
as you can but for your four meals a day
that you've got to smash calories you're
not eating much because you're snacking
so much between meals either way adds up
the calories some people if they smack
it's great that's how they get the
calories but for other people snacks
really Crush their appetite and that
continual input of snacks means they
just won't eat that many calories so
you've got to kind of find out which
person you are in this case some people
can recover totally fine from feeder
workouts and it's really for most people
a matter of how much they do but there
is a way very easily that many people
can get themselves into a situation
where they just get like what I would
call like volume greedy they go oh my
God oh my fucking god or a frequency
greedy they're like yes I'm gonna do
feeder workouts I'm gonna do every
fucking hour I'm kidding there's every
day or four days a week and I'm also
going to do my bicep sessions the other
two days a week and after two weeks
they're like go to the regular bicep
session they're like fuck man I'm just
gassed bro my biceps have nothing and
it's like well you train them 18 times
the last two weeks the fuck are they
supposed to recover so there's an
imbalance with feeder workouts between
stimulus and Recovery that can really
occur all your stimulus is fucking
happening you're doing it but your
recovery is so low the Adaptive
processes might have trouble and then
once your recovery sinks low low enough
even presenting a good stimulus is tough
because you're just too tired it's like
if you've ever picked up like three
girls at the same time at the club
and they're like just do it just do us
Dexter just do the thing that you do to
us with your with your genitals and
you're like well ladies
and get ready thank you
you'll get tired and then uh girl number
three is like I kind of felt like maybe
you took it out
rolls and you're like well yeah six
hours of sex is uh there's a gift I have
from God but God did not give me the
ability to have seven hours of real so
I'm just gonna shut up I'm gonna get
myself canceled again isn't that right
Scott the video guy
in any case recommendations
first
before you go to try feeder workouts
try to save yourself
for marriage C is turned in a wholesome
family channel
try to save yourself for focused hard
sessions two to four times a week
that's how Grandpa made his gains that's
how dad made his gains
then then Dad mom and dad didn't get
along that one time and dad went away
for three to six months but then he came
back and he started doing two to four
sessions just like he was doing in
prison
so the core element here is that
great sessions coupled with enough time
to get great recovery to build the
foundation for another great session is
a Formula that works at the best of all
of them on average and it's the one you
should try first
but if you have done this for a while
and especially on some muscle groups
that seem to be really hard to stimulate
a ton in one session but there's only so
much you can do for your bicep sometimes
and you're like
I can only train him so hard and I can I
can definitely do more sessions per week
than I am then maybe you can experiment
with feeder sets for a mesocycle or
something like that just four to six
weeks and see how you progress right and
in the RP hypertrophy app you can
actually put in feeder sets if you like
you just like throw extra biceps in at
the end of each workout and when you
complete the workout don't complete the
bicep stuff leave it alone and then
later that night you're like oh shit I
actually still have to do biceps and
just once ahead of you know 30 reps of
curls and stay complete and then you're
good to go
some muscles are going to be better
candidates than others feeder sets on
quads you're fucking insane you're going
to blow your legs right off your body or
just get so tired you're not gonna be
able to recover you're gonna have shitty
workouts your legs might start to shrink
some more endurance athlete type of
stuff chest back it typically is not a
good idea one of the stupidest ideas
ever heard was from a bodybuilding coach
I won't name about 15 years ago he said
that the key to a big back was to do 50
chin-ups every day
every day I I don't think a single one
of his athletes could have done 50
chin-ups in a session that was less than
an hour long
um and I don't think he had ever done
that himself I think I just don't know
why he said it but if you tried that
shit you would grind your shoulders and
elbows off of the fucking body the
stupidest shit I've ever heard big
muscle groups that are strong do not do
feeder sets for them do regular
conventional training because both from
muscular perspective from a neurological
and central nervous system perspective
and from the perspective of joint
connective tissue Integrity you want to
have plenty of recovery time between
these sessions however for muscles like
forearms and biceps and rear and side
delts they're not particularly
positioned to take a lot of damage
they're not particularly big or strong
in most cases so you can crank out lots
of volume with them over the course of
the week and if each session is well
stimulative but not too voluminous one
or two sets at a time you can crank away
and get pretty good results and you
won't break apart like Mr Potato Head
definitely don't do them all the time
again a mesocycle at a time see how your
results progress they are not they are
not the magic tool that everyone is
fucking doing there is this real big
dichotomy
between
shit that jacked people actually do
and shit you see on Reddit that people
with no profile picture say jacked
people actually do because if you go out
I'm not to pick on Reddit you can go on
810 4chan
uh I'm saying I was gonna say another
joke but I say this word and it'll get
us canceled for sure
um
easy Mike
there are people that will confidently
assure you
that XYZ method or food or approach or
supplement is the way to do things
some fraction of those people are
completely correct
some fraction of those people are
marginally correct this sort of uh
nuanced to what they're saying and some
of those people are just like making
shit up whole cloth or just work for
them and works for fucking nobody else
there's this community of people that
think feeder sets are like the answer
some of them are just repeating shit
they heard other people say some of them
are genetically just not very prone to
be getting jacked because they are
slower Twitch in fiber
composition on average more than other
people and actually for them feeder sets
work but that does not guarantee that
they're going to work for you there are
no fucking hacks folks there are no
hacks they don't exist I mean hacked
Squad exists at your gym but after you
do a few sets of 10 on that you'll
realize that is not a hack that is just
straight up like gnarly hard work so
don't think like oh feeder sucks that's
the thing right like if you are
struggling with your muscle gain there
is no Panacea that will come save you
none and including anabolic steroids
because if you take them sometimes you
get amazing results sometimes your
genetics suck for steroid compatibility
you just get like test flu and Dick else
happens to you and you don't gain much
muscle so don't think that this is the
answer the solution think this is an
interesting tool you can try to put in
your toolbox and use for about a month
at a time and see how your results
progress
for these one mesocycle Sprints of using
feeder sets
if you're going to do them I would
recommend doing them like this let me
tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy
app with over 28 preset programs already
in the app you could choose to make your
own you could modify an existing program
or you can just run the programs exactly
as they were written by me personally
this app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjust to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
if you are able to turn it up
psychologically after a minimal warm-up
or no warm-up at all totally cool don't
rush don't pick up the weights and just
start doing this what I would suggest
for feeder sets really is to take a
weight that is 20 to 30 percent or sorry
twenty third somewhere between 20 and 30
uh RM right rep max and you do do like
five reps with it nice and slow and then
put the dumbbells down and wait like 30
seconds stretch it out move around
that's a good enough warm-up for most
cases that you just highly unlikely get
hurt then crank the set and go real
close to failure and I would actually
recommend doing my reps like to break my
reps so hit like 15 rest a little while
hit another if I can eight or some shit
rest a little while and hit another five
and then you're good nice swollen pump
everything's great High Reps only no
rush one extra warm-up of five reps with
the working weight
is going to take 30 seconds to do and
then 30 seconds later you're going to be
able to go again that's one extra minute
of your day if you do four feet or sets
a week that's four fucking minutes of
the week that can take your injury
propensity and in your joint connective
tissue strain that you put in it because
you know the first set always feels like
shit the second set feels way better and
just radically reduce it I'd say that's
a really good return investment
if you're getting great pumps
keep doing it keep doing it if you're
not getting great pumps
probably not a whole lot is happening
you're just getting more tired if your
joints and connective tissues are
handling it well amazing do not be that
person it's a good man fucking Maya reps
on tricep extensions every hour hurting
my joints but like fucking War out there
brother don't don't do anything to fuck
up your joints got to take care of them
shits they're going to be in there for
the Long Haul
if it doesn't affect the rest of your
program you're good to go if you're
coming in and you're underhand pull-ups
or your rows are still good your biceps
aren't tired because the 16 hours before
that you did a feeder set or two your
biceps healed amazing if they're not
healed push that workout back reduce the
volume do something to it so that your
core workouts for the muscle groups
involved are still awesome
and if it seemed to give you good
results sometimes you can visually after
a month be like damn your boys can
fucking Jack or your weights and Reps in
the feeder workouts are going up pretty
impressively and or your weights and
Reps in your regular workouts are going
up or after you take a deal a week you
come and do your regular workouts you're
like holy fuck shit my biceps are bigger
and stronger this is fucking amazing
then you're on to some shit if that
doesn't happen to you in a mesocycle
take two mesocycles back in normal
training come back and try it again if I
want to try something just once usually
especially if it doesn't hurt you try it
again uh alter some things modify some
things be more intelligent I would start
with something like
two extra feeder workouts of one Maya
rep set each
per week
try that for a month that might help if
that doesn't work you got to think okay
was it too much stimulation or too
little stimulation because it could have
been like yeah I got a little pump and
then I don't know if it's just not
enough I never got tired I never got
sore never got fatigued my workouts
never got interfered with
try three or four
if on the other hand you try you know
three or four and like that's way too
much try two to three again
somewhere over one or two mesocycles or
maybe three you're gonna figure out this
fucking sweet I got something really
good
I can change I need to change something
I need to switch machines or switch
exercises Etc
or this is that this isn't it and that's
totally fine because there's always
conventional awesome training that'll
hook you up by the way have you
downloaded and paid me money for the RP
hypertrophy app my Butler's checked it
doesn't seem like you're you're um your
gold coins from John Wick slid under my
fucking under the table to to so that I
can go buy cool underworld stuff like
John Wick does it's gonna say underworld
Lamborghinis but I have a rule with my
Butlers anything you bring into my home
which is Acres of property needs to be
totally legal especially the
Lamborghinis in any case uh Link in the
description go get that app and members
we always have more videos for you and
they're always nerdy and they're always
sciency or they're just me making penis
jokes but uh God damn do I get on a roll
so check out the member section as well
and see you guys next time