I really look forward to a world
hopefully in the next 10 or 15 years
where we no longer have to exercise
exercise is a profound waste of time if
you think about it when I go to the gym
and I physically hurt myself through
pain which has great psychological
benefits but there's other ways to hurt
yourself that also teach you stuff like
I would much rather I'm a competitive
Brazilian jiu-jitsu athlete I guess I'm
not very athletic but it's called a
sport I would much rather just do BJJ
and never have to lift weights because
I'd like for the muscle to come from
pharmaceutical or genomic intervention
purely so I can actually spend most of
my time learning how to you know beat up
my childhood bullies I'll show them in
laboratory animals they have already an
exercise pill it works great in rats and
mice and if you think about it like
how's that possible well what do you
think exercise is doing how is it
beneficial it's really just accessing
various molecular Pathways and turning
them up and turning others down you can
do that with a pill and if you did what
exactly is so wrong about that