you just got to cut out carbs and sugar
wrong it turns out that carbs and sugar
can be totally part of a healthy diet
even in really high quantities as long
as you're getting enough protein most of
your carbohydrates are coming from
veggies fruits and whole grains and you
have lots of physical activity and
resistance training and the total
calories are not excessive you could
have people who eat lots of carbs and
lots of sugars lots of bodybuilders
endurance athletes and very healthy
vegans do this all the time and those
folks are some of the healthiest people
in the entire world there is nothing
mechanistically about carbs and sugar
that is any worse for you than excessive
amount of fat really an excessive amount
of protein everything in excess
specifically calories is bad for you if
it's excess carbs and sugars that are
making you have excess calories you
should reduce them but you can have lots
of carbs and sugars if you are not
overeating calories based on what you
burn how do you know that are you a fat
motherucker that waste too much you're
eating too much are you nice and lean
you're good to go have all the carbs and
sugars that you like