[Music]
hey everyone it's Saturday May the 13th
and we're going for our first workout
since arriving in Egypt yesterday uh I
didn't sleep at all and then today I
definitely made up for it I think we
slept from like 11:00 p.m. until 11:30
11:30 a.m. something like that feeling
very well rested we don't really have
much planned for today so we're going to
go for a workout and probably just chill
relax around the hotel even though the
vacation so far has been very very
exciting uh we haven't done a whole lot
of relaxing just cuz we haven't had the
time so we're going to try to squeeze
some of that in today and we definitely
need to go for a workout I have one high
volume and I'm going to do two prolific
cuz I need to wake up make shift tunel I
already had a coffee so give me give me
one prolific and two high volume please
we were able to bring these into Egypt
we brought the protein everything in and
it wasn't an issue people have been
absolutely amazing in Egypt like there's
nothing that I can say as of yet to
complain or say like anything was a
worry that we anticipated being a worry
part of it could be due to the fact that
we were really smart about how we
coordinated everything so we didn't
basically do anything that wasn't booked
through the hotel we basically been with
someone everywhere that we've went so I
feel like that has helped a lot even
with that said the people here are just
incredibly nice and they just seem
really happy to have us here and this is
one of the things that I like about
having prolific and high volume is you
can kind of moderate your caffeine dose
so if you still want to get a crazy pump
you don't have to you know have two
scoops of prolific you can just have one
scoop of this and then kind of fill in
the holes with a little bit of extra
high volume so that's what I do so if I
don't want a whole lot of caffeine cuz I
already had coffee or if it's late or
something then I'll just add a little
bit of extra high volume so I still get
some stimulant effect but I get the full
pump
effect half on the
hat and you have a woring have this
whole V so I'm really excited to get a
workout
in a white dress I know that you like
this come here let me bite it it was
so so I think that if you take any
amount of time off it's like even more
important to get started with a good
warm up 10 minutes on the treadmill and
now light dynamic stretches and drills
just to get my shoulders warmed
[Music]
up see I'm just going to start off with
pushing full upper body today so I'm
going to start with some shoulders we're
just doing a machine press over here I'm
going to go like 10 to 12 reps but I'm
doing like three or four light warmup
sets just to get the blood flowing start
to feel a little bit of a pump and then
I'm going to load these reasonably
heavily because I am pretty strong on on
those machines see you have two grips
one is on the inside this grip I find to
be just a little bit too front delt
focus and too narrow uh so I use the
wider one that's a nice machine it feels
really good feels like it hasn't been
used much I don't know if it's a new gym
or people just don't come here
Devil in a white dress I know that you
like this come here let me bite it it
was so
hyno this going to be my first working
set
leave a rep or two in the tank on that
[Music]
one one took the last set to failure got
13 reps so 8 to 10 on the first three
and then 1 reps once man it feels so
good to get a shoulder
pump it's probably only been like 4 days
but feels like it's going
to weird dumb with rotating handles you
know what I that yeah I wasn't sure if
there was like a purpose to that I don't
like it it feels
[Music]
on warm up number two I'm going to jump
into my work
set B it was so
hno I'm still fantasizing it was so mes
Rising take you down on my sleeper turn
you into a GE devil and a white dress I
know that you like this come here let me
bite it's so
Hypno I'm still
fantasizing take you down on my sleep
turn you into a
GE that top 13
reps
[Music]
so that's another thing about Egypt just
another little tip um people advise us
not to drink the tap water here you get
sick um so I always drink bottled of
water like we've even been brushing our
teeth using bottled water we were told
not to eat the fruit too okay so next
we're going to do some back stuff so I'm
going to start with the I wanted to do a
LP pull down but they don't have a free
lot pull down so we're going to do a
pull down machine and then we're going
to do a horizontal pull so some sort of
row for the pull down we're going to do
like 10 12 reps and then for the row I'm
going to go a little bit higher rep
because I do want to squeeze a good bit
of volume into this workout cuz I
haven't trained in a little bit slightly
higher rep than normal and also I'm
going to play to my strength so I'm not
feeling particularly strong today
whether it's a result of the elevation
or the travel or I'm tired or whatever
it is maybe the weights is legitimately
are heavier here I don't know uh but in
any case I'm feeling relatively weaker
today so instead of trying to force
myself to be stronger I'm going to sort
of just play to what I'm able to do
which seems to be we get a good pump I'm
going to put the Reps a little bit
higher than normal and yeah we're going
to get into the back stuff now yeah so
someone's someone just grabbed the pull
down machine there's like two people in
the whole gym so naturally the piece
that we want is going to be used to do a
one arm lap pull in instead normally I
do this as a preactivation exercise but
it can just be a full-blown lat movement
you just take it a little bit closer to
failure and load it a little more
heavily Devil in a white dress I know
that you like this come here let me bite
it it was so hypnotizing
I'm
fing like when my calves get lean and
full they just get like crazy stri I
feel like they're always like that no
they're not like that if I like like
four or 5 days ago before I started
eating a lot they would not have looked
like that but I have to be lean and if I
eat a lot and I'm not that lean they
don't get like
it dang that looks
[Music]
nuts
I know that you like this come here let
me bite it it's so
hypnotising I'm stilling this is my last
set I'm going to take this one to
failure somewhere in the hopefully 10 to
12 but if I have more I'm going to push
[Music]
it so one thing I try to do is even if I
am taking the failure I try not to let
my form be compromised with the set so I
still keep it nice and controlled as
much as I can till the last one I let
that one slip a little bit all right so
up next I've got horizontal row so this
is like a plate loed machine row trying
to focus on like my mid traps so I pull
my should shoulder blades back together
and I also tuck my elbows down slightly
so normally I'll go heavy on this but uh
today like I said I'm just trying to
cram some volume in so I'm going to go
like 12 to 15 reps this might be heavy
I'll it's not his fault though cuz he
has to work with me so I have like
always Devil in a white dress I know
that you like this come here let me bite
it it
wasant take prob my last video like when
I was doing when I was doing this posst
a ton of people were commenting on how
short my arms looked in that and I've
actually had it measured for basketball
and I think I have a 5 51 or 52 wingspan
and I'm five so I do have really short
arms but it's actually if anything a
good thing in bodybuilding because it
gives me that appearance of like
tightness and density on stage and where
I have a really small waist it makes my
arms look very full um but obviously
like not all bodybuilders watch me so
people wouldn't necessarily know that
for my body type it works well for me on
stage sleeves this is a serious
workout
just using dumbbells because it's
quicker than having to load up the
[Music]
bar Devil in a white dress I know that
you like this so guys we just finished
up with the workout we did get told that
there was no filming policy uh we were
being really really discreet at first
and then we just started snapping
pictures everywhere and we had like
three different cameras out um and then
they said something to us so that was
probably a rookie move on our part
however we did speak to some of the
workers there and and they suggested
that we speak to the manager tomorrow
morning um to see if we can film just
because I think it would be a smart
business move from their perspective the
hotel is absolutely beautiful the gym
was amazing and so if we can open it up
to you know 200,000 people through my
channel um it might be a good move for
them so hopefully tomorrow he will allow
us to film is it not working no oh no
let me try my card Got The Magic Touch
ready okay we better make this
work
damn no really what the hell um I
extended our stay here through Expedia
um so our we were initially checking out
on the 14th oh
amazing it longer if we could very nice
okay any ass okay thank you so much I'm
all right thank you all right round
two for real
bro oh there we go there we go okay so
Jeff right now is trying to regain a
pump after our workout because he hasn't
had anything to eat so I have to do a
post for PE science for their uh for the
high volume which is the pump product so
it kind of requires that like I have a
pump in the photo and we trained like
for 3 hours so my pump is like starting
to go away the good thing about it is it
does work like whether you've eaten or
not which I find to be rare I find like
pump products really usually are only
effective if you've already eaten a
pretty big meal that day high volume
will will work even if you're like on an
empty stomach is what I find which I
basically was um but after 3 hours it's
it's going to wear off especially if you
haven't eaten
so this kind of want the backdrop to
look kind of Juicy I feel like maybe if
I stood like here no you need to be in
front of that black thing the contrast
with your skin color on the black looks
so good oh the the black the snow
white leopard
black I figured this might actually be
informative so uh people who are like
wanting to get maybe good photos for
Instagram or something I'm a
photographer um this I'm by no means a
camera expert but what we do is we use a
50mm lens I don't know the proper
terminology but it's a very zoomed in
lens so you have to stand very far back
and we put it on rapid fire so we just
take a ton of picks and then pick from
those so we might take like 30 or 40
photos and then I'll pick one from that
that ends up looking good I'll just
leave the camera rolling so you can get
an idea behind the scenes of how the
Instagram Instagram magic happens so
I'll Stand like here something like
this burn so I can see the vascularity
in your inner arm not that
arm like I'm sure if if we were
professional photographers it would be
so much easier but we just go by like
volume get as many photos as it takes
and yeah it's just uh it's a game of
perseverance when it comes to Instagram
good good good please join us
yeah I kind of want that ravioli again
like it's
caner this is a
small thank you and no I was going to
get the fetuccini with pra try something
different this is very nice it's good
okay I'm excited the ravioli was so good
I just had to get it again this is the
appetizer I got the lentil and red
pepper soup again step has a salad with
some chicken on it and then this is our
main shrimp Alfredo and I got the
shiitake mushroom ravioli again cuz it
was so good this is what Stephanie has
over here that contrast it still looks
delicious to me though and I have some
veggies this is supposed to be P nut pie
but pans are not in season here so they
had to use walnuts to make the pie I
love walnuts so it was really good for
me we're sharing this
one M it's very good oo it smells so
good when they make up the room I think
oh I love it how did they do it while we
were gone look what they did to uh to
our rings do you see we should show this
so they put our rings on this by the way
this is this is not real these are from
Walmart um I figured I should I should
address this so um you haven't yet no I
haven't I don't think yeah if you guys
were wondering or maybe you saw them
this was recommended to us just by
people who've traveled to Egypt just to
like kind of bring down the like
harassment or whatever for stuff if
apparently uh if we wear a ring people
are less likely to like approach her or
harass her or whatever um so we just got
those for the time being um I was told
by my friend May that if um even if I'm
like a step behind him and I'm like not
wearing a ring it's more or less seen
like we're not nothing's official until
you're married here so they take
marriage pretty seriously like men won't
hug women if they are married and if the
man is married themselves they won't hug
uh a woman even if she's not married so
if he's taken he will not hug another
woman or if she's taken no one will hug
her so or greet her in such a way point
the camera down at your your finger and
I'll put it on and we'll say she said
she said yes to getting dessert no
that's actually quite nice he did that
you guys think I clickbait bad look at
this he's got to syringe my Competitive
Edge oops sorry in the thumbnail I love
Christian though I'm just plan oh that's
what you have to do though you have to
do that because if you don't then people
don't watch it cuz there's just such an
abundance of content my take on
clickbait is if the content is good then
it's Justified as long as you're not
being dishonest as long as you're not
saying like interview with Justin Bieber
and it's a workout uh I'm a utilitarian
or consequentialist about this so as
long as the end product is good if you
have to clickbait to get people in there
I personally am okay with it as long as
it's not overtly deceitful I haven't
been too overtly deceitful just perhaps
slightly innuendos in in some of my
titling that's Justified when the video
you put in 40 hours of Ed exactly thank
you oh
see thank
you it's very nice I feel like the
camera isn't doing it justice very nice
view and there's a little boat over here
just chilling in the
Nile this just came up in my reading and
it kind of just stimulated a thought
process that some people who ask a lot
of questions about what causes cancer
what makes cancer worse is a good
example of why it's not that simple some
people are saying that tumor cells or
cancer feed off of glucose so a lot of
people are under the impression that the
Ketone diet is like an anti-cancer diet
I guess but research like it it's not
always like a one-way street so a good
example would be that if you were to
suppress having glucose in your cellular
metabolism or the lack of glucose in
your diet yes it would suppress the
tumor cells from getting glucose or and
or nutrients they've also shown that it
suppresses the function of cd8 cells
which is part of your immune system so
everything has a compensatory reaction
as a as a result of doing some sort of
intervention when you do a then B
happens they forget that when you do a c
d e and f also happen so as a result of
it because of it it deflecting the
innate and adaptive immune system then
the cancer just took over even though
you halted cellular metabolism cancer
can find a way around it just some
review papers just to write my
introduction chapter on my uh my
interation good knowledge
bomb it and go ah okay okay St this you
yeah here I'll show you uh oh it's it's
in
Arabic oh English uh so this is this is
me oh thank you I took this right here
this today yeah this photo is in front
of this today today picture thank you
follow follow and this is this is me and
her yes follow follow okay yes so you're
going to go to the Canadian embassy yes
in future yes I am go in Canada yes call
you yes comment on one of my photos if
you do in Instagram yes on Instagram
comment don't message me comment cuz I
won't see the direct okay anything in
Egypt me thank you so much for the food
it's delicious thank you by guy who
delivered it to us he um he was asking
me questions about U moving to Canada
but I we there was a major language
barrier so he went and got his phone and
showed me a page from the government
website which is what he was just
showing me and he said he really wants
to move there because he's heard that
like the working conditions are better
and all that so it was really it was
really sweet to talk to him and um just
like very nice see like their struggle I
guess like from this side of the world I
don't know if that speaks to all of
Egypt because I'm just not immersed
enough in the culture here to know but
it was very nice to be able to help him
maybe on some level at least told him to
go to the Canadian embassy I'm going to
conclude the Vlog here thank you guys
once again so much for watching I hope
that you liked it give it a thumbs up if
you did and I'll see you in the next one