[Music]
structure and flexibility the RP diet
app builds a structure of eating that
creates the results you're looking for
but has the flexibility to let you scan
your favorite foods and follow your
preferred diet philosophy the digital
diet coach in your pocket is more
powerful than ever so let's build a
better you with the RP diet app
folks welcome back to the weekly webinar
dr. James dr. Mike here to answer your
questions let's get right to it a a all
right let's see who's up first Anton
Anton Scranton's
Anton says hi would it be advisable for
optimal and optimal fried perch for you
to replace the back squat with open and
track bar squatting assuming a full
range of motion is performed from the
stand I know not many like this idiom
but I don't understand why Marc Roberto
hates the track bar but I wonder what
you think on my track bar the open side
is as heavy as the closed side and the
center of mass is exactly the access the
weight carrier in the middle of the grip
thanks well so my first suspicion is
that if you are interested in targeting
the quads in then you're looking for
essentially two things ability to draw
my muscle connection / overload the
target tissue and to make sure there's
as little muscle limiting factors or
degrees of freedom in between you and
the target quad so for example high bar
squats are pretty good because you can
get like a really rigid posture and your
back doesn't really there's not a lot of
a degree of declination of your back so
you're back tends to not limit you much
there and so you get great transfer and
it's really easy to get a good technique
to feel your quads a lot and it can pose
a lot of stimulus on them so it checks
both boxes leg press same idea except
light press even you know maybe a little
bit less stimulative but fewer limiting
factor so it's really just as good as
the squat especially if you do it right
full range of motion hack squats great
for again those reasons something that
James likes to do often in which I do
want to get my hands on a bounce squat
it's really really interesting because
sometimes it's a little bit awkward for
balance so maybe you don't get as good
of a stimulus but it's got zero axial
fatigue which is incredible you can just
be your legs up so definitely checks you
know one of the boxes little s one of
the boxes a lot more it's still good my
issue with using essentially deadlifts
with a full range of motion for the
quads which is good is there's a problem
of your grip is a limiting factor your
traps are a leading factor and B because
the way you hold your bar you're going
to start rounding over your back at some
pointed that will become a limiting
factor the movement itself tends to be
more actually loading from the get-go
because you can't just position the bar
on your traps easily and let it sit
there the mine muscle connection is
gonna be worse because you're thinking
about other shit like gripping and
holding a bar so even though the range
of motion is good an external
perspective is good you're reducing like
man if we're counting joints let's even
count the back as half because you can
have more involvement one half shoulder
joint elbow joint because there's bicep
stuff like your biceps could get tired
and then a grip we're adding three and a
half degrees of freedom to what
otherwise is zero for the squat and
negative one for the leg press so it's
one of those things where it's it's
interesting idea on paper and if you do
it and you have success with it like you
actually feel your quads you're not
feeling limited by anything else I think
it's a fine variation to throw in there
I would just be very careful about axial
fatigue a systemic fatigue and if like
you know what's one of the things where
you nominally say it you should hit your
quads but someone's like so what do you
get so we're after that you're like what
constant gets sort of my traffic get
really fried you're like okay what do
you really think you're training if your
traps get so much akua's don't write
james yeah so I'm like 75% with you on
that one so I've used the trap bar I've
programmed it a lot I don't find that
the axial fatigue is all that much
different because usually it's a you
know it's loaded basically right down
the middle I mean so grips can be a
limiting thing I haven't found the traps
to be a limiting thing for a lot of
people or posture to be a limiting thing
but I think were you running to some
benefits and risk is with anthropometry
where if you have somebody who's like
dr. Mike and he's built to be a strong
squatter right now he's got a hold you
know four hundred pounds plus in his
hands to get the amount of weight I ran
into all those issues yeah see so that I
think there so my differences in sizes
and build so if you have somebody like
me who's tall and not a super strong
squatter I think you can get a little
bit more out of that particular exercise
especially if you have strong grip but
yeah if you have a shorter torso and
longer the longer femurs yeah definitely
so I think it's more of like it's not an
inherently good or bad exercise I think
it's just built better for some people
and worse for others so I mean it's it's
ultimately is it a squat or a deadlift
it's kind of its kind of somewhere in
between right it's just a knee extension
hip extension type movement where that's
just loaded a little bit differently so
what I usually recommend is don't
substitute that out complete
for like a standard squat or more of a
more standard deadlift variation but
it's a good one to do some believe it or
not some higher reps and get some volume
in because you can use you know
moderately challenging weight so like
for me right now I actually have it in
on my um kind of like one of my more
moderate quad days where I'll do sets of
like between ten and fifteen and it's
awful but I actually can't do sets of
ten and fifteen that consistently on the
squat because of the way if my build is
and my back's gets tired so it works for
me definitely wouldn't work for Mike
because he's a lot stronger in the leg
well he's just stronger than me period
but he's particularly in the legs so you
can imagine like if you identify more on
the short and stocky side it's probably
not great for you if you're more like me
more Gumby build might be okay um so
frozen cut you've got to know how it
just no what you're looking for remember
that's stimulus to fatigue ratio make
sure that your quads are what's getting
hit like James will do these and his
quads blow up his grip is fine his traps
are fine back is fine but if you find
yourself you're like man I'm just kind
of picking this up and using my glutes
in my back and I think my quads are
working man it just it's it's not a quad
exercise anymore it's not a limiting
factor for quite still a quad exercise
very portion is the fatigue ratio you're
not gonna be able to push your quads as
hard as you want to be Porsha oh and
just one more note on that SFR a thing
the one thing that you can do a lot with
squats that you cannot do with the trap
bar is like foot position and foot angle
right because you're stuck in that
little cube thing so you know if you're
like me you're tall and you're probably
wide this is but that's kind of a
problem because you're inside the stupid
square and you actually can't spread out
that much whereas with the squat you can
take a really comfortable foot angle or
foot placement to really get a good SFR
out of it worse than trap bar you a
little bit more limited you can make it
work but it's definitely a downside all
right all the way from Finland is eronel
totally Onan toivonen and I'm mr.
doctors work has been interfering a lot
and me being able to follow up in
podcast by H man I just watch the latest
podcasts and I'm able to ask questions
again first an improvement idea for rp+
make a FAQ bot on our P plus site we
should help people find videos or
articles easily regarding various topics
as you mentioned on previous podcast you
guys have so much content here
might even counteract its purpose in my
opinion too much info makes people get
lost and so they ask you something
directly which has been answered in
depth some article or video it's a
really good idea we'd have to have the
bandwidth to get someone to actually go
through and catalogue everything yeah
but that's actually a good suggestion
because doing the bot is not that hard I
mean like Andrew made a button or
slocked
our slack chat you know what I mean just
from goof like in 30 find stuff yeah we
would have to go battle logging which is
the bigger issue it yeah the cataloging
stuff but definitely a really good idea
so thank you so much okay question one a
you mentioned in a podcast a few weeks
ago how someone with a low or a book
fitness but also a low system become
ravine and because of it are just in
general
regular hypertrophy work on might be too
taxing systemic why's that it normally
should be for example getting out of
battery squat etc I presume the proven
aerobic fitness would impede hypertrophy
workout so one would need to but I
personally workout on the back burner
and shift the focus on aerobic workouts
am i right well so what we generally
tend to say is for folks in that
situation high volume hypertrophy work
actually improves your fitness over time
in addition to that I'm just gonna go
ahead and say this taken for you will
nine times out of 10 if not more
probably more those guys that are in
that position just over fat and on a
flood of fat like you know like
typically sort of Westside powerless
from back in the day like 35 percent
body fat and they am fine for cardio
like yeah that's cuz you're a fat piece
of shit like if you're you know in
remotely decent shade that shouldn't be
a problem for you and certainly after
812 weeks of hypertrophy training with
higher volumes and maybe progressively
getting less fat you're gonna be able to
do almost all hypertrophy work you want
and not really be limited by anything
else in as soon as you start saying well
I'm gonna teach you robot work James and
I've talked about this on a variety of
our books you're essentially like yeah
you know like I don't know what kind of
analogy works best here but you're
you're essentially using here I will put
you this way you you need a fire you
have a campsite you have some wood
around it and you're saying we're
running running out of wood we have to
find more wood let's make this fire
brighter and find more wood well you're
burning the very wood they're using to
make the fire brighter she's gonna make
a problem essentially the same so if you
powering aerobic fitness up in order to
get better hypertrophy you're gonna mute
hypertrophy response but be able to get
more of it so you're almost prescribing
yourself more
if you like to Train watch it get into
excellent cardio shape you could train
all day and still get the same growth or
worse so it's kind of a dog eating its
own tail thing James yeah yeah so I mean
like here's kind of a bigger conundrum
you run into is like okay should I be
adding cardio so that I can do more
hypertrophy stuff like 99% of the time
the answer is no because you have a
specificity violation to your training
like if your outcome is to do
hypertrophy stuff and get larger cardio
is definitely just going to start
causing interference with that to some
degree the more you do the worse it will
get
so in that case I think it's like not a
bad idea to add some cardio but not as
putting hypertrophy on the backbone or
bringing up your cardio to a point and
then doing lace like drastic switches
right it's like I'm doing 95%
hypertrophy and I've identified that I'm
kind of out of shape okay so maybe now
I'm doing like 80 7.5% hypertrophy and
bringing my cardio up a little bit right
and then it will just over time kind of
work itself out once you're in shape you
maintain the shape really easily and
then you can actually just drop out the
cardio and go back to doing mostly that
virtually so just really honestly just
do more volume low ly and do less of
everything else oh yeah
all right number one B I currently do
the male physique template with four
workouts and full body focus so my case
is said maybe instead to full body
workouts pre can do two or three aerobic
workouts on the side that's three over
corners for example 30 minutes listen up
to improve aerobic fitness so know first
of all it's not in any meaningful sense
for someone who's very well trained its
second of all it won't transfer very
well to your lifting the best way to get
good at high repetition high-volume
lifting number of high number of sets is
to do slowly but surely incrementally
more of it occasionally deal with repeat
and also get leaner period so if someone
said to me hey listen like I'm really
out of shape for hypertrophy training
what should i do should just keep doing
hypertrophy training and you'll
eventually get to great things all of
the muscle gains coming your way and in
better hypertrophy shape it's a self
solving problem but here's how it
doesn't get self solved guys will say
listen I only trained like two or three
times a week and I'm over fat how do I
get better a hypertrophy training was
where you train four or five times a
week
higher volumes meeting about an hour at
a time an hour and a half work your way
up to an hour and a half of training at
a time and get leaner and they're like
well I can't do than one of those things
what
should i do should I do cardio no you
don't have the bandwidth for sure for
cardio if you're asking questions like
that so more hyper - yeah I definitely
grew with Mike on this one so like you
know three aerobic workouts per week is
good enough to improve like basic
cardiovascular fitness from like the
health perspective but what Mike is said
is also true it's not enough to really
transfer it it's a huge amount into
hypertrophy training and at that point
the answer is just more training yeah
more training gets you both they added
Fitness improvement and direct benefit
like it's a win-win whereas cardio gets
your direct cost small cost and an
indirect not as good performance benefit
yeah so there might be some incentives
to do those three aerobic workouts for
health promoting reasons certainly we
could go that route but not for
hypertrophy promoting reasons
necessarily one see would it be smart to
spread out the aerobic workouts for
example rolling cycling and jogging to
avoid negative injuries from jogging
don't jog let me just put that one out
there so if we have to like if we're
gonna use the ambulating modalities
walking is greater than running is
greater than jogging jogging is the
worst of the ambulating ones that you
can do it's like a really low fitness
payout and a huge fatigue cost you're
better off at that point either running
or walking free app so and also just
you're gonna beam up the gorge doing
that rowing is fine honestly if you're
gonna go with a cardiovascular out
there's a lot of really good options the
elliptical is a great option because
it's not impact in a full body and you
can do that without getting overuse for
a long long long time so I but honestly
ernõ a just I would just not do any of
that stuff and just do more as this is
training I'm struggled to get the rower
to be used in my hypertrophy program the
rower it's not like terribly challenging
but it does toast your back that's the
things um even if it doesn't - well I
guess yeah it really does so I I'm kind
of pooh-poohing on the rower for
hypertrophy training but it's a good
cardio though if you want cardio it's
not a bad choice but further for this
not so much number two when someone has
frozen shoulder syndrome or similar to
needing to do daily rehab exercises
basically teaching so muscles to
function properly again does this rehab
work interfere with the local muscle
MRV or is it only a little taxing so
systemic rrv
as it's basically more related a
neuromuscular proven not having muscle
work per se so it's actually two
completely different questions does this
rehab work interfere with local muscle
MRV or is it a little taxing to systemic
MRV it could be both or neither actually
so does this rule I should answer
separately these two questions does this
rehab work interfere with local muscle
MRV yes probably to a small amount if
it's just rehab work but also if you're
doing only rehab work you're not using
as much for anything else or kind of
doesn't matter what the local MFE is
James one of the craziest things I've
ever seen I'm not accusing you of doing
this at all it's just outside these
people doing full-blown high strength I
approached a few workouts like way too
soon and like they're still rehabbing
like PCL tay or something and then on
top of that they'll do these really
specific like single add leg extensions
with slow eccentric Slyke to strengthen
the tendon and I'm like you do realize
that this wee rehab workouts are not a
magic peppering you put in to get your
knee stronger like you're already doing
rehab times a thousand on the leg press
you should just be leaving it the fuck
alone better yet don't leg press a
thousands just do your rehab and then
slowly the rehab is nothing more than a
structured way to reintroduce resistance
training into your system into your
physiology and Anatomy that's it so it's
so funny that people are like well I do
this rehab works are counted in my RV
like if you count MRV bro you're not
doing rehab work like he's got its own
MRV you're fucked up that's the only
reason you should be doing rehab work so
so real quick sorry so yes it interferes
but a very tiny amount it's also
relevant cuz you should just be doing
the rehab work and then if you're not
rehab a anymore she easing in and then
does it tack systemic Emery probably
very little because really look if your
rehab or taxes systemic ever be a lot
it's not rehab work James yeah so what
Mike's really getting at here right it's
like I think the issue you who you could
make if any is the systemic one because
you could be injured somewhere and not
all other places right and you could be
training the rest of your body so how
much does the rehab that you're doing on
your one injured spot spillover oh man
probably not but should you be like
counting your if you injured your
shoulder should you be trying to train
your I'm Harvey for your shoulder no
absolutely not that's the whole point of
doing the rehab that's what we're
getting at here so my mom actually got
frozen shoulders she woke up and got
locked up I think she had slowly been
sleeping and it had been progressively
getting
worse and then one day she woke up and
she was like locked up in this like
goofy position had a good run and she
got yeah you know over time it got fixed
but I feel your pain or no it's it's not
a fun not a fun problem I says last
interesting fact related to but for me
at least
isn't that previously shoulder / bicep
pendants hurt we're doing pressing
exercise for chest when lowering
barbells dumbbells too low but now I can
actually dumbbell press very low and get
a nice stretch on my chest while not
having pain mildly put I'm pretty
excited about the sort of feels good
let's are we good to see you having
progress number three is Charles the
strongest Korean in North America has to
be at least top five he's almost
certainly not the strongest because
there's uh what the fuck is his name pug
the goat on Instagram is Korean and he's
just absolutely he weighs like 165 or
181 or some shit he's legit squatting
like six and benching oh yeah he's dead
looks like almost 800 it just doesn't
make any sense at all so relatively
speaking he is you know Charlie is not
as strong but an absolute basis Charlie
might be the strongest Korean of North
America unless there's some kinda other
giant Korea's running around and
probably one of the strong screens in
the world to be honest so yes there was
only one Charlie Charlie today he's
gotta be up there yeah I'd be up there
yeah hilarious aside his parents are
like so he's more in America right as
America's apple pie his parents are both
from Korea and his name is not Charles
it's actually Charlie is I was birth
certificates CH 8 r ly is not even an e
in there they just made up a name but
they had an American and that was it and
one of our other friends Doug who's also
a creating works for our P he's Korean
too his name isn't Douglas its Doug it's
just Doug right so it's so funny cuz he
was like man I used to write Douglas I'm
like assignments when I was in the first
and second grade and then I found out
that my name wasn't actually done so I
was like fuck but they had been lied to
you this whole time weird amazing
amazing alright number four if Warren
Buffett donated me 1 billion dollars
with one demand which would be me not
working anymore and only maximizing my
hypertrophy how would it split my
workouts for example doing one set and
then come back home to rest and return
back when fresh for the next set cetera
where should I only do exercises for a
specific muscle and then rest and return
for the next muscle a day etc basically
the question is where the point of doing
a set slash exercise fresh versus doing
multiple exercises for a specific body
part to gain pre-exhaust and metabolics
I think we know from scientific
literature experience and usually the
first muscle on working sets gets the
most games relatively so you get a like
be very careful about that it's a very
correct claim that last one that the
first set gets the most gains relatively
but what that also is true in frequency
you could say one session per week gets
the most games if you add a session you
get like one point two times the gains
if you add another one you go from two
sessions to three even if you're doing
more volume uh in addition to that you
only get you know 1.2 times more games
if you do the equivalent volume if you
just spread it out then it's like one
point one times the gains and after
three to six sense sorry ins per week
somewhere we even lose this statistical
effect so there's nothing so magical
about the first set as far as
hypertrophy that doesn't extend to the
first session because a lot of people
will do this they'll say okay the first
set is way more hypertrophic than the
second set which is actually not
technically true thing to conclude from
the literature the literature says doing
one set grows you this much doing two
sets scores you that much it doesn't
mean there's necessarily a percent
hypertrophy fact we're looking we'll
look at that in a second so what they
say is okay given if that's the case
what if we do six times a week frequency
and do six total sets versus doing six
sets all at once
in the same session and when we look at
the growth difference between those it
is not six times the amount isn't even
close it's like 1.4 1.3 times the amount
more for sure but nothing like what you
would expect because every successive
session you add is less hypertrophic
suggests that you can say one set per
session it gives you the most
hypertrophy one session per week gives
you the most expert review so the two
largely tend to cancel each other out
right that being said the optimal
frequency for training in most
situations is probably a bit higher than
most people expect it's probably two to
four sessions a week it's probably not
one session per week and the optimum per
session volume probably is exercise and
oh sorry muscle group specific so if
I think there's some credence to
training like only the back and then
coming back and training only the doubts
and coming back a third time in training
only the biceps is almost certainly
better than training back delts biceps
and I'm coming back another day or
coming back later that day to train more
muscles so spreading out is good
unfortunately in James way correct me if
I'm wrong we don't really know the limit
of the spreading we know there's some
downsides or psychological downsides to
the spreading maybe nutritional
downsides I might even be like like you
said pre-exhaustion metabolites
downsides like if you do three sets of
legis tensions made you three sets of
squats it might actually be better for
the quads then do three sets of leg
extensions right and then later coming
back a day late or doing three sets of
squats because you essentially don't get
that boost and stimulus to fatigue ratio
because there's no other limiting
factors now again and so on and so forth
um so I'm not really sure I probably
wouldn't if I was sort of optimizing at
per trophy I would for sure train two to
three sessions per day on the days I
trained must much of the time you know
for sure train most muscle groups two to
six times per week I definitely wouldn't
like you know go under your head get as
big as you can I wouldn't be like well
I'll do two sessions total per week each
three hours long right like fuck that
think I am in a situation with my
training we're sort of similar to that
where I have a very open schedule and so
does my training partner charlie we
train on average nine times a week nine
sessions per week we've done as many as
twelve the problem 12 is your ability to
recover from that starts to go straight
to fucking hell and then there's a huge
inconvenience for showing up to the gym
four times a day and there's also a
psychological cost to that that's really
high so your your systemic fatigue might
start to accumulate not really nearly if
you have to be at the gym four times a
day and try really hard there has to be
a distinct and Alex way out actually
funny enough of the later questions
about this Alex Piana talks about this
in his books and other writings is that
there's something special too off time
both psychologically and physiologically
that is it's not accounted for by total
volume so sometimes running a hard run
in the am harder another PM is actually
worse than running just one big heart
rod of the a.m. and having time to
really really settle down so I would say
that you know the optimal number of
training sessions per week which is
really were asking how to split them up
is probably you know
if it's for sure north of successions a
week but I don't think it's far north of
like 12 I think if you're starting to do
two days on most the days you train
going from two days to three days which
some weightlifters do might be helpful
but there is like a big plateau there
probably into the negative I think if
you're training every set every day
you're training three times a day even
if the end of video sessions aren't that
hard I think you're gonna start to pay a
variety of other kind of prizes
yeah I'm really with Mike on that one I
think the only time where you it might
be worth it and I don't even know if it
is worth it training more than two times
per day is in examples like weight
lifting or track and field like Mike saw
because it's a power it's an intensity
based thing there's literally a limit as
to how much power you can generate and
every one of those sessions to the point
that it's still producing a significant
overload so in those cases it actually
is not a bad idea to break up your
workouts so that each one can be a
stimulative as humanly possible for
hypertrophy training it's just not the
case as long as you're hitting like your
minimum intensity thresholds right
you're not getting a ton more out of
each session outside of a few just a
split so I'm with Mike on that one
probably not more not north of 12 yeah
alright number five just wanting to ship
test my thoughts someone doing mainly 10
to 30 rep hypertrophy work is smaller
difference between 10 rep max and 1 rep
max then someone doing mainly 1 to 10
rep strength work right yep completely
correct because there's more specificity
there I presume it's the same thing with
10 rep and 5 max differences yes also
presumably other way around for example
hypertrophy gender neutral person has
the smaller difference between 20 and 10
rep max strength guy has bigger
differences yeah cuz for the strength
guy tendrá max he can use the strength
to get a lot of reps but at 20 reps his
endurance of such dog shit like I know
people who's 10 rep max is just about
the same as their 15 rep max because at
10 reps they're fucking done actually
hilariously for my squat like my quads
are relatively fast which James I've
made careful observations over the years
of this I cannot do in the squat at any
reasonable weight above 300 pounds any
more than 8 reps
no matter the weight above 300 pounds
without accumulating lactic acid is done
and I've actually to be honest if I snow
out a relatively good cadence even all
the way down to 135 pounds eight reps
later I'm doing lactic acid so once that
stuff starts to hit it just times me out
so like I've done high rep squats before
I've done 225 for a set of 30 way back
in the day that was a terrible terrible
terrible but you know it's you know you
would expect by formula for me be able
to do you know 350 intro so I like Ivan
squat the push comes to shove and if I
pay for it I can PI square or five for
20 reps right what am i 23 15 for 24
right like high for 30 but you expect to
be like 50 it's like no no no those
limiting factors the faster twitch
muscle fibers and the captive aerobic
utilization was I'm just as such so I
mean just can only being so good of an
aerobic shape those are where the caps
are so you're absolutely correct about
that stuff James yeah and actually Mike
Jared and I had a phone conversation not
too long ago because of the idea of
overload right and this is a good
example of like an overall overload
being more of a threshold a range kind
of scores for hypertrophy rather than
like a pure linear progression and Mike
just gave a really good example it's
like okay well where do you go after 405
does it only go up right can you do you
have to go up to 410 425 and start
adding reps there no the answer is not
that you can do a variety of other
things so one of the problems that we
kind of ran into in the book was this
like very um just binary definition of
overload whereas you know in hypertrophy
training it's kind of like that's more
of a it's kind of like the volume
Landmarks idea it's like it's kind of a
range it's kind of a threshold a
national area that you're working within
it doesn't have to be a binary like this
is more than this equals overload yes
look what James talked about his guys
will be like you'll be like a squad of
200 pounds today and then two months
later you're saying hey did 200 pounds
for 10 wraps and it's a really isn't
that not overloading because you've done
200 for ten before it's like it's not
overload doesn't mean you do you have to
do more than you did last time it means
that a range of effective strategies
moves up slowly over time because you'll
see that on Instagram on Tong too but
doesn't know violate overload like know
exactly
all right and for the main question for
example someone with 10 to 30 workout
background can do 10 reps which one or
kilos and one rep or 240 but for some
reason we know of his theoretical
ability after serious long-term peaking
would be to do one rep with 280 I don't
know if we know that we don't know that
that's just what the calculator spits
out based on averages
yeah so we don't know that it could be
320 based on fiber type in neurology and
conversion of fibers or it could be 260
and then let's see what he goes do we
have any knowledge how fast does that
nervous system adaptation happened
towards maximal strength we do have
knowledge but there's a huge range and
it also depends on how you train for
example in this case in might be 240
into 64 240 270 what depends on how long
right what I will say is um James I
would love to hear your personal
experiences on this matter for me it
takes me from high rep hypertrophy
training like 10 to 20 reps sets to get
attuned to close to maxes it takes me at
least to one month of transition to
remotely start feeling decent under sets
of doubles and triples there's a whole
month for sure where I'm just total
total dog shit and I get zero conversion
out of anything oh yeah I was gonna say
more like 2 or 3 months and oh I need
two or three months to get remotely
close to the most out of it but what I'm
saying is 1 month is basically a waste
of fucking time it's trash yeah I'm
calibrating especially if you go all the
way into that like maximal rep range
loading like 1 2 3 I mean it's it's not
bad if you do that and this is why Mike
and I often recommend doing that
intermediate kind of strength phase
where you're doing like 4 to 8 reps or
something like that because you can at
least have good training there whereas
if you just jump the gap all the way to
ones and threes that whole month is just
car but gone and also like yeah you're
like basically not strong enough to
overload in the strength range but you
are not getting volumes that do anything
anymore so and also like this is why
James and I don't worry in the science
for principle strain training along with
Chad we said that for most cases most
exercise unless they're very isolation
here unless you have a good reason
10 is the top limit of reps we do for
hypertrophy for strength for for
powerless
people say like well joining need sets
of 15 like good luck getting squatting
for sets of 50 in your offseason and
then doing meet prepping trying to squat
again for sets of 3 like that will take
you months if you're squatting sets of
8g you know here one month away from
sets of fives feelin real good and then
your one month away from sets lets you
feeling real good and then you're peaked
right so we generally if you're more
than 2 or 3 months away from peaking
fuck man
it's a long road and sometimes a very
perilous road because a lot of times the
technical adjustments you have to make
the perception the way you brace it
starts to be so different that there's
this sort of nonlinear learning curves
that pop up and you're like I thought it
was this gonna be able to add 10 pounds
the bars a week but like I'm I'm my hip
is hurting a little bit I think I have
to move my stance in because a lot of
times too when you add more muscle and
you change body weight you have to
reconfigure your technique it doesn't
just happen so we always tell folks like
you know don't do the sets of 15 and 20
and 30 in the squad blog press if you're
a power lifter 6 if you know 6 to 10 you
get all the size you need but without
getting so far off of the specificity
train that you're just nowhere to be
found and you could you could apply that
to basically all strength and power
sports for example - same recommendation
100% alright samuel l.jackson goodness
oh no I know I misspelled it ok
oh yeah that was my typo samuel l
jackson says hi Jackson flexing where
I've started my first real code after 2
years of lifting and never counted any
calories just watch my body weight make
sure I eat enough protein that I was in
that kind of roughly not a good to
fatten once so now I enter everything in
an app which is actually way easier than
anticipated and see my protein may be
way too high I weigh any one kilos and
consume between 200 to 20 grams of
protein with the 1.8 - for two died like
this from the maximum 180 I know there
shouldn't be any big downsize there's
logic about fastest system it's whole
carbs or what 80 that would be too low
what are your thoughts on this should I
lower my protein or roll with this for a
while
this is that for three days of the diet
and see how it goes and adjust later
thanks doc always liked the content so
assume you're using like a MyFitnessPal
kind of app just attractor stuff which
is a very good place to start if you're
using the RP diet app you wouldn't have
to think about the fit
that plug was coming exactly it's just
shameless so I think you're doing a real
good thing you know there's really not
hit a huge downsides but this sort of
might bite you in the ass later when
you're like not jacking off anymore if
you don't have any sex drive your
flattest fuck because you're eating two
fewer carbs like at least I'm eating a
gazillion a lot of protein so actually
what I would do
Sam is I would just I would just dial it
down now dial it down into the normal
range because I guess as many people
including that I've had some ones most
famously have written that range are so
generous anyway that if you're above
that range me really just like the love
of fucking God give yourself more carbs
and fats now so that you don't run it's
better to not run into dumb shit
then fix dumb shit James yeah and it's
it's also generous in the sense that
you're using your body weight and not
even scaling a two-year lbm so you're
already you already have you're using
body weight which is already a huge
cushion so you can play around with this
like some people they like having extra
protein because it keeps them feeling
fuller and sated longer a lot of people
would prefer to have more carbs and so I
think you could easily drop your protein
down a little bit to make some extra
room for carbs and have slightly better
training slightly better recovery on
average that would be my first
inclination but there's a lot of
individualization in there that you can
play around once and say like do you
like to have more fats like to have more
carbs do you actually just want to keep
your protein where it is there's a lot
of wiggle room there for individual
difference so my first inclination
though would be yeah go ahead and drop
that protein in is your carbs oh yeah
it's kind of like you know if you've got
a clearly something clearly not wrong
with something clearly not optimal and
you know it's not optimal and York
should I change it or wait do I want to
lick it the way James and I think and
this is pertaining actually the genes as
recent criticisms of some of the book
stuff we're doing a hypertrophy book how
would I really if you code yourself and
you're super smart you knew your
situation really well how do you
critique yourself if you if you had a
red team yourself if you had strong and
they're not strong man but like they
basically a charitable opposite of steel
Manning right if you had to really go
after yourself devil's advocate but if
you know like why don't I teach this now
because I know what sucks and you're
like wow I can't actually argue against
that well the fucking change it you know
what I mean it's like it's almost like
okay I have like two hours until my mom
comes to visit I can either relax right
now with TV and then clean my living
room which is gonna take me just 50
minutes or I can just do it now and then
you let a little demon in your heads
like do it now fucking asshole well but
and you don't have any buds just fucking
do it so it's do it yeah all right Shawn
Morikawa Ruben says hello guys I've got
a train of thought that I know as a
mistake somewhere but I'm not sure where
okay you guys have we're like detectives
James it's fishing education man tell me
where you were last night would be the
worst detective ever James you and I
would be terrible good cop bad cop I
think I would like to be clearly lying
and he'd be like I wasn't there like
you're fucking liar you turn to me like
I believe a man I think we should stop
yelling at this man damn it Mike all
right I've got a train of thought okay
I'm not sure where you doesn't mentioned
it uh one of the problems with effective
reps models that at high rep ranges the
last five reps might not actually
necessarily engage all the fastest or
fibers due to fatigue build up and that
five fresh reps are the heavier load of
singer the faster each fiber is much
more faster fibers likely make up the
majority of muscle growth but but aren't
necessarily they're actually necessarily
fully stimulated by the higher up sets
well why is the 10 to 20 range
considered best on average hypertrophy
wouldn't the lack of good fresh reps of
fasteners fibers make it less ideal it
would make it less ideal but there has
really really good stimulus to fatigue
ratios which is just really a big draw
so first of all anywhere in the 10 to 20
range you actually get really really
good faster fiber activation it's not
quite enough reps to really make
prohibitive it's not like it hugely
affects the fatigue doesn't hugely
affect your faster fiber recruitment it
does to some extent right but also it's
much more volume for the intermediates
lower for twitch fibers which help the
mind muscle connection is best there
your technique is often best there your
ability to Zone in on the muscle you
want and the set to set fatigue is
probably much lower right so if you're
doing an average sets of five you can
get as big as you want with sets of five
when you will fucking break sets of 15
man you can do until you Lulu the face
you could actually here's the really
crazy thing in set number volume you
could actually do more volume your MRV
is higher this is not something we
mentioned often your MRV is higher on
average in the 15 rep range that it
isn't the 5 rep range
she is maybe only by five shots are so
much fat flocking adds up and the fact
that you're not hurting your connective
tissues as much is a huge huge deal so I
think that's where they get the big
ranges and look I think you know the 10
to 20 range is by the best I think for
most people that means 10 to 15 15 to 20
is a rather slower twitch fibers and so
on and so forth and there's got those
other fast rich downsides but also
remember this ah you get really really
good metabolite stimulation and really
really good muscle swelling simulation
in those higher rep ranges so it's not
just about tension to the faster fibres
but there's also sauce Hualien
metabolites that are independent
mechanisms I've heard trophy in addition
to that and they're much higher in the
10 to 20 range the thing is the twenty
to thirty they're so high but it's 20 to
30 at least in short-term works just as
well as in ten to twenty into five to
ten right in the long term reprise
doesn't work as well but in the 10 to 20
range those things are high enough to
really really count but the faster
fibers still do well enough that they
get a really really good studio so it's
kind of like not so much the best of
both worlds but the no real clear
downsides for any of the worlds and
everything works out really well um
sorry real quick another thing mom this
is something we just actually wrote into
the book there is an oft this is has
been discussed by a few people ericom's
comes to mind we actually and this is
something which I just made the graphs
for the figures for the hypertrophy book
the best mind muscle connection on
average is in the 10 to 20 range and
because it's too heavy in the 5 to 10
usually cuz you're like I don't even
know what's happening you know you're
just surviving whether people think all
the 20-30 it's really light and get a
hug good time on my muscle connection
not if you're going close to failure the
fucking pain of the lactic acid buildup
and the 23 repartee whose connection
altogether I don't even know what I'm
doing I just surviving at that point so
that 10 to 20 range happens to be this
nice moderate range who you check all
the boxes but there's not these huge
doubt size James yeah yeah and so like
one thing that's worth reiterating in my
card he said this in so many words is
that 10 to 20 range is like almost
infinitely sustainable whereas the 5 to
10 is definitely not and the 20 to 30
like you can do it but after a while you
just peed or out your gains very very
quickly where's the 10 to 20 is like you
always make progress you never get hurt
Sean I think where your your discussion
point here might actually have some good
positive credence is if we're looking at
strength power sports kind of ties in to
that last question where let's say you
have a strength power athlete whether
it's a power lifter or weight lever but
particularly if it's a weight class
sport so combat sports you know barbell
sports things like that now you can
actually make a really strong case in
terms of what type of hypertrophy you
want to be targeting because you're also
constricted by body weight right whereas
in bodybuilding general there are weight
classes but generally the goal is to
gain lots of muscle mass and so we're
not really constrained by body weight as
much and we can fill up on lots of those
intermediate and type one fibers and it
makes you look better and that's awesome
right but if you're in a weight class
poor you don't want to be putting on a
lot of extra weight as the non most
explosive or strongest muscle fiber
types because that's really not serving
the function that you want
so in that case like you would be
getting a lot more out of those heavier
sets so that you could be as jacked as
possible at your weight class and have
the highest distribution of type 2 X
fibers that you have that would be a
very strong case for what you're going
for but since bodybuilding doesn't have
that limitation the 10 to 20 is really
nice because it hits those fibers pretty
good it hits a lot of the other ones too
so you get a really nice effect number
two related a question number one and
again I'm not sure what I'm not sure
about I looked at the rest long enough
to minimum get 5 reps who well for
leader sets was related to effective
reps principle and they can get roughly
5 reps you're getting 5 good reps for
your fast twitch fibers I think I messed
up with this Leedy hasn't mentioned
though how fast twitch fibers might not
necessarily even be active and later
stuff so an exercise due to being too
fatigued so might actually be in slower
a selection of medium fibers editor
performing those last a couple of sets
of an exercise so if the 5 reps rule
mentioned above isn't related to the
effect of reps model fast twitch fibers
isn't more of an arbitrary number chosen
as a minimum number of reps for the sake
of time efficiency so it's not arbitrary
right we see that sets of 5 and above
perform notably better set for set in
hypertrophy studies then sets of 5 and
below right so sets of 2 and 3 it's just
so little volume it's gonna take you a
bunch of those sets so you might as well
rest long enough to get at least 5 why
do you say at least 5 because after 5
sets there's a rough equivalency of
hypertrophy outcomes between sets of 5
and sets of everything else up to 30 so
it's not arbitrary then it a part of it
is like you said it just in resting
enough to get a meaningful amount of
following like we can call it a set
otherwise
fucking rest longer if you don't rest
long enough to get five you for sure
will be so fatigued that you're faster
fibers are going to be really really
have a trouble committing to the
movement and just to clarify an
effective wraps the effect of wraps
concept is valid in its moderated form
in a sense of like it has a fucking
value yes wraps closer to failure even
as high as thirty are more fast which
than otherwise but it's not all your
fast witches only turn on in the last
five reps and they're just completely
off the rest of the time and they
account for all the force of the five
reps and if you just stood last five
that's all that matter member the
extreme effect or UPS concept is
literally the five reps are all that
matter that's wrong but the last five
reps do matter more than the first
authors absolutely so we can use that as
like okay five reps kisses into that
moderated version of effective
respiratory the last fire ups are very
good they're the best so we'll use them
and anything short of five reps is gonna
be just not enough reps to get enough
volume that we call a set and because
it's so little rest hour faster fibers
are really gonna have a hard time
contributing there because they're going
to be so fatigued sort of sort of so
fatigued so that if we check all those
three boxes we end up be okay north of
five reps there's not really another
hard cutoff and so good so that's have
to be at least of ten reps like at least
five reps checks all those boxes at
least on a basic level yeah I don't have
much more to add and one thing that I've
said week to week is you know just more
effective sets and gives you more
effective reps so you don't have to
worry about that quite as much so I
wouldn't perseverate on the issue too
hard as long as you're doing five reps
or more at a cap before I'm 30 you're
probably doing a decent job for
hypertrophy training number two me you
guys have mentioned now the five to ten
rep range might not actually need as
many sets as the other rep ranges as the
fast which muscles team plus volumes
benefit groan what's going on in some of
these high volume studies recently
they've been programs for participants
are like sixteen to thirty just that's
all in the age of ten rep range logo and
a failure reset wouldn't that be way
overkill and almost imagine participants
would regardless or at least rapidly
over each thank you too as always so
what's happening in these studies is
James Creator actually discovered this
the rest times are very very short
and what ends up happening was short
rest times is you get two things one you
get systemic limiting factors
cardiovascular main factor or sitter
just limiting factors so when people
reach a external failure but the target
muscles don't reach internal failure
because they're not the limiting factors
like they could still go more but your
lungs are like don't fuck that we're
done and then what ends up happening is
you deeper set stimulus Falls in
addition to that if you even if it's at
the muscular level that the sets are
limited because of these short rests a
lot of times the faster fibers don't
even as you mentioned earlier get a
chance to turn on and really contribute
nearly as much as they would because
while the first set is very fast which
dominant and oriented the later sets are
much less so and what ends up happening
is you know the later sets with short
rest are incrementally more more slow
twitch composition or contributing and
that sort of kind of a as we alluded to
earlier not exactly a self solving
problem but basically you know if they
if they rested long enough then they
would absolutely in the five to ten rep
range be able to get maximum growth out
of way fewer sets than they're doing in
these studies yeah I actually just
listened to the podcast with Steve Hall
and James Krieger where they touched on
that today very interesting talk oh cool
that was recent
yeah actually so I didn't remise this is
just me being a knucklehead
Steve's podcast 2 shows up in my lab
podcast app thing that I use cool I'll
podcast and so does chats like all of
chad's different podcasts so I was like
just always waiting for to see it on
social media and then click the link
well yeah you can just type in revive
stronger into your like whatever podcast
app that you have or you know jug life
or beers with Chad and those all show up
and so I was just thinking around on
there today you know it's like oh oh
it's James Krieger talk alright what
else in that boom that's awesome
yeah James's mostly me being stupid and
not putting two and two together there
you go alright eight in the sense i Mike
and James really appreciate both
entrants and more questions last week
answers are amazing as always we're
gonna last week's answers I remember you
saying that you had a course on personal
training I'm ever seeing one of your
lectures called personal training course
videos from five years ago on YouTube is
this the right quote one or is there
another one that you were referring to
you thanks a lot that is exactly the one
and I mean I I taught it in real life it
was much better than real life that
beyond YouTube but yes absolutely that
course is available for free on YouTube
sweet
Charles of Icarus says hey guys she's
joined rp+ love all the content lots of
videos to keep me occupied during cardio
well as your injury I always love like
doing podcasts or stuff like that during
cardio because you you knock out these
massive massive extra bird with a stone
like cardio that's just like you do it
and you're like well I just burned some
calories in an hour got nothing else out
of it like fuck that yeah I like doing
podcasts and audiobooks that's one thing
I really got into was the audiobook
scene it's really nice because I don't I
am like the PhD person who doesn't read
at all unless it's like a graphic novel
or a comic book I will not read it
unless I have to unless it's mandated to
me like James you need to read this
regretfully like yes fine I'll read it
but the audiobooks man all-day love it
yeah and if you even if you read the
audiobooks are so easy you might as well
Jimmy you're not gonna read while doing
cardio it's fucking ridiculous
yeah exactly all right I've got a cup
questions for you too I have
hypogonadism and I'm a testosterone
replacement my dog in that test do
either of you have any thoughts on my
dropping fats a little lower
not to zero but maybe 0.15 to 0.2 then
where's typically recommended during a
cut given address to worry about sex
home production most obvious potential
problem I see is fat soluble vitamin
absorption poker on Google Scholar I'm a
clinical nutrition textbook therefore
sources cited ranges value from 5 to 15
grams in a meal as being adequate to
optimize fats level vitamin absorption
over that meal and I'll tell you even
that is overkill that's pretty big range
in all the studies I saw we look at an
absorption over the course of a big
gesture of a single Bowl so food plus
vitamin not assessing larger nutritional
status
exactly not sure if you have practical
experience for this I have a lot of
practical experience for this because I
have quote unquote hypogonadism to you
feel me so I'll say that even with folks
that are administering testosterone
exhaustion ously if you drop your fats
to a certain low point your sex drive
goes out the window just like it would
even if you were not administering
exactly and I think there's just a
factor of she's getting a fats so I
would say that if you were interested in
trying to drop your fats a little lower
see how your everything feels they can
almost assure you you're not gonna have
any problems with fat soluble vitamins
production but you may have just not
feel as good and
not feel like you fucking sex drivers as
high and might not feel as much bigger
and training
honestly think think a lot of the fat
minima apply just as much for users of
testosterone as not users I I know
that's not the party line but being on
both sides I can tell you like I I wish
I could drop my fast to zero and have
more carbs but every time I do that I
turn into a mindless zombie that doesn't
want to train hard yeah my initial
response to that was to say probably not
a good idea but I actually can't really
justify that thought process so I would
say it's probably not a huge idea but
what getting back to what Mike was
saying I think you should very much
monitor to see if you have any mood
disturbances sex drive disturbances
sleep disturbances anything like that
and if they start creeping up as a
result of you dropping your fats too low
that probably a good indicator to bump
them back up to minimum levels and like
mr. carbs himself Broderick Chavez um
you know him and I talked about what is
a minimum amount of fat to take and he's
like you know I like to see people under
a gram per kilo you know so I guess
weight hundred kilos to twenty hundred
grams of fat and I'm like what's the
advantage of going lower than that he
said you know we go 260 go 280 like yeah
you might see some benefits but 18 below
60 s really just weightless isn't it and
what is it that you're getting out of it
at that point it's just not clear and
you you have to eat such weird foods to
even meet that that you're destroying
your life enjoyment which increases your
stress level and that cortisol might
actually counteract all the benefits
you're seeing these benefits are so tiny
so I would say that anything below 0.3
yeah I can't go 2.2 but don't there's
not
it's almost like you're saying hey
should I walk 10 miles to pick up 5
cents
you'll get 5 cents out of it but the
walk might be worse than the fucking
money so yeah and it might be in your
couch and you can just dig in your
computer it's covered with like old
frito-lay chip dust yeah that's our
house cuz because of a certain someone
who also lives here
everything Joe the cat no no he he's got
he's actually on like special
prescription food now and he looks
glorious like he has like the metabolic
kitty food now and his fur is like so
oh yeah he's doing really good on the
metabolic food fat boy
for some reason that took me my brain
down a path in a very James Hoffman
random walk path
aliens me like what is he in tough I'm
thinking about I like look honestly we
can't predict it is like what if humans
had metabolic special food and how much
money
like charlatans can make off of saying
that there was such a thing last thing I
thought it was so when of Paltrow has a
candle now out for sale that smells like
her vagina okay so this is so Nance
that's like peakins is as far as I'm
concerned peak insanity fucking insane
like not just a get away
listen fellas you know I'm saying and
ladies I love the smell of vagina just
like anybody else you feel me but like
for the love of God specific persons
video I named first of all like I I'm
not a sexual conservative in the least
but I mean I would even buy a candle it
smells like pussy great put it up sweet
haha hilarious really first of all do
you want everything you want smell like
pussy it was a great smell it's just not
for all occasion
second of all it's specifically a
person's like when appalled she was like
who buys a here's my question for you
James
who buys that that was target audience
that was my question where it's like
okay so first of all you're you're
looking at a market of people who buys
candles right so that's already like
doom in 90% female to begin with right
and then it's like okay you want
somebody who has a scented candle like a
non just a plain candle right so it's
just down from there now you have one
that has like a specialty like sexual
theme smell like who the fuck is gonna
buy this creepy dudes aren't even gonna
buy this because they don't buy candles
do what I mean exactly here's the thing
like if like they managed to put Antonio
Banderas as musk into a candle dude I
was a fucking woman I would buy the fuck
on that shit smell like a delivery date
but the thing is how many women want
quite a Paltrow's but you know things
like like okay let's say we're targeting
game women like I'm not so sure
lesbians are super interested in quite a
Paltrow percent you know what I mean or
even vagina smell exactly because SEC
vagina smell as a context it's like
getting a a candle that smells like like
chili or Frito Lays potato chips like
it's a fine smell in context but I don't
want my house smelling like chili for no
goddamn reason
do you remember when Doc I think it was
Burger King released like Burger King
King themed cologne I think it was them
yeah I was them were KFC somebody did
like fast-food beams like cologne smells
funny
that's more like a novelty right that's
the riot as a gag right but you know her
she is not a gag bro she takes that
seriously as fuck oh it's so weird I
wonder like her somebody she must have
had some investor that was like look I
got this great business idea
hear me out it's a little weird we're
gonna make a candle wait for it
that smells like you have the gym like
how do you even engineer something like
that I mean like there's there's
material scientists that like make me
sense like Josh Angie Vogel James my
traditional structures they have their
own candle business now like as a joke
and that's actually very profitable um
there G lady jujitsu theme candles like
they're really funny and I think so they
say like like mat sweat is one of the
smells but it's not it's a really great
smelly candle it's just funny right but
like engineering all these smells
requires a bunch of combination of
various molecules and all these is
suntan oils like you know she had
material science is that you think poke
around for vaginas of how doesn't even
work like do they have a sample like
what a ridiculous he imagined working on
that project me like all working with
one upon TRO you know her secretion
samples what was it like also was it
like fresh out of the shower or is it
like post-workout or was it like not do
showers two days all they would
negotiation smell like the the office
was slightly too hot so you've been
sweating all day in the same yoga pants
we want all the questions in the world
and I don't want any of the answers all
right
the time stamp on this one's gonna be
great it's gonna be like my joy that
huge vagina candles yeah Milo our time
stamp guy is gonna be fuckin having a
hoop at this
[Applause]
[Music]
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
alright number two probably have my
hypogonadism diagnosed and treated I was
very beast for a good decade my highest
weight being 300 511 BMI 42 I dropped
down to 200 pounds in 2014 I managed to
stay stable their last great cut down to
low 180s of the maintain in that
intervening months to him I just started
cutting with the goal of getting down
along somebody over 12 weeks there's a
realistic to make Erica maintain a
weight that low given my prior history
um it'll be tough James what do you
think yeah I think it's tough but I mean
like it's uh it's only like a little
over ten pounds it sounds like over 12
weeks it's a very doable goal on paper
it's just gonna be hard given how big
you were previously yeah but on paper
it's a very doable goal you know if
that's preserving I don't want to set
myself up for a nasty bond but I really
like to give myself a little breathing
room to put mass on without my being my
creeping too far on the over a range
blood pressure concerns so murder blood
pressure cancers can also be mitigated
by medication but I'm not a doctor and
also for that Plus having clearly
doesn't last once my life we just pretty
sweet indeed that is pretty sweet for
it's worth maintaining a low 180s has
been easy my main is calories are 3400 a
day which is in line you can slightly
ball what a question predict you manage
favorite levels my levels are fine as
long as I success satiating food and get
an a-plus the reason veggies I mean
given that you're okay in the 180s
I don't suspect 170 is gonna be night
and day well if you told us that you
were like starving to death in the 180s
I would say the ones having these are a
waste of your time so I think it's worth
going for but if you find like after two
or three months of maintaining at 170
that you're like still dying yeah you
know go up to 180 190 you'll be totally
fine listen your height 511 you can
weigh up to 200 200 1020 pounds and be
hundred percent healthy no problem so I
wouldn't push it that low for no good
reason at all yeah don't get too caught
up on the number I mean like I think
what you're what you want is to like see
your abs and be happy with your body
composition don't arbitrarily chase that
number if like the ABS come before that
and you like the way you look you're
gonna like the way you look I guarantee
it what does that suit wear yeah Men's
Wearhouse yeah what if you like show up
and get a suit you know like this socks
is I got I was just kidding about the
guarantee that's just more like a verbal
tactic than a real promise I'm like
Men's Wearhouse that much but also I
don't need to buy suits that much so
whatever you know
problem solved ah number three in one of
the nutrition videos dr. Mike says it's
a Chan is one of the better vegan
protein sources shortly after he says a
gluten is a trash protein source
like the the SJW lingo their matter -
this confused me since seitan is 80%
plus wheat gluten does the extraction
process substantially improve the
biological value of gluten or did you
mix up say time with a different product
put your product I looked around for
pdcaas for seitan specifically I
couldn't find one but weekly this course
ridiculous shit a point u5 sure does I'm
not asking about you try to maximize
minimize we didn't take especially
industrially farm meat I tend to use I
like to pronounce that a Satan
I like Satan - yeah I tend to use Satan
sparingly let's just wanted to read by
itself and not only with higher quality
proteins some examples TVP food legumes
well I teach me time drone I think
absolutely no idea sounds like a cardiac
condition something vital protein great
to cook with so if I can eat it I want
to be pretty sweet so here's the deal
the reason I say set down as a good
protein source is mostly because it's
just one of the very few vegan foods
that's mostly protein and mostly not
ever - anything else cuz a lot of the
foods right any time you get protein you
eat a lot of carbs and fats with seitan
tends to be relatively low in fats and
carbs which gives us the advantage of
being a lot of protein it's not a super
super high quality protein as well as I
know off the top of my hand so I
wouldn't go ahead and recommend that as
something you need all fucking time for
all of your protein but it just tends to
be a pure protein source of a sense
there's not a lot else going for the
ride that's a difficult problem for
vegans because a lot of times you know
meat eaters have all these protein
sources that are essentially just hunter
percent protein basically zero percent
everything else the vegans man it's
tough that's the tough part so yeah if
doctor doctor wife is out in for the
moment but if she pops back in before
the webinar is over I can I can pitch
her the seitan question and see what
input she has cuz she doesn't actually
not a complete protein source so but
it's a lot more team
so especially if you combine it with
other protein sources they can give you
a wallop of protein which if the other
amino acids are counter for and the
other protein it could be really good
yeah thanks a lot the information you
guys put out there has been a truly
helpful I started lifting a year ago and
read me and continue to make supersonics
is the gain so I hear myself rich alarms
are should be having easy access
high-quality permission Arizona train
program it'll thank you so much yeah
thanks guys glad I wrote them
yep Christian artists he says he knocks
I'm another former YouTube plebe that
joined rp+ doesn't mean benefits awesome
a couple of questions for you guys
number one currently running a cutting
phase and it seemed like I won't hit the
goal that I want to blow enough body fat
percent for visible abs within the ten
percent maximum weight loss
recommendation over maximum of 16 weeks
of dieting or might be very close as
things are it seems that I'll hit that
10 percent maximum week 20 of cumulative
dieting I say cumulative has been
experimenting with diet breaks but going
on maintenance are pretty close Wendy
loading without diet breaks it would be
16 weeks or being in a significant
deficit when I hit 10 percent my
question is when is it ok to go outside
of recommendations and how would you be
able to tell when you should call it
quits and go back to me and say that's
actually really really simple
performance is one if you're lifting in
the gym it's really straight that's
really awesome if it's starting to fall
off it's not green a lot of its
perception hunger food focus like if you
can't wait for your next meal you're
super fucking on where you're
fantasizing about cheating it's probably
time to call it quits pretty soon but if
you're totally fine your diets rocket
and you're not really like oh man I
can't wait to eat like ooh I can't wait
to get abs nearby find another one is
neat if you're still very active and
you're moving around a lot you don't
seem like you're super tired all the
time you just want to sit and be dead
that you're really good if you want to
sit and be dead all the time when you're
just lifting your hand to get the remote
control is a lot of work then it's
probably time to call it quits so stuff
like that James anything yeah I would
say like at that point you're gonna look
at my card you said this but like the
performance in the gym and then your
psychological measures so you can look
at some of the psychological factors
associated with overreaching and then
look at things like cravings and things
like that and go from there yeah but my
says would it be based off of
performance and how food focus your
moment was sweet he got all over both of
those yep as a sense I'm dieting 10
weeks and not counting breaks I feel
pretty good performance did for my lower
body in the beginning most likely a
programming issue is those two straight
focus on the spine power lifter but I'm
a little buddy let's go back to where
they were pre diet after loss of 13
pounds
I provided lift sever mania the same or
improved I'm also not food focused at
all that he has a bit difficult to
previous ones that suspects its
experience at that rate sure but
remember 10 weeks is real long ways off
from 20 so I would say just take it like
you know three weeks at a time right
it's a 13 seer you feel get to 16 see
how you feel too afraid of 16 you can do
another 3 to 4 week so the finish up
at 16 you're like man fuck this then
look here is a real big downside of
stopping a diet instead of going to 20
weeks stopping at 16 taking a 3 months I
break and then finishing off the next
you know do another 8 weeks and get apps
here's a downside ready there's no
downside
there's no fucking down it's just a
little bit extra time the other grand
scheme of things that means nothing here
the downsides of going a bit too hard
rebound catastrophe over eating shitty
results metabolic issues etc etc service
as a psychological stuff is just not
worth it it's much better to stop a
little short do a great job reconvene
and come back than it is to go burn out
too far and then go walk all the way
back up and the one thing I'd add to is
like you might notice that you're able
to kind of go like a long stretch with
these diet breaks every now and again
but what I would also watch out for is
like if you start seeing those
disturbances and your performance and
like in your mood like we already talked
about and then you take a diet break
right and for like a week and then you
start feeling better and then once you
get back on the diet like within another
week you start having those same
symptoms coming up and then you're going
back and forth back like diet problems
diet break diet problems die a great
diet problems diet break it's probably
time just to cut that diet at that point
and just go right into maintenance and
then start over on the next cut and
almost completely analogous processes
when people do auto-regulatory
delivering and no proactive feeling that
you like one body part of time this is
great you bought yourself another week
of 1rr lifting until you have to deal it
again your paradigm accumulation to deal
with paradigm is not one-to-one yes so
just keep an eye out for that number two
after my dad plan Oh
after my dad I plan on running up her
trophy phase for my lower body only is
it as lag behind too much size to my
liking for my upper body I still want to
be strength focused and not put it on
the back burner so my question is how I
go about programming the d loads
curly mysteries Mazda 3 to 4 or 5 weeks
long we haven't actually run a full on a
particular with high volume line works
yet although I've been experimenting
during the cutting phases or some
success I think so not sure how long the
be a feeling treating them separately
would be a bit wonky a yet but it would
also violate to try to bring down
systemic fatigue every time and if our
core module because fatigue would be
probably managed up do I just shorten or
extend the upper body strength measure
depending on on my lower body mother
goes to align the D loads since going
Alexa priority what's just accepting
won't be optimal karate so this is
nothing we covered in the last one
but is be repeating taking all the
research and the theory together on the
cumulation of dealer paradigms and James
and I was very clear emphasis is
something we like we think is very high
probability being true a four to one
paradigm versus an eight to one paradigm
is almost no or no difference in all the
results you would think well buck it's
twice as good you don't lose any muscle
over a week and you drop so much fucking
fatigue your workouts in a you know four
to one are always awesome where's an
eight to one either the first three or
the last three weeks are gonna be total
dog shitty they're too easy too hard so
um I think that you can easily adjust
your upper and lower workouts to fit
into that four to one or five to one
paradigm and there's you're gonna be
missing fucking nothing yeah and like
doing it some people are big on this and
I think you know meadow has made some
really good points on auto regulating
your muscles in an asynchronous way and
it definitely can be done and I think
for advanced lifters it's not a terrible
idea in fact it might be a good idea but
I think for the most part when you are
doing it asynchronously like that and
you're never giving yourself a full
break you're coming at a pretty big
disadvantage so I would just try to
align your upper body stuff as much as
you can with the lower body stuff and
just do your best at that point if
you're really trying to extend one out
and then back off the other you're going
to have that systemic spillover and it's
gonna be a continuing problem yeah
Daniel hacker a man that has broken the
Illuminati database wide open not
surprisingly they're all involved in
almost nothing yeah
I thought my dad was an Illuminati for a
while but he's he checked out he's
already are you serious no I'm just
kidding who knows you actually find them
you still actually might be I'm not
entirely the jurors no there you go you
see the fence the thing James you're a
smart guy you never can tell I'm just
too suspicious that's true Scott a
little paranoia yeah the Dodgers have a
name for that that's why you take your
pills every day
Daniel hacker says do you think it's
better to Train close to a failure on
the lateral rear delts on cabs
specifically that instead of going 0 for
R over the course of a moser
accumulation maybe starting with two are
progressing to pass failure over the
course of an accumulation for these body
parts in particular they are so small
for so many resistant
to growth and change do you think maybe
through for our our sets for them is
simply not good enough
I haven't trial this yeah but I'd like
to obviously on your go ahead whatever
seven-month cycle oftentimes I'm unsure
what's really going on when I do
something like a dumbbell lateral or
cable up at row with three or four ups
in the tank it feels like only later
mezzos when I get close to failing do
start things really start happening so
actually it's very good answer this
question first of all if it's a you
think they're more faster which than not
then yes close to failure is probably
better for them than not a slower
torture probably a fit from staying full
of further away from failure another
thing is a lot of the form failure stuff
you can modulate instead of getting
closer to fail you just do more sets or
fewer sets instead of getting too far
away for failure but lastly I really
comes down this is what I'm saying
people say that my muscle connection
doesn't matter here's where it's really
starts to matter if you really just
don't feel a fucking thing in your delts
until you get close to failure then yeah
photo train close to failure but many
people are the other way around for my
side dial so if I get really close to
failure I don't even know what's going
on anymore man so with like three or
four are I feel like really really good
you know you can really your mind muscle
connection is often higher at the lower
arse so the higher arms farther from
failure that it is close to failure um
so if you think like you really get a
hugely big bigger advantage you're
getting really close to failure then
yeah I experiment going a little bit
close for failure but it all comes down
to you and not everyone is gonna feel
like that about all body parts James
yeah and so it's like completely
feasible that you could run you if
you're running like a for forum one you
could run it as like two from fail to
from fail to from fail one from fail and
that would probably be fine like it's we
on paper like I would still want to see
some kind of progression there you know
but I think like Mike said if you're
just not feeling it and you only really
feel it at that like to from fail or one
from fail spot I think that's okay and
like the risk of injury on those muscle
groups relatively low systemic spillover
relatively low like you're not gonna
ruin your squat workout the next day
because you pushed it on your your
lateral raises or your calf raises too
hard you know over there in the week so
I think that's fine I think you can play
around with it and see how it goes so
I'd like to share something with you
James and the YouTube community on this
and the offered closed community of
course my god um
I mean this in the best this is totally
joke right I don't mean to take anyone
out if you think about it maybe think
about it none I already I so like you
know like you get these um questions of
like the my new share so my new show
that you start to think like is this
tennis person get out of bed every
morning and make wise decisions for
themselves or they paralyzed forever
somebody asked me like on the lateral
cuz you know I post my lateral raises
video and if you like the 55 s for 13 or
something and some guys like hey did you
do break it the wrists like and uh thus
improve your lover arm or do you hold
your wrist out straight and my answer
was I have no idea what's happening in
my wrist cuz I'm fucking ladder or raise
in the 55 s I can't heal my soul anymore
I'm just trying to use a good technique
in the very basic sense of moving the
dumbbells in a not retarded manner like
it's just it like to think of you know
have I thought about that of course but
I thought like it's probably irrelevant
in the grand scheme as it doesn't
fucking matter it aren't regulates you
probably do the same thing every time
and what I also told him was look I
can't actually hold my wrist extended
with a 5500 that's impossible make my
Ridge there's no way I'd have extensors
that's strong we could say at that point
men my muscle connection is on the
extensor so instead of my Delft like
what is even the point you know what I
mean it's obviously people are like hey
are your toes down when you're squatting
like are you poking your toes into your
shoes if if you're thinking about that
when you're squatting I don't know what
you're doing like what about your quads
you know it's just kind of one of these
really crazy things and I was like wow
holy shit this is this is what makes
your shoulders big is that nice that's
the my new show that's getting any jack
well like the question at face values
look like do you ever think about
shortening the moment arm for shoulder
exercises like yeah that's why you would
do a lateral raise versus an upright row
but within the same exercise like a
lateral raise come on dude like yeah
what are you doing
and one guy a couple weeks ago is a
different guy he was like oh yeah like I
noticed that you're like your wrists are
pointed down so that like way you're
using is not nearly as impressive I'm
just like oh fuck you that's what you
know what my god I'm fuck you guys
that's that that kind of shit pisses me
off so that's not that impressive first
of all doesn't matter like whether you
think it's impressive or not you go fuck
yourself right like for sure fuck out of
here but let's see you do that you see
you
that only for sure but but also it's
like a week to assume that most people
who lateral raise keep their arms
completely wrist straight also there's
an arm length way more variance than
just this like my idea short or there is
like I don't even know this is a
measurable difference in like it
biomechanically you know what I'm
speaking like could you even measure
that look it's like we're actually
measuring is the declination it's the is
though the the horizontal just literally
it's like half a centimeter or something
it's like you're nuts
I would have liked that video but your
wrists were bent so I don't think it's
that book literally Pete that spot you
get out of here now you're insane
alright one more when programming cop on
moon for three mesazero what do you
think is the best way to program it
during that third mezzo I did a video
discussing this DSLR be close by us they
didn't fulfill me enough so I'm asking
this Ferris Bueller here as our one word
fulfilled sorry we let you're looking
for something in our p+ than we often go
to church meso one the movies new so
heavy be super low look some arbitrary
numbers for the sake of questions and as
a when you start removing three sets of
finish at six over the cumulation well
there's a - maybe we'll add a set to MeV
and maybe or maybe not
you'll add a set to the extras MRV in
the case for seven also then increased
in low and potentially getting a few
reps now we mezzo three you shouldn't
let are going to get five sets to eight
maybe maybe not Davina are four plus
would have me believe I'd scale back a
bit increasing their variation for body
parts within a session so in this case
maybe three to five cents was still
increased load and let more exercise
various try the volume increases right
just absolutely right but so are about
thirty thousand different other
combinations I want to make sure it's
just hit the big picture are you getting
enough work there just check ok I'm
still doing squats I'm still heavy and
I'm doing them and above my MeV if
that's the case great and then there's
other concerns an entry after that like
can my joints handle is is there am i
adding more exercises more frequency or
more volume and do I need to make room
mice in my total weekly quad MRV for
that to be the case so as long as it's
above MeV the world is your oyster and
then you have to justify your other
decisions like you say okay I'm adding
an exercise it's not the question of
like should I do sets five to eight but
should I add another exercise if you
could say yeah another exercise to
screen because it decreases injury risk
because variation it decreases what's it
called repetitive injury risk and it
also allows
do more calling because they added a
session then for sure it justifies by
itself and they're good now that I have
another exercise how does that change my
volume landmarks on the MRV and for
these squats that I'm doing well surely
I'm gonna go up to eight because now I
have way more fall into this other
session I'm gonna start with three and
see how the soreness heals and maybe
I'll end it for maybe one two five eight
eleven six yeah that's really good
there's a ton of options there you know
I'm just looking at the the question he
says now in meso three you certainly not
going five to eight right that might not
be for the same exercise right if you're
doing bench press for example you might
not be starting at five and going to
eight you might still go for like four
like if you had a four week progression
you might go for four or five five on
benchpress but then fill in a bunch of
that other chest volume with something
else that you can do for higher reps
that use not as not as brutal right like
yeah push-ups or chest flys or any
number of combination of other things so
you might actually be filling your
volume up that way but you might start
deviating up that volume and slightly
different ways depending on the rep
ranges that you're using in the
frequency and what you're training them
and that's something usually like mezzo
one and two for a lot of my clients will
look pretty similar you know mezzo two
we'll start incorporating more of that
ten to 20 range and some movements like
barbell movements that's not always a
good choice we might see some variation
there but when we get to mezzo three
right you're gonna see a lot more of
like the five to thirty type stuff and
you can truly program high bar squats
like sets of ten to twenty and then down
sets five to thirty that just doesn't
work very well right so in that case you
might see some like barbell movements in
there and then using something else like
a leg press or a knee extension to fill
in some of that other weekly volume
because you can just do it more
frequently added higher reps yeah Tim
for coz sweetening I'm Sheriff Dan
hi if I do a deal a week every four
weeks during the masking phase and I'm
trying to gain weight at the lower end
of the RP gaining weight or Commission's
0.25 percent body weight per week should
I lower my calorie intake to maintenance
during the deal in weeks or should I not
change anything and keep my counter
circle so I'll tell you a point two-five
it really doesn't matter much like if
you were more aggressive I would say
maybe you want to lower it a little bit
you're a really advanced answer is you
probably want out for the first half of
your D load keep that surplus for the
second half go to maintenance but
honestly if you're finding that eating
that many calories is kind of annoying
and kind of stuffing yourself just eat
enough protein and don't stuff yourself
on the deal a tweak it are totally good
to go
yeah and sometimes it's good to just
keep the train rolling like with a lot
of people that I've worked with like
whatever is working and it's not
disrupting your life so terribly like
just keep doing it right if you are
finding that eating that much is getting
annoying to drop backing off a little
bit but also like if it's tolerable and
you have a good schedule good meal prep
everything is in line and you're on
schedule with everything just keep doing
what you're doing
Jason Koshi says gents I've been going
through the RP plus lectures on athletic
development and it has been fascinating
I'm developing a structured approach to
jumping higher with a goal of dunking
yeah all right it's fun moving through
hypertrophy strength strength speed and
speed peaking looking forward to
learning from you in this particular
form as I've got bargaining with
questions question number one as I move
towards power I will decrease lifting
volume to heavy levels the last two
three so I'm probably forego weights and
transition apply metrics approaching
completely with the assumption that this
will ultimately help me jump higher so
speaking of that competition well
sprinting slash plyometrics be
sufficient to maintain leg musculature
what would be the maximum amount of time
I could do sprinting slash plyometrics
before I see decrease in muscle mass or
distance provide enough overload to
maintain I saw James lecture on phase
appear as a Shinra carries for expanding
thoughts out of context of jumping games
yeah so usually what we would say in
these cases especially if I mean if
you're just peaking for like if you just
want to like dunk one time and get it on
Instagram you can just take the
weightlifting out completely that's
totally fine more likely like if you're
doing this in a sport season kind of
thing where you're gonna be peaking for
an extended not peaking truly but if
you're like an in season like you're
trying to maintain your preparedness for
high amount of time what we would say is
you probably want to take your lifting
to maintenance volumes now the good
thing is like sprinting and plyometrics
will kind of contribute to that but it
won't be an entire like holistic thing
for an extended period of time so what
we're kind of getting at is you can do
like your sport training you're jumping
you're sprinting all that stuff and that
will maintain most of your size for a
little while maybe for I don't know
maybe like three weeks four weeks on the
top end before you will actually start
to see that start to deteriorate now the
deterioration will be relatively slow
maybe not even noticeable unless you do
it for a long time so what we usually
say is a good way of dotting your i's
and crossing your T's is to actually
just keep some resistance training
volume in there at maintenance volume so
keeping like a high bar squat movement
keeping a bench
keeping like a pull-up or a row
variation and we're talking like one to
two sets you know twice a week so maybe
for a grand total of like four sets of
squats or four sets of benchpress
not a whole lot that would be more ideal
than taking it out completely now like I
said if you're just doing it for like a
if you just want to peak for like a one
time thing and just be able to say I
dunked and check I'm good right you can
really elevate Preparedness super high
by dropping all those things out to
below maintenance values and then you're
gonna have a huge spike in preparedness
for a little while and then a rapid
decrease into deconditioning and you can
take advantage of that but probably not
best practice overall I would probably
keep some maintenance volume of lifting
in there but to answer a question yes
the sprinting and plows will contribute
to that mV but you should still have
some weight training in there to keep
the hold to keep or for main is going
number two I suppose the songs the
previous question number two part one in
regards to body composition hypertrophy
strength endurance phase is there a way
to include plyometrics and speed in Quad
home development or is it strictly for
later phases if it can be included our
specific programming tips here resources
such as that question so specifically no
it can't be trained in that phase
because of the fitness characteristic
MRV for things like power and speed will
be blunted by all the fatigue that you
generate from the hypertrophy training
right so the and arvy of power and speed
is really way too low if you're
currently doing hypertrophy training now
that being said what I like to recommend
people do in these at these times is a
technique maintenance so if there's some
kind of skill whether it's like weight
lifting movements like snatch and clean
and jerk is a really good example of
this but sprinting and jumping movements
can also be included in there you do
some like low intensity just technique
maintenance work where you just try and
keep the movement fresh you're not
training it and the sense you're not
trying to become more explosive you're
not trying to jump higher run faster
you're just trying to maintain your good
mechanics so that eventually when you
transition back to actually training
those things you don't have weeks and
weeks of weeks of like you know pitiful
relearning
not even up to mev training yet so you
kind of keep it in the mix from a
technique perspective but you can't
train it until later because the fatigue
you get from the
endurance and hypertrophy stuff is just
too high it diminishes your ability to
express Frank the power so therefore it
cannot be overloaded yep
number two in regards to power
performance I'm having difficulty
thinking of how to program plyo and
speed intensity and volume any tips or
resources to figure out MRV here I've
considered Philippines chart as
productor Miller suggestion on those
videos but not exactly sure what a jump
would be equivalent to ninety percent
plus lift question mark so a lot of the
times on the the plyos and the sprinting
type stuff you could use kind of like an
RPE type proxy and that tends to work
okay right now if you have like fancy
lab equipment you could actually look at
like the velocity bands the power
outputs and try and use a more strict
programming guideline on that but I
think for most people like basically you
kind of have like you're eight out of
ten nine out of ten and maximal effort
to type movements I think it's kind of
hard to scale like a seven out of ten on
like a sprint or a jump right I think
like the 80% 90% hundred percents kind
of easier one for people to
conceptualize and I think that will work
fine in terms of volume it's kind of the
same stuff you just use the same like
number of efforts number of repetitions
number of sets all of those things still
apply number three in the context of my
flutter training I'm getting stronger
for ups with hypertrophy is there a
benefit to a strength phase before a
transition to more restraint speed or
simply speed phase I'm following our
peace principles in four weeks on a cot
my ten arms are increased by ten percent
definitely so like I what we're kind of
getting at here is like you have a hyper
tree phase or maybe a strength endurance
phase which is like ten ish reps right
and then the goal is to get to the
explosive like the power phase which is
usually between one and five reps should
you do something in between that and
generally what we would say is yes it's
probably not a bad idea if you have time
in your annual plan to have that
intermediary strength phase which might
throw back to earlier in the episode we
talked about a little bit where you're
doing something like four to eight reps
really starting to ramp up your force
development and then when you eventually
get into that explosive phase you
already have tuned up yourself a little
bit to putting out fire forces and then
transitioning into explosive action is
not as hard if you go from hypertrophy
to explosive power that first month
again it's just going to be dogshit it's
gonna be really rough so it's nice to
have that like high force kind of
intermediate stage before you get it
into the maximal strength
an explosive strength baton smoothly
annual plan I'm currently working
through the annual plan based of the
videos you created you mentioned
creating additional scenarios I would
love to see your feedback on a plan to
optimize jumping if I attach my plan
would you be willing to critique it may
be valuable for others as well I'll say
right now is difficult for us to
critique individual plans that are very
complicated because there's so many
critiques in so little time we don't
want to do a piecemeal critique it's a
part of a plan maybe James what do you
think I think a better thing that I
think it's very appropriate would be to
ask us specific questions I like if you
send me an annual plan unfortunately I
just don't have the time or resources to
go through and critique every little
thing about the annual plan that's gonna
take me like an entire day right but if
you're building it and you have some
specific scenarios or questions about
things that have come up along the way
and you want to post them up on our P
plus we I'd be glad to tackle those
things but if you just say like here's
my annual plan what do you think I'm
gonna say unfortunately I can't do that
so specific questions always welcome
like generalized feedback unfortunately
something that we can't can't do because
it's too time invasive but yeah but
definitely are done now I just want to
reaffirm like yeah definitely if you
have questions post them up and we'll
answer for sure Brandon Armstrong says
regarding a question from last week I
don't run a chai tea but vo2 max
intervals rather via two axes something
to strive to improve to decrease
runtimes Jack Daniels some type of
whiskey sir yes it is to a point there's
a family of diminishing returns that
they actually mentions that right after
and I've also heard that it's a useless
metrics for a couple of different
sources just wanted to get your guys
take if it's worth doing vo2 max
intervals to increase this metric
specifically and if so where would I
place that my training cycle
I would guess around the time that I add
mild practice but maybe sooner so what I
would actually recommend is hiring and a
mild coach looking at Durance training
coach because brandy you're gonna learn
so much from just that coaching spans of
all those kind of real-world what's good
what's not goes from a theoretical
perspective James and I can sort of
validate or invalidate a variety of
things but there may be a time in a
place so basically you want to build
your vo2 max early in the training phase
but it's not a limiting factor and then
lactic acid and the competition stuff is
gonna be a limiting factor later
so is it like if you pepper them in are
they good just by themselves not so much
but if your vo2 max is limiting factors
I'm gonna bring it up
yes but there's many many ways to
putting up the o2 max not just through
intervals right so in intervals do a
whole lot more than very bitter vo2 max
so I would say this is one of these
things where what what is called the
technique of vo2 max intervals is much
more complicated and does a whole lot
more than just bring up your vo2 Max and
it's important to see it all in part of
a big picture which might not be very
efficient unless you hire a coach who
could actually program for you explain
everything to the thing with the the
Mile Run specifically is that it's it's
really like an anaerobic work capacity
test like how hard can you go for a in
tolerate forgot to have a minimum vo2
max for sure exactly right so the idea
of training solely to increase your vo2
max is is good to a point I would say if
you're in like the 50s you're probably
good in mils per kg per minute you're
probably good and they've actually
demonstrated this very well with
endurance athletes where after around 60
ish vo2 max no longer predicts anything
and then you see a lot of other
variables becoming more and more
important and because the mile run like
I said is an anaerobic work capacity
it's basically like the the Wingate
version of a running test that's pretty
awful I think that it's less bang for
your buck it's at some point so outside
of just being generally aerobic leafit
after that number two also you guys
mentioned regarding I'm out training in
terms of specificity for a mile that as
I get closer to my testing time I should
do more and more trial type runs my
question on that is what would they look
like to run a full mile of X % to my
last one-mile X percent of a mile at my
target my own pace or maybe something
else entirely I think a combination of
those two is a really good thing but
again this is one of those like I would
just defer to a coach that's
specializing in that kind of thing yeah
you can use like percentage of race pace
is exactly the same as using percentage
of one rep max just in a different
setting right so you could take your
best run pace that you had done in the
previous test and use that as a scaling
where you say okay I want to maintain
you know a 6:05 pace or a 6:15 pace or
something like that and that's your run
and then you can progressively make that
harder yeah and their strategy is to
come at it from both prospective like a
sort of looting rather like so you could
do like am I
point two in a pace that's 95% as fast
as your mile pace but it's longer then
you could do like you know 1200 meters
instead of 1600 and but do it at a 1.1
mile pace right 110 percent my own pace
or something and you could sort of inch
in to the mile you can even just do
trial runs off of the mile itself for
psychological reasons or tends to be a
bit of a tougher way to train but there
can be times where you do that maybe
once every week or once or two weeks it
really comes down to how you organize
all that together balancing volume
intensity recovery and I think somebody
who's used to coaching folks like this
is it's really gonna be in the know
about how to specifically do all that
because it all looks good on paper
unless you combine various elements that
don't go well together really only good
coach would know which one of those
don't work yeah and unfortunately this
is kind of somewhere in between like
kind of traditional sports training and
endurance training like neither of those
models fit the one-mile perfectly
because one is more anaerobic one is
more endurance so like I said the
anaerobic capacity is that unfortunate
middle ground where it's like it's hard
to train them number three just to
clarify I didn't get the 518 mile at 180
but about 151 haha and I'm at about one
second oh yeah that's a big difference
hold on wait a minute yeah that's a big
difference
okay 162 now currently massing thanks to
past four months being inconsistent I'm
learning training due to very long
distance move outside of gym injury
analysis I know I'm not capable of that
at the moment we're still very likely
sub six and James I appreciate your
advice and last week as well regarding
teaching I just don't know
didn't know you were professor before so
while my bad on that I don't know where
he's I'm glad it was hopeful number four
in regard to powerlifting training sorry
Carl
trying to training during approaching he
muscles I imagine trying to maximize a
per trophy and all the recommender rep
range shows is likely violating the
principle specificity to a degree it is
please correct me if I'm wrong here for
powerlifting as opposed to bodybuilding
I normally stick to 12 reps dropping
down towards 7 reps per set as the Moser
progresses and repeating for a second
was slightly higher weights seems fine
James and I would say sick you know
10 reps to 5 reps I had to do three
muscles in one massive phase due to
weight gain after two most severely
hampering running training and I was
wondering if maybe this could
be a bad idea to stay in these
relatively low rep ranges for my
hypertrophy mezzos not necessarily
better for powerlifting to stay in them
it's been giving me great results in
terms of getting the size I need to keep
my driving up my lifts but I don't want
to unknowingly distort my joints or be
leaving gains on the table leaving out
the other rep ranges I don't think there
are any other rep ranges if your money
to have a maximum transfer to
powerlifting yeah and luckily you won't
be unknowingly destroying anything it
should be painfully clear if it's not
working painfully clear is a good one
games mmm see master of puns yeah so I
wouldn't I wouldn't sweat that there's
like some like hidden thing that you're
missing that's gonna fuck you over later
here I think you're you if you're
starting to have knee pain like address
it if you're starting to have hip and
back pain from the pounding like address
it you know what I mean it won't creep
up on you out of nowhere all right here
we go Luciano Bruno Khushal says hello
doc I hope both of you are doing well
and I've been having a good first of the
year of 2020 yeah what you I have a
question regarding RP program for
physique goals I'm an immediate lifter
me using our piece for multiple years
but I can't seem Decker in the judge rpm
most exercises and rep ranges above 10
no matter what I can i but do you know I
can just keep on grinding reps with a
good form and it becomes more of a
mental task it will tell you right now
that that's deep it was false because
that means you have an ability to do
infinite amount of reps with anything
more than you turn around which is wrong
at some point you will stop we'll get to
that in a second I'm picking on you on
purpose with chatter today you can take
it but it's not you can't just keep
grinding a traps that's incorrect
this happens to me every final week of a
mezzo I think this is inconsistent / -
Laura B's is largely whatever volumes
become so inflated throw them as was
totally greed yeah you know my goal for
the next vessel is to take a step back
for RP to follow a more rigid or a rep
goal scheme I don't think that is the
best idea let's play - ech this is a
benefit that I find it mentally much
easier to aim for rut goal and try to
hit that rut goal with good form and not
worry about assessing our P's good this
means that I'm aiming to hit the upper
rep range 5 to 10 10 to 20 20 or 30 with
every set in stopping when I hit a
technical nine point five to 10 RPE I
imagine that weekly weights that
increases will come at a slower rate but
II will be higher my farm ladder should
be lower this all means that the mess
was made
to be shorter do you've any programming
tips are coming or consideration for
non-rpg training yes I don't ever do our
pizzas he training our du-ri our
physique training RP is a fucking total
waste of time with physique because that
first of all the 10 RPE scale I believe
was made up by invented popularized by
Mike to share um
traditional RPE in aerobic sports is
actually a scale of 6 to 20 which is
like a shitty scale it's a shitty
skating sorry - exactly watch me they
fed James it's mean exactly to mirror
heart rate right but it's like it that's
it it's not relatable I think or II I'm
a seventeen like is that good or bad
like so one to ten it's definitely
better right to share prove the fuck out
of that like to show everybody the first
person would tell you that scale is for
powerlifting straight sport is not for
physique sport in physique sport are are
is way way better than RPE because
listen if you do 20 27 reps and you mean
it could we could have done 30 I don't
know think it's really hard what is that
RPE I'm not sure right I don't even
bother to thinking about RPE um in our
batters in fizzy sports it's kind of
hard to judge an RPE because you having
the combination of assessing lead
intensity and the volume right where
it's like well I did you know five sets
of you know 10 to 20 so let's say like
on average 15 reps it's like yeah the
wait wasn't that heavy but 5 sets of 15
fucking sucks like that's a you know
it's like which one how do you evaluate
that if you look at intensity it's kind
of low but if in terms of total effort
it's pretty high yeah and then so it
really becomes like a volume combined
with RER is the best way to do physique
what I think this is I think you're
you're on second thought your process of
just eating fish for crab holes I think
it's totally fine I think we can do one
better you know but from experience
you're essentially telling us that
you're under estimating your irs or
essentially you think Europe - I are but
you're really in a four right I think
you should start your next mezzo and
just push it a little harder on the
first
microcycle and then try to match those
reps every single microcycle after while
increasing weight or at a rep or two
every single micro cycle while keeping
the weight the same so that you're
forced to go harder and harder and
harder and you start at a guess that is
harder than you have to
we been used to you will get to failure
you will find your true RR of zero and
then you'll know much better what it
feels like to go are a are actually
three versus pretend three and it's
really six so just go harder your first
week and match or exceed all of the
performances after that until you hit
your MRV and by definition you can't
match or exceed that is a much better
idea than to do RP I hate RP for
physique sports because fatigue can
really fuck you over everything starts
to feel like a 10 then you're like oh
I'm overreach but then you look at your
performance and your performance just
fine
you're not average you're actually just
fine or you say everything feels fine
but you've been losing performance
metrics for like three weeks
well if you did our AR and you try to
match your reps you would quickly find
out you're underperforming so our PE
very very limited for seek sports I
would use our AR your problem is your
our estimates are just too far off
so grind it a little further do two or
three extra reps at the end of every set
when you think you're already done in
your first week and see how that mezzo
goes and if the mezzo goes shittily then
you were actually doing a fine job if
the matter goes what much better really
well then yeah great then you learned a
lesson and your lesson is to push it a
little bit harder than you think and go
your first weeks James yeah I think
Mike's recommendations really really
spot-on there most people struggle with
rir for a little while until they really
start pushing that all I are of one or
ultimately go to failure on accident
when they didn't mean to and that's when
you really get a good idea of what that
maximal effort on that movement feels
like so I suspect and you kind of
already alluded this yourself you're
just under shooting it so much and you
really aren't familiar with what a true
maximal effort is because if you just
keep getting wraps indefinitely you're
probably way way way under shooting what
you could be doing and so I would
encourage you like in us in a controlled
systematic way trying to really find
like a true one from fail or zero from
fail on your main movements it's I mean
for a lot of people as Mike would say
it's a religious experience right it's
hard it fucking sucks but that's the
best way to really scale up where you
stand on a lot of these movements
because until you do that you're going
to be in this particular kind of limbo
zone where you're like I'm doing
something but I'm not it's probably not
quite as good as it could be
mm-hmm Connor Gans says he talks I have
a few questions
for this week number one he had a lot of
cross stimulus in my entire back from
doing stiff legged deadlifts and six to
ten rep range squats occasionally this
will also soreness leading into the next
day after train back should I worry
about this at all yes you might would
not worry you should attend to it my
back is probably my best body partner is
really easy to stimulate that's good for
instance they get a lap pump just from
washing dishes hello my man reek music
seriously fucking just wash dishes get a
job wash your dishes will make money and
have a big back um what I would say in
response to this is if your back is not
something you want to get you know like
if it's just no problem growing
whatsoever you can train legs before
back and you'll be totally fine
it'll be worth training by a little bit
but your back gets jacked anyway so who
gives a shit and if you really want to
prioritize your legs that's a good way
to put it if you really want to
prioritize your back I would say junk
train your electric before back or give
a day or two between the two and then it
works out much better because then your
backs not sore but like this is
something like in when James and I in
various courses used to teach program
design the interference effects are one
of the main ways you design programs
like you're some someone else so for
example someone said like I saw this
guy's program once and he was like I'm
doing squat Monday bench Tuesday
deadlift Wednesday and I just
incandescent off and I'm like you're a
fucking in it but it's like program I
love it yeah you know listen like on
paper looks fine until you realize that
by the time Wednesday hits you're
fucking useless mess on your own what do
you call it deadlift isn't a deadlift
anymore it's like a warm-up for metro so
it's just interference effects is a
thing and if you can move your workout
around a little bit to minimize that
that would be great so like for example
if you do likes Monday currently and
you're doing back Tuesday move back to
Wednesday or Thursday right another
thing to do is most of the way that your
back is gonna get hit in stiffly and
squats is your spinal erectors and a lot
of the muscular muscles are on this
firetrap so on and so forth your lats
probably will get hit much so what you
could do is in the back workout that
comes after that that leg workout that
heavy leg work you can do mostly
vertical pulling a little bit of a
horizontal stuff and then later in the
week when you're not sore from your leg
like stuff and your spinal erectors etc
you could do more horizontal pulling so
that's another way to split it up but if
you don't really give a shit and you
really want your legs to grow and your
backs okay either way then that's
and necessary evil you can absolutely
accept it it won't cost you much yeah my
recommendation was gonna be the latter
one that you gave you can use the
exercise selection to kind of play to
the strengths and weaknesses of that
scenario like don't do your your bento
for rose after those hard days do the
vertical stuff and then vice versa
usually we have the other problem where
like if you do bent rose it tends to
interfere with your ability to get leg
training right and so you now you have
it going in both directions that you'll
have to be conscious of but play around
with it a little bit I've noticed that
like um and I brought this up on
webinars before I can train my last 4 or
5 times per week just very easily if I
chose to do so but going up to five
times per week definitely interference
with my posterior train posterior chain
leg training days so that's a compromise
of interference that you have to figure
out for yourself and there's there's
tons of examples of that yeah number two
in the past before I found you guys I
wasted a lot of time dieting too long
and rebounding soloist I've been able to
get down to around 13 or 14 percent is
it okay to mass from 13 to 18 percent
for a while until I built a bit more
muscle to hopefully make it easier to
cut to 10 percent my end goal is
definitely to get 10 percent or below
while being as big as possible currently
about five seven one seven B I think
that's totally fine
there's nothing wrong over 13 to 18
percent 15 is just a really really rough
figure especially for competitors but I
think for a non competitors up to 20
percent totally fine mmhmm yeah
all right okay so this one yeah so if a
first question and then Brandon wants to
help answer and then the second question
right yeah I think Brandon just chimed
in with his two cents on the first one
cool so you know that I'm saying if says
yes I'm a Bulgarian indeed spot-on Mike
as I guess he was Bulgarian sweet high
Docs I heard you discussing the high
brass a biography odda I enjoyed the
book very much and took some practical
renditions from it but it did leave me
with a theoretical quiz obviously
gaining muscle also pursuing aerobic
goals as possible I said for being a
pain what are some of the potential
setbacks of doing a lot of cardio
amassing there's actually an entire
entire lecture on this before and
there's an entire section of the
upcoming a dirty book which talks about
this
and I don't want to be a dickhead about
this too but I feel like this is another
one that we've kind of beaten to death
I don't want ton of time on this a brief
summary worse P ratio probably not but a
difficult overall state of ability to
stimulate muscle
maybe disproportionate muscle
distribution maybe cardio generally
involves a lot of legwork yes very bad
for putting mass on your legs right
because catabolism from cardio directly
burns muscle and inhibits muscle growth
pathways and that's fatigue so it's
basically those three things and if you
did the upper body stuff like rowing or
our more geometry or something like yeah
they would acquire it upper body yeah I
can imagine this would make lower body
gains harder and indeed it would any
thoughts on this we appreciate yeah so
you got a pathway direct pathway
interference direct catabolism and then
you have increase in fatigue and also
calorie siphoning like you know it's
harder to gain it if you're not problems
again you weight the calories say from
these things not a problem but you know
if you have trouble gaining weight you
do more cardio the nurse is not gaining
weight anymore that's a problem and then
Brandon Armstrong wants to chime in and
he says using my experience with this
here
my mal training doesn't seem to affect
my leg strength gains too much unless
I'm supposed to be a freak of nature and
brought down to mortal gains by it yeah
that's probably true I recently hit 160
to 5 117 575 high bar squat bench
deadlift at 73 body weight 179
centimeters this is after 14 week long
training cycle with gains of 8 kilograms
in squad and 11 that look like Ventress
is 4/5 increase that you can see I'm
nothing special and likely followed in
the average of all areas I'm a training
this way for about three or five years
going in progressing for about two of
those years after taking a four-year
break form of team during high school
I'd even say I'd say that even though I
still trained for running my live
training courses aren't affected too
much at least in this point my training
career I think they are affected just
can't tell because you're if you plugged
away running you would you gain better
that would be my thought not that I put
too much talking it's worth the AB
systemic strength says my bench is
actually weak in relation to my other
lifts instead of my squadron I'd lift
that's part of this entirely genetic ask
for fat gain I do seem to stay rather
lean while massing so that's really good
that's actually a benefit of cardio but
my longest mass in case this point it's
only been seven weeks I'll see how long
it is at the a I'll see how that is at
the end of this massive phase I'm
currently in yeah so I would say that
you know almost every case endurance
activity is going to blunt your games
might not block them to zero and you
might still get gains but you're you're
gonna get better gains it you know I
think here's something to consider and I
think this is a very strong point
although you don't have to do this if
your goal is hypertrophy and you are in
a high part hypertrophy phase
you should not be trying to gain
cardiovascular fitness at this time you
should be trying to maintain the
cardiovascular fitness that you
currently have which is actually going
to be tough when you're gaining weight
right yeah it's gonna feel where it's
not tough it's gonna feel worse right so
when you are on maintenance or even when
cutting to some degree because I'm
cutting all you're really trying to do
is maintain your muscle mass while
decreasing your body fat so you have a
little more wiggle room there but during
their maintenance phases it's a great
time to really try and push up the
cardio because your weight training
stuff is is down right a weight gain
phase like you want to be pouring as
much of your training and recovery and
calorie resources into gaining as much
muscle as you can to make that the most
efficient phase possible why are you
trying to also gain cardiovascular
fitness at this time maintain your
cardiovascular fitness and then try and
improve your cardio through the training
and when you're on more maintenance
style lifting because you have more
resources available I think it's a bad
strategy when people are like I don't
you know Mike I think this is when
people are maybe I don't want to say new
to training but maybe like relatively
new or if they've they got Rhian spired
to do some harder training get more on
the structured schedule for training and
diet and I think oh I'm gonna gain I'm
gonna do cardio I'm gonna do this I
personally think like pick one pick one
get the most out of it as you can do
what's the old saying you know a samurai
can't serve two masters right serve one
master do a good job and then you can
always bring the other ones up later and
from yo Dom its PS if anything happens
to me whenever I'm in the States
almost every general I've been there
always be at least one guy who'd be
super stoked that he has finally found a
fellow look from Bulgaria and finally
demystify to finally demystified the
original boot squats and then proceeded
to explain that I have no clue and not a
single fucking person of all gear does
them they all walk away dejected I
wonder if there's a Romanian out there
crushing people's thirst for knowledge
well I'll tell you a lot of the Russian
lifters like Russian bodybuilders you
think we call Pierre ization like you
know no pure ization they literally just
following through browse at rich Piana
and see what they're doing like in your
biggest disappointment ever like you go
over there and your questions teach me
things they come over here and like
Americans teach me things like I've had
like American power love trust me or
Russian power love throws I'm not
associated with the Russian policy team
just just this guy's on their own be
like oh man like I wonder what Louie
Simmons is doing like Jesus Christ he
was wondering what you're doing like
what is going on
so hey um since we wrapped up these
questions before we move on to YouTube
dr. wife came back and I'm gonna probe
her about that seitan question if you if
you don't mind Satan his Lord hey Mel
you want to hop over here so dr. Davis
does a lot of the research on vegan
veggie stuff so we had a question about
the use of seitan and why we think it's
one of the the better veggie protein
sources even though it's mostly made of
wheat gluten because it's typically made
with soy also with soy sauce at least
most recipes which adds the lysine that
would be missing from wheat protein oh
so pretty decent in terms of amino acid
profile and the it's probably not it's
the digestibility is probably better
than 0.25 just because it's so processed
I think that was just the week we we
reference yeah yeah but it's probably
not great still because it's James can
you tell can you tell Mel yes okay can
you tell Mel what I said about it if
it's right or wrong I don't remember
what you said about it to be honest
offering a fat one of the reasons we
recommend it is because it's one of the
making sources vegans have that is just
mostly protein and not a lot else and
that's just so rare that it's like hey
you get decent quality protein or
Pearson fucking protein so mic
recommended it he suggested one of the
reasons why we recommend it is because
it's one of the few vegan veggie sources
that's just protein by itself and it's
not like a big fuss program yeah there's
two reasons there's that it doesn't have
a lot of extra fat and carbs so it's
easy to add without messing up your
macros if you're like later on in the
diet and also it's one of the sources
that typically has all of the essential
amino acids and a decent ratio so we
tend to and like the vegan templates
program protein at about 20% higher
anyway so the digestibility is taken
into account as it is so boom change
that game thank you dr. wife appreciate
your is his fucking name
so he said she's the praises fuckin name
referring to Satan
all right the let's again going to
answering some questions I will now exit
minimized video and share my screen
let us begin doing nominally answering
questions on YouTube but we're really
doing is looking at the algorithm let's
shout out
ex-cia said an impeachment trial I've
never clicked up how I lost 100 pounds
all right so let's pick one pick one
pick one pick one uh Luis cut a lot oh I
think I know him from Facebook all right
my you've got a liar
hi guys been following our P for a while
and I'm a big fan of Mike and James I
really think I'll follow y'all some
content you guys release it can't wait
for a perfect you guys Rock awesome
thank you I've been trying to implement
volume progression for the first time
ever on my current mass phase and
already feel the difference since I
serve at the structure my workouts
following the principles you guys give
reducing exercise variation I feel the
technique improved so my muscle
connection however at the same time I
noticed I was losing reps from
microcycle to microcycle poops from a
microcycle to another on back workout
especially in inverted rows could this
be due to improvement on mine loss of
connection and technique making it more
effective on the muscle unlikely well it
could be if you're like over
exaggerating like peak contraction and
like tempo and really slow like if you
change your technique significantly to
accommodate my muscle connection then
yes if not probably or is the straight
of us taking our AR maybe a nutrition
rest feels fine and else have been
recovering fine from our country and
other thinks of advanced ingredients for
Brazil oh sorry about bein English in
eventual mistakes new English is fucking
awesome of half of people in America
spoke English as well as you would be
off to a good start
um i don't speak english i speak
american god dammit
oh ha all huh god i guarantee you'll get
a kick out of that so alright so here is
the deal um you might just be hitting a
Marvy
another thing is your inverted rows
might be so far down your back workout
America
exercise there's just accumulation of
systemic fatigue another idea is all
sorry James uh go ahead go for it go for
it uh you might just because you say
you're massing you might just be getting
big and fat and your inverter body
weight exercise unless usually your gut
gets bigger so you have to pull it up as
high right and so that when the
performance goes up you know I was gonna
say you might be having a similar
problem to one of the other persons that
came up on this webinar where your leg
training might just be improving so
substantially that your back is toast
from your like doing legs that could be
also another possibility yeah all right
Elijah Clifford says what do you think
about Greg o Gallagher /ki no body's
theory that being able to lift more as a
result of hypertrophy rather than
hypertrophy being a result of lifting
heavier so it's one thing mostly correct
so I'd say it's first of all not his and
second well not a theory if I'm being a
pedantic piece of shit but on the real
Elijah yeah you lift more because you
have bigger muscles lifting heavy in the
5 to 30 rep range gives you bigger
muscles but progressing from like a
hundred pounds to 105 pounds by 2.5
pound increments isn't what's adding the
muscle each one of those workouts is
stimulative the only real reason we
progress is to keep them optimally
stimulated because if you just keep
repeating 100 pounds your R&R starts to
go up which is to say you get further
and further so the workouts are those
correct and then just add in there
there's plenty of opportunities to get
stronger without hypertrophy as well so
that would be a very short-sighted thing
to not exclude just or to exclude neural
adaptations and to the latter point
hypertrophy resulting from lifting
heavier yeah some of that occurs like as
you get stronger you can get a bigger
stimulus like more intensity from some
of the stuff you're doing but that's not
one of the key driving forces here
whereas like the volume progressions and
stuff are so to a much lesser extent on
the latter point yeah last question of
the day from Evan Pollak oh man I'm
assuming leaves in his real name on
YouTube bravery
is this is this picture just like a
straight shot on his crotch right there
yeah just like dick front-and-center can
you see my mouse yeah it's like that's
what I'm yeah I'm like
why you wearing shorts at this point
just put it out there put your dick on
YouTube all right is there any merit
that's that's going out a t-shirt for
sure is there any merit wearing
weightlifting belt for bicep curls or
other isolations
I sound like Israel doing it lateral
raises with one on Facebook was he
trolling first of all I'm also I never
understand so this is the other thing I
understand what rolling means but this
is just an interesting tangent I would
like you on for about two minutes I
think the idea of trolling is like
you're joking around but like my sister
always tells me what I'm not funny but
I'm studying a joke jokes have to be
funny I like guys will go on like for
like it's to grab and be like hey dr.
bolli
you're a piece of shit and someone's
like why would you say that and then the
gun just trolling and there'll be like
what's so funny about that but and it's
just like you're not you're not trolling
you're a fucking idiot with no goddamn
sense of humor but anyway now that I'm
quite upset about this um really good
question weightlifting belts can
increase your intra-abdominal pressure
which can allow you to neurologically
exert more force to they are more real
drive to the muscles and thus create
more external force if your core is
already tight enough then you're lifting
a relatively small amount of weight it
makes no difference at all if you're
lifting large amounts of weights and
there is a large component of core
stability that is required then it helps
so people who we're about on bench
presses it's largely for no good reason
at all the belt on lat pull-downs makes
no sense right a big belly bench yeah
but if you wear a belt on squats
deadlifts etcetera overhead presses good
idea for me I'm doing lateral raises
time to brag with like 50 55 pounds but
with a limp so it does not really right
it's right limp wristed it's funny
because there's like there's like a
homosexual slur there as well
I didn't even that didn't even ever
occur to me so honestly are those
fucking dumbbells feels so goddamn heavy
to me subjectively that when I wear the
belt they feel lighter and I straight up
get more reps
I wouldn't put the belt on cosmetically
just cuz oh my god here's about right it
helps it legitimately helps me because
of its rip nominal pressure so look if
you're when I upright row
when I do bad temper grows with like the
20s or 25s I don't fucking worry about
because it makes no difference and
actually develops makes breathing a
little harder and you're like that Fox
this is uncomfortable and actually maybe
reduces your performance but if you're
lifting something really really hard it
really requires a lot of core activation
which if you try a lateral racing the 55
jewel cookie see that it's stupid I hate
it it's so weird because I'm like I'm
not supposed to be able to do this so
then it moves and I'm like what the fuck
is going on like I'll pick them up to
warm up with and I'm like what so yeah
so basically it I do it because it helps
that's it and uncurls easy curls for
some reason tax my core a lot I don't
know why and it helps a ton and then for
like cable curls it doesn't help but
also I don't wear them and sometimes I'm
heavy cable curls it does so really
really in specific - if the internal
pressure is really helping you do it if
it's not don't fucking do it Mike would
you ever consider getting the the arm
blaster belt only to look like 1970s
Arnold yes yes look at me my things are
so huge every now and again I'll go into
a gym and they'll have one laying around
I'm like I gotta use this it's just too
novel it's too silly you just have to go
for it but you know I've used it last in
high school I remember it was pretty
cool
it sure is how isolates the muscle yeah
it does a good job I mean it's it's it's
just like a funny goofy thing by the way
shot you'd mentioned Sonya shoutouts
just Sonya because uh she helped me out
in a big way recently
somehow my work RP Google Drive got
wiped and had some like very important
things on there and luckily she was able
to recover that data for that was a big
big safe so shout out to Sonya for
saving the day well James I think that's
it yeah that was a good one man was feel
like we we went for like two hours there
holy cow alright I don't usually go for
two hours if you know what I mean
collectively uh yeah I'm what's called
the foot well that's you go in two hours
1 hour 59 minutes and 30 seconds and me
go in 30 seconds that's it that's the
greatest thing you've ever done remember
you with that is that guy
just sorry just to explain that is the
most possible disappointing kind of sex
that simultaneously resolves an
intravaginal ejaculation but also
zero pleasure from the woman yes zero
simply even pain right at that first one
it's like yeah and then he's like that's
it and she's like you are kind of like
nope nope and I'm done I officially hate
you do you have any sandwiches I'm
hungry all right well on that note folks
we're gonna wrap it up this week thanks
for tuning in we had to actually had a
bunch of really good questions if you
want to get your questions answered you
can join our P plus and submit your
questions that way if you enjoy all the
content that we've been putting out on
the RP YouTube channel make sure you hit
the subscribe button and hopefully we'll
see you next time peace