prce of that miror you twerking it on
the dance of that miror you twerk it on
twer it on of that miror you
twer
twer okay hey guys so um over the last
couple of months I've had a few
conversations um or encounters with
people where the term evidence-based
Fitness or evidence-based bodybuilding
was either critiqued or mocked or there
was the suggest that we should do away
with this
term um and so I wanted to do a video
just to sort of bring some clarity to
what this term actually means and where
it originated and why it's actually
extremely important for us when applied
properly and so just to be clear I as I
see it um the term evidence-based
Fitness and science-based fitness those
are sort of synonymous so they basically
mean the same
thing so the fitness Community basically
borrowed this term from from the medical
community so in medicine in the early
1990s uh there was this movement that
was set towards preventing Physicians
from just sort of arbitrarily choosing
research and then subjectively applying
that research and their own preferences
or techniques that had been handed down
to them um within clinical practice to
sort of guide their treatment and so on
so basically what came about was a
actual systematized approach to
incorporating scientific research into
medical practice and so a few
definitions have popped up since then uh
my personal favorite comes from Dr David
sacket which describes evidence-based
medicine as the conscientious explicit
and judicious use of current best
evidence in making decisions about the
care of individual patients it means
integrating individual clinical
expertise with the best available
external clinical evidence from
systematic research so you guys can see
that by this definition evidence-based
practice whether that be Fitness or
medicine doesn't mean that all we look
at is scientific studies built into the
very definition of evidence-based
practice is that there will be an
individual clinical expertise
component um and that is of particular
importance for guiding things like say
surgeries where there's handon
techniques the clinician sort of has to
use his own experience and the
experience of those who have sort of
preceded him uh in order to like sort of
make the best judgment there um so we
can do away with the complaint that you
know us evidence-based folks we only
look at studies since built into the
very definition itself is this
integration component where we have to
just sort of come up with our best
practice based on our own clinical
expertise field experience and then the
the systematic research um as well so
just to shine a little bit more light on
this criticism you'll often hear people
say things like well we don't really
have enough research or at least not
enough high quality research uh done on
bodybuilders so we shouldn't really
focus on the research too much what we
should just do is you know what works um
and so if we think of this criticism in
a medical context um it would be sort of
like saying well you know we don't
really have any randomized controlled
trials where you have you know victims
who were stabbed in the heart in one you
know group and then we and they're given
a certain treatment and then we have
victims who are stabbed in the heart and
they're given another treatment and then
we compare the two of these we sort of
just you know come up with the best
protocol in that situation if someone
comes into the emergency room and is
stabbed in the heart we can integrate
clinical expertise in terms of actually
directing that
surgery rely on the evidence that we do
have and then come up with the best
practice forward inste similarly in
bodybuilding there will be cases where
uh that particular athlete's individual
preferences or specific needs due to
injury or whatever will be a case where
we don't have any studies directly
investigating what it is that we should
do there but again this is where that
whole expertise and best practice idea
comes into play okay so I'm going to
post on the screen a list of standards
that were put forth by Dr Steven Nolla
who founded science-based medicine
reasonably accounts for all available
evidence utilizes valid and internally
consistent logic is intellectually
thorough rigorous and methodical
reasonably fair and unbiased in
judgments and adheres to standards of
ethics and
professionalism so in my opinion I think
that the scientific Fitness Community or
whatever is actually doing pretty well
with the first one to me there seems to
be no real shortage of scientific papers
floating around uh people always seem to
be sharing new studies and talking about
new research and stuff like that so
that's good um the second one to do with
utilizing valid and internally
consistent logic isn't great overall in
the fitness Community clearly but I
think that within the niche of the
science-based folks it's actually pretty
good and people usually tend to come up
with conclusions that actually logically
follow from the evidence that um they're
sort of showing there so the third
criteria uh I think definitely could be
improved on um so that's being
intellectually thorough rigorous and
methodical um and I don't think that a
lot of people are as thorough as they
should be and you'll often see people
just sort of cherry-pick one study post
the abstract and then use that as
support for whatever it is that they're
trying to prove or whatever and I find
that a lot of people don't really
rigorously look through through the
papers themselves and they'll just read
the abstract without actually looking at
you know the researchers methods or the
subjects and so on um and so I think
that we could all probably do a little
bit better uh or most of us could do a
little bit better with that one myself
included then the fourth one is being
reasonably fair and unbiased in
judgments and I think that this is a big
one um because in this community a lot
of people are financially tied to a
certain set of beliefs it's how they get
paid um everyone has to have you know
their own sort of method or whatever and
so if some research comes out that you
know stands in in contrast to or
conflicts with your your own convictions
or previously held beliefs then often
times people are going to get defensive
and sort of denigrate that research and
not take it into account and this is
just the very definition of being biased
and now we all obviously have biases and
if you've read any anything on you know
cognitive biases then you know that we
all sort of are limited by this um but I
think that the main thing here is the
word reasonable so I think that we can
strive to be reasonably unbiased in our
judgments while acknowledging that we
will still be biased to some degree even
if I'm you know a subconscious level um
yeah so the final one has to do with
standards of ethics and profession ISM
and I think that this is probably the
biggest one and it's the one where we
can we have the most room to improve on
so I think like what I found is that
people who even do the first four
perfectly uh tend not to do so well with
this one and I'm of the opinion that you
know if your only method of spreading
the you know the good word is by being
rude and elitist and intentionally
confrontational online or wherever um
then I think that improving upon this
standard should probably be your main
focus in terms of actually propelling
yourself forward in your evidence-based
practice that isn't to say that we
shouldn't criticize bad ideas or we
shouldn't think critically about ideas
or even that we shouldn't ridicule some
people for their ignorance particularly
people who are speaking from a position
of of authority and are just spewing
[ __ ] out to the masses and just to
just to read a quick excerpt from from
one of my favorite books uh it's called
on [ __ ] by Harry
Frankfurt and
um what he says in this book is [ __ ]
is unavoidable whenever circumstances
require someone to talk without knowing
what he is talking about thus the
production of [ __ ] is stimulated
whenever a person's obligations or
opportunities to speak about some topic
exceed his knowledge of the facts that
are relevant to to that topic and he
basically goes on to say uh you know
that that [ __ ] is actually a bigger
threat than lies uh because at least
those people who lie are cognizant
they're aware of the fact that there is
some truth to be spoken about whereas
the person who bullshits just doesn't
care they're just saying whatever is in
their best interest um and so uh this is
a real obstacle to be overcome within
the space community and so I think that
we are right to criticize these people
and even in some cases ridicule these
people um but uh I think that when this
is your main method of getting the you
know information out
there we will sometimes fail to adhere
to this standard of professionalism and
ethics and so on and so uh we can
probably do a little bit better uh in
that regard all right guys so that's all
I had to say on the whole evidence-based
thing if you guys want to keep up with
with some of our lifestyle stuff you can
go ahead and follow my girlfriend
Robin's Channel I'll put a link to her
Channel below she's doing an awesome job
of filming everything that we're doing
and uh I'm going to try to follow suit
and post some of my training and my
dieting and uh just day-to-day stuff for
you guys so stay tuned for that all
right thanks for watching like the video
if you liked it subscribe if you haven't
already
thanks
n