coffee consumption is ubiquitous what
you may not know is that coffee can
actually have a positive impact on your
health welcome back Dr Milo wolf
Here Local Coffee
enjoyer totally not staged totally not
cold coffee totally not a tenth of a cup
remaining because I forgot to keep this
for the first 910 what is called coffee
well first of all it is delicious more
specifically coffee is what happens when
you steep or Infuse or whatever you want
to call it ground up seeds of the coffee
cherry fruit contrary to popular belief
coffee isn't just caffeine which blocks
the adenosine receptor which is
responsible for fatigue and so by
blocking this receptor caffeine helps
you feel a bit more wide and energetic
caffeine also does many other things
within the body the important thing is
coffee is not just caffeine coffee has
many active ingredients that interact
with your body in a variety of ways such
as for example fiber did you know that a
single cup of coffee can actually
contain several grams of fiber which if
you've watched my video somewhere above
here you know is good for your health
and likewise coffee actually contains
antioxidants which are generally
beneficial for your health and that's
all well and good but there's many foods
with many ingredients and if all I did
was just mention random nutrients in
random foods you can come away from it
thinking that french fries are the
healthiest thing ever but how do we
actually know that coffee isn't all
awful for us well to find out the answer
to that question I actually looked for
the largest review paper I could
possibly find and that is an umbrella
review of 2011 metanalyses including
both observational research and
Interventional research here are the
results the largest risk reductions
that's right risk reductions AKA
improvements in your health were seen
with 3 to four cups of coffee a day and
this amounted to a reduction in risk of
about 15 to 20% in things like all's
mortality cardiovascular disease
cardiovascular mortality even type 2
diabetes risk some cancer types in other
words to maximize your health benefit
consuming around 3 to four cups of
coffee can reduce your risk of getting
all these things by about 15 to 20% with
that being said I want to give you a
caveat a few specific outcomes actually
saw an increased risk with coffee
consumption for example the risk of bone
fracture was higher in women when they
consume coffee as opposed to not
consuming coffee however the same wasn't
true in men like for certain Health
outcomes coffee consumption was actually
linked with worse Health but these
associations generally disappeared after
accounting for other co-variants like
smoking for example so broadly speaking
coffee consumption actually seems to be
beneficial to your health on the whole
unless you're within certain populations
I'll touch on in a bit importantly there
is also some evidence suggesting that
filtered coffee might be more beneficial
for your health than unfiltered coffee
so coffee is good for your health but
I'm sure you've heard that coffee or
caffeine specifically can also
negatively impact your sleep is there
any truth to this and what can we do
about it well caffeine consumption does
absolutely negatively impact your sleep
in fact a recent met analysis by
Gardiner and colleagues found that
caffeine consumption reduced Total Sleep
duration by about 45 minutes increased
the time taken to fall asleep by about
10 minutes it negatively impacted the
phases of your sleep and in general
caffeine consumption didn't seem to do
anything positive for your sleep can we
do anything to avoid the negative impact
of caffeine or coffee in this case on
your sleep yes we absolutely can the
authors has also performed a meta
regression analysis to see how long
before going to bed you would need to
consume different doses of caffeine for
it to not impact your sleep with 200
migs of caffeine which can be found in a
standard pre-workout supplement or in a
large cup of coffee you would need to
have this at least 13 hours before you
go to sleep to avoid any negative impact
on your sleep so if you're going to
sleep at 10: p.m. that means you would
want to have that coffee or that
pre-workout supplement at least at 9:00
a.m. if not earlier for a smaller dose
of caffeine about 100 Mig which is often
found in smaller cups of coffee you will
be talking about having that dose at
least 9 hours before you go to sleep so
in the case of going to bed at 10: p.m.
that would mean having that dose of
caffeine at the latest at 1:00 p.m. the
larger the dose of caffeine you have the
earlier you need to have it in the day
for it to not impact your sleep so
generally I recommend having your
caffeine as early as you can get away
with during the day but let's get back
to some cases or some populations where
caffeine use or coffee consumption might
be contraindicated specifically if you
suffer from severe anxiety symptomatic
cardiac arrhythmias peptic ulcer disease
hepatic impairment Reno impairment
seizures or if you're pregnant large
doses of coffee consumption might not be
a good thing importantly though even in
this paper they note that these
contraindications aren't absolute
finally before I run out this video and
go back to drinking some good coffee let
me tell you what the maximum dose of
coffee you could have is before you
start experiencing either severe side
effects or before you actually start
risking dying some research suggests
that the dose at which you start
experiencing really substantial side
effects like arrhythmias tachic cardias
and seizures would be around 1.2 G of
caffeine in a single dose that is a lot
of caffeine that is around maybe 6 to
eight large cups of coffee at once and
generally for most people you probably
don't want to go much above 4 to 600 Mig
of caffeine per day on a consistent
basis and generally estimates of a
lifethreatening dose of caffeine or
around 10 to 14 G of caffeine so unless
you plan on having four gallons of
coffee at once and getting that much
caffeine in you're probably going to be
safe let me give you a few takeaways
from this video first of all feel free
to have 3 to four cups of coffee a day
provided you don't have any negative
Health contraindications secondly on a
broad level drinking coffee may make you
healthier than not drinking any coffee
if you're going to have the A4 mentioned
potentially optimal dose of around 3 to
four cups of coffee a day keep it far
away from your sleep if you're genuinely
having as much caffeine or as much
coffee as 3 to four cups a day I would
cap consumption at least 12 hours before
you go to sleep if you want to avoid the
majority of the negative impact on your
sleep most importantly dark roast on
coffee are the worst thing humankind has
ever done it's reverse Evolution they've
just gone backwards in time please don't
drink dark roasts stick to light roasts
I will die on that Hill AKA whatever
coffee you consume it's you know to each
their own and with that being said that
is the video If you enjoyed the video
please comment like subscribe let me
know in the comments what you think
about coffee consumption is it improving
your health is it making it worse if you
would like me to coach you take care of
your training and your nutrition and
lead you to your best progress yet check
out the link somewhere above to go to my
website and with that being said have a
great day and I will see you guys my
subscribers in that next one
peace sorry I was vibing a bit too hard
there all right let's get it pic Cordia
and Caesar and Caesar holy that's a
hard word seizure there we go Taki
Cordia and Caesar holy