by trying to stay too lean you could be
holding both your health and your
progress back here's why
welcome back folks soon to be Dr
milooper with wolf coaching today we're
talking about why staying too lean could
be holding you back specifically we'll
be talking about energy availability and
relative energy deficiency if you've
ever competed in bodybuilding or you've
known anyone who has competed in a
physique sport you'll realize that
towards the end of a long cut or a long
prep they usually feel pretty miserable
why is this well there are a few reasons
one could be that by simply staying at
too low of a body fat percentage their
body is essentially fighting them a
little bit one component of why staying
tooling can harm both your progress and
your health is called Energy
availability now energy availability is
defined as total energy intake minus
energy expanded during exercise divided
by your lean body mass as the name
implies this is essentially just a
measure of how much energy your diet
provides you with once you've accounted
for exercise so for example when you've
been cutting for quite a long time and
your calories have to drop quite low
because your body is essentially
fighting you on trying to lose more
weight your energy availability might
drop to be quite low why is this an
issue well once you drop below about 30
calories per kilogram of body mass and
that's kill calories by the way for you
nerds out there things start to happen
that aren't very good in fact you go
into something called low energy
availability and that typically results
in something called relative energy
deficiency or red for short so when you
drop below 30 kill calories per kilogram
of lean body mass things start to go
wrong what exactly happens well relative
Energy Efficiency in sports describes
the symptoms associated with this state
as far as performance goes depression
irritability worsen performance worsen
concentration all of those things happen
when you're not feeding yourself
sufficient amount of calories to be in
good health relative energy deficiency
can impact a wide variety of systems
from your immune system to your bone
health to your menstrual cycle a lot of
bad things happen now dear viewer you
might be asking when will this actually
happen when would I happen to dip into
relative Energy Efficiency well in short
when you're diving down to quite a low
body fat percentage and even when you're
maintaining at quite a low body fat
percentage you can actually get into
relative energy deficiency what happens
essentially as you dive down is that a
variety of metabolic adaptations occur
which result in your maintenance
calories becoming quite low and in fact
at that point in order to keep losing
weight you'll drop your calories into
this relative energy deficiency
territory now you might think that once
you're done cutting once you've achieved
your target 45 percent engine look you
can just increase your calories again
and go to maintenance and those
metabolic adaptations will be fine and
you can dip out of relative energy
deficiency again but it turns out that
just because you go to maintenance after
long cut may not be sufficient to
completely alleviate those metabolic
adaptations and even at maintenance
calories at that point you might still
be in relative Energy Efficiency and
experience those symptoms and this can
happen to some people right like I'm not
sure if you've seen Tristan for example
Tristan Lee has described symptoms
similar to relative energy deficiency
from staying at a super low body fat
year round so if you're not eating
enough calories you get into something
called relative energy deficiency and
that's bad news what else happens when
you get too lean well your body might
just try to make you regain that weight
and one way it does this is while a
hormone called leptin leptin is a
hormone involved in managing hunger that
is primarily secreted by adipose tissue
and is secreted in proportion to how
much fat you have around so the more
body fat you carry the more leptin
you'll produce and leptin blood's hunger
makes you less hungry don't believe me
recent research has actually shown a
correlation of 0.85 between body fat
percentage and serum leptin
concentrations when you get quite lean
you don't have as much body fat around
anymore and that will reduce the amount
of leptin in your system making you
substantially hungrier and indeed leptin
seems to play a key role in regaining
weight or making you want to regain
weight and making you hungrier after a
long diet we've lost a bunch of black
fat other hormones like corellin and pyy
might also be involved in this hunger
regulation so when you're too lean not
only do you get potentially some of the
side effects of relative energy
deficiency but you also get quite hungry
because you don't have as much body fat
around which increases leptin which
keeps you from being hungry now let's
talk about one of the more up-to-date
models on this that encompasses
environmental factors genetic factors
and physiological factors that model is
the Dual intervention Point model the
Dual intervention Point model
essentially states that for your body
fat your body has two intervention
points so it either intervenes when your
body fat is getting too low or when it
is getting too high when your body fat
percentage is somewhere between these
two intervention points your body fat is
mostly regulated by environmental
factors when your body fat dips below
the lower intervention point for example
your body will try and get your body fat
higher Again by secreting less leptin
this in turn will lead to you feeling
quite hungry in addition to feeling
potentially some of the symptoms of
relative energy deficiency being aware
of what your lower Point might be for
your body is pretty important for
example if below 10 body fat for you as
a man you find that you consistently
feel substantially hungrier and you
start experiencing some of the symptoms
of relative energy deficiency that's a
good sign that might be around your
lower intervention Point importantly
with regards to both this dual point
intervention model and the relative
energy deficiency there is a lot of
variance in how people experience this
and when people experience this there
are three ways in which people differ
number one what energy availability
starts causing relative energy
deficiency issues number two what the
boundaries of the Dual intervention
Point model actually are for some people
they might be higher for some people
they might be lower and finally number
three to what extent an individual
experiences metabolic adaptations that
prevent them from losing weight as
easily during weight loss and during
subsequent maintenance to wrap it up if
you're currently experiencing symptoms
of relative Energy Efficiency and you're
not losing weight for a show or for a
photo shoot or for any very compelling
reason it might just behoove you to
regain weight slowly in order to get you
out of that relative Energy Efficiency
getting out of relative energy
deficiency would benefit your health and
it would likely benefit your progress in
the dream as well in terms of muscle
growth and strength development for
example here are some takeaways staying
lower than about eight to twelve percent
body fat for most men or lower than
about 18 to 22 body fat for most women
would likely put you at increased risk
for relative energy deficiency and a
wide variety of negative symptoms
ultimately keep in mind there is
variance we all know that one shredded
guy that doesn't have any issues
whatsoever however if you are
experiencing symptoms of relative energy
deficiency and you're chronically hungry
consider slowly regaining weight out of
that state of low energy availability
anyways that's the video if you liked
the video please comment like subscribe
and I'll see you guys my view viewers in
that next video peace
that is hot as [ __ ] in here Jesus Christ
I think it's combination of you know we
grinding the spotlight being on both
proverbial and literal no cash check for
[ __ ] sake do your job she's a paid
actor