the stretch is more important than we
thought we recently conducted a study
looking at three different exercises and
research questions first in the cows
does doing partial reps after you've hit
full range of motion failure in the
stretch position cause more growth and
yes it did when doing lengthen partials
after failure participants saw 50% more
growth secondly does extending your hips
more and getting a deeper stretch in the
rectus femoris during the light
extension caus more growth yes it did we
saw about 50% to 70% more Reus femoris
growth when lengthening it to a greater
extent and finally if the cable curl is
set up to be hardest in the stretched
position does lengthening your biceps by
taking your arm from neutral to
hyperextended cause any further growth
in this case no and that suggests that
tension in the lengthen position might
be more important than just purely
maximizing the stretch and that maybe
you get somewhat diminishing returns on
the lengthen position that's why