okay so I can't really see where that's
bad you can say yeah okay you just cut
me
in
[Music]
13 13 and 1 12 13.5 exactly yeah okay
week one uh 13 and 1/2 in what I've
always heard is that your your uh neck
and biceps should be about the same uh
so I think my my biceps are around 16 in
uh so I'd like to bring my neck up at
least to about like 15 in I don't even
know if that's possible or not um but
certainly by not training it you're
definitely not going to hypertrophy it
and as I see it the neck is really like
any other muscle if you just train it
then it will respond and it will
hypertrophy uh so for the next 6 months
or so I'm going to be running this
experiment and seeing uh what direct
neck training uh is going to do for uh
the size of my neck muscles guys um so
my old Anatomy Prof basically taught us
the anatomy of the neck uh by scribbling
on uh one of the students necks using
markers that's the same thing that I'm
going to do here so the first muscle
that we want to consider when training
the neck uh is really the biggest muscle
in the neck and it's the one that is
going to most powerfully contribute to
any forward flexion of the neck and that
is the Stern C mastoid uh so if you just
kind of break down the name of that
muscle uh tells you a lot about its
Anatomy uh so stero CL mastoid tells you
that it originates here at the sternum
also at the clavicle and then it runs up
the side of the neck and inserts kind of
at the back here at What's called the
mastoid process uh which is kind of like
a bony protuberance sort of at the back
and the side of the skull so we have the
muscle that starts here comes up up the
side of the neck and then inserts up
here at the back it sort of fans out
here goes out to the clavicle like
that so this is the sternal C
mastoid so if we just imagine this
muscle shortening uh so what would
happen is the neck would be pulled
forward so it would Flex uh straight
forward and then also because it kind of
loops around the side it would also Flex
laterally um so when we want to train
this muscle to hypertrophy it uh we're
going to want to be doing movements uh
that train neck flexion and then also
lateral
flexion so the other muscle that also
works lateral flexion are called the
scaling muscles um so these originate at
the cervical vertebrae uh so these are
the upper vertebrae of the spine um and
then they sort of come around and insert
uh on the first and second ribs uh so
they sort of run here sort of inside the
SCM and there are three of those so they
sort of go in and they're sort of like a
deep muscle but if you imagine these
muscles Contracting and they're also
going to assist in lateral flexion and
then there are also uh a bunch of sort
of smaller muscles that run up and down
the neck here uh such as the Sterno
hyoid which originates at the sternum
and inserts up here at the hyoid bone
you have the thyro hyoid um you have the
omo hyoid uh and these are all basically
muscles that depress the hyoid bone um
but they're not going to contribute too
much force to forward flexion uh so I'm
not really going to consider those any
further okay so for the back of the neck
uh the main muscle that we're going to
focus on is the trapesius is sort of
like a fan-shaped muscle it originates
up here at the occipital bone which is
this big chunk of the skull kind of at
the back here uh and the fibers come
down and out in a fan shape they insert
uh on the clavicle and then also on the
scapula back here uh but importantly for
the neck uh what we want to focus on are
the upper trap fibers uh so they
originate up here and then they sort of
come down and along and insert into the
clavicle and then also back here into
the scapula and they run laterally like
this uh and then also up and into uh the
occipital bone of the SP
so if you imagine these muscles
shortening it's going to bring the
origin closer to the insertion the neck
is going to extend or tilt we want to uh
train these muscles through uh neck
extension um and then also clavicular or
scapular elevation uh through shrugging
uh so that's basically it they're also
the two capitus muscles uh so the spenis
capitus and the semi spinalis capitus so
the semispinalis capitus is basically a
muscle that just runs straight up and
down on the neck uh so it originates at
the cervical vertebrae so the upper
vertebrae of the spine um and just runs
up vertically like this and inserts uh
at the base of the uh occipital bone uh
and then you also have the spenis
capitus uh so it's very similar uh it
originates at the cervical vertebrae but
instead of running straight up it kind
of runs out to the side and then inserts
at the master wave process of the
temporal bone so that protuberance
that's sort of on the side of the skull
if you imagine this shortening uh it's
going to bring the neck back or the head
back through neck extension and then
also because it kind of comes up to the
side uh it will also help to to rotate
the neck these are the most important
muscles that we need to consider so I
will catch you guys in the next one uh
like the video if you found it
informative uh don't forget to subscribe
if you haven't already and uh we'll see
you next time all right hey guys so I
decided to make my full neck building
program available for download on my
website uh so you can click here and
download the program for
$5 um or there's also an option to pay
$2 uh so really you can pay whatever you
think is uh reasonable for this routine
um if you guys don't have the funds to
pay for a program right now there is
also the option to buy it for $0 and if
you would like to support me and support
this channel in another way uh then you
can do that simply by sharing this video
or by subscribing to the channel uh or
by commenting or liking the video and
that stuff is always very much
appreciated but if you guys would like
to download the routine uh then you can
click the link right here um and just
follow the simple steps through so thank
you guys so much for watching this video
and I will see you in the next
one it com off it is though yeah off
easy just like washable markers not even
soap on this thing