people on the internet who say this is
bad because biomechanics I don't know
where the they say that because if
you go out here notice my PCS are
getting more stretched as I pull out
there's lots of people saying you got to
tuck in the elbows to do more chest
that's backwards if you tuck in
the elbows the line of pull aligns
better with the front delts and it's
more triceps front delts and triceps is
more like tucked The Wider you go all
the way up till here is more pecs
however not everyone can handle wide and
it can your shoulders up my best
recommendation for you is this don't
worry about where your elbows go at all
set up a comfortable hand position Arch
and attract focus on your chest your
elbows will naturally position
themselves to a point that is easy on
your joints and hard on your muscles