it's a physiological fact skeptical
eyebrows activate that during exercise
sustained attempts at high-intensity
training does little in the way of
stimulating further growth so this is
just what I would like to call
categorically false they have tested
single set versus multi- set protocols
in in almost every single case multi-
set protocols elicit more muscle growth
even in beginners there were a few
studies done early that showed that in
the first 3 weeks or so you had roughly
similar results from single set and
multi set programs but after three or
four or five or six weeks the curves for
progress from the single set and multi
set split up and the multi set programs
took off while the single set programs
didn't cause as much hypertrophy so no
it's just not true to say that adding
volume doesn't work it really does there
are limits to it but it really does work