we have for example a study showing that
preacher curls put a lot of tension when
the muscle is relatively lengen in the
bottom position but the muscle is not
fully lengen and they compare that with
incline double curls in the bottom
position because you're using a thumble
gra pull straight down there's actually
no tension on biceps and they show that
the preure curls seem to be slightly
more effective for biceps grow there's a
few things to note here the study CED by
Zab cor and colleagues compared the
incline cwl to the preach cwl observing
more favorable hypertrophy of the biceps
with a preacher C compared to the inine
C and indeed I agree with him that this
study provides support for the idea that
you don't just want to muscle you want
to have it be performed under tension
however that is also evidence against
the idea that the stretch mediate
hypertrophy is what's occurring as the
stretch was much lower in the case of a
preacher curl compared to the incline
curl if it was truly stretchmed
hypertrophy underlying the benefits of L
partials and Lin training you would
observe more hyper from link cwls and
that wasn't the case so clearly you
can't just make the causal jump from
animal studies on stretching or even
human studies on stretching to a length
partials and assume the same mechanism
as a plate help to stretch the muscle
Beyond a certain point probably