[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
yo dr. Mike here for Renaissance period
ization I'm here with Paul canoe of
canoe fitness and your Instagram is can
you lift and it's K a and you LIF G I
suppose that's how you spell lifts folks
check him out he is our victim for today
for the quad and ham workout the
nickname for this workout is uranium
isn't that scary it will be real soon
we're starting off with lying leg curls
and then we're gonna go to other fun
stuff hit it so we're gonna start with
the lying leg curl for hamstrings and
we're gonna do move into two other quad
exercises after this we're going to move
into leg press and then into smith
machine feet board squat which we'll
talk about kind of strange to do
hamstrings first a lot of people don't
do that and we don't always do that but
there's an issue here with systemic
fatigue the lying leg curl even if you
go really close to failure today we're
going all the way to failure zero reps
and reserve even if you do lots of
volume it only really affects the
hamstrings and not a whole lot of other
stuff and you can train quads no problem
afterwards a matter of fact you juice is
flowing you're kind of warmed up if you
flip this workout and you do the leg
presses and squats first as you guys
will see what Paul later you're gonna be
able to walk or form sentences a whole
lot of stuffs not gonna happen the
systemic and nervous system fatigue is
so high if you did the leg curls after
it just wouldn't be very productive leg
curls first don't really interfere with
squats and leg presses after but the
other way isn't true so that's why we're
doing it first we're gonna stick to the
10 to 20 represent sort of an
appropriate new sets of 5 to 10 we've
got other exercises and other workouts
we'll show you that when we do
hamstrings we'll do in the 5 to 10 rep
range this isn't a 10 to 20 range and
then later we'll do different kind of
rep ranges for squats and leg presses
let's get to doing these micro
[Music]
great yes that was perfect four five six
seven eight gotta get to 12
time to turn it up
few more bonus stable technique 1 & 2
excellent very beautiful how long all
going to be resting between sets huge
huge question people always ask what are
the rest times here's the deal the
purpose of resting between sets is to
give yourself enough recovery to
accomplish another hypertrophic ly
stimulating set after that's the entire
purpose once you're ready to go when I
get a high quality set it causes lots of
muscle growth you're arrested what does
that mean it means we have to check off
a couple of boxes one if a set is under
five reps it's just not enough volume to
get a real robust stimulus so we have to
recover enough for the local muscle
least to be able to do five more reps
two you have to make sure that your
nervous system is not limiting your
ability to go and by nervous system we
actually need more brain and spinal cord
and more brain that usually is the
limiting factor there's a term for that
it's called central fatigue basically
once you feel nice and strong
make you do another set it's time to do
another set if your central fatigue is
really high you can look at the bar go
oh there's no way I can do this right so
once you get your mojo back
okay that's check number two we have two
other checks check number three is
cardio respiratory fatigue once you're
no longer breathing super heavy and you
don't think like your lungs are gonna
limit you on the next set
imagine high rep squats you know you
look at the set again thirty seconds
eight or someone's like ready you're
gonna feel it you're quadric I'm just
gonna throw up in my own mouth from
breathing way too heavy right that's no
good so once his lungs are notice Paul
is not breathing heavy anymore so we're
good on that track and lastly what about
synergist muscles is we want when we are
trading a specific muscle like the quads
are in this case the hamstrings we want
only those muscles to limit the set that
when that set gets to failure or very
close it's that muscle getting to
failure very close not something else so
if you're squatting for example and your
lower back is still fried but your quads
are recovered you got to wait longer
until your lower back is fresh enough
for your quads to be a limiting factor
on next census or checkpoint system once
we check all those boxes we can feel
free to start and as a matter of fact
paul's probably checked all of them so
let's do another step
[Music]
folks it's time to like press folks
we're gonna take the leg press because
we want full range of motion and less
involvement of the back more the quads
we're gonna take this guy here I'm going
all the way to the bottom rock
[Music]
press eight one more before you rest
press rest breathe so for the leg press
range of motion is critical
the deeper you can go as long as your
lower back is straight or arched and it
doesn't round a ton nice and deep with
your heels and toes on the platform
you're good to go
the deeper you go the more your quads
stretch the more they contract the more
hypertrophy you're gonna get so we're
looking for depth strictness of
technique 10 to 20 reps per set here on
the light press because it gives a
really really good combination of pump
and metabolite stimulus as well as
shitload of tension for all the
hypertrophy you're gonna get out of size
press go go go go go go go
right oh shit here we go here we go
real good
[Music]
the Smith machine for squats is it food
or is it bad is it better than regular
squats the answer is none of the above
it's just a tool and one of the things
that the Smith machine can be good for
is to push your feet a little bit more
ahead of you than normal which is
impossible on a barbell squat because
you would fall over that means the torso
stays more upright and you get a bit
more knee flexion which is cool to
target their quads specifically so it's
less of a general exercise than the
squat more specific for the quads
when we're really trying to Zone in on
them especially if you're more advanced
the Smith machine can be an awesome tool
it's not better than a regular squat
it's just a bit different so with Paul
here we're gonna be doing some smith
machine sort of feet forward squats
after life processes quads are already
pretty trashed
now the quads are gonna be for sure the
limiting factor on this exercise and
that's gonna work super super well stay
as upright as you can put your butt back
first yeah yeah whatever like ok so
folks we have a recorded a failure to
warm up that's how that stuff is quads
are we'll see where we go from here
[Music]
perfect
because squats are not super good to do
for high reps because the postural
muscles your back etc get usually get
tired first or your cardio goes first
we're actually gonna stick to between 5
and 10 reps per set here on the feet
forward smith who shoots box football i
probably recommend the same for most
folks even if they're done later in the
workout you can do a 7 12 15 or whatever
at the beginning I just wouldn't do a
set of 20 or something like that nice
heavy stimulus relatively heavy because
he's pretty tiredness plunger beat up it
does a really really good job of
focusing on the quads making them the
limiting factor instead of other stuff
like lungs or supporting muscle one more
one more
more fall rack
[Music]
good stop folks five cents for
hamstrings eight cents for quads five on
the leg press three on the feet forward
smith machine squat paul's toast that's
it that's all it takes
this is a peak week workout all these
were either zero reps in reserve someone
represent or sometimes all the way to
failure when you start your mesocycle
and you want to do this workout start
fewer sets two or three fewer sets on
each exercise start with three reps and
reserve or so and then slowly work your
way up over the weeks adding weight
potentially adding reps adding sets and
getting closer and closer to failure
give this workout a try but if you try
it i wouldn't try it once i would do it
for a whole mesocycle month or two of
training d load see how you like it
you
[Music]