hey folks Dr Mike here for asson
security station drop everything you're
doing right now it's time to talk about
drop sets clever huh I made it all up
myself
drop sets where do they belong in a
program what are they why would you use
them why would we not use them let's get
into them so drop sets you usually do an
exercise usually for like 10 to 20 reps
whatever however close to failure you
want to get
resting no time at all you immediately
decrease the load by something like
between 10 and 30 percent
as soon as you've decreased the load
let's say you're using 100 pounds you go
to 90 pounds you do another set with no
rest
minimal rest
and whatever number of reps you get you
reduce the load again 10 to 30 percent
and you go so you drop drop drop how
many drops that's up to you we'll talk
about what sort of limiting factors on
that are but it's you do heavier load
drop and then drop and then drop the
load gets lighter and the rest is
minimal super straightforward what are
the upsides
some muscles
in some people seem to respond really
well to higher reps and lots of
metabolite burn kind of like if you get
to burn a lot it's a really really great
response the muscle gets to burn a lot
um the muscle gets a huge pump in
association with High Reps in the burn
it gets soreness later and it seems to
grow well that entire time versus some
muscles they don't get a burn a lot or
if they get a burn it just kind of feels
like they're exhausted for the muscles
that respond best to High Reps and
metabolites
get the biggest Burns drop sets are
everything maybe not everything they
work really fucking well like if you
have biceps that accumulate a ton of
lactic acid someone's like Drop sets
you're like
I'm gonna hurt but it's really really
good and another great thing drop sets
save a lot of time
a benefit I didn't put on here but I do
want to mention is if you want to go
fucking ham and just like let your inner
level four sand your Super Saiyan 4 out
to play
but you don't want to get your ass
snapped in half by like doing a 5rm and
a squat drop sets especially when you
turn up the juice after the first drop
are a great way to just spill your
fucking guts out and really try hard
without really high injury risk because
you're fatigued already and the weight
is precipitously dropping like look if
you tear your bicep doing 40 pounds in
the cable hang on for you that shit was
just gonna happen but it's a great way
that if you really want to work if your
muscles are really responsive to
metabolites and a ton of the burn and if
you really want to just like emotionally
let the fucking demons go drop sets are
a great place great place for them Doom
people say like oh man I need a fucking
amped up for this heavy ass weight
uh-huh that's nice get amped up for a
drop set of leg press and all of a
sudden half the guy's talking they're
like
that's not for me yeah no shit because
it's fucking hard so
downsides because unfortunately drop
sets are not for All Occasions
if the exercise you're doing
doesn't check the four boxes of rest
times your cardio is still winning
Factor you're not feeling as strong your
synergist muscles aren't ready yet or
even the local muscle isn't ready yet as
soon as you go then downsets can be uh
sort of oh sorry that downsides the
downsides of drop sets is that they're
not very ideal so for example if you say
okay I'm going to do a drop set of bicep
curls can you do a set as soon as you
select you know 100 pounds you go to 90
it's your biceps limiting the movement
again as soon as you go down it's your
biceps it's your biceps being stimulated
that entire time because no other
systems are really getting in the way
sweet good choice what if you try drop
sets unlike the barbell Squad the first
how the fuck would that even work you
need like at least two other people to
drop the weight off for you it can be
done let's say you start squatting let's
say you're super big and strong you
start squatting with five plates you get
five plates for a set of ten they take
the weight off then the instruction is
to go as soon as possible it's like okay
you rack the weight they take it off you
you don't even move from the rack you
just sit stay there stand there remember
you just did a pretty close to maximal
set you can barely fucking stand now
you're gonna squat four plates from
sorry what like two reps
and then you rack it and instead of
squatting three plates you collapse and
start vomiting blood this is not gonna
work so you drop sets are almost always
ideal for smaller muscle groups more
isolated muscle groups and that way the
muscle group can be the manufacturer
instead of the rest of your system
second downside second uh way that these
maybe are not ideal for all
circumstances is if you do them on free
weights you can do them like you can run
the rack ladder raises 20s ladder raise
the 15s ladder raise the tens that works
if you have your own gym or if you're
there at off hours if it's a busy
commercial gym like Grandma's picking up
the 15s you're not just like hey Grandma
fuck out of my face I'm still using
these like it's kind of fucking rude a
lot of guys who do a lot of drop sets
with free weights
um you know get in the way of everyone a
lot uh and if you do it with a barbell
that's even kind of worse like you
bother other people less but what the
fuck you like upright row 65 pounds
put it down take the clips off
put take five off now it's 60 put the
clips back on and then go well gee whiz
that whole thing took you 45 seconds
that's not really a drop set anymore
that's just more like a down set with an
appropriate amount of rest it's not
checking the boxes that we want what you
might want to do better for those
situations it's like something like Maya
reps you do 65 for upright rows you rest
35 seconds you do 65 again except the
Reps drop drop sets are almost exactly
like my reps except instead of waiting
three or five seconds you wait close to
zero seconds you just reduce the load if
load reduction is difficult thing to do
pretty much that means drop sets aren't
going to happen at least efficiently at
least effectively what is the ideal
thing to use drop sets on cable
selectorized machines
if you can do this on a cable hamstring
curls leg extensions
some lap pull Downs uh you can totally
do this anytime it's just taking a pin
and putting it back in is the thing drop
sets are at least potentially a good
idea unless they're limited by some
other factors
last critique and sort of thing to be
wary of a drop sets is the question is
like how many drop sets do you do and is
there such a thing as too many there's
too many on two grounds one you could
just be doing so much volume that it
turns into junk volume like maybe it
just turns into too much like if you do
10 drop sets for bicep curls you train
your biceps so hard they're not going to
be healed for the next session it's
fucking stupid you can really get
carried away because like there's never
a time when you just stop you can just
keep making the weight lighter the
another big problem a lot of people will
stop way before that because it's
fucking hard another problem is if you
go light enough
the fraction of faster twitch fibers
that actually get hypertrophy almost at
all involved becomes so low because
they're so fatigued now and the weight
is so light they just don't turn on
to the first couple sets you're tired
like it really slows down and you feel
your muscles Contracting that's if
you're doing 70 you know 60 or 50 on the
curl when you're doing 40 30 20 the 20
you might be like ah and someone said
come on get it you're like
and it's like okay what the hell
happened how come you were able to like
multiply your speed by a factor of 10.
you're like oh it hurt but I just
started trying hold on a second if you
try harder you can go way faster how
close to failure really are you well it
turns out if you normally curl 100 for a
set of 15 and you've dropped your set
your weight of 20 pounds that's just a
matter of imposing pain on yourself your
muscles aren't anywhere close to their
maximum ability to contract so our rule
of thumb here is where you start the
drop set from
if you drop any further than about 50
percent of that initial load you're
probably doing fuck all so drop sets can
be taken too far I would say look if
you're going to do a drop set from 100
and you go 90 80 blah blah blah if you
go anywhere below like 50 or 60 those
sets after are mostly junk volume all of
the drop such should be hard and should
feel heavy it should be very difficult
to lift it up that if you're kind of
like oh this is painful but I can do it
really fast then the whole workout is
over you're doing too much strong volume
folks if you learn stuff
hey you're welcome if you want to learn
more stuff hit the Subscribe button see
us for other videos we've got all these
other modality videos up and more to
come see you then