is power building killing your Ys no
it's not in fact when you're power
building going a little bit heavier on
the squat bench deadlift and then doing
some hypert training after these lifts
you're likely getting about 80 to 90% of
your total potential gains in both size
and strength if you're someone who's not
competing you're not obsessed with
optimizing your hypertrophy or your
strength gains power building can be a
really fun approach a nice structure
when you start a session heavier and
then go lighter and do some quotequote
hypertrophy or pump work as long as you
train pretty hard train relatively heavy
at the start relatively L at the end of
the recession you'll see some pretty
solid gains so don't listen to the
influencers telling you you can make
gains while doing power building