I'm not a freaking nature and my
shoulders used to be way smaller but now
they're quite dominant I think that says
a lot considering I'm one of the few
Naturals on this platform who
significantly improved without doing lad
raises yet my dels can hang with the top
dots the issue with Al Destiny claiming
that his example really contributes to
the evidence that you don't need lateral
risers for really solid Soler growth is
that there's a lot of things that he
probably changed over the past few years
his trading back in the day had some
effective components like for example he
was getting a good stretch on most
exercises but there were a lot of
ineffective components as well moreover
when you're assessing whether or not his
shoulders have grown he's actually
always had a pretty good physique at
least for the past 5 years or so he's
definitely improved but whether or not
the Improvement is attributable to the
lack of Latter raises and focusing on
other movements instead is unclear then
there's also the issue of measurement he
is showing pictures from back in the day
versus now but those pictures do not
have the same lighting they don't have
the same posing hell they don't have the
same body fat percentage there are a lot
of confounders here in how he's even
assessing whether all R has gotten
bigger and to really determine whether
the lack of Latter raises and focus on
other movements made a difference but I
agree with Alex that he now has great
shoulders I can't deny that