[Applause]
you're serious about your goals and the
RP diet app is here to help it creates a
diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
world
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today
folks welcome back to the weekly webinar
dr. Mike and dr. James here got a little
off schedule this week but we still got
our webinar in real quick before we get
started I know you guys are anxious to
get going on these questions today we're
gonna do a short one today where we're
gonna answer
about half of the questions from the the
big list that we got and then we're
gonna do another webinar this week to
get the remainder of the questions we're
just a little bit short on time Mike was
traveling doing some aarfy stuff and
he's got a lot of places to be at the
moment so what we're gonna do today is
get through about half of them and then
we're gonna try and record another one
tomorrow and that'll be part two of the
weekly webinar for this week and so
hopefully we'll get all those questions
answered and a couple YouTube bonus ones
and we'll be good to go James are you
wearing a backpack no so I it's a
weighted vest I had been using the
weighted vest for a while now and I got
rien spired by James Krieger who posted
his yeah best review so I have been
using them for a cardio stuff for a
while now and the one I have I don't I
don't want to get it because it looks
like a bomb it looks like I'm wearing a
fucking like terrorist bomb man you know
what I mean
it's huge and so like when I walk around
the neighborhood like I there's a school
like a middle school right in the hall
dirtiest movie so I've been using it for
a while and I really like it and then I
read James thing and I was like god damn
there's there's something a little more
merit to this so I got a less oppress
this one just looks like it's this
product cool profile it's only about ten
pounds so I'm just gonna give it a go
and and see how I'm gonna try and wear
it throughout the day instead of just
cardio only and just kind of see how I
feel about it cuz I found his stuff to
be pretty compelling and I've had good
use with the vests in the past so I'm
going for very cool we'll see I'll give
updates maybe a week to week and how I'm
feeling super okay so folks normally I
try to do a good job of sharing between
this the questions and when Mike and I
are talking but today I'm just gonna
leave it up on the questions because
Mike's using this iPad so he's just
gonna read it right from the screen
share so just keep that in mind normally
I'd go back and forth but today we're
just doing the question screen alright
let's get into it let's do it
Martin cumaru says hey Doc thank you for
the great answers last time first of all
I wanted to say the James Beard suits
him well definitely oh oh
flattered thank you all right anyway to
the questions due to a multitude of
incompatible choices during my last
metabolite phase high rep squats was
reduced breathing functionality trim
last four EPS of any senator breathing
squats which won't horrible superset
super sending different dumbbell chest
variations before finding out that my
forms cannot handle a lot of fatigue so
every actress does become a form of
exercise biceps learning me on backs
etcetera led me to not using super sets
unless I was running out of time however
I recently got experimenting with them
to see which work for me this made me
wonder I put them into my last mezzo for
the exercises I have as a three and four
to introduce variation she generally
recommend using two percents in this way
super studying every exercise if it goes
well for the entire mezzo orgy often
only superset a few exercises I was
wondering if you could talk a bit in
general about how you use them in your
training I mean so she persists really
just Zonk you out so a lot of times we
use them as the second to last or last
exercise and also because super sets
cannot be done with everything and
there's some limits and they're only
really metabolite technique I would only
use them for a mess or two and also I
would only use them for a one or maybe
two
yeah really don't ever do more than one
superset of exercise per session per
muscle group and I don't do every
session with superset so maybe like if I
do six sessions a week four of them or
three of them will have super sets it
had only be one super set it'll be
towards the end of training that most
group for that session James yeah so I
mean for I basically never program super
sets unless there's a time constraint or
there's like metabolites stuff that
we're working on and in that case it's
an agonist superset if you're asking
about like antagonists are like
non-related
super sets I almost never program that
just because it comes at such a great
cost to whatever you're doing and like I
agree with what Mike said if I do use it
with somebody it's usually you know one
or two exercises towards the end of the
session that are more accessory type
movements not necessarily like prime
exercises for that day I mean you can
you think about it like what are you
gaining outside of just less time by
super setting like bench and and like
pull ups together you're just going to
make each one of those shittier as you
go so there's not a huge incentive
outside of just doing it for the sake of
time and at that point you're making a
very calculated trade-off which is fine
but it's a trade-off yep number two
since super setting exercises
introduced some variation do you have
any recommendations or what to do with
exercises where I can't like back
exercises high rep or super setting just
work my biceps I still want to introduce
some more variation but I can't use
super sets this would be with some
machines where I can't change the handle
as well so for back you actually can
superset which you can do is superset
dumbbell or machine pullovers or even
cable pullovers to pull downs or rows of
various sorts so I would give that a try
but you look if you can't do super sets
that are just not working don't do super
sets they're not magical you can do my
reps you can do regular sets there ain't
nothing wrong with a regular work set so
just remember that straight sets are
very good I remember some of the old
classic worldly wind claw
training videos he would actually do
like try sets for the big compound
movements he do like try sets of like
rows pull downs and like you know Hammer
Strength smegma whatever mement yeah I
always wondered I was like man it's got
to be just why not just do all the
really big but at a time right and get
some proper rest between them first yeah
number three is it common to have quote
unquote helper muscles that fatigue very
easily I've had some times after back
workout where my forearms are so
fatigued that I literally cannot curl
afterwards they hurt and cramp luckily
using straps will help with this very
good but it just seems crazy at 16 sets
of backs encrypt my forearms it's like
that for almost everyone I don't do a
ton of deadlifts and other grip
intensive exercises so it's mostly back
exercises that cause my foreign petit I
would directly train forearms bare arm
curls that will really help but yes dude
this thing is like almost not almost
every single pro bodybuilder uses not
even straps these versatile grips you're
even better than trap so get some versa
grips it's a thing your back is never
gonna be it's so funny I had a question
like that on Instagram and some guy
answered it which I really encourage
people to answer questions on Instagram
that they're asked of me but I love it
what other people ask for because when
they get it right I just
either like it or I say like boom or
he's got it but one guy was like it
doesn't make sense that your forum
should ever limit your back like their
muscles should they just get strong just
like your back and be paired with it
well like your back just gets stronger
than your forearms your forms are tiny
your back is enormous like
like saying like you know if I do a
squat to press shouldn't I be able to
press as much as I front squat
no nobody can front squat is that's
insane like so so it's it's an ear
Martin it's totally normal thing and
it's okay to you straps yeah I think
there's something to be said like if
your forms are so unconditioned that you
can't do like some like upright rows and
curls just at like when you're fresh but
after a back workout that's very common
I really wouldn't sweat it too much I
think I think if you try to do a set of
curls and your forearms are preventing
you from doing curls when you're
relatively fresh then I would say yeah
you just need to like just keep at it
for a little while get your forearms
conditioned to a point where you can do
some basic stuff and then after that you
can move on to straps and but it doesn't
seem to be the case here
yeah okay so once says number four how
do you determine meso length I've always
done 45 weeks starting at MeV and going
over MRV letting me think I could make a
six-month-long meso if I just had every
muscle group I was with and kept them
there and I could make a one week mezzo
by doing 30 sets for each muscle group I
know you should obviously increase sets
each week but how do you determine how
much it was easy for me before since
that's always had to increase steadily
from you know our view or four or five
weeks so the number is whether was going
H 12 or 12 24 had to fit within those 4
to 5 weeks actually wouldn't do it like
that but now that I want to find out my
own optimum as a length and had a loss
of what to do so what you do is use the
RP set progression algorithm which is
actually in a website now it's in the
hypertrophy guide in the sample guide
central how this up regression algorithm
basically says if you're healing on time
your performance is good ad and it shows
you how many sets to add as an examples
like 1 to 2 or 2 to 3 or add 0 cents you
just follow that and it basically Auto
regulates so essentially it's one of
those things what are you getting good
pumps and are you improving your up
strength and are you getting too sore
and if you check back whatever check box
whatever those boxes I'm shows you how
to do it
it basically wants you to keep getting
great pumps and every workout so make
sure you're healing on time and not
losing strength and if that's the case
you add sets right but if you're just
staying in mev you just programmatically
wouldn't add sets on purpose but that
doesn't really optimize hypertrophy and
that's they're a bit of a downside or if
you bum rush you actually like you know
30 sets for each muscle group once a
week then you actually exposures after
much
higher injury risk and you get a very
low quality amount of time your
accumulation 2d load ratio ends up being
like 1 to 1 which is awful the six month
long message accumulation dealer ratios
awesome the quality of accumulation is
dogshit for most people something like 4
to 8 weeks is where the best ratio
occurs or a good ratio but remember we
also talked about in last webinar that
the difference between a 4 to 1 and a 5
to 1 and a 6 to 1 accumulation to your
ratio might completely go out in the
wash
because when you train hard and get to a
new level by training a little bit
harder with a lower accumulation phase
length so super compensation probably
makes up for anything and remember you
don't lose anything on the D load except
you drop fatigue and you become
sensitized to get to training so shorter
accumulation to do to ratio actually
does those things better
so an average 40 weeks is totally fine
but what I would do is do the stuff
regression algorithm and Auto regulate
from there you're essentially trying to
get as long e like let's say you've got
great pumps from three sets in week one
you can do three sets again and get ok
pump screen you get four sets and get
great pumps again and then five and get
great pumps again and again and again
and then we hear more vud loads and
you'll find out that that's roughly
gonna be 48 weeks depending on which
muscle groups you're training yeah so I
agree with Mike on that and just to just
to be like really clear on something
that I think got overlooked on the
question so he says I could make a
six-month long mezzo if I just had every
muscle group at MeV and kept them there
what we're forgetting is that mev moves
up over time when you are repeating the
same stimuli right so if you said okay
my mev let's just make a very blanket
statement stick around three sets per
movement right obviously it's gonna be
different but that three sets might get
you the first one two maybe two maybe
even three weeks of some type of good
Renewable games yeah but at some point
that starts to get into that gray area
of between MeV and NV and eventually
just becomes envy so you're just doing
MV training at that point right because
the volume landmarks do tend to shift
around while you train so it's a good
thought like your thought process is
good but we forgot that those things
move around a little bit so eventually
you would be at MeV in between MeV and
MV and then you would eventually move
your way into NV that's why it's
important to keep going up over time yep
and your fort fundamentally stands like
you can stay at MIT even if you up
regulated
you could say they're maybe not six
months but let's say twelve weeks right
but then is that the best training well
it's actually the minimally effective
training you could have done Tom and
it's better to go and cycle get a little
bit hard a little bit harder you want to
basically stay as close to ma vie as you
can and the set progression algorithm
will get you there and then sorry one
last point we'll move on but one of the
problems that you run into with just
pursuing mev by itself is that
eventually it creeps up to the point
where mev is roughly at MRV right and so
now your minimum gains are basically the
top end of what you can tolerate and
you're going to have to do a pretty
substantial amount of resented ization
to get it back into a kind of a normal
training zone at that point which might
be more than the normal deal it might be
more of like an active rest type
situation yeah great point thank you
sorry all right as always
Antoine Radhakrishnan the villain hero
who knows maybe both maybe neither hey
docks hope you're both doing well
so just started a long fat loss diet
three four two one mezzos aside but
would refer to this is a twelve fifteen
week diet I don't know says I don't died
during deal week so I refer to as a
twelve week one but I feel like a lot of
people are called a 15 week one since
I'm not really taking a dive break
trying to deal it either oh sorry I'm
saying it's a it's a 14 weeks diet
because the last Micra cycle is you
really just off to buy it is 14 weeks
would be the most technically correct
but either way your virtual I think 15
is the next best thing
12 is more technical also not address
the length of the intended die and the
whole thing yeah and so most people
don't include the last dealer as a total
length I would say it's 14 right exactly
on planning to lose 10 Percy a say a
bubble breaker Angie lo que planning to
lose 10 percent of body weight
that's impressive so point me through
their lives per week okay sounds just
fine so I'm in the second week right now
which means that by the time you guys
get around to answering this will be my
third week okay my question mainly is
about figuring out when to make calorie
adjustments when you suspend suspect
that water is maxine fat loss during
previous cuts and mini cuts I've pretty
reliably noticed that I retain a lot of
water the side seems like no exception
so far on the first week or so I'll lose
the expect a few pounds from glycogen
and food low loss but as early as the
second or third week it'll look like my
weight has plateaued even
set up when I was should be a sizable
and appropriate deficit for my goals and
the past I usually wait this out for a
week or two and then make to expect a
calorie cut I'll use a few pounds
overnight and then end up either on
track for my gold or even ahead of
schedule this leaves me to suspect that
I may have been premature in cutting
those calories and if I just waited
things out I may have seen weight loss
as expected without having to eat less
food what do you guys think I think
during this particular diet there's
definitely a possibility that I'm not as
big of a deficit it should be since I'm
not super hungry or they could just mean
because I'm pushed my body weight up
pretty high in the proceeding mass yes
it can
on the other hand I'm seeing other
subjective indicators the fat loss is
happening look at a bit leaner but your
performance isn't as good as it was a
mess or a maintenance
I think I'm mostly inclined to wait
things out as far as adjustments until
the end of the Mezo if I do end up being
true to a schedule of that of two throws
I'd love to pick up the pace thanks as
always yeah I've been learning them more
and more that as you learn your body you
can delay the cutting adjustments pretty
well I would say arch based on reading
it I would give it two weeks and I'm
caught and you could always two weeks
it's not a big deal you can always catch
off James yeah I'm just kind of curious
like I know on Chism he's a very smart
guy but I think he's fair to say
relative kind of new to training or in
there kind of yeah yeah yeah so under
the beginners and at the beginner maybe
transitioning towards intermediate I
would say I'm just wondering what is the
necessity of like really um trying to
get to like that level of leanness where
you're you're having to make those type
of calculations you might not need to
yet outside of just doing it for fun and
for vanity and if that's the reason
that's totally great I would also say
like at this stage in your training age
it might not be worth pursuing that
level of leanness where you're really
starting to see like math that that
level of masking in the numbers for
intermediate advanced athletes
especially for people who are doing
physique contests like you're Steve
halls you're yawn freezes out there that
is a necessary challenge that you have
to overcome
I would only put it out there just like
you might not need to fuss over that you
might just go in the gym have good
training keep your diet on point for the
most part not worry about that and just
do your best
yeah I mean I appreciate the the
intellectual pursuit of that but at the
same time I kind of the press that was
like if it was my client I'd be like
dude what are you doing don't worry
about that
just keep yeah as a computer guy you
know he's got to be numbers oriented so
ya know I I appreciate that and to
I'm also like pressure what would James
do yeah drink a lot yeah well alright
trying to cut back a little bit Charles
Vickers says thanks to you two and dr.
Dimas for answering my question last
week it was very helpful another
question came to me while I was watching
the webinar where did James and Mel get
that pimp knife block guys let's see if
I can use my hand to I can't there we go
oh there we go it's like a Spartan guy
and the knives are going into a shield
I got an Amazon there's a couple
different ones but I just found it on
Amazon and the the guy who makes those
like puts these little kooky notes in
the box you can tell he's just like an
old hippie who has way too much time on
his hand and just gets high and does
we're working awesome yeah I really
liked it it's that's how I see tombs
becoming one day right like once he
retires he's just like I'm gonna just
keep doing shop stuff and sell my cool
my cool stuff Etsy which we bought his
coasters
they were really great peeped awesome
I'm sorry
yo gents excited to get some insight
number one brachialis specialization in
my case I'll find my arms look smallest
from the front when my thumbs are
pointing forward a bigger brachialis
would help thicken / widen this view and
brachialis development looks sick from
the side any tips or exercises the
favorite are eating the brachialis zero
never looked into it have no idea James
sorry Pete no here's the thing Pete is
even if we did like take the a little
bit of time to figure out like which
movements might hit that area a little
bit better what's very likely going to
happen is the trade-off in terms of like
total muscle mass that you're hitting
from using like a selective exercise
versus just doing something like a
barbell curl
it's probably like a net slower progress
in the long term to developing bicep
thickness that would be my opinion Mike
I'd love to hear what you think on that
so like yeah I'm trying to do like
spider curls or something right like
yeah you're definitely hitting that
region but like you're hitting such a
small percentage of that total bicep
mass relative to like doing something
like even just like an alternating
dumbbell curl or a barbell core easy
curl you might just be better off
hitting like a a bigger more just mag
bigger magnitude stimulus type exercise
yeah
agree but Pete there's people out there
those folks out there that could
probably help you with some biomechanics
reasoning I just don't think it's chimps
and I sorry I said spider curls I meant
the one where you go across your body
you know what I'm talking about yeah
yeah I forgot what let's find out what
those are all right I have to scroll
number two yeah sorry
Nina's volume for a specific portion of
a muscle say I build my upper pecs with
lots of incline work and then get
shoulder issues they're only allowed a
flat press will all my flat pressing be
enough to maintain upper pecs I built
apps almost certainly almost only
generally training a muscle two for each
motion maintains oh for almost certainly
the entire thing another tablet just the
flat movements hit like a huge swath of
the chest as it is yes not like it's not
like it only hits the middle it hits all
of it it's like yeah working another
example I build a fake erector seemingly
from deadlifts wood barbell rows and
non-supported t-bar rows be enough to
maintain that so I haven't done Delos in
years because of injury concerns and I
built my rector's doing deadlift and I'd
bent over row since then tomorrow's etc
and I've actually gotten even bigger
directors so absolutely yes yeah I tend
to agree with that I think there you
know if you're somebody who's pulling
like eight hundred four five maybe not
but if you're kind of like a normal
person then I think that's probably fine
number three jaw hypertrophy what would
you do if your client was an actress
slash model who wanted to hypertrophy
their jaws slash masseter oh my god
facial shape
did you thinking around like maybe five
months ago that thing you put your mouth
and you chew it yeah for this exact
purpose yeah like if you look want to
look ridiculous sure I would just put
them on a whole lot of Anna drawl get
them on the cocktail get that Jay Cutler
cocktail going on oh what a Catholic I
yes ja groove so god dammit yeah so
that's a good start but other than I've
never really given any thought I don't
know man I've never literally I could
tell you like yeah hypothetically you
could do some fringe of motion
weighted chewing but he was on taffy
apples yeah using them shits and not had
your face exactly you like get pissed
you're like this is delicious I want to
eat more but I can't thread it's I hurt
yeah that would be my recommended
it's a good way to mask to lots of taffy
apples number four stimulant cycling
totally hypothetical kind of random but
as their emeritus economic stimulus to
keep from going to tolerance say like
two weeks of caffeine two weeks to
defender and two weeks of climb two
weeks of cocaine JK lol repeat thoughts
yeah there is a lot of times you ought
to keep the same substances and for
longer and not switch substances a lot
but generally speaking you can ramp and
decrease substances we have a good
example in the RP diet book about how to
cycle caffeine intake and bring a lot
about that I've done a lot of videos
about that so there's a lot to do there
like you know you start with sort of
like some green tea and you get into
black coffee and then you get into
monsters and then you know to
pre-workout so yeah so I think it's it's
kind of a funny question because I I
think there's a lot to say about cycling
dosage of something that you're already
using I'm not entirely sure about
cycling the actual item might be you so
there you're still there okay sorry oh
there no you can go away if you want I
just want to make sure I didn't lose you
yeah I don't know if there's any merit
to actually switching off of which
outside of health reasons like maybe
maybe you don't want to be using Klan or
cocaine for extended periods of time but
I'm not really sure on that one do you
have any thoughts on that Mike yeah no
that close so Klan definitely has like a
very fast annotation window so you want
to do some of that and there's other
federal stuff it's a thing but I would
look to a team evil GSB broader a Chavez
can help you out with stuff like that he
knows much more than oh I wish we could
use a Federer again that was great
apparently you're a big fan mm-hmm MRV
for kegels bitch is a ho you know what
I'm trying to get MRV with the kegel
exercise yeah you know just I guess
don't over over bang yeah I have no idea
there you know what and we were we were
just making like slut-shaming jokes but
we didn't really mean it but there are
people who do that type of exercise for
like pelvic floor rehabilitation yeah
like having children and stuff like that
so it's it's definitely a thing you
could consider I know we're just being
it's like more of a cheeky question but
um I don't know it's exists it exists
yeah yeah for sure
all right Connor Gann dawn hello Mike
and James I followed your advice for my
many sessions and I've been able to get
more volume for cider so screwed us
biceps than ever and he seemed to be
working so thanks for that some
questions this week are awesome yeah
it's really good
number one do you find any value in the
10 to 20 retina neck press for delts
I've done them in the past superset with
laterals and they always get a really
good pump from them because he actually
does how he's got a really bad rap oh
but the echo has got a really bad rap
just looking for some variation other
than laterals and I'll buy rows for my
side delts my quest to get cell saga TN
level delts yeah he's price o so TN was
so jacked he was super jacked that third
I surely didn't hurt the process um man
I tell you what I think that if they're
fine for your joints Douma if the
sinister fatigue ratio makes sense
you're getting good pumps good my muscle
connection good disruption to the muscle
and you're not getting any fatigue
issues joint wear and tear so on and so
forth they're cold and if you feeling on
the right muscle especially I can't do
them because they'd beat the fuck out of
my shoulder joints in a bad way but if
you like them you like them yeah I think
that that particular exercise that 10 to
20 range is kind of the key factor
because the 5 to 10 it's so unstable and
so much wear and tear it's just a really
really bad trade-off in terms of SFR I
think done at 10 to 20 it's light enough
where it's you can control it very well
you can maintain the range of motion and
you can always bail if something goes
wrong very easily so I think it's ok
I've just I think Mike and I
collectively have just gotten away from
overhead pressing programming for people
who want to do more physique related
stuff just because it's generally seems
to be a bad trade off of either systemic
fatigue or just like shoulder wear and
tear or combination of both so I think
we've gotten away from that but I think
it's fine if it were if it the numbers
fit go for it yeah number 2 I'm
currently massing for 2 more months
um so my baby comes at the end of the
March um like to quote 50 cent I forgot
what the line is but he is basically
gonna write a check for a million
dollars to a girl claimed to have his
baby because he's so rich he doesn't
even care I'll write the check before
the baby come
fuck cares I'm stinky rich I'm a dad
trying to spend the shit
Southside up in this bitch you know he's
quite a benefit yeah it's just like it's
something you can't get rid of I would
love to trade that knowledge actual
knowledge then I plan on doing and then
he later declare bankruptcy guess he's
not that stinky rich then I plan on
doing mein ins face since I probably
won't be able to properly overload
because of stress when I go sleep my
question is at what point should I add
maintenance I plan to do some proper
cutting phase after I was thinking
whenever my sleep schedule gets somewhat
under control is there any other input I
should consider
I think sleep under control is great and
also do you have the time to train as
much as you would like for a coming
phase and if those two things are
checked you can get your meals and you
get your sleep and get some time to
Train then you're good to go yeah I'm
gonna just put this out there since some
of our friends have had babies in the
fairly recently I don't think that
you're gonna have the resources to run a
proper cut or mass phase within like the
first year - after that baby comes out
let's let's be more like you now you
might and if you have like if you are in
a position in life where you can have
family helping out or you have nannies
or daycare services or something and
then you might and that's that that'd be
awesome but from what I've seen with a
lot of my friends and family that first
year or two is just a shit show so I
would say it's probably gonna be
maintenance that maintenance training
for a while I would say plan for that
and if you find yourself in a position
where you can even better awesome great
but plan for maintenance
number three isn't such a thing as a
really adaptable tabal ism I noticed my
first mini cut that I had a great fat
loss in the first two weeks and then it
stalled pretty hard I was you know 17 18
our cows when my normal maintenance is
2,400 2,500 and we ran into this issue
when cutting at a slower pace if so is
there anything you do to accommodate
this I don't think that's your
metabolism I think it's probably water
weight stuff which tends to happen when
you cut really really quickly that would
be my first guess so I would just keep
cutting it a mini cut pace and not
really have to cut down super deep and
when you finish cutting and start
massing again the water weight
fluctuation is going to be big and right
oh wow I didn't actually I lost a lot
more weight than I thought I was gonna
yeah I agree
all right Harrison Kaplan Harrison Catan
Catan hello doctors Mike and James I'm a
recent subscriber dr. plus and I've
really been enjoying the webinar so far
for the content RFP plus where's a good
place to start my interest is in
powerlifting weightlifting and less so
and bodybuilding I'm an you just gotta
search through those videos there's like
a zillion of them good luck yeah there's
I mean I honestly I don't even know
where to start I guess it depends on
kind of there are some courses that are
geared for people who need more basics
like if you don't really have any
exercise science background or you have
maybe you only have a lot of biology or
chemistry there are stuff a couple easy
ones to start with where that's it's
under the beginner courses but after
that just kind of just sift around it to
find what you like yep this next
question is more for dr. James I've been
reading integrated periodization or
integrative paralyzation of strength
training and athletic development if
it's that an ad if piston ad beast the D
you will never become a nothing and I
have realized that I skip the stage of
anatomical adaptation page 130 forum
that is training 30 to 40 percent of one
around and building up to 60 70 percent
of one hour I'm over two to three years
for the specific purpose of building 10
and a linguist strength what sort of
training sorry real quick so the tutor
bump is really big on this and I don't
wanna I don't wanna say that we don't
see eye to eye because we do but just
the phrasing there's something that we
didn't totally agree on so his
anatomical adaptation is basically a
two-phase thing which is like developing
the basic work capacity for like
functional training and then part two is
like what we would call hypertrophy or
work capacity training so it's kind of
both of those things just so everyone's
clear what that means and that's when
people pretty young in the spore right
or even children uh or just people going
from like zero to sport training right
even if you're an adult it's basically
you just need to develop a tolerance to
loading first of all that's what that
thirty to forty percent of one RM phase
is and then the sixty to seventy is more
like what we would see a normal body
building or a worker right um when I
started weight training age 13 I had no
coach I was also homeschooled and had no
formal instruction from a PE teacher
I promise you miss nothing
you know what fuck I ever learned in PE
and my family is all untrained I knew
nothing else that max out for apps every
session from age 13 I mean everyone did
that from age 13 and 15 yeah myself
written programs just do a set of 12 at
60% 8r m in RM is correct I mean a try
max a set of 10 at 80% in RM and then a
rep max going 4-h is pretty intelligent
program actually what magic I just went
to feeling everything a rep max going
for 8 which if I got I would move up in
weight the following week lastly I'd
repeat my first set of 12 at 60% at 8 RM
I'd do this fall 3 4 all exercises 3
days a week and I'm 22 but 16 if I'm
powerlifting of over time improve my
training thanks mostly to RP and Jes
content between the scientific
principles train training and writing my
own program off of that and the
juggernut AI program I've made
significant progress and put 287 pounds
of I told him the past two years one
olie schnikeys however i regularly have
small knee ligaments and tendons
injuries or tweaks two to three a year
but caused me to have to back off of
hard training and severely get in my
head when squatting and sometimes
pulling after us APL rod nationals in
october this year i would like to
dedicate two three month period of time
to an atomic elaboration before my next
quad for your cycle what are your
recommendations for lower body exercise
two three months long enough for too
long I would have to go all the would I
have to go all the way down to 30
percent of one around isn't even real
listen for someone my age again I'm 22
so that that initial start of the
anatomical adaptation stage is something
that you can largely glaze over because
you are already well trained at this
point and by training age you might even
be intermediate right so that 30 to 40
percent is more towards people who are
coming back from extended periods off
like if you took like a month off
because you were on holiday something
like that or you're relatively new to
training you are not so you can largely
skip that the knee stuff is kind of
interesting but that kind of comes with
the territory and powerlifting like it's
it's one of those like if you say I'm a
power lifter and I have some knee pain
like two or three times a year
everyone's gonna look at you like and
yes do you have something right right so
that's
not to say that you're supposed to be in
pain all the time but it just it's like
it's like getting bruised in rugby like
you're gonna get bruises from time to
time why cuz somebody tackled you so I
think you can kind of skip that phase
and really the what's gonna be really
important for you is finding that golden
zone of hypertrophy training for
powerlifting where you're finding
movements that are really good high SFR
you can use a lot of weight but not so
much weight that you're always crippling
your with your joints all the time I
think that's probably going to be more
important for you
the problem with powerlifting is that
you really can't be going below loading
zones or you know of 10 reps I mean if
what I mean by that is um you shouldn't
be using weights that are so light that
you can do more than ten reps
consistently that's going to be
generally the cutoff point in terms of
the force velocity trade-offs that are
acceptable with them as specificity of
powerlifting so at that point you might
just have to be playing with some of
your exercise variance and finding ones
that just aren't so brutal on the joints
and Mike as coined the term SFR which
also includes this issue of like joint
pain and so that would be my first
recommendation on that is you're going
to still be doing you know sets of eight
to ten for hypertrophy but you're gonna
be trying to find ones that get a really
good stimulus on the quads and then of
the hips and then don't blow up your
knees quite as much yep
for both of you in a piste and AD they
say on page 136 I'm a danger prevention
high school athlete not participate in
competitions and weightlifting
powerlifting use heavy loads such as
over 80% of 1rm or athletes achieve
skeletal maturation often after the age
of 18 to 20 years is this accurate
how does youth or sub-junior
powerlifting weightlifting sit in with
us I don't totally agree with that point
I think the really the notion was like
that the spirit of that notion is like
don't have you're young relatively
undeveloped athletes maxing out all the
time and competition is like the
opportunity for you to really max out
the idea being there and I think I think
Mike will mostly agree with this it's
like our young athletes can do strength
training but they should be spending
quite a bit of time doing hypertrophy
training building up the muscle mass
that's gonna make you successful in the
sport of powerlifting and then
eventually you're gonna find yourself
trying to figure out which weight class
you should fall into based on how strong
and how muscular and how fat you
are all those things the the spirit of
that recommendation is there's no real
incentive for having like your middle
school athletes doing sets of one and
that includes competition it's just too
much risk not enough reward what they
could be doing sets of five to ten even
just like on the lure and like five
getting huge strength gains getting huge
muscle mass gains and risking very very
little agreed absolutely green for sleep
on weekdays I get seven and a half hours
a night however on the weekend I
currently try to sleep 10 plus hours is
it better to sleep eight hours every day
that we can be consistent or get the
extra on the weekend I think the
consistency Trump's the positivity James
totally agree lastly is a suggestion for
the RPG I know we're not taking
suggestions I'm just kidding I've been
using since january of nineteen as a
long time ago key yet badges which you
can earn for say ten meals roughly at
backers in a row or for every pound you
lose get a badge I'm kind of thinking it
would work like the badges in halo and
sweet summer for big things but also
some for simple things but he just would
kept motivation high and and allow
something for somebody that you get to
set intent toward would be absolutely uh
yeah really really good idea so it's
hard because Mike and I typically don't
get into that kind of stuff and so we
would I think at least for me my first
inclination would be like nah but then
like a lot of people do find that to be
really useful so we have to outsource
you know some help from other people who
would be like no no we need to do this
you need to incorporate right it's worth
it yep alright hi doctors Mike in G oh
sorry who same person so I'm looking
forward to college for a master's degree
and potentially a PhD in something
sports-related a long-term goal would be
a very skilled personal trainer and to
teach the type of stuff you guys all
teach me in a college setting or
something some other modality I also
would want tap focus towards youth ages
13 to 18 my parole officer says I'm not
allowed to be around children but
hopefully the appeal always my love is
paola finger weightlifting graduated at
16 from high school the ship using me
mom he graduated or does he mean yeah
left finished homeschool oh he left
either I was done with that shit I'm
graduated
bachelor's in science and IT when I was
nineteen five and I'm about to finish my
final year Bible College where I've
studied children's and youth ministry
easy trying to get I'm pliant I'm
planning on taking a year off and then
going back to school in the fall of 2021
at the time I start college I had no
idea when that training and coaching
would be a such a passion of mine I'm
willing to move anywhere in the US where
the best places to go right now
I was looking ETSU seeing as that's
where both of you went through PCC
specifically the Sports Science and
coaching education master's degree also
there is there a good resource for
explaining what sports related degrees
are out there and what they cover them
like what's the difference between
sports science actually Science in
kinesiology for example yeah there's
some good resource for that
ETSU I don't know I can't say much but
without violating some politically
incorrect opinions it's probably good
program I don't know if there's maybe
some changes working on idea what I
would say is look up researchers that
published the kind of papers you want to
be involved in the kind of science you
think is awesome find out where they are
take 25 or 30 of your favorite
researchers that have published papers
at institutions finds if those
institutions are masters program if
those people have published it or on the
papers at all are taking students if
there are labs or taking students you'll
get maybe 10 or 15 schools then look it
through the schools and apply to all of
them and once you get into a bunch of
the schools visit them talk to the
professor's think about which one is the
best option and go from there yeah and
so I think that's really good
recommendation um my take on this right
now is there's two schools in Florida
and I honestly don't remember which two
I think one it's like maybe University
of Florida maybe one so University of
Miami or or Florida at Miami if there's
two really good exercise science
programs out that way right now that I
can at least off top my head say like
those are pretty solid I think Ryan went
to one of them one of our colleagues dr.
Alexander I should say those are two
really good options I think if you're
there's not really a lot of sport
related degrees what you're going to
find is mostly kinesiology as a blanket
term to incorporate a lot of things and
then what you'll see a lot in a more
specific sense is like exercise science
right you'll see plenty of Masters Pro
and exercise science and with in
exercise science there's all sorts of
things like exercise physiology
biomechanics motor learning you know all
sorts of crazy stuff there are very few
like truly sport related degree programs
because in sport science we make a very
distinct divergence from exercise
science where exercise science looks at
all forms of exercise and looks at kind
of different outcomes in the
physiological sense in the performance
sense in sport science we're really only
interested in what are things that
contribute towards success or preventing
failure in sport that's it we don't
really care as much about like health
promotion or the merit of using this
exercise versus that exercise our focus
is like okay we have an athlete we want
to make them at the collegiate from the
collegiate level take them into the
professional level to the world
championship level that's all we care
about so it's a very it seems like it
would be really popular but it ends up
being a very niche field where it's like
exercise science there's tons of degree
programs out there most of which are
excellent and there's different little
niches within exercise science which you
can pursue like physiology biomechanics
etc so lots of options there I would
look mostly in the realm with Exercise
Science to get yourself warmed up and
then branch out from there once you kind
of know more about what you want to do
boom
Jason Koshi says thanks for the tips on
jumping last week context goal is to
dunk once and then move on
oh he called it all right yes that's
what I was wondering that's awesome all
right question number one I'll be
finishing up weight loss / hypertrophy
within 4 or 5 weeks when I chose this
industry block would one macro cycle be
sufficient working with a 5 to 6 or
range 4 to 5 weeks that would be a
mesocyclone or is it necessary to add a
second block at 3 to 4 reps so second
mesocycle when I transition to a
strength block would one medical be
sufficient because it depends on for
what for power going into a power block
after yeah my inclination is to spend
two mesocycles in a strength block if
you want to get real serious James I
agree and I think the what you're
suggesting like um I would maybe expand
those out a little bit so he's sending
one macrocycle be sufficient within the
five to six you don't make that like
four to eight and then make the latter
one like 1 to 5 and then
you're good to go at that point yeah all
right
then after strengths will shift to a
strength power block okay that's a
mesocycle not block well I guess could
be a block if it's more than one who's
over there way yeah in this block I'll
do some sort of speed squat or hex bar
jump sounds fine but there's actually an
interesting one I don't know if you saw
so much dr. suka metal stuff on that but
it's actually they've used that as an
comparative to the mid thigh pole
position and now it's very comfortable
that's basically the same movement
question two the focus would be on
becoming more explosive so for the
weekly progression would it make sense
to go lift heavy percent to light
percent or a light percent to heavy
percent so for the weekly progression
what you want to do is increase you
probably want to have two types of days
and you may have several more high force
session and a high velocity session and
you want to progress the load on the
heavy high force one and the velocity
when ideally you progress velocity but
you probably just want to go for peak
velocity and increase the load a little
bit every week just to keep the peak
velocity roughly the same James yeah and
so the trouble that you run into it and
I agree with Mike the trouble that you
run into with that model is that you
have to emphasize the preparedness of
your power and velocity sessions whereas
the normal tendency would be like okay I
got heavy squats let's do those Monday
when I'm really fresh right normally
that's a good idea in this case you
since you're the the goal of the block
is gonna be that power or that
explosiveness you're gonna move those
training sessions to the days when you
can have the most elevated preparedness
so that's probably going to be like your
a session during the week is your power
session and the thing is if you do a
strength session before that it can
absolutely run interference on a
subsequent power session if you want to
power session and then later it like on
Wednesday you have a strength session
it's very unlikely that that power
session is going to interfere with that
strength session strength will hold out
a little bit longer in terms of fatigue
power will not so you want your power
ones to be when you are the most fresh
and most prepared and the strength based
ones to be when you're slightly slightly
more fatigued but again the power
sessions are not likely to wipe you out
on the string sessions whereas the
reverse is true awesome question three
for the strength power block what range
would you recommend I'm thinking between
thirty and fifty percent from a strength
component I would go from 75 to 85
percent or 75 to 90 percent 1rm and for
the speed component I would go well gee
you know it depends on how you're
calculating it's your whole percent of
one arm of a load lifted is around
thirty percent for peak power but a lot
of times that's body weight because you
have to include your body mass into it
James can you expand out a little bit
yeah it's also exercise dependent so
what we find is that peak power outputs
usually achieved anywhere between like
30 and 70 percent of your your max force
output so it depends on the exercise
usually for like jumping it's actually
going to jumping and sprinting typically
you don't want to load a whole lot more
than like 10 percent of your body weight
believe it or not because that's where
you tend to see the better transfer of
training effects what we see is once you
start going kind of above 10 more
consistently into like the 20s 30
percent you just get really good at way
to jumping and it doesn't seem to
translate as well into unweighted
jumping whereas that closer margin
that's near your body weight in terms of
sprinting and jumping seems to have
better transfer of training effects and
usually around 10 percent is where the
mechanics and the movement speed are not
altered so significantly that it's
falling outside of the specification so
here's a classic one is one that we
resisted sprinting if you give somebody
a sled toe exercise and you put 20
percent of their body weight on their
their sprint mechanics changed so
significantly its detectable by math in
in research you can find this and
actually so immediately you're doing a
different movement right you're not
training the same movement anymore so
that's the problem so I would try to
keep the the load on the power
emphasized ones relatively low if you're
doing something like a jump if you're
doing something like a power clean now
you could obviously load it up a lot
more like 7080 percent something like
that I think the relative scaling is
it's more useful here the 1 are the 1 RM
and max effort scaling can be kind of
confusing so on your strength days I
would say like you know you could use
like 90 percent of your best 5 is a good
way of kind of doing that or something
instead of trying to always use one
around because I don't know I just find
that it falls short I like the relative
scaling so
just means like scaled to whatever it is
that you're actually doing if you do
yeah I have five reps five sets of five
reps or something like that yeah
what am I so far off its it was this
predictive validity after a while yeah
about that much right yes so I would do
that but yeah don't um just don't don't
load up so the one thing like okay this
is I'll get off this I know we gotta
move on but one thing that drives me
fucking bonkers is when you see people
doing jump squats with like 225 like
yeah unless you weigh like a million
pounds that's not doing anything for you
it's just blowing your knees up and it's
not actually increasing your ability to
move all that explosively in unweighted
conditions it's just making you really
good at doing that so yeah ends up being
fuckery like Mike said question 3e oh
sorry question four are there any are
there any other specific exercises you
would recommend here outside of plyos or
any other strategy recommendation or
transition effectively from strengths to
power / speed so the jump training is
really good like you can include things
like box jumps or plyometric jumps depth
jumps things like that sprinting is also
a good thing to add in though if you
haven't sprinted for a long time I would
be very very cautious and you would want
to actually start incrementally prior to
this face like even in your hypertrophy
phases start incorporating some very
very rudimentary sprint mechanics
getting here because if you just go from
no sprinting to sprinting it's like
guaranteed hamstring tear it's gonna and
yep so don't do that but if your body is
accustomed to running and even to
sprinting to some degree sprinting is
one of those just magical exercises that
we can't quite figure out that it seems
to improve all athletic endeavors
it just it's magic it's one of those we
just don't really have a good
explanation if you give somebody
Sprint's they tend to do better in sport
in general I don't know go figure
but it does tend to be a good one so
that could be another exercise you could
do like as one of your B sessions on
power during the week you have like your
a is kind of like a jump and then maybe
a squat or a squat jump or something
like that and then your B on that power
session might be a sprint and a depth
jump or something like that just don't
go crazy on the volume keep the volumes
relatively low you want to maintain high
levels of preparedness that Ohio metric
exercises are super fatiguing even
though they don't feel like they are so
you're going to keep the reps relatively
low in check just keep mindful on your
strength training if you
start to get any aches pain stuff like
that just be smart don't tough through
it the thing with the power training is
like once you get a ding on the exercise
like in terms of pain or aches where
you're like ooh it's not feeling so good
your chance of injury is just like
through the roof because the intensity
is so high you're met you're making
maximal effort movements in terms of
force or indoor speed if you if you're
hurtin let it go do something else very
very good advice also thank you for the
tip regarding the spiking preparedness
no weights are basically saying like hey
don't lift for a week or two and you'll
get really really good at sprinting and
jumping because of the Tegel drop I'll
actually implement this in the final
block to peak they're good question 5 I
was reading Harrison's question and
notice the reference integrative peer is
a strength training for development
could you provide an overview of this
and specifically how pragmatic it is is
it any more granularly rp+ lecture
series yes it is more granular James
Hoffman is a co-author on that book and
I would read it if you want to get
really in-depth wait well I'm sorry I
don't think I understood the question
it's he wants us to give an overview of
the book which is the book has just like
if you look at the back of the book it's
got an overview right there it's
designed to teach you how Spears Asian
for poor sports occurs on a just grand
scheme and it's very very highly
in-depth and super recommended yeah so
like the one-minute version of that is
we look at the training the nutrition
the psychological preparation and the
recovery strategies and how do we kind
of make our annual plan incorporate all
those things in a phase a clinic that's
the idea okay question six
I'm running a 12-week cut we're thinking
to end it around ten weeks so the tenth
week will be a deal a week any issues
with me my lower calories key
considerations are obviously muscle loss
but also transition to strength block
any maintaining al or a tenth week will
be a D load week what's the other two
weeks just transition they get a run in
child care cup of thinking to end it
around ten weeks the tenth week will be
a deal a week I would end it at nine so
the temple he can be a that's what my
answer is yeah I think that's a good
suggestion yeah metal Paul says pay Docs
on sickness well are you down with it
the Yaffe dad book doesn't seem to have
any advice on the matter it sure doesn't
number one do you have any guidelines on
how your sick yes each plenty of protein
drink plenty of fluids each to your
hunger if you eat want any more eat more
if you don't don't and eat well eat nice
healthy foods but also treat yourself a
little bit done when you're not sick are
you good to go now try to get like our
clients when they report that they're
sick they'll say I didn't eat much
yesterday because I'm feeling sick like
we try and say you know like if you can
get the protein down and it's not too
much of a burden try and do that even if
you just have to have like some shakes
throughout the day and the shakes kind
of a nice because it's got the protein
and fluids and you know a bunch of other
crap in there so that's not a bad option
the problem is is we have like three
shakes and what a problem almost
guaranteed to have diarrhea so but those
are that's always a good priority
protein yep he says uh when sick during
a mass and you can't eat anything during
those days how should you eat once you
are better don't change anything at all
just get make into it or does it
compensate those much calories nice
today's evening even higher surplus some
thing is there's no compensating because
if you compensate your your muscle
protein synthesis isn't gonna go any
higher than it already is so don't cheat
anything at all just get back into it
but be a little lighter and after a
while that may be totally fine so
literally just that's the thing is like
I used to just kind of stop all the time
and sometimes still do this I don't want
to call it overthinking but that sure is
trying to over prepare for something
that is an auto correcting problem being
like oh I'm just gonna fix this by doing
this other thing now like just get back
onto it totally agree
um hope we get an additional question
can you so he had just he just kind of
come into the okay last one but he had
some more questions I was wondering if
you guys have some general guidelines on
training in sickness I recently got sick
halfway through a mezzo and it astounds
me how little
proper information there's no subject or
on unplanned canceling days or MS oh I
hope there's a chapter on the subject in
the upcoming book uh there are
definitely some where people lots of
videos about it so the advance
separatory videos i've been putting out
have a chapter on d loading and stuff or
fatigue management for being sick first
of all where are you to such a train
usually yeah internet shizzle says if
it's above the neck it's okay to train
yep correct fits blow the neck you're
not trained correct when will you say
you aren't for train if you have Central
symptoms systemic sometimes especially
fever etc
don't train or don't train very hard and
if you are sick but it's like a cold or
whatever I would just recommend some
recovery sessions that would be my best
bet and then it says if someone does get
sick and cannot train let's say at the
start of week five to one meh so they
lose at least half the week of training
with the last part of the weeks they'll
probably subpar so they basically lost
the whole week for and still have five
week week five ahead of them and then a
D load would you be better off sticking
to the plan and completing the five to
one measure or would it be better to cut
it short make it a three to one and
start fresh from a 5:1 next week would
you actually a couple things I would
just redo week four and then do being
five and then do week one that's why
your best bet but if you really got off
track when you were sick I would restart
and I'm sure anyone James yeah I think
restarting at different points along the
mesocycle is always a good idea so if
you're only out of commission for a
couple days you can just you know
restart the week wherever you left off
right if you are gone for like a week
and it was like a week for like a week
five peak week type situation you're
better off either starting a new or
maybe just backtracking to like week two
and then building back up again the
worst thing you can do is have them be
sick and have like a week off and then
go immediately back into that peak week
that is I've made that mistake with some
of my clients oh yeah mister it's better
you're better off just backtracking them
a little bit even till like weeks two or
three and say okay let's just get this
kind of more moderate week under our
belt and then we can try and do peak
week or if they were like if they got
the flu and they were just out of
commission D load move on and start
start a nice clean fresh one yeah great
great insight number three if you choose
the three two one you've been sick half
of your G load how does it affect the D
little bit more like a three 2.5 um if
you're sick half to D load just see how
the other half goes and then reassess
like if at the end of a deal owed half
of it sick half of it not you feel great
then go ahead and start them in another
mess if you're like man I really don't
feel very D loaded I felt like I mostly
just retired from being sick then do
another half week you know relatively
easy stuff and then the next week do
half a week of training and then full
week of training so on and so on
yes I'm just reading ahead a little bit
let's let's finish mental Paul today and
then maybe we'll cut it off
and I'm gonna time okay number four how
does being sick during a deal week work
with recent cessation do you get the
full recent association effect I suppose
does he have a train yeah most of it but
you don't get a lot of the fatigue
dropping that you wanted so
resuscitation US occur but the fatigue
doesn't all go away so it's not ideal at
all and so the fatigue is gonna be a
bigger confounder in that point then the
recent citiz asian that you get like if
you're just so fatigued from being sick
there's no there's no point in trying to
do a new a new mezzo so just yeah what
time is probably the better option
number five with the less than optimal
due to sickness the DLO to be okay
accumulation was only three weeks i'm
training did not reach two or one rir so
it's planning five equation we theories
probably two are I think since that's
accumulated fatigue it's quite a bit
less than plans since the less than
optimal deal would be okay yeah like
again it's up to how you feel at the end
of that whole G load but generally
speaking I would say it's probably gonna
be fine yeah I think that's fine too
number six when is it okay to train
again right after you feel better or
wait a few more days just to be safe I
almost always waited for you more days
just to be safe to it honestly there's
actually a better answer than that ramp
you're training right after you feel
better go in and have like a D load part
one type of training where you do some
have your weights but very few sets for
our IR C I feel do another one those day
see how you feel and after like two or
three of those days and then another
rest day you'll feel fucking amazing and
then start going back to three our
normal volume squabble over LA so
ramping is better than just being like
no train no train no train no train and
then train fall out I totally agree and
it's the same thing we recommend for
people when they're injured right like
once your knee starts feeling better do
you just go start training hard on it
right no you wait a couple of mesocycles
and then go back to training at
Hartigan's yeah yep and then you don't
just wait and do nothing you slowly
ramped the training from easier - harder
- harder - harder and that eventually
you cross that threshold of like what's
normally hard and you're good to go
don't just jump back in okay folks so it
looks like we're gonna call it a day for
today but we're gonna look at my my I
should just do all the podcasts like
this so nobody knows what I look like
and there's like children pictures above
you like oh yeah I'm in Nick Shaw's
house
I'm visiting mr. Sean there's this
pictures of his children everywhere okay
well note to self here we left off on
Sean Murakawa rubens questions we got a
few
those we got Mercia John put a second or
some other people so we've got a few
more questions to get through for this
week and then we're gonna probably hit a
handful of YouTube questions so
tentatively Mike and I are gonna try and
knock part two out maybe tomorrow and
then hopefully get that stuff posted as
soon as possible so we appreciate you
guys being patient for those of you who
are watching on YouTube make sure you
subscribe to the RP stuff that way you
get a little notification or you lecie
when all of our new videos come out and
you can enjoy that's all I got Mike what
do you got anything generally speaking
as a human I've got nothing mmm I feel
the existential struggle there yes but
we will see you guys are very soon with
part two and YouTube I've been using the
RP diet to fill my weightlifting
performance for years and our peas
simple science-based approach has been
instrumental to my success with the new
RP diet app following our P's principles
is as easy as entering my goals and
schedule and choosing my favorite foods
the app builds a diet to my exact needs
reminds me to eat my meals and adapts to
my body's changes every single day and
week the RP diet app is a huge help in
my quest to become the best athlete I
can be and if your goal is to be your
best it will help you alright folks we
are back part 2 of the weekly webinar if
you're wondering what's going on we
we're a little pressed for time last
time so we kind of did the first half
earlier in the weekend today we're doing
the second half of the questions and
some of the YouTube questions so we're
just going to pick up right where we
left off and if you're confused go back
and see the first half of this week's
webinar and you'll probably get the
questions that you were looking for so
let's get back to it
boom boom alright actually so James I'm
uh I'm at back home so we don't Oh
actually you do that anyway right okay I
do it anyway yeah yeah let me yeah yeah
oh yeah okay so first up for this am i
is my volume good or too high no you're
great you're absolutely great it's like
testing testing testing can you say
anything James can I say anything
perfect okay all right Sean Morel collar
band says hello guys says casein is
slower digesting the whey protein could
Kacie and possibly give benefits over
way when cutting mainly to keep full
longer and keep mps elevated longer
between meals if I recall if he could
studies generally weight gently
outperforms casein but I wonder if that
might not be the case when there was
much less flu to digestive tract
throughout the day such as during a cut
I know that lean meat sources likely
better than both maybe but assuming
shake was a must do due to work so
really the answer Sean is like what
you're using it for and specifically
what the meal frequency situation is so
if you have another meal in two hours or
three hours we is probably better if
it's like three to five hours casein and
Wayne lens is the best and if you have
don't have a meal for six or seven hours
something like your work and you have to
eat then well then casein is the best
alternative so unfortunately in casein
in trees blood so slow leave it a lot of
times unless you consume much more of it
it doesn't actually supply enough
protein per unit time to maximize muscle
purchase this is it's great for anti
catabolism so I actually to answer your
question more particularly yeah no cut
it's actually really realized way in a
cut sucks because you're like you eat it
starving immediately Irene to death and
a great mission not accomplished so yeah
absolutely that's case really comes out
of meal frequency if the meal frequency
fits the protein that's in this protein
yeah and then sometimes too it's like
not a bad idea to have some substantial
amount of solid food throughout the day
like you don't want to be getting a huge
nest I mean it's not like it's bad to
get a lot of liquid food
in terms of like making sure you get in
a fiber and stuff like that you're not
having diarrhea all the time in the
future we won't have to eat we'll do
Star Trek food pills or the matrix like
tasty wheat paste it's great mm-hmm
it'll be like dog food where they just
engineer little kibble pellets for us
it's you know it's a perfect perfect
food number two in the same way that low
responders benefit from Ricky's training
volume do you think that low responders
could also benefit from increased
protein and take above the normally
prescribed recommendations I'm not sure
I'm not sure at all I don't think that
has been studied but there's two
potential problems or two potential
roads like one is yes another one is no
because they might actually just have a
really needed MPs response to anything
and any extra proteins actually even
more extra for them
but on average for the average and low
responder those two probably cancel out
and about the same amount of protein
it's probably wise now people need
different lots of protein they have
different genetic variants that burn
through protein faster or shuttle with
less of it to muscle more to burning so
on and so forth so I think if you're a
hardgainer
you can certainly experiment with
substantially more protein
maybe 1.25 1.3 times the amount you're
currently or that he has been you know
decided a gram per pound moto gram point
three per pound and then see how that
feels
and if you get much better results
Keller equated then you're gonna call I
really didn't work for me is very hard
to pick up with an individual but it
might be worth doing because you know
there are it's one of these things where
we say gram per pound butts for the
average person some people don't need
more than 0.7 I'm totally fine some
people who probably could utilize 1.3
ultimately so you can definitely play
around with it yourself I don't know if
there's a particular direction that yeah
my Iten agree with Micah on this one I
don't think that there's really any
substantial reason to think that like
overeating protein would somehow
compensate for a low response to
exercise stimulus so I would be inclined
to say just do the normal stuff well you
can always experiment you're like Mike
said you can always play around with it
but don't get your hopes don't think
that because how many people have had
this epiphany if I just eat more protein
will I get more jacked right we've
everybody's thought that at some point
and unfortunately just
tends to peter out after a certain point
yeah it's funny too because it's
something we cover in the Renaissance
diet book 2.0 that if I eat more of it
it'll give me better and better is
actually more true for carbs in the
protein protein once you eat enough of
it eating more of it doesn't really do
much with carbs eating more and more and
more actually magnifies the insulin area
under the curve response and it keeps
going up so if you can eat 400 grams
great 600 even better and so on and so
forth with protein after you know
whatever gram per pound was a way to
their pounds after grams of protein
adding more protein and it's it's a it's
actually just a legitimate challenge to
eat more protein at that point just a
tad too expensive
yeah carbs and fat are cheap all right
number three I don't mean this videos in
primary freezer usefull dissipate
accumulated fatigue from so medical
training will just be applicable to
begin or any immediate or they generally
not capable of producing the amounts of
fatigue necessary to warm one of these
phases it is applicable to them and what
we've recommended in Prior books and
something would be recommending again in
the hypertrophy book is that it's just
the frequencies of doing these phases
change so an advanced lifter might need
to do one one every three mezzos
intermediate one every four or five and
a beginner maybe once after their first
year of training yeah absolutely and
there's also something to be said we set
this on previous webinars to of like
getting those beginners and
intermediates into habits that are going
to carry them throughout their training
career right so it's not so much that
like they don't need to take these
phases it's that you want them to have
this in the back of their mind because
they're going to start needing to do it
at some point more and more and more so
it just becomes a habit or routine
something that they're familiar with and
understand and it carries them for a
long time yeah cuz it'd be strange to
just throw it in at some point what the
hell is this well it's this new thing
you have to do anyway
they should always be aware of it if
they're very serious and then they just
know that it just don't do it as
frequently as okay mm-hmm and then like
anything else like the need for it will
become more self-evident yes you just
won't be able to your training block of
for mezzos just won't happen yeah you'll
do three and at the end of 3 you'll be
like I'm done yeah okay I have to
apologize here there's fucking
landscapers in my neighborhood all day I
can't hear that every day okay well to
me it
like blasting I tweaked my mic a little
bit so hopefully that's doing good but
if it sounds shitty on my end today I
apologize in advance these guys have
been chainsawing or blowing every day
for the last two fucking weeks and it's
driving me absolutely bonkers
sorry in advance know where he seems
honestly I can't hear if everything ok
good not good all right Machiavelli says
hi Docs regarding the volume landmarks
what's your opinion on the reverse
engineering on reverse
what would your opinion be on reverse
engineering the volume distribution from
total-body MRV so you knew that in a
balanced program our total body volume
marks with X and you would distribute
the volume to the muscle groups that you
want it to prioritize within the
constraints of the individual ions
ok this way you know how many body parts
you can prioritize how many you can take
time RV how many can take halfway there
and which body parts would be mm DVR MV
this would all be for experienced
lifters little volume landmarks very
well and who have systemic MRV lower
than individual body part MRV some PS
tell Steve to officially wink wink
announced the 2021 and someone already
yep that was announced today so that's
happening there was an attempt of
Marlies there yeah it's so cool finally
Jared and I will be able to fight Berto
and to the death you guys aren't gonna
fight Steven Pascal that's what I was
hoping for that's fucked up we like 14
gang up on Steve Pascal and it still
goes done so here's the thing
Mircea 18 mean in in hypothesis yes you
can and you sort of roughly should the
big problem occurs when not all the
muscle groups have the same effect on
systemic effort right so quad volume
does not translate to kathlynn or
forearm volume
you can't treat the sexist one to one
you can't say my total body MRV is 100
cents because that actually doesn't mean
anything calves for arms side delts in
rear delts you can get to a hundred sets
no problem but if it's a chest back and
legs will be dead at eighty cents per
week or something like that so there's
got to be a little bit more I don't want
to say art but a little bit more
awareness of the individual differences
the muscles but if you're an experienced
person you should
so we have an idea of roughly what you
know you're a justed for body part or
adjusted for how much each muscle group
affects are systemic roughly what that
total number of sets is or at least how
many total muscle groups you could train
at any one time so you might think look
I can train a total of five muscular
immune MRV but if they're all big ones
it's three and if there are only small
ones it's seven right and then you could
just sort of at some point it's very
difficult to be to quantify all these
things very precisely so you would have
to just know if this is what what's
called training wisdom like if you take
John Meadows into a gym and you give him
a sample workout John do you think this
will work in your program if you like no
there's no way of recovering from that
or he's gonna be like yeah that's easier
that's totally fine or let's just write
I mean is not running a hold on numbers
in his head it's just he's done so many
workouts that he knows what's what and
what's too much so you'll have to have
some sort of subjective understanding of
how much you could tolerate total and
then yeah you can sort of
reverse-engineer yes I like that
question and it's it's flawed in a way
and I in a good way so here's kind of
the thing for if that was over anyone's
head understandably so it was a
complicated one so basically the
question is can you start by like taking
what would be the volume that leads to
systemic overreaching and work your way
backwards towards the peripheral muscles
that you want to Train so the reason why
that is probably not going to work is
because in hypertrophy training the goal
is to minimize a lot of the systemic
spillover so that you can maximize the
peripheral muscles being trained right
you want to have the highest M RV's for
the muscles that you want to either be
training or enhancing or wherever so
working your way backwards from systemic
is kind of a flawed concept because the
whole point is to try and do things that
minimize the chances of systemic
overreaching in the first place now that
being said that approach would be more
appropriate for more traditional
sporting endeavors where systemic is
often the limiting factors especially
for sports that have like a really heavy
cardiovascular component I think like
MMA CrossFit anything like that would be
a really good example of saying like
okay I can only train so much
realistically per week or per month
right and I have to kind of divvy that
up into a variety of various activities
that need to be fulfilled that would be
a more applicable
excuse me that would be a better way of
applying that strategy I think
bodybuilding is probably or hypertrophy
training in general is just probably the
worst way to go about that because
usually your limiting factors are
peripheral not systemic and you're doing
everything to prevent that from
happening whereas in other sports like
your systemic is going to affect your
preparedness in the areas of fitness
skills and tactics so something like
rugby which you can see in the
background there and watching some Super
Rugby yeah now yeah now yeah make I
think that would be more appropriate but
I think it's still a little too too
nuanced there's too much individual
variation too much individualization
that used to go on where you could just
apply some kind of math and work your
way backwards it's just there's that
human element that's too unpredictable
yeah the spirit of the questions right
on pulling it off is a little bit more
complicated yeah all right John when the
SEC says hey Doc's been a while I'm
going to mix of personal and training
questions for you this week
balance thought it was going to be
personal training questions but it's
actually yeah so number one would you
guess what would you guess you'd be
doing for a career if he hadn't gone
down the current path um as soon as you
give this some thought you realize that
anything you're answering there's
pretend because we really aren't so sure
what in our lives caused us to Zig or
zag one way or the other
yeah I can say like my plan was to do
academics I was planning on saying
teaching for the indefinite future and
then I mean not teaching I still enjoy
and I would still entertain
doing it but when life opportunities
arise where you're for Mike and I where
it's like okay we can teach and do
pretty well or we could do more RP stuff
put in like I don't want to say put in
half the effort but like have our own
schedules our own work time flow that we
want to manage and do a lot better it
was like well it's kind of a no-brainer
in that case so although we wanted to do
academics it was like well this is just
a better situation like wow it's natural
to change you know in those cases to be
honest I think the another way to say is
a switch to our peaceful time was we
could do more work and be rewarded way
more for us at the university level once
you have all your courses written up and
you don't change courses that often
gee whiz professors don't really do a
whole lot and what you do is a lot of
just bureaucracy stuff which yeah
painful and I would if a real real
alternate life I could see myself going
into career military I think of it like
a square peg in a square hole number two
what is the one thing each of you are
currently working on to improve in both
your fitness pursuits and personal
change well right now I'm doing a cut
which I don't cut I don't go super hard
on the body comp stuff very often I kind
of have like a period throughout the
year where I go a little bit harder and
I'll appear throughout the year where I
just take it easy and eat Costco muffins
so I'm doing that I'm working on another
volume Landmarks project I'm working on
kind of a secret Moneyball project with
Jake weed on MMA and I'm trying to
Incept one of my colleagues from
integrated periodization Scott Howell to
work on some tactical stuff with me when
his workflow lightens up a little bit so
also I got a got my hands in a lot of
little little pots here and there a
personal I actually do do a lot of like
I don't want to call it self help but
yeah like self-help or conscientiousness
type audiobooks I'm really big into just
listening some of those things a lot of
it's just recognizing like that you're a
piece of shit
and everyone suffers so I try to make
yourself and everyone around you suffer
Elissa for more so that's kind of stuff
that I've been mean like if you ever
listen to like 12 rules for life by
Jordan Peterson that's really good one
of just not see though yeah God drives
me nuts with that stuff so there's like
um there's the jackoway link book and
the jordan peterson 12 rules for life
those are the same book written by like
an academic and a bro right it's the
same message ultimately in a lot of
stuff so stuff like that I'm really into
and most of it's just like putting on an
audiobook when I'm doing a cardio or
when I'm lifting or something like that
I and always making updates and changes
and edits to the hypertrophy book which
one also Davis dr. wife for James is
currently editing majorly
and we're also working on a ton of video
content
for you folks and there may be some big
changes coming to our people us James
and I will actually speak about that
after we get off
dun-dun-duh personally I have not done
anything personally and I spend time
with my life trying to change those
because they were nice I don't know if
that's working anything I'm busy with my
professional stuffs on enough time for
personal shit yeah I feel you I do
masturbate quite a bit I do too
sometimes you have to actually have one
of those foot scrubbers in the shower so
I can buff my calluses out because I
have injured myself and then within a
few times because my hands get too rough
yeah
all right training regarding rest times
using the for question algorithm I heard
cavity is an example of a muscle that
might or will require very short rest
between sets number one for Mike I'm
curious if the way you prefer to do your
light press sets follows the same line
of thinking you mentioned you personally
always use very short breaks in between
sets like four to five deep breaths or
something for a heavy compound movement
like the leg press sorry you've
mentioned you've personally always used
very short rest breaks in between sets
like four to five deep breaths or
something okay I don't think that would
apply that's not rest threat we'll see
let's you responded for a heavy company
were like light press a fight a surprise
any of us will check all four boxes for
being fully recovered it doesn't also I
don't do that it seems like it would be
a more metabolites focus strategy but I
doubt that's the case so what makes the
exercise well suited for sure addressed
or you personally it doesn't I take five
fucking minutes between each ton of
light press now when I do like press
sometimes I keep going and take little
mini breaks in the same set that's like
two or three big breaths and go two or
three of them go then that just allows
me to get you know working that really
close to failure range for longer and
get really a ton of stimulus but that
sort of thing only works for so long
because at some point the systemic
fatigue gets so high that it's gonna
start limiting you even if you rest a
little long enough for the peripheral
even the peripheral fatigue at that
point is just in the minute so it's kind
of a cool way to flirt with that close
to philia rate it's like turning almost
every set
like press until like a mini Meier up
sort of situation and the only reason it
works is because in light presses you
have lockout completely and actually
rest the muscle significantly for a
short time if you have the cardio for it
then it can push you a little bit
further Aloka lee if you don't have the
cardio for it doesn't matter because you
like games ever done that lockout for
two or three seconds then you're like
I'm gonna throw up and you just lock
back in like you're just like back
you're like there's nothing's happening
no nobody does that was squats right you
don't stand for with squats because the
bars crushing you the entire time and
it's just like your back can't handle
that sort of thing so yeah John that
cleared that up
number two is stemming from the prior
question I certain with the implications
of questionable infirmary rest times has
a target muscle locally recovered enough
to do at least five reps on the next set
scenario one let's say four calves at a
hundred pounds you rest fifteen seconds
and you're fully recover using all four
questions your ups go twenty ten eighty
six
so there are two let's say still it a
hundred pounds you rest longer and the
minimum possible rest time maybe thirty
to sixty seconds and your reps go 2015
13 11 to Mars and first scenario maybe
there's crap and seeing this example is
so large because it suggests there's not
full recovery 95 percentage occurring in
scenario 1 because scenario 2 not so
many more reps question in my head is
they stimulus equal for both so the
stimulus is going to be very very
similar for both because of the effect
of her UPS concept right the faster
fibers and most fibers are recovered
well enough to putting the kinds of reps
that are the most hypertrophic but not
completely recovered
so those sets that you're resting 30 to
60 seconds instead of 15 would be more
hypertrophic but not by a ton maybe by
25 percent but you're resting between
two and four times as long for measly 25
percent if you're if you're interested
in maximal hypertrophy and saving time
of the gym you can just do six sets
instead of four get the same hypertrophy
with version 1 and version two and be
out in fucking third at a time that's
the thing is like if you rest 10 minutes
between sets of squats is each set more
hypertrophic than if you rest 3 yes by a
small fraction but how long are you
waiting 2 minutes versus 5
fuck that that's so much time that you
can and it's not like well you still get
more sighs no because if you're looking
at total time you could just do more
sets you can do more sense now there is
a limit that they have showed that if
you rest
not long you're not for the systemic
factors to all be corrected and for
local to not be stimulative anymore or
to not be the limiting factors then you
actually get a lot less hypertrophy per
set and you end up roughly equating like
you could do 10 sets where you could do
three and it's the same hypertrophy and
it takes the same amount of time because
you're resting so little between each of
the 10 sets that's fucking stupid and
let's just do it a whole lot more work
for seemingly no good done fucking me
they're all like do you want to be
resting very short and training training
training or do you want to be like
mostly just resting and only having to
try three times and you get the same
muscle growth in the same time yeah so
that's why we have that four part
question so once all four parts are good
that next set is going to be comparably
hypertrophic and anymore you wait for
sure gives you more hypertrophy but by a
small fraction and you wait a long time
for that shit to happen in other words
when you're done with a four factor
checklist somebody can say why don't you
do in another set really because I'm not
gonna get the most out of it they could
honestly say like wouldn't you come back
tomorrow and do another secondly give me
even better purse I have that really
yeah so why don't you do that
focus fuck that I'll never get to 20
sets a week if I do one set every day
I'll just get to seven and like that's
the fundamental problem so it's it's a
it's a hypertrophy optimality and time
efficiency constraint so in other words
it's the raw stimulus magnitude is gonna
be the same and a stimulus to time ratio
is gonna be the same so what's a void
buttfucking resting longer and if you
rest longer the stimulus to time ratio
is starts to go down the fucking drain
yeah if you like three-hour workouts
fine sweet you know then you have other
problems like working out for 3 hours
probably independently systemically
fatigues you're on top of everything
James and this is something that James
Krieger actually hobbled recently when
asked about like why is there comparable
hypertrophy and some of these different
studies with different sets and really
the kind of the short and dirty is what
what Mike just said it's like yeah the
hypertrophy is comparable you might be
getting a slightly better stimulus by
waiting longer but it's nothing that
can't be accommodated just by doing
another set or two and then it's
basically identical at that point so
it's kind of pick your poison on that
some pee
really like to feel like high levels of
preparedness on every single set and
that's cool if you don't want to be in
the gym all fucking day like you can
just add one to two sets of whatever you
planned on doing and just take slightly
short arrests and it's probably gonna be
damn near the same if not immeasurably
different yeah and so the question is is
the stimulus equal for both no the
stimulus is higher for the scenario too
but in that time you could do one to two
more sets as it's an area one and the
stimulus would be equal for both next
sub question is um is one likely better
than the other well one is much more
time efficient in your example and one
is much more hybrid or a little bit more
hypertrophic but you can get to a place
where scenario one becomes both equally
hypertrophic and considerably more time
efficient means it's better for
everything and then he says if they're
basically equal would scenario one
always be preferable because you just
have to do less work overall to get the
same benefit true but there is no free
lunch right doing more work does help
it doesn't help nearly as much as you
would think and then the next last
question is is there cutoff or drop in
reps would suggest an insufficient
recovery or is it really just as long as
they're over five by insignificant well
the the under 5 is the insufficient
recovery right and also it's not about
the rep drop at some point yes just for
that factor if you're over 5 you're good
because you're getting most of those
effective reps however make sure that
all the other checklist items are good
to go because a lot of times if you rest
really short yeah you get over 5 reps
but the other factors are not good to go
so turns out you are still breathing
heavy turns out your your nervous system
wise you're not ready to try hard again
turns out your other muscles are
limiting factors right so if you check
all those boxes and you're good to go
then those sets are just a little bit
less hypertrophic but in rest so much
less time that you can squish in more
shots and you'll be good to go I do
think - and I don't want to get too deep
into this at the sign of the
conversation but I do think there is
some merit like when in doubt in some of
these situations you can say like when
in doubt it's not a bad idea to rest
longer and just oh you're getting out
but at the same time when in doubt for
hypertrophy training something that you
should always be thinking about is like
am i pursuing a really good pump am i
pursuing a really good
like burn like am I am I feeling it and
if you are resting so long that you
really don't get a huge pump going from
that movement you're probably resting a
little bit too long on average like if
you just get pumped from immediately
putting the weight down and then it goes
away completely I would say there
actually might be some merit in to
shortening that rest and pursuing that
pump pursuing that burn a little bit
more when you're doing hypertrophy
training really strength training
you're probably gonna do more rests and
elevate preparedness on each set a
little bit more approach retraining out
of it's a lean towards chasing that pump
a little bit to add to James's point
when in doubt rest longer but when not
fuckin in doubt for sure stop fucking
resting yeah like if you're literally
sitting around and someone's like
another so squatching
um it says I should rest three minutes
I'm like how do you feel I feel fucking
100% like fucking go but if you're like
should I go no no no go rest until
you're ready and fundamentally it's
gonna be like okay here's my synergist
are they good my lower back feels fine
okay are my lungs burning are they not
no they're not okay good
do I feel and this is a central nervous
system indicator like does my brain feel
like I can fucking push did you know
that defeated feeling after a sack
really thank God you don't want to go if
you still have that like if you still
look at the leg presses right no rest
more and then once you have all those
checked away and you could for sure get
another five runs your what are they
what do they call that and weightlifting
I think they call Clark in it or you go
to do the poll and you just pick it up
and put it but you just deadlift it you
like nope no no nope not happening all
right James Kitner hey dogs I've asked
an insert my own questions here a couple
times as you've covered most of it in
your recent webinar what I want to make
sure my thinking is correct
after trying to ask the question on
YouTube I just renewed my subscription
rp+ well because well YouTube yep little
background I used to be fit but always a
little heavy with 18 to 20 percent body
fat equally 205 pounds good flat stomach
and some ham shape fuck you for having
that at 18 to 20 percent body fat yeah
really
dick yeah what if he has like a really
fat ass bad
half daughters when that's fucked up
right it's funny it's not that bad
it's a it's funny too because like when
you see like a male with a like a big
fat ass and like a lot of rapport dosis
like man that really sucks that you're
like that but when you have kids goddamn
if you have gone all right when I
returned to school to fit when they're
of age of course yeah and by that time
you're gonna be like the creepy old man
right so either way you spin it I'm
already the creepy have daughters I mean
for when they're adults I mean I'm just
gonna shut up you're telling this to him
he's like I don't even know you you're
like there's notice you had a fat ass
this is not like on a train in New York
City aren't you doctor my shit you tube
shit when I returned to school to finish
my undergrad I became less motivated to
train because my brain hurt who's
hurting you after two years mostly off a
steady 220 230 pound weight with no real
attempt at weight loss I have a problem
in order to pay for school I'm
reapplying to the military reserve
though I look fine in my clothes and my
weight my weight and waist won't cut off
literature I want to see if I'm thinking
correctly after trying to program
aperture females I became frustrated
with temper and volume due to
sensitivity to quote unquote injury back
pain mostly remember like when you have
pain but there's not actually something
mechanically wrong with you that's
actually not injury while chasing an
upwardly
moving calculated one room max I would
follow the landmarks but my next effort
would sometimes be super easy and I
would jump 20 pounds week-to-week in the
squat as I progressed I'm sure I'm just
realizing some previous fitness but this
made it hard to program volume
appropriately that I can easily overdo
it session the session to correct this I
return to a beginner template to simply
simplify and return to whatever strength
level I've currently and my progress has
been much more stable
I would like to progress to a more
volley based effort to be planned using
the numbers generated from a few months
of training and focus on the 10 to 20
meat and potatoes are up range to try to
capitalize on the hit like effect this
training you provide to quote unquote
get in shape without doing the cardio I
already don't have time for I don't want
to drop three days a week on weights and
cut can't cut calories too far as the
brain-drain effect is real in school and
I only have two
realistically lose twenty or thirty
pounds over several months to be thin
enough for reserve standard is
approaching reasonable clarify something
really quick so is is this the question
is that he wants to go back to school
the only way that he can pay for it is
by reciting up with the military but
he's like too out of shape but for the
military's fitness standards is that
correct nice to know if he can do
basically have her training okay that's
what I thought I just wasn't sure yeah
this approach to be reasonable I would
like to have a solid training base in
the bank where my graduate classes begin
and fall 2020 and not meet tubby when
the recruiter finally asked how much I
weigh I could just say screw it and
crash diet and run the weight to 190
pounds it's been done before but I'm not
a 29 year old staff sergeant and my wife
would kill that guy but being back in
the gym has some positive effects on my
mood and school stress and I would
prefer to someday see what's under the
fat layer as I go through my masters and
get to call myself doctor to I feel like
a more sustainable plan is called for
and then the rest is a couple other
questions so let's just answer this one
um it depends on when you need to
qualify with your recruiter you should
just know how much you have to weigh and
how small your waist has to be and make
sure you're on track to meet it and you
have to do as much dieting as much
cardio as much hypertrophy training
which your fundamental approaches fine
if you want to do a little bit more
cardio here and there you'll have to do
a little less food here and there to
make sure you're on track to progress
and I would try to qualify earlier that
you actually have to so that you have
some offer
face I've uh my students back in
University were coaching a variety of
ROTC folks other people who had various
other military scholarships and I've
seen folks actually failed to get any of
their money because they just missed ID
they're dieters essentially started or
too late and just couldn't get in shape
in the army told to go fuck themselves
so I would say staying I have got the
curve rather than behind it
your approach fundamentally works but
you might have to die and caffeine can
help your brain when you're dieting so I
agree with dr. Mike you really want to
clarify when you're going to have to
qualify for some of your fitness
standards now I know that they recently
changed the fitness standards and I'm
probably out of the loop on that I
remember what they were back in the day
but here's the thing dieting takes a lot
of time in a lot of effort and a lot of
the things that will help you score well
on your test and your you know aunt your
body comp and your actual tests it's
just being leaner right like you have to
run some of those tests you know I like
pull-ups push-ups sit-ups type movements
just not being super heavy and super fat
tends to help with those things here's
the other thing that's worth considering
a lot of people who try to qualify often
try to incorporate all the event
training into their weight loss training
it only takes you like a month or a
month and a half to get good enough to
do a decent one-mile run to get good
enough to do like decent muscle push up
an endurance test to get decent enough
to do a few pull-ups you know what I
mean so what I would say is really focus
on getting your weight under control
through good diet hypertrophy and
getting in some basic really basic
cardio don't try incorporate all the
fitness standard stuff in until you're a
couple months out and then you can get
your running legs you can get your
whatever the new tests are I'm clearly
out of the loop on what they've been
updated too but if there's something
like push-ups and pull-ups and one-mile
run you know that doesn't take a whole
lot of time to prepare for maybe a month
or maybe two months if you if you need a
little bit more help so what I would say
is like don't try and cram all of your
event training into your weight loss
diet focus on getting your weight under
control and then start incorporating
those things once you know that the test
is coming up in a certain amount of time
yeah very good answer and then he says
thanks for inviting the services price I
follow dr. Mike since before jog life
was a thing and maybe I can finally stop
stalking Steve Hall for Jared feathers
interviews and for the record I think
would be interesting to see dr. James
and menswear houses I've only ever seen
him a full body up in the sports
conscious podcast and he doesn't seem
like the type to suit up just seem he
actually is exactly the type to suit up
and James is a very very keenly dressed
man and when he wants to be as opposed
to myself James and I almost always
dress exactly the same which is to say
Fitness based homeless person
mm but the can dress up likes to and
does it well we well my wife has to my
wife and Charlie have to help me I have
to say though the last couple times that
I've seen you dress up you've looked a
very sharp predator Charlie doesn't
matter how it gets done all that matters
is that it gets done right yeah when I
had my suit built for your wedding James
I showed up with Charlie and they talked
to me and I was like and I just point to
Charlie he's like anyway I'll be
speaking for this man blah blah blah
blah blah you're gonna want that pop up
a box opener that's sweet
yeah I just the way that they do it now
with like the online stuff makes it so
easy like yeah pick what you want you go
and get your fitting they send it to you
go back at an adjustment yeah when I
walk in though they're always like are
these measurements correct and then they
see me either
mm-hmm okay I get that to where they're
like sir you you know you can't buy a
suit off the rack I'm like yes that's
why I'm here getting a custom suit
dickheads like because you know it's
like okay you got like fucking like
whatever 60 inch chest and like 34 inch
waist they're like yeah what do you do
it I'm like I'm here gonna help ya come
on folks
Joshua Bradshaw Terry Terry Bradshaw's
long-lost says hey Mike and James
questions regarding exercise sequencing
what are your thoughts on putting a
movement that tends to cause a lot of
muscle damage early in the workout do
you think he causes us let's get him out
and drop off in force production for
later movements in the session yes maybe
yeah a good example of me putting s LDLs
or good mornings at the beginning of a
like session you have something like
hand crows later on the majority of
cases I want to be performing the most
complex movement first for beginners and
immediate maybe even really advanced is
the way to go or something eccentric
dominant like an SL do may really hinder
the rest of the hamstring volume due to
the damage it creates from the stretch
however I feel that placing the volume
before let's just say temperature
electrons might not impede performance
on the SL do GM to any considerable
degree that's absolutely false it will
crush performance on the GM to a huge
degree and because that is the exercise
that is probably has the higher as afar
of the two or at least the highest raw
stimulus magnitude it's totally fine to
put it first and then he says I ran it
both ways on separate motorcycles each
time the total volume performs needs to
come out in favor of placing a centrally
dominant exercises later in the session
I'd love to get your thoughts on this I
hope you that's great well thanks as
always so another way to say
eccentrically Domino's is also you know
it is to say very stimulative and your
degree of stimulus from the something
that is essentially really dominant that
requires high forces can be lessened by
putting hands during isolation first and
you don't generate as much force and you
cannot impose as much damage but
although we're not going for damage
necessarily but you might just not be
able to impose a lot of stimulus what
I'll say is this exercise order doesn't
really mean a ton if you're using
fundamentally very stimulative movements
that aren't super fatiguing both of
which are until it unless you have a
systemic fatigue cap if you have a
systemic fatigue cap doing curls before
stiff legged deadlifts is a good idea
because it can give you roughly the same
stimulus without as much fatigue or
maybe a little bit less time unless
about the stimulus to fatigue ratio
might be a little bit better from a
systemic perspective not a local
perspective but if you want the highest
raw stimulus magnitude and fatigue is
not a concern for you especially axial
fatigue of systemic fatigue then doing
stuff like in bed lifts first probably a
wiser move and then doing hamstring
isolation after because if they are
probably have a higher ah stimulus
magnitude and you want to sort of put
them meat potatoes first and then do the
exertion after you could overload real
easy on stiff legged n lifts and then
you'll be just fine on hamstring curls
because you know how much overload
you're supposed to close on them isn't
even that much to begin with they're
just not that hard to do but if you do
leg curls first it could really throw
off your swag and stuff like it's after
that might be worth it though if your
systemic fatigue cap is so low that
you can't actually Stefano them they're
supposed to thrash because then that
would be so limiting systemically an
accident so you have to find out first
we're going for more raw stimulus
magnitude or stimulus to fatigue ratio
from a systemic perspective if you have
the fatigue despair rostam this
magnitude you can probably you should do
come on first isolation after although
really both are fine um if your systemic
fatigue is you're really limiting you
should probably do the hamstring curls
first and then the stuff like you know
those already else after teams yes so
like in strength and conditioning
there's a clear exercise order
delineation that we follow right where
it's like you have the movements that
have the most muscle mass most joints
and hardest technique generally comes
first and your work your way down in
kind of like decreasing order of those
things so you start with something
that's gonna be really like a lot of
muscle a lot of joints really
complicated like a squat for example and
then kind of work your way down to less
muscle less joints less complicated
movements throughout the session in
hypertrophy training that's not a bad
rule to kind of carry over but it's not
an absolute rule in hypertrophy training
because the preparedness of any of those
movements doesn't really matter so much
as long as you're providing a really
good stimulus and like mike already
talked about like kind of the local
versus systemic fatigue factors so it's
a good like general practice to start
with kind of your biggest most complex
movements so that your technique is
always really good and are probably as
microd gonna probably provide you with
the biggest raw stimulus anyway and
working way down but it is not in
strength conditioning that's the Golden
Rule and hypertrophy training that's a
it's a suggested rule but not an
absolute rule yeah and he says here each
time the total volume performed seems to
come out in favor of placing eccentric
dominant actually I was later in the
session
if you're equating assets yes she don't
have to equate cells that's the thing
yeah equating fatigue now we have a very
good question to answer
alright you say for the similar amount
of fatigue imposed which one of these
has the best stimulus that's a good
question hmm same number of sense you'd
be like well what the fuck is telling
you can only do seven total stats where
would you do eight and like okay with
eight sets
still get less fatigue on this one other
way it takes just a little bit more time
but the stimulus is better so a stimulus
to fatigue is better that's the real
question yeah and sorry just we can move
on from this one but just like an
example where that might be good is like
let's say you did if you if doing like
hamstring curls really allows you to
feel the hams on a hip hinge movement
which normally you struggle with like if
you're like dude 45 degree back raise oh
I feel it is then like my butt and in my
back but if you do the hamstring curls
first and now you're like oh my god I
feel it when I've never felt it before
that's a good application of that yeah
because it enhances the stimulus of
potentiates of how the next exercise
absolutely all right
Eden says question one we think about
fitness classes do they violate the
overlooked principle are they just a
good way for average people to get up
and do something yeah they don't violate
the overall principle unless you're too
in too good of shape just um do they
found a little principle only from
people that are too good of shape to be
doing them so if you want a fitness
class and that breathe heavy or anything
but you're no they do for you but a lot
of people fuck and people barely crawl
out of those classes they sure as hell
violate the old robe not be a little bit
more concerned about specificity
principle dreams yeah well that's what I
was gonna say is like the the principles
are defined contextually right so they
have to be overload is constrained by
specificity so it's only a violation if
it's not within the realm of specificity
for the activity or the goal that you
want so if you have people who are just
trying to be like fit and healthy people
that's perfectly fine if you have
somebody who's trying to be like a
world-class pole vaulter that would
absolutely be a violation yeah of course
number two as you become less sensitive
to muscle growth as you go through the
block of training we think of the idea
of decreasing the monthly weight gain in
each muscle cycle for example that's a
11.5 to 2% in per month
that's our 21.5 percent game per month
and then mezzo 3 does it mean loss so
juicing monthly weight gain sorry never
never yeah I think that there's a type
of muscle three but I get what you're
saying let's say it's 1% per month or
something like that right yeah I
probably meant 1 to 1.5 I think yeah
that's a fine idea it also makes the
easy eat easier because
it's easy to eat a lot or first as I own
the second and the third like fuck this
and and so like this actually is a self
solving problem check this out
if you just gain it in wrong weight
instead of in percentages so you just
say I'm gonna gain a pound per month or
sorry a pound per week or whatever
through my whole messes when you weigh
200 pounds a pound per week is a lot
when you weigh 220 pounds whatever
number of weeks later a pound four week
is a less of a fraction so it's kind of
an auto solving thing but if you do want
to decrease the magnitude of gain you
can another thing is though as you
become less sensitive to muscle growth
as you go through a block of training we
also increase the volume of stimulus so
we might be able to counterbalance that
and remember when the first mezzo it's
not the core blasting we started been an
effective only with very few sets of
reps so it actually a well-designed
block has a roughly the same hypertrophy
per week in any really given week right
or in any mezzo it's got the similar
hypertrophy permesso because the mezzo
one we don't want to blast
full-tilt because we'll burn out in
mezzo two we're well on our way in and
mezzo three will pull out all the stops
right so turns out I've hurt reviews are
probably pretty similar between all
these so it's a self solving problem
combining that with just gaining a
certain amount of weight like point 5
pounds or 1 pound per week and that
gives you most of your solutions there
without having to do changing
percentages yeah that was really good
I tend to just be more of a streamlined
person on these things it seems like
it's needlessly complicated so I mean
even if you did let's say 2% month 11.5
month - and then 1% month 3 like
throughout the block of the mass you
just averaged 1.5 so why not just like
run that 1.5 average instead of changing
your calories all the goddamn time you
know and I mean yeah that would be my
like that's not that's not to say that
that's a bad approach but it's also to
me it's like an impractical approach
because now every single time you're
gonna have to go back and recalculate
the change and weight that you've seen
week to week relative to how much
calories that you should be taking in
what a pain in the ass
you know what I mean so like why go
through all the hassle question 3 what
do you think of honey Ram botanist
methods I think what I'm what's called
fc7 which uses all the time of his
athletes
he's my know he's clear he uses it all
the time of his athletes not really sure
what he does with his athletes would
folks of that calibre say they do and
what they actually do is two very
different things
that's the stretch one right yes perfect
underhand pitch FST seven means fascist
stretch training system seven fascist
stretching is probably not related I
heard feet also that's baseless right
off the gate the seven stands for at
least like seven drop sets that you do
in an exercise during that time why
seven who the fuck knows I would say
that instead of focusing everyone how
many Ramba does listen the reason Phil
Heath is Phil Heath is something to do
with what honey tells him to take as far
as drugs but not much probably to do
with training and if you ever see Phil
Heath trained it's not anything you
would ever honor yourself he's not a big
not big on overload certainly not on
weight used and he's super gifted so he
doesn't have to pursue the optimal
training games best results I did FST
seven when I was like an undergrad in
college I didn't do the whole program
but I like tried I tried elements of it
you know just for fun to see how it was
and I remember doing the chest day and
it was so it was just pain it was just
needless awful pain and I was like why
am I doing this I could just be like
lifting more at this point instead I'm
doing all this bullshit that hurts like
Clark yeah it's one of these things like
don't put this politely if you sit down
honey Ram bond with somebody who's been
studying issues of science for two or
three years he won't be able answer a
variety of pretty obvious questions
about his training
I don't consider someone like that a
thinker as far as trainees concerned but
this way he put him in AIRC Allen's in
the same room and you're gonna have an
expert and a guy who yells at people and
tells them to do stuff so it's not I
wouldn't
you mean the latter get your ladder
being air comes yeah that's right
I just wouldn't I would I would just
file under not serious thinker oh it's
like people asked like what was that
they might debate with Greg Cusack like
what do you think about Greg dissent I
don't get it good reason why I don't
think about his training methods cuz he
doesn't either
and what he thinks his thinking is
actual
just yelling and with three sentence
questions he can't justify his own views
on anything so you know it's nice people
are jacked they take drugs they have
good genetics they get really lean and a
and how many people have they coached
that amounted to anything and he's
coached a bunch but it's probably not
cause it was training it's because of
drugs and cuz he selects the right
athletes once you've coach to mr.
Olympia you get all the cream of the
crop asking for what you want to do a
lot of it's not very complicated
unfortunately the stark reality there so
you can look into his method and see if
he can pick up good parts I'm sure
they're good part so I just wouldn't
wouldn't overthink it because I sure as
hell promise you honey Ron's not
overthinking all excellent points there
question four I've seen RP have released
an at-home workout plan could you give a
brief overview of how someone can do
something like this and build muscle
also how is it organized / how do you
progress a family member who can't get
to the gym and doesn't want to pay for
anything in a while well they're gonna
have a problem with that because you
have to pay for the workout plan but all
you need is a couple dumbbells and it's
basically sort of circuit training
super-sense compound antagonist
super-sense back to back to back to back
it's designed primarily for females
although males can use it especially if
they're just starting out it's fucking
brutal it's SuperDuper hard a very short
rest but it doesn't take very long and
three to five workouts per week that
lasts 30 minutes to an hour are gonna
get you a fucking unbelievable shape
especially if you're small or or female
so that's really just the reality and if
that sounds like something a person
wants I will say this if your family
rumor can't get to the gym okay if they
don't want to pay for anything that's a
little bit of a bad sign because that
means there's a problem with commitment
and I do mean that like if you're like
well there's no way I'm gonna pay for
fitness can you imagine be like ha I
really want to be a good fiction writer
someone's like do you want a typewriter
or computer like oh no or not gonna pay
money for any that's not feel like you
can feel like you really don't want to
write anything you know what I mean like
look I want to be recording like a
recording artist be like you want to buy
some studio time - god I mean anything
okay it's kind of a prerequisite to like
you know pay for something if you really
want it bad enough so if that person
doesn't want that's not great and also
the program only works if you're trained
pretty hard and if that person is not
ready to train hard it's kind of shit I
will say that the family member who
can't get to a gym and doesn't want to
pay for anything is so ubiquitous
I've
and as so much of that with friends and
family and family of my friends there
are a bunch of people who mistake
bitching to you for commitment
submit oh god how do you do it you're
like well just do what I do and I can do
it you know what I everybody's got
excuses not everybody gets shit done at
the end of the day like it costs money
it cost time it costs effort if you
don't want to do it fuck off that's fine
well our customer service guy Jacob
Yasha Janus was awesome
he was he for the first time ever like
back 10 years ago he got really really
in shape for the first time but lost
like 70 pounds or something right and
he's kept off he's kept it off more or
less since and some of his family
members were for dinner and he showed up
in there no my god you look amazing and
he's like yeah you know like what have
you been doing like what's the trick and
he's a coin you know he'd eat healthier
and in moderation and you exercise like
yeah the God would do that stuff look
like I have a job and he's like what if
what I gotta do what the fuck you think
I do for I haven't had a job but the
fuck is wrong with you like you think I
fucking homeless derelict because I got
into shape like that's just a lot of
people just not do you think then when
they complain to you they say oh you
know like oh I'm gonna get cheap and
then you're like oh you can do this and
I go that sounds hard
I just wanna bitch-slap them fuck gotta
be shut the fuck up never never be in
shape ever and I'm give a fuck about you
because you don't give a fuck about you
yeah I'm I'm very I'm not trying to
criticize who even asked this question I
have no Aidan I'm not criticizing you
but it's one of those things like don't
put too much effort into people who are
just willing to take any excuse not to
put in the work that's the thing we all
have excuses everyone has a reason not
to do it you have to choose to do it and
put the effort and get it done there's
no way around it no excuses at that
point you know what I mean just just do
it that's it shelby starnes used to say
it's a very fair you need bodybuilding
coach shelby starnes just to say if i
send you a diet and your first question
is why are the cheat meals you're not
gonna be a pro body i mean like those
are real conversations we have with our
RP clients with it the first that's not
unusual for somebody to say like can i
snack on stuff all day when can I have
my first cheat meal it's like you need
to just put that out of your mind or
what gotcha
or maybe you should just keep snacking
for now and come back and see me in two
months when you're done snacking for a
little bit when it's yes it's mine and
that's a good
that's perfectly fine too
philosophically does snacking you know
what I mean like when you're done with
it or bullshit you think is gonna like
you're attached to ya get it out get it
out of your system and come back when
you're ready to put the put that put
that on the back burner for a little
while it's like it's like somebody like
kills your whole family like ninja-style
and you're like I'm going to Japan to
learn under master so I can get elite
and kill them and honor like great and
you show up to Japan II like do I have
to take my shoes off the mat because I
have really diseases kind of gross like
what the fuck is wrong with ya yeah I
wish it was you know the thing is like
if it was easy then we wouldn't have an
obesity problem that's the thing it's
not and it requires effort and
and determination and willpower all
those things so yeah question 5 what
helps you in personal training career in
terms of eating between clients protein
bars and scheduling clients well take
one client to 1:50 p.m. start the next
client at 2:05 p.m. and you got 15
minutes and pre prepare your meals bring
them with you choose things like protein
shakes and sandwiches and you're good to
go
James yeah you know we get this a lot
with our clients to where people will
say like oh I'm a medical doctor I can't
eat for 10 hours a day and it's like
that's bullshit you could have a shake
you can have a bar you can suck down
like a sandwich and take a five minute
bathroom break there's nowhere in the
world where you cannot use the bathroom
where they can like legally withhold you
from taking like a five minute break you
know what I mean unless you're like a
neurosurgeon and you do surgery for 12
hours and you don't do one of those
every day and to be honest I think like
if push came to shove they could take a
break if it was like a 10-hour shirt you
know what I mean but I just choose not
to because they have integrity and they
want to do a good job all those things
so you know I'm very not sympathetic to
people who say like I can't eat at
certain times like huh you don't have
any fucking like Road Trip sandwiches I
have sucked down or you know like it
takes two seconds to eat something just
do it yeah I don't like when people say
that like I don't have time yeah like
eat a bar yeah okay any tips with
conversing with clients would be great
um I would say that keeping their
attention on the session is number one
encouraging them and giving them
feedback on the set and keeping a good
pace so the thing is with most clients
all
all personal training clients should be
and those are very very that's a big
belief of mine should be trained with
compound antagonist super sense which
means then my fuckers don't get the
chance to talk too much you will bitch
you pay me $80 an hour I don't imagine
you pay me for my fucking conversation
skills let me guess you pay me to get as
good a shape as possible in that fucking
hour yes we're gonna work your dumb ass
you're gonna do been together you can do
rows and you can do squats and you're
gonna do pull-ups oh then you get to
operate rows you do curls and bah bah
bah bah and there's 30 second break here
where they're like gasping for air and
you're saying to them hey that was a
great set you did super well next time I
want your hips a little further back got
it and they're like yep got it okay all
right cool here's your next thing go all
right stuff like that if you're doing a
whole lot kind of earn saying you're not
doing a whole lot of training and if you
are doing some good first thing ffs have
you work that rest a little longer time
ask them stuff and then tell them fun
stuff about you what's going on with you
just don't rap too long about yourself
because fundamentally nobody gives a
shit sure some other not pay any money
but asking them stuff is nice now today
I was listening that and usually they'll
go on the tangents they want and
remember they're paying their charge the
conversation is for them and if they
having a good time we get to go but
fundamentally a lot of it's about
shutting the fuck off and given over
barbell James yeah and I do think there
is some merit to like even if you just
shooting the shit with them for a little
bit because I mean that's it's kind of
like a fraternity sorority type thing
where they are kind of like paying for
your companionship your friendship to
some degree so it's good to have a
rapport good to like beat around the
bush a little bit but you shouldn't it
should never be one of those things
where they go off talking about their
kids like middle school play and you
guys are just sitting around
bullshitting about nonsense for 5-10
minutes at a time should just be like
quick little snippets like hey how's
your kids doing everything's good okay
go you know do your set do they catching
their breath you give them a little bit
feedback you say okay we're doing
upright rows next what do you want to
warm up with okay we're getting that set
up while you're doing this other thing
like blue blitz it always should be in
like a constant flow of things moving
forward you're moving on to the next
exercise you're giving them feedback on
the things that they're doing and you
can pepper in some friendly stuff here
and there the the problem that you run
into as a lot of people just use
bullshitting as an excuse not to to get
you the workout so I think it is
important to have a good relationship
and a good rapport so you shouldn't
avoid like you know
I don't want to say bullshit but like
yeah there's nothing wrong with shooting
the shit with somebody as long as it's
not a distraction yeah
question 6 how would you set up a
client's nutrition in the aim of
building muscle with the client probably
having no experience of tracking food
how would you go about trying to get
them to eat the recommended protein
amounts and calorie miles do you just
have a step-by-step plan that you coach
the client through well you can they
just put them on a physique template for
example like or sorry a nutrition
template from Rp and a simplified diet
templates a really really good place to
start but generally speaking when i was
a personal trainer what i would do is
this you ask them what they eat and you
get a pretty good feel for what the
average daily intake is like and then
you just modify it a little bit to get
it a little bit more of the erection of
quarter muscle like so what I want you
to do is I want you to years of your
breakfast currently is really great what
I want you to do is that I know you have
lunch you have breakfast at 6:00 you
have lunch at 12:00 instead of a regular
sandwich for lunch I want you to do
double meat sandwich are good they're
like okay great
and then at 3 p.m. instead of having
like a diet coke I want you to have a
diet coke and have a protein bar and or
a protein shake with that can you do
that yes great here's this muscle
milkshake that I want you to drink do it
and then after you're done with me go
home at 7 p.m. I want you to make sure
that you have a double helping of
whatever your husband makes will say
your husband cooks and he's got you know
he's making salmon and and some pasta
have a double helping of the salmon and
just make sure you eat enough pasta to
make sure you're not hungry
instead of just having a little bit of
salmon cause it's not a protein got it
got it good and then you work with them
you ask them how their diets been going
for days and days and weeks and weeks
pretty soon they're gonna catch on and
start doing what you're doing and then
they're gonna be like wow look ok I'm
actually getting muscle as a screen I'm
making sure that in the branch you
clients long tube rack so home I have a
protein I told my husband double salmon
and he gave it to me like that's great
right hand my husband gave it to me
there's no that was the peak party song
you can't get more Paul my god oh my god
but I'll put that on the smart speaker
every now and I want to say its name
because it turns on and then just yeah
listen yeah but I blast that in the
house oh I love that's awesome so
basically they'll let you know when
they're being good and you know
whether or not a being in compliance cuz
you'd be like so double meat sandwich
like yeah just had a half a slice of
pizza instead for large or no then
they're gonna want a variety right at
some point they could make Chinese W
sandwiches what else gonna have it like
a ha
you could have chicken breasts you could
have a protein shake you could ever slap
a fish you can have this you can have
that after a couple of months of that
they know two things how to
fundamentally eat well on a schedule and
eat mostly healthy foods and eat
high-protein and two they know how to
rotate protein sources or vendors for
heat so on and so forth for variants
they freakin know everything now and
then at that point you don't even need
to tell them to do macros or you can
introduce them macros if they really
want to get super specific but then they
already have all the high quality habits
of choosing healthy foods know that so a
terrible thing that James and I have
been down the road clients and when we
didn't overdo it introduced somebody
were they buying were a plan that
they're just not suited for think okay
so it says protein like yes like so like
what's a protein source of Jesus fuck is
it's like an alien learn to play
basketball they're like what is a
basketball to like okay here's the ball
here's the court like trying to explain
what professional wrestling is to an
alien they're just one percent are they
in combat like but are they getting hurt
like yeah but really getting hurt a lot
more than regular wrestlers so yeah so
you want to build habits first and
fundamentally habits are built with
easily replicable strategies do this you
do this you do that keep it simple then
as they get a little bored with the food
choices or they ask you about it or even
though even if you know that they're
sticking to it super well have them
expand their prey on you know food
choices a little bit and then later you
can have them track a bit more
specifically where they're like okay now
I'm like on a cotton especially on a
balk it's not a big deal but under
copula okay I want the salmon the size
of your fist and that's it every night
salmon or chicken or steak size of your
fist got it like God and at some point
later years later you could be like okay
remember we you know they really know
what they're eating and they don't
exactly how much like okay we're gonna
replace this ice stuff without those
grams and then at that point they have
do you know how to eat well they've been
doing it forever they know all the foods
to pick counting is not this new thing
that comes in at the same time as
everything else counting is just another
one of the things and it's so easy and
then I quality eating the same thing
always I just just a little bit tight
traded better with the exact RAM stuff
boom and then they could do any Mac or
Die you ever suffer absolutely yeah it's
hard it's hard to have somebody who has
no concept of dieting and throw them
into macro toning it's all you've gotta
build habits habits of eating healthy
food that's a big thing about knowing
what healthy food is and what good food
is and what it is question 7 when you're
bloated doesn't mean you have trouble
absorbing the food so you're not gonna
be utilizing the carbs and protein as
efficiently as normal no it almost
certainly doesn't know um you could be
bloated for 50 trillion reasons and the
number one reason you're bloated is it
you're not bloated you're just me your
tummies people say I'm bloated and they
don't even know what that means
like this used to be a thing where
people everyone thought they were gluten
intolerant because they would eat like
five slices of pizza and be like oh I'm
so bloated motherfucker you just ate
1,700 calories yeah not to mention like
all the sodium and carbs that you just
took that it's insane so you know bump
go and fool yeah that's what that when I
when I have a lot of sushi I'm real
bloated but like I sure as hell wish I
was impressive so every that food as
efficiently as normal that I can eat
sushi had a fucking cut also you don't
ever have to worry about the people
outside of matter contacts not absorbing
food efficiently because that's free
calories it just comes out of your ass
the same way it went in not efficient
absorption is great it causes weight
loss this must be one of not the biggest
myths but the most absurd myth on its
face Mike hates this one I've done this
so many times I it's like mustard as we
go Aidan isn't saying this but other
people will say like oh man I think the
reason I'm gaining weight because I'm
not absorbed by food you fucking think
that it's backwards you look at the
fattest people in the world I
motherfucker is really good at absorbing
food I mean a really good better than
you Oh Mike loves that 600-pound life oh
man so I'm cutting again and crystal and
I are gonna be watching the 600-pound
life again last time I was massive we
try to watch half an episode my tapped I
was kinda yeah do you guys do dr. pimple
popper also crystal does that in our own
spare time I can't watch that shit what
the fuck's wrong with your body what
question number eight how would you set
up a meal plan for someone is it
basically setting
timings frequencies calories the Oh
macro amounts all aiming to fit around
our schedule and trading window as well
as the design decomposition of the meals
and getting all the nutrients clients
needs they're something only a
nutritionist large digest you can do you
can buy our Renaissance diet book 2.0
but it has an entire chapter about how
set up a meal for somebody but remember
if they're beginners that are doing way
more simply by establishing habits that
guide actually exists in our book called
understanding healthy eating so if you
have folks that really want a super
meticulous diet they've done macros and
stuff before whereas that's not true for
no diet design is what you want but
outside of that I think that for really
regular people just starting out you
definitely want on the understanding
healthy eating approach which basically
just teaches you like hey first you know
you want to teach people what healthy
foods are then you want to kind of get
them eating the healthy foods and then
you want to work on getting them to
split it up into a distinct meals and
then you've got to want to get the meals
to about the same you know a regular
size right and then you want to start
measuring and then by then you could
tell them what to do very versus yeah
and also keep in mind to that latter
point is this something only a
nutritionist slash dietician can do in
in some states yes there are legal
consequences so you can't you cannot
just freelance in some places so just
keep that in mind it's it's I know
you're asking from a place of like being
good-natured and probably wanted to help
out your friends and family with diet
plans and maybe even thinking about it
professionally some day but all that
being said if you write somebody a diet
plan they have unrelated health
complications and it comes back that you
were writing them a diet plan and you
are doing that in a state where that is
not allowed unless you're credentialed
you could get in some serious trouble so
keep that in mind
question I and what are some most asked
questions you received about training
nutrition health while your personal
trainer on the gym floor Oh mom a spa
production is a big one like how do I
get rid of my ass like well you know
suck it out with a vacuum another one is
quick judge quick quick tricks and tips
how do I lose 20 pounds in a month yes
that's not a good idea a lot of the
times that people ask in OH how do I get
rid of this and then the women do their
try some fast they just hold it like
some of this and it's a funny to me is
that's a area the body only women judge
other women about like I've never know
this try some fad of anyone I thought
was hot or not I'm like oh they're that
lady's got tricep fat away like bitch we
look at that's - I didn't even occur to
me women look at that until they were
like all pointed out like yes I hate
this like the only as person that hate
that I say that but again if women don't
even get in shape too firm man they get
achieved to like just as each other I
think it's it's almost like you could
ask take a lifter that's bench 500 and
months a bunch 550 like so are you
trying to impress women to be like no
I'm trying to impress other lifters that
are men yes it's all it's all dominance
hierarchy 200% it's all downhill so a
lot of times people ask stuff like that
spot reduction and super quick tips and
a lot of times they'll ask diet stuff
but a lot of it is again from that super
like can I just need this is this good
or they'll ask single food questions
which fucking really avocados good like
no actually I've Akkad owes a Warley
just a bankrupt but if you Kiwis the
Angels will side with you what the fuck
kind of question is that
but then they don't know so you have to
be like hey look avocados and bunch of
other fruits and vegetables and healthy
fat sources are really awesome for youth
generally speaking of minimally
processed it's probably good for you in
the context of a calorie balance like
what's the counterbalance right
ah-ha-ha-ha yeah I was gonna say I used
to get a lot of me like is this good for
you or bad for you like single I'd just
one-offs like is food good or bad is
this food good or bad cat is this
exercise good or bad it squats bad for
your knees I heard that this like is bad
for your back like just very vague like
kind of one-off yeah rinse and repeat
type questions like is this good is this
good is this good yeah like jazz we
should throw me we should really do this
at some point where we should create the
ultimate RP diet guide where we actually
just have to do this you gotta tell me
all about this because she'll go through
and actually do this we can get like 500
foods like an April Fool's joke 500
foods and just a column checkmark of
good and bad and just randomly fucking
this banana bad a certain layer bad
killing you right now yeah I just would
be so sweet look RP said that avocados
are bad be like based on what like it
just says bad and at the bottom will be
like April Fool's 2020 fucking idiot
have you seen that Family Guy clip where
Peters asking his personal trainer about
what
certain foods are bad and the guy can't
come up with a good reason he just
scoffs at him he's like you know you
can't eat pizza and Peter's like why
he's like cuz it just goes off like five
minutes you guys haven't seen it it's a
really funny thing and the Stewie one
were the guy hard cells to eat he's like
by the way just for the record came I'm
real strong yes just like you know yeah
I forgot how funny Family Guy can be I
turned down the other night and yeah you
know like when you turn it on that means
you're guaranteed to be watching family
guy for the next three hours whether you
harvest or not just get locked into it
yeah it's funny and then sometimes they
have these like off-the-wall
deep inside or hollywood jokes like Oh
Margo Kenner or what the fuck is that
yeah I think someone of the plate and
Superman of 1982 like fuck there's gotta
be some kind of like Hollywood nerd
somewhere I think that's the funniest
joke of all time oh yeah sometimes
they'll even do that and then go and
explain it for the audience to like as
like they do have a thing before they
break that fourth wall it's really I
think it's funny yeah I am one of the
funniest things is just randomly things
that are inside are funny is the Hitler
video mean for various things like
CrossFit powerlifting remember the
Hitler video where people would be oh
yes in the conference room thing yeah
yes so good I remember one guy did it
gets Andrew a Gretzky he did the
powerlifting equipped powerlifting
Hitler it was so good he's like yeah
should i and they're like he's like well
everyone people are gonna join my fad
what about Steiner and they're like
China is own Federation and he's
actually the fourth by and to his shirt
he's like shit everyone who has their
own Federation this is so sweet because
everyone who has their own fed I love
those those never got old now Hitler's
like even more taboo than than usual
Hitler taboo yeah yeah it's like I'm
guys like making fun of Hitler is now
like a micro aggression against the
Germans
yes is that fucked up it's come full
circle it's like no the Jews are like
and the Germans like I don't even think
the Germans are I think they're like no
it's fine like go ahead and although
like college-age white
regular college-age America white folks
will feel bad for you even if you don't
question number 10 what do you think of
body builders not locking out on
movements to keep tension on the muscle
he said sort of encountered this the
other day at my gym I was doing dumbbell
incline presses the way Jared does them
by allowing the dumbbell to come all the
way down and touch the side of my chest
and the guy said that it wasn't keeping
tension on the muscle I wasn't able to
get really hey guy get the fuck out of
my face he says the guy as if like we're
supposed to know who the guy is the one
cool thing about getting more jacked is
that when you get to like me about 20
pounds lighter than James at his height
people stopped coming up to you at all
they don't tell you shit I haven't had
anyone tell me a fucking thing in the
gym in 10 years especially with the way
my head looks right now that guy looks
like I was gonna say we also had of like
kind of the the bitch face going - yeah
for sure but it's like you should do
that he got it I'll pay you for your
advice when I feel it worthy yeah but
anyway I wasn't able to get in a word to
explain I was doing it but it made me
think of what I would say to him and
people like that who caught the wrong
short to keep trash out of the muscle
thanks for answering you know you could
tell them is you say you know when I
lock out it gives me a little bit of
rest and then when I go back I can do a
few extra reps like that and they'd be
like okay and they'd be like that gives
me more eternal tension in a big but if
you don't rest and you just keep getting
tension in the muscle it's the same
tension either way be like cool so it's
the same okay like so your method isn't
any better and then they'll predictably
I've got this all mapped out they'll say
well it's bad to lock out your joints
you like oh is that true like gasps to
be like why and they'll just make that
all yes yeah I so I think like the idea
of not locking out for the purposes of
keeping tension on the muscle is kind of
silly but I think where there is some
credence there is I think the majority
of times people use partial range of
motion and in my in my like bodybuilders
specific yeah is to increase their mind
muscle connection with the movement I
think yeah is a good merit that's
something that you should be seeking to
do but I still think that you in the
full range of motion is it just a better
way you can just get a mind good my
muscle connection
and use full range of motion and it's
that's probably the best outcome so like
what I'm trying to give them a little
credit here saying like what they're
trying to actually do is not so much
keep tension on the muscle that's what
they think they're trying to do they're
just trying to get a good feel good my
muscle connection on that movement so
they want to feel the chest working they
don't want to feel you know the tension
come off is it really about the tension
coming on enough no that's the point but
it's a good idea just a misapplication
totally alright YouTube time
oh god actually we haven't well I know
we cherry-pick but we haven't had I kind
of scroll through a lot of YouTube ones
and we never really have any trolling or
anything like that yeah we will
alright Sean is something says hey guys
is more of a kinesiology and
bodybuilders use exercise like spider
curls and tricep kickbacks to train
those muscles in their shoulders for
most contracted positions and then
exercise like anchor curls and overhead
extensions to train them in the most
lengthened positions is their benefit to
this given that a the muscles are
weakest in those positions due to the
link tension relationship and be thereby
articular muscles and our passivist is
actively insufficient we're trying to
act on two joints at the same time when
places in their extreme positions I'd
love for you to shed some light of this
whole thing because I find the whole act
of passive is efficiency being confusing
don't worry everyone does when it comes
to hypertrophy does it matter if the
muscles were less able to produce force
in those positions as long as we're
putting tension on those desired muscles
so it does matter but here's the thing
first of all training muscles they're
lengthened position actually shows as
independent stimulator of hypertrophy so
it's already good things I wouldn't
worry about if it a little bit
compromising tension because just a
Lincoln position has a different kind of
additive hypertrophy effect training
them in a shortened position has a
little bit of a downside but outside can
often be super or compensated with with
an enhancement in the mind muscle
connection your ability to target
exactly the muscle you want can be
better if the muscles are shortened
position for example your chest if you
really flex your chest and get your arm
all the way across it's much easier to
feel your chest that if you're training
the mid range of motion like that often
times same with your bicep big deal
spider curls when you curl at the top
you could really feel a fuck out of your
biceps now if the position is so weird
that the tension produce
is so low that you have trouble
generating the mind muscle connection
because you're like I feel like I'm just
moving instead of really tensing the
muscle a lot or Lillian it just that's
not even a metabolites being produced
because the muscle just feels like it's
moving around and not really putting a
ton of tension then it's too much and I
would use those exercises sparingly or
not at all so you're looking for
exercises that attack the muscle from a
variety of positions that's good and
they have to have a minimum amount of
tension throughput that results been a
feeling over all while like I'm really
using my biceps for you know the heavier
weights and on the lighter weights be
like I'm using my biceps goes holy fuck
my biceps are on fire but if those
things are happening it's more than
enough tension to cause hypertrophy
hypertrophy is a tension mediated but as
more volume mediated and more going to
failure closed mediated than it is
tension mediate so as long as the amount
of tension isn't super super low you're
good to go so for example if you lock
your arms out and then you do PEC flies
all the way down at the very bottom you
can feel it just as basically dude I
think there's at that point your biceps
have taken over completely and your
shoulder joints just a fucking agony so
your force production is so low the
dumbbells we'd have to use would be like
the tens or the 20s which means it's a
dog ship movement for 95% of the rom and
at the bottom 5% it's the only thing you
can lift but that's not even a good
thing because you could barely activate
your chest that sucks so cutting the rom
a little bit absolutely makes sense in
that context so as long as an exercise
isn't so insufficient that you can
barely use any weight and you can't feel
the muscle really contracting and being
challenged man it's a bit too much but
generally speaking a bunch of the
examples you gave they're still really
really good I would just say don't get
too exotic in training muscles up there
most long and most short most exercises
you should feel the most tension in the
middle of the range of motion and the
extremes are totally fine to go through
those well James yeah I agree with Mike
on that and I just want to point out
like um within the question Sean you say
bodybuilders use exercises like blah
blah blah for these reasons they don't
do it for those reasons at all they just
do those exercises because that's what
they think they need to do so I think
you're trying to apply logic to an
illogical you know outcome basically so
just my point being is like most
bodybuilders are stupid and not trained
in exercise science so they just do
tricep kickbacks because kickbacks
the triceps bra that's it that's the
only reason they would give you it has
nothing to do with flank tension
relationships you know back to been
sufficiency anything like that yeah um
Lewis this is not a question Louise
Carvalho who I know from facebook says
oh I'm pretty sure he's for Portugal all
right Riley our second question says
what training forms better to focus on
knuckle side a forum top or palm side
bottom sure afraid you both is what's
needed or if I should train in one side
seems like you Charley only do Paolo
wrist curls not sure averse row scrolls
of any merit they do it a little bit but
thing is your extensors never really get
that big but your flexors are real big
muscles it's like asking about calves do
you train your tibialis interior or your
gastroc and soleus will walk people can
even tell if you have a big to be honest
interior but if you have big gastroc and
soleus holy fuck like it's big right so
I would say mostly curls but some
extensions are probably okay then again
like if you do a lot of upright rows if
you do a lot of lateral raises your
extensors probably get more than enough
volume to get them like 70% of as big as
they'd be and a 30% difference in your
extensor size it's really just like
nobody will ever notice so it's kind of
like bodybuilding sorry real quick yeah
yeah for bodybuilding it's kind of like
it's okay hypertrophy yes of all scale
our muscles yes okay so diaphragm I
purchased really nobody sees it since
they're like what is it levator scapulae
hypertrophy where those are completely
internal muscles they could never see it
like my building is not about growing
everything it's about growing the
muscles make you look cool so some some
muscles have to sort of like take a take
a back seat and sometimes like you can
see some people who have like really
fucking popping external extensors on
their forearms and that looks cool but
that's more just a product of how they
look not necessarily like that they
trained it and I just blew up and that's
how it look their forearms probably
looked like that anyway and now this is
bigger and looks really neat I've seen
some guys where you look at their farm
extensors how it comes up into their
triceps and you're like oh my god yeah
freakin sure but they were just gonna
look that way anyway you know what I
mean so yeah it's it's not worth putting
a lot of training effort into yeah I've
actually had a legitimate critique of a
few of my pro
it's like oh I don't see an anterior
tibia fucking idiot
and you won't that's one of my answers
alright Nicola Nicola last YouTube
question for the day says athlean-x now
that's actually all capitalized
Jason Blaha and Arnold Schwarzenegger
our proponents of the bicep curl with a
super slow negative I'm gonna pause the
question to go to Huffman trees response
says Ella way lol the waiting list of
the made it sound like they were peers
of Arnold will be killing himself
country very much appreciated their yeah
bike chic of isochrone super slow
negative do you recommend this variation
of our per trophy is the bicep getting
extra stimulation yes making it the best
bicep exercise not the best but very
stimulative one we get to that second
row second I would have thought if it
did you would have written about it on
the bicep training tips on our P article
yeah so here's the thing
the a cheap curl we said with slow
eccentric with controlled eccentric
bicep curls unbelievably stimulating but
is super fucking fatigue so its stimulus
to fatigue ratio it just doesn't make a
whole lot of sense um it's like if
someone asks you like hey do you ever
like take a deadlift off of a rack have
people move the rack slow eccentric the
deadlift down and then somebody picks it
up and then you do it again would that
be stimulative thought my god are we so
stimulative but the problem is the
fatigue would be unbelievable because
the amount of load you're using and the
acute injury risk which is actually
pretty decent with bicep cheap curls
like a lot of guys actually pull their
biceps biceps cheek curling fuck what's
his name the Australian dude did it oh
yeah yeah yeah yeah with the two men the
two men curl five yeah yeah 405 it's
funny because the other guy was Chris
Bumstead and Chris posted as mr. Libi
about like you could have fucking washed
his own career down the drain because in
in the physique Olympia if your bicep
doesn't look right you're fine done like
it's Chris Bumstead like he's a super
sharp guide without the dumb shit but I
was watching that was Chris mindful how
could you do this bad don't freakin do
stupid shit like this
Calum von Moger and Calum was the
Wesley's bicep doing the cheaper right
you can certainly do that by yourself
you know and then later tour it again
like doing like a rappelling mountain he
is such a nice guy to like everything on
is it can you seem like a nice genuine
person I just wanted to stop doing dumb
shit but anyway the fatigue is too high
and learn URI risk is just a bit higher
than you'd want it and also here's the
thing right um when you're saying we can
do any century could do a negative when
you're really saying is we want the
total force to be higher than basically
85% water around but there's no additive
hypertrophy benefit to higher than any
five percent water run so as long as
you're in the five to ten rep range at a
four inch of motion leak any heavier has
no additive benefits and it has big
added downsides so it's almost like
someone says like man if I do like this
is a common reply to people who do like
partial ranges like incline barbell
press but like when with the mid range
believe I could use more weight like
this like yes but if you do for range of
motion and do sets of five you're using
as much weight as you'll ever benefit
from but it's much safer and it's much
more straightforward and it's much
easier to track and so what it's on
someone and they're like well I guess
right so no we would recommend that
exercise because while it is stipulative
is very fatiguing and there's a bunch of
other things that I've said before on
not meeting my post if you go on
Facebook I have a public account you can
search cheating technique so on and so
forth with my name and I have a bunch
old posts that are really to the point
because there's a bunch of problems with
these another one that comes to mind of
Chi curls is how do you track something
like that how much did you cheat how
slow was the negative things like that
or make just controlling how much cheeky
or how much assist you're doing right
right right
it's like okay as it get smarter you're
going to have to assist more and more
and more now you have a vast discrepancy
in the technique within the same session
within the same actual X set and like
how do you even assess our IR or
something oh yeah sure you adding more
cheat as you go like yeah I do stop so
that's an easy way to do what I would
call a super up maximal effort meaning
you've just gone above what you were
really physically capable of doing just
by using a cheat right and so that's a
really easy way of exceeding your MRV
like
instantly instantly overreached on that
muscle yep yep yep yum-yum
boom lots of other questions folks here
but unfortunately can't get to them all
that is just what is the deal now adays
stop share no more no James stop
training I thought it was enhanced
versus natural training and I think it
had Ric Flair no that's John Meadows
acts what John Meadows my chronic
glimpses Ric Flair in there John Meadows
does look a little likely Ric Flair from
a bit okay I can see that folks we're
gonna wrap this one up so we had to this
week thanks for being patient with us we
had a little little travel going on so
we broke it up we're gonna try and stay
on track for next week as normal so
thanks for tuning in if you guys are
enjoying our nonsense please hit the
subscribe button there's also a ton of
other cool stuff like the RP podcast and
there's some RP plus videos that kind of
filter it into the this stream so if you
really enjoy kind of our Sport and
Exercise Science and nutrition related
stuff subscribe and there'll be plenty
more on the way Mike you got anything
good for now alright folks talk to you
next time peace