[Applause]
you're serious about your goals and the
rpe diet app is here to help it creates
a diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
world
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today
folks welcome back it's me James and I'm
with Mike we're here to answer questions
ready to go Mike how's it going it's
going and I'm already as well shall we
begin let's do it
all right from rp+ first and YouTube but
after McCauley forty-plus says Newton
tog from Newcastle dr. James dr. micha
dr. James you know man I think the
Germans took all that shit but
apparently one or two went a different
way for this gentleman all right he says
after a week of D load at home I devised
a home workout a cycle based on your
advice last week and for Mike in the
coronavirus podcast yesterday I
completed my leg record and holy shit it
was indeed a religious experience oh boy
using split squats goblet squats and
lying hamstring curls using a dumbbell
I was hitting reps of around 20 plus
with minimal raaste me for around 3 to 2
reps from failures since it was my first
week today my Dom's are insane my
questions are yeah these Dom's expected
since I'm gonna mean plan it was a new
higher rep rate my furious muscles over
20 I would say yes James yeah this is
like classic metabolite training the
first week is like soul-crushing and
then weeks after that are like very mild
very mad yeah
my plan is based on the metabolites
focus my cycle from five-day male
physique template I have kept the same
number of exercises per day however I
replaced all exercises with the ones I
can do at home with dumbbells rather
than starting 3 from fail electricity
start week one or two from fail I'm also
doing almost all exercises with a slow
eccentric pausing incorporating my reps
for us too for only 35 deep breaths a
little longer on legs before my next set
I plan to progress in both feeling
proximity and volume each week week - -
from fail week 31 from fail etc and more
sets does this seem like a sensible
approach I would say it does with the
understanding that you don't do a
feed-forward progression you do a
feedback progression where if you're
healing and if your performance is good
you increase that's if you are super
fucked up you know like don't increase
sets or if you got a super sore this
time just I would say you know repeat
this week verbatim as far as volume and
try to get him some rep ers on stuff and
if that like James predicts won't get
you nearly a sort of them next week then
the week after that is when you should
start to increase volume James yeah and
I think maybe this is something that
maybe we maybe our viewpoint has shifted
a little bit more recently where I think
and when we first started talking about
like programming the volume landmarks
and progression the idea was always like
plan and increase up to right but now
it's more of like have a tentative plan
like have an idea of what's gonna happen
and then Auto regulate right so now we
kind of have like a feedback and
feed-forward combination approach which
we think is generally good and maybe we
all haven't always made that clear more
recently because I think both of our
opinions kind of shifted in that
direction where it's like yeah you
should have a plan started mev have a
rough idea of where to go weeks two and
three but most of it is auto regulated
at that point yeah and that'll
regulation favors progression in the
sense that if you were healing on time
from soreness and your performance
stable or improving you Adsense like so
the auto regulatory structure does favor
progression but it's a gated structure
that's if you're not recovering you do
not progress yeah all right its next
question following on for my last
question my concern is that perhaps I'd
begun with too much volume maybe after
the quad focus day I found that I was so
sore I couldn't really push myself on
glute focused a 3ds Li Maximus and even
after a week yeah you definitely bit off
way too much I decided this is why we
folks this is why we say and we're not
trying to all made this mistake and make
it every other week this is why biting
off too much more than you can chew is
not a great idea this is why we always
say start a little on the easier side
you can always add you cannot subtract
so I said okay I decided to reduce the
lower body exercise the two senses are
three sets this week and see how it goes
yeah today was chest day and performance
was fine whoever I kind of felt drained
for the rest of the day after and total
for nine sets of chest exercises that's
a lot 9 3 times incline press ups 2x
dumbbell fly to explore it press ups and
2x close core press ups yeah that's a
lot as I wouldn't file a and B team
sorry good yeah I would even consider
maybe consolidating those down that's
that's a fair number for one session
especially if you're doing like mile
reps stuff like maybe pick two and then
have another chest day yeah is it
expected a few more drain in the
high-rent phase so not necessarily but
we'll get to that in a sec so or I have
I potentially you overreached by
starting X 1 or 2 or such high volumes
it you probably did a mini sort of
overreach where is that technical
overreach that you're not like sue
depleted but you're more depleted than
you would be what I would say is there
isn't in this is something that I've
discussed in the rp+ stuff that will be
coming out about you know within the
next several months of advanced
hypertrophy concepts of tools there is a
lot of interest that in James and I have
talked about this other webinar a couple
times there's a lot of introspection on
a regulation you can impose one of them
is on the degree of disruption right so
a and to some extent the pump but your
disruption is really a cap so for
example how many steps should I do this
session let's say it's a first session
or even a second session I'm not so sure
you know first session for sure it's
like you know the ghetto mev stuff well
one of the things is you know okay am I
feeling in my muscle connection as the
burn they're great that tells you if you
did one set correctly
am I getting a really good pump tells
you if you're on your way to get good
gains but that's like sort of a minimum
bikers after you get a good pump do you
keep going or do you stop well the last
indicator or sort of raw stimulus
magnitude proxy is the degree of
disruption here's the deal man like
especially in a first week if you've
done like five sets of like you know
modified squats at home and your legs
are starting to wobble to the point
where you like have to go get a drink
from your kitchen and you like almost
cramp you bro like you're done you know
like so after every cent you should be
evaluating when am I really fucked up
look if after four sets you could hop
skip them play you know play the violin
at the same time then yeah you probably
just not disrupted much like if you're
like spheal fundamentally fine keep
going
but like if your legs feel fucked up and
you're like oh like I've done this
before James have you ever done it where
you're like you know you're done but
you're like let's do one more set and
then you regret the shit for another 100
you know you know when you share this
fucked up stop just shy a fad or right
right when you feel it don't keep going
so during that nine sets of chests you
probably experienced towards the last
couple of sets like fuck man my chest
has already really fucked up what am i
doing stop doing it so that will make
you drain the high reps yeah like game
said you know they can make you dream
the first time but you get used to them
pretty quick but nothing you don't ever
get used to super high volumes beyond
your MRV so make sure that even within a
single session especially in a first
week when you have nothing relative
that to check that status of that
disruption how weird your muscle feels
how weak it feels how awkward it is to
move around whether you use it and if
that's getting to be where you get
wobbly that's it's definitely things so
like for example Charlie and I we were
training legs recently and we had
planned three sets of barbell lunch to
squat super sets at the end of some
other leg stuff we did and you know the
first couple leg things mediator quad
things were so novel and so stimulative
when we did such a great job with them
that after we both did two sets of
lunges instead of three we looked at
each other were like we're done like a
charley action like did the snakey leg
on one of his lunges where he was
getting out of the lunge position
and his leg started like doing like the
bar like the caffeine were like poke
poke poke and I was like the walk he's
like I don't know man I'm like you're
done he's like we're done so like doing
you could always rest and do another set
and like guys who say they all a trained
super fucking hard super high-volume
motherfucking don't pat yourself on the
back too hard you could always rest
another three minutes and then do
another set if that does not require any
talent but there is a point at which
your muscles are so fucked up like
enough is enough so pay attention to
that James yeah
that was a great answer and the only
thing I would add is if you're feeling
particularly drained a lot of the times
with like the metabolite training and
the mile rep training the level of
conscious effort you have to put into
training actually goes up substantially
because of the pain and the proximity to
failure just goes up immediately so you
tend to be more like psychologically
engaged in what you're doing a little
bit more I'm having to pay attention
like this hurts this hurts this hurts
I'll have to keep going or like I I feel
tired because I've already done 20 reps
but I still think I can get to 30 I have
to keep pushing pushing pushing that's
probably where you're feeling most
drained from and that's just a normal
part of doing that kind of training so
don't I'd say you probably overdid it on
the legs and we already addressed that
but that's probably where you're feeling
that like I feel like shit from yep and
he says think in advance and apologies
for the 6th year of question please
don't apologize so you paid good money
to be on rp+
I hope both of you and your families are
still healthy and managing to find
enjoyment in these great abs I'm gonna
make a really really politically
incorrect joke no no no yes shouldn't
but it's really just my expense you know
not all of my family is healthy but it's
the bad people in my family that are 600
karma came around like oh I hurt your
aunt Marcy sick I'm like yes
please God finally finish what you
started with 39 fucking years ago dude I
had a similar experience I was watching
a documentary on the Menendez murders
and I saw that a Netflix or whatever and
I was like woo yeah there was like one
one of the guys so the dad gets like
shotguns to death right and one of his
employees like they're interviewing him
and they're like sounds like you're
managing your emotions really well like
what do you mean hiding my glee and I
was like oh damn this guy wanted this
motherfucker dead apparently he had it
coming so it just made me think of that
yeah
Menendez brothers were they like so see
you okay I just got a crystal I just
have to watch it tonight we're gonna
yeah it kind of goes a different route
than I thought because if because they
paint the picture in the media of them
just being these like stuck-up rich kids
who just wanted you know mommy and
daddy's money but then this like whole
other thing like kind of I don't want to
spoil it but there's this whole other
side fucked up huh real fucked up yeah
and it's interesting damn alright Mircea
bill I says hi Doc's I know that the
deadlift is a shitty exercise for froz
purposes with folks that's not sure it's
not shitty exercise for physician
purposes it just doesn't have a great
SFR which means what it has a huge Ross
stimulus magnitude so it's applicability
for advanced athletes is limited but
beginners get a lot out of it that's a
really time efficient as well so forth
so but you are correct than many
ancestors shitty so but dr. Mike always
says that a lot of his back development
erector straps is due to his early death
lifting oh I guess I just answered the
question by accident how would you
implement deads into Eifert rootaberger
for the purpose of developing ones back
mostly traps and erectors thanks as
always guys look I would do it for
mostly beginners intermediates and I
would make them do excellent technique
sets of five to ten and the deadlift a
full pause is good touch-and-go is fine
as long as it's is like the gentlest
touch in the world and not like one of
those slam wait to the ground and
rebound and the rebound catches you the
first three inches I can tell you
straight up I've hurt myself dead
lifting exclusively from doing touch and
goes hot Sun especially with like
hexagonal plates where they like well
the play one plate turn a little bit
yeah that's it
so and those are super great and I would
say in the early part of your lifting
especially or if you really really need
spinal erectors
you do them as a first exercise you need
a far away from squats so for example
which you can do here's an easy setup
for a program you would do a two
sessions a week session one is you do
you know multiple sets of five to ten
reps and the deadlift and to keep it in
a five to ten rep range you might have
to do some down sets down sets are
excellent for deadlifts and then when
you're done dead lifting which you
probably want to do is take a little
sort of break so to speak from axial
loading by doing something like a lying
or seated hamstring curl for higher reps
hits your hamstrings on time and it
leaves you the fuck sitting down or even
laying down really easing up your back
and then I would finish with a quad
exercise something like a high rep leg
press or something like that or my
erupts of leg press because you don't
you're not gonna be limited in your quad
training by your posterior chain and
then later in the week list I would be
like at Monday Thursday you could do
your regular squatting and then stuff
like a bed lifting or hybrid good
mornings and all that other stuff when
your back is relatively healed and I
would also during the time all the dead
lifting fry per trophy I would also make
sure I'm doing plenty of rolling later
in the week of course with that left and
lots of rowing in general just to make
sure that your deadlift isn't just a
drop in the bucket for your erector
volume in your trap only a mini rhomboid
volume but that it's a concentrated
loading of lots of stuff in that
direction from which you can receive a
lot of growth that hangs on when you get
away from higher volume pulling later
later blocks in macro cycles James
anything yeah that was good I would I
would just say you know for for anyone
who's like a late intermediate or beyond
I would not program deadlifts for the
purposes of developing erectors traps
anything that's not basically like hips
or hamstring dominant kind of movements
that our goals wouldn't use it and
really I would really only use it for
beginners and I would consider it to be
a happy accident I would still program
it in such a way where that day was
focused on the posterior chain muscles
in the legs and it would be treated as
predominantly a leg day I wouldn't treat
it as like a combination back and leg
day and I would be cognizant of the toll
that it took on those other muscles as
the happy accident so I wouldn't program
like a heavy bench row later that day
might do something light like a no cable
row or some upright rows or something
for the traps but nothing where it's
gonna be a lot of axial loading already
toast at that point so I think it's a
great tool for novice begin to early
intermediate and then
that point you can start making a pretty
calculated trade-off where you say
there's probably a better way to hit
these back muscles maybe even a better
way to hit my lower muscles by doing
other training methods that don't wipe
me out systemically quite as much yep
Patrick Varney says hey guys so it's
week two of my mezzo and due to some
unforeseen circumstance I've overreached
my forearms on that pornhub oh he said
really though I had a serious question
so I used to be a pretty fat
160 pounds or I got on TRT and once I
got on I went hard on bulk order was a
solid Jabba the hutted 190 nice lol with
the same body count that's really good
whoo yeah I've been on a diet back down
for a bit now but I'm kind of just
curious about your guys's theoretical
opinion over people in a similar
situation to mine either untrained or
essentially going on gear lol it
understanded a lot of people the
aerospace community can point back to a
Java bulk earlier in their career which
they believe is where they gain a
majority of their muscles or at least a
lot of it do you think there is
something inherently beneficial off
pushing way beyond we feel comfortable
ie what I benefit from pushing the 200s
as opposed to cyclic Robotnik on seconds
between 10 or 20 percent 95 SRP
typically recommends I think those
things are a really stupid idea James
and I have both done them because we
were young and stupid I think that I
will say though is you you know so I
don't think that's a good idea but you
said that do you think there's something
inherently beneficial about pushing way
beyond where you feel comfortable here's
the thing when you're cycling in that 10
to 20 percent body fat range and you've
gotten your lean muscle to the point
where you not weighing 190 lean then 200
lean then 210 relatively lean every time
you even get to 215 from 210 or 218 that
will be way beyond so the hardest mass
I've ever done was my more recent one
where I masked up to GE Liz so a year
ago I masked up to 265 which wasn't my
all-time heaviest and I had been
drug-free I had been to 70 before but I
did it with more clean food and it was
fucking god-awful
even though it's coming back to an
earlier body weight then later I did
another mask but I started out lighter
and leaner again
and I pushed only to 250 and that was
hard as fuck getting from 245 to 250
took like everything that I could
possibly fuckin do and even that was
tough so it's it's not getting 20 or 30
pounds above your weight where you're
already super fat actually once you gain
some fat unfortunately your insulin
dynamics and your glucose sensitivity
and nutrient sensitivity dam exchange of
such a way that gaining more weight is
easier which is why people who get
really obese actually can gain weight
really fast because now their satiety
signaling is off fat cells have no
problem expanding what's tough is
gaining weight with relatively healthy
food when you're relatively lean and
that shit is hard that is the kind of
pushing you should do but it shouldn't
be the kind where you get super super
sloppy because that first of all leaves
a ton of excess skin you deal with all
that bullshit later and also it's really
really bad for your health it probably
doesn't have any more muscle than doing
it the right way James yeah I agree I
think the you know the this the slow
steady cyclical approach is generally
gonna be the way to go I think it can be
fun and like motivating for people to
get that first big mass because they're
probably reaping two big benefits which
is their beginner gains but also they're
probably a little bit more conscious of
how many calories and maybe macros
they're eating for the first time so
they're kind of riding a really big wave
of beginner gains at that point which is
great and it feels good you know it's
also feeling those good to do a mass
phase and be able to eat a shitload
sometimes so I think there are like
psychological appeals to doing like the
full-on job of mass and especially if
you've been cutting for a really long
like if you were like a really heavy
person and you've lost like hundreds of
pounds at this point you're like dude
I'm just so tired of cutting that's
still a bad situation because you're
going to be more prone to rebounding but
I could see the psychological appeal of
having a period where you get to just
like kind of eat a little bit more maybe
eat just what you want and not being
quite as a nit picky about it the
downsides is what mike already already
outlined we're kind of the physiological
costs you you sustain generally outweigh
the the benefits you reap both
physically and psychologically so I
still think that like I would rather see
you get uncomfortable doing you know uh
15 weeks of mass mini cut and then
another 15 weeks of mass and being
really uncomfortable at the end
that versus being uncomfortable at the
end of four weeks from just stuffing
yourself out of a Sun and it just just
real quick you know be uncomfortable
eating cookies and protein shakes is a
fun way of being uncomfortable if you
really want to be an iron warrior do
what it takes be uncomfortable eating
rice broccoli chicken and then having
two nights a week where you get to eat
cookies and ice cream or Taco Bell like
that is a great combination of still
super fun the junk food always tastes
good because it's always novel every
week but you still smash a ton of food
you're not gonna have any issues being
like oh then I I'm really still craving
food younger crave shit after you slam
600 grams of fucking rice per day for
four days in a row you can fuck this
right that's what it really takes to do
a really good job and keep your body fat
attract you keep your hunger super well
aligned and make sure that everything
you're gaining is as much muscle as
possible because like gaining fat just
really isn't that hard gaining weight
isn't that people are saying gaining
weight hard it's not that hard america
world champions back to back to back
gaining weight and you just do it bites
eating super tasty foods super high
levels of saturated fat sugar the thing
is like that's just not the way to get
muscle and eating for muscle gains is
tougher that's we should challenge
ourself with rather than just job a bulk
yeah I had another quest pizza last
night it was good it's like all fat yeah
no carbs all right
and he says appreciate guys as always
and hopefully you and your families are
doing well excited direct my quads for
the entirety of me
at the London seminar fingers crossed
unfortunately Patrick you can uncross
your fingers because almost certainly
that seminar is getting postponed
period bummer cos if the United States
is just going to be breathing its first
sigh of relief in early May and travel
restrictions around the world will
probably begin my prediction is to ease
up in some capacity through the summer
that's when everyone's really gonna be
breathing a big sigh so may is too close
and well I mean that seminar but we're
already discussing TLDR how to tell
folks that it's possible
because it's not it's not certain that
in London at that juncture public
gatherings of that size will be legal
right or ethical right even if even if
they are illegal they might not still
might not be ethical at that point too
so um I heard you EBC had the same thing
and that one takes place in the summer
and they've already said yes what yeah
UBC and Australia's postponed until the
same time next year
so I sent an email to Air China to try
to get my tickets move to the next year
and we'll see whether there are they
have a one week to return policy and
emails we'll see how close they get to
that like never
they might just tell all Americans to go
fuck off it'll be Albert oh fuck yeah
alright it's funny too cuz I am flying
with Brad Schoenfeld and I told them
like hey man it'll be fine is it their
China are you serious and I'm like I
swear to god it's a great airline and
then like all the sudden us shit happens
I want to be like it's not there China's
fault god dammit it's like Mike this is
just a poor reflection on you everything
about this is because you're bad bad all
right
Hugo Doris sounds like a guy who's in
your fight bracket you're like I don't
want to fight that guy yeah you see that
and you're like gosh shit fuck is he
Brazilian or Mexican either way I'm
getting my ass fucked up sorry real
quickly change it I've been YT watching
just like the fight pass like streams
just because I'm dying for a sports and
oh man they've been having like the
pride and the fucking pancreas replays
on oh my god I was watching one
yesterday and butterbean fought this
other giant fat Brazilian guy oh and he
Americana to him I was like I completely
forgot this even happened and I almost
certain that I watched it when I was
younger you know what I mean like butter
bean no submissions I know I was like
butter bean wins by submission are you
kidding me against the Brazilian guy
anyways sorry I was it was my magic
eating Americana butter bean it like
it's one of those people like really you
got Americana you're like yeah
he weighs 8,000 pounds his top pressure
it was about a tap to the Americana I
tapped his titty in my mouth there you
go Jenn Jenn case was competing in IBJJF
once in a girl's titty fell out onto her
face she was like oh can we can we put
that back that happened in a in a UFC
fighter Girls
boob popped out and they did a really
good job of like stopping it really
quick and in a way that was kind of
discreet where they were like hey fix it
and she's like oh shit
and it happens you know
alright he go tourist says hi dr. Mike
dr. James what is your nutritional
fitness strength mental health and
general advice for trucker my goal is
more physique oriented but advice in all
aspects was much appreciated I'm 190 190
pounds six minutes six one meal trucker
around 80 percent body fat visual tests
it was very overweight about a year ago
but got so serious and abettor and
myself and dropped 60 pounds amazing I
accomplished this by cleaning out my
nutrition and doing workouts on the
highway truck stop parking lots during
my work trip stops working awesome
nutrition was simpler to modify than
with exercise but I struggle with the
hunger healthy meals satisfy my hunger
for three hours but then I'm on the road
and can't have a decent meal so snacks
are my go-to alright healthy snacks
don't satisfy hunger all that much
besides I sometimes have to drive at
night and need to be awake so snack in a
junk food helps me stay more weight than
second a healthy food well there's easy
recommission there's just taking more
caffeine eccentric coffee but I felt the
high tolerance over the years that
doesn't help me that much hence i snack
junk okay they're stronger things the
coffee but also you probably cycle your
caffeine intake a little bit get some
sun city back so what fat burners
control appetite help yes but they're
not a long-term solution what are the
pros and cons about using some
supplement me just like something you do
at the end of a bodybuilding problem
it's not something you can sustain also
if you're if you're desensitized to like
stimulants already than the fat burner
might have almost no effect at all sure
so just real quick on the nutrition
let's see if james and i can give you
some recommendations so one thing you
can do is healthy snacking should
actually control your hunger if you're
adding in the right kind of healthy
calories so yeah you should have some
like carrots or celery or broccoli or
whatever those veggies but if you have
something needs with that as snacks that
it'll really kick your hunger also
protein bars are great now you're gonna
fucking fart in that truck up into the
goddamn blue who gives a shit nobody
goes in that cab anyway other than the
lot lizards you pick up I'm sure by the
way that looks a lot lizards are trucks
down prostitutes for those of you not in
the know something I learned from my
sister Large Marge
exactly so protein bars are super great
for controlling hunger and what else I
think that you know choosing just those
healthier options and even you can buy
one of those like sub sandwiches on a
truck stop with our Subway's everywhere
by a subway sub and just keep it like
lower in fat plenty of protein double
the meat tons of veggies but all of a
sudden that's like a really awesome
healthy meal it'll keep you fuller
longer so make sure the snacks are
healthier food and they can actually
keep you fuller calorie per calorie than
unhealthy the reason that snacking on
unhealthy food seems to hit your hunger
better is because this has got way more
calories in it so I would say double up
on healthy food and better off other
than that I think that your nutritional
intervention is really really awesome I
think it's working really well for you
another thing real quick is you may want
to this is not advice we usually give
but because you're very active you may
benefit from a higher intake of healthy
fats things like nuts and avocados and
things like that nut butter higher
intake of proteins and veggies but a
lower intake of carbs since you're
sitting around a lot you might not
really need the carbs ton a ton and it
has been shown that for some people a
relatively low carbohydrate diet can
blunt hunger more calorie for calorie
than including some carbs so that's
something I would definitely consider
James any other nutrition tips I
actually watched a documentary on
nutrition and Truckers awhile ago and
this is gonna be a very obscure thing
was on I don't know like an e or some
bullshit I was watching and they were
trying to make truckers more healthy and
they also they were they were monitoring
their bowel movements and they were
noticing that like some truckers
wouldn't pass you know something they
ingested for like two three days at a
time because they were eating a lot of
junk food and they were so you know uh
just stationary that you're sitting all
day and just sitting in the truck and so
they tried all these different
interventions to get the truckers to eat
healthier food so they were like try and
they did a good job whether they were
like oh it's not that you have to go to
like you know sprouts and get all these
fresh fruits and vegetables all the time
but let's try and make some healthier
options when you're on the road and they
found that there there there they were
able to pass things more readily and and
more normally on a better schedule but
one of the problems the trucker
had was that they were not they were
taking too many dumps and they would
have to slow down and like they were
having a heart keeping their their
schedule and reason and there are
freight transit and stuff so there's
definitely a balance you're gonna have
to strike there between leg you
obviously want to be promoting health
outcomes and having plenty of fiber and
all that stuff but you also have to make
sure you're making your deliveries on
time so I think all those are good most
you know we travel a lot and either by
car or by playing or both
and most gas stations and truck stops
seem to be getting better in terms of
having things like protein bars you know
like like jerky snacks cheese snacks
I've seen Greek yogurts been popping up
a lot more I've been seeing more and
more protein shakes and now I'll even
see places they'll have just like a
chicken breast that you can get or like
out chicken skewers or chicken breast or
anything like that so there are some
like good protein options and proteins
gonna be really good if we're keeping
you full
I think the healthy fats is something
that you can explore you know the fruits
and vegetables is gonna be hit or miss
like obviously we would probably
encourage you to get as much good fruits
and vegetables as you can but if you're
primarily using you know convenience
stores and truck stops like who knows
what they're gonna have they might have
a banana or an apple or something or
they might have they might have like a
fresh like broccoli with like a ranch
kind of dipping thing who knows I think
if you haven't watched the movie over
the top that should be your first go-to
slice for information about trucking and
don't do any of that that he does it's
all stupid but they want you got to get
the cable thing put in there so you
could this is how Stallone got fuckin
ribs yep right you know just those
internal rotations yeah I love that
movie it's an amazing movie all right he
says asks for fitness I did home based
workouts but on the road like I
mentioned I'd also go to the gym to do
barbell workouts I was able to hit my
goal of losing weight but now I want
more size of strength yes that's
considered the Jeffrey program but do I
need to dismiss my goal of being strong
on the barbell lifts more over the days
I'm able to go to the gym on two
consecutive days so I do upper-body one
day in lower body the next day that
means I train the lifts one time per
week which I understand suboptimal right
judges this is Jim and Barbara Warrick
all together no I don't think so I think
you can go to two consecutive gym days
do fucking brutal high-volume barbell
fucking based workouts for lower one day
offer the next or however you want to do
it and then when you're traveling in the
try
throw some dumbbells on that
motherfucker do the RPG of a free
program like but a lower frequency one
like a two or three day program so that
you're training five four or five six
days a week and two three or four day
program I guess so you're training for
five six days a week and some of that
training is you know during the week
with dumbbells and stuff like that but
you still get technical practice on the
barbells and a dumbbell should support
expand your muscle mass so I think it's
workable James yeah absolutely and what
I would say is see if you can get a 24
hour gym membership that has a dongle I
don't mean 24 hour fitness it might
actually be 24 hour fitness but any of
the 24 hour gyms that you can dongle in
right you might be able to just get more
gym workouts on the road if it's one of
the big major chains like anytime 24
hour and there's some other ones like
snap crunch or I think you can just
literally just dongle in so if you're on
the road and you're like that good idea
I want I want to get a barbell workout
in like there's plenty of those major
change they're slightly more expensive
than like a typical Globo gym but not by
much so that might be a really good
option of having a combination of like
24-hour dongle gym membership and like
the you know work out at home stuff
probably be really good yep ah best of
luck to you also within the next 5 to 10
years the trucking industry will
probably experience a contraction in
employment because of automated trucking
which is great
and perhaps you can get a job as a
manager of automated trucks or something
logistics related but look into that
read up on it and see if you can't get
ahead of the curve I was reading that
they have trouble like once the truck is
on the highway it's golden but it's it's
the it's the transitional periods of
like getting on and off the highway that
are difficult what me very well actually
happen at least for some time is and for
liability purposes is truckers are going
to have an autopilot mode where they can
even potentially sleep but maybe they do
ski awake the truck would drive itself
and they would be able to read or do
other things watch TV manage logistics
stuff stay in contact with their you
know coordinators and then once the
truck reached a place where he couldn't
safely go by itself or whatever or like
backing into an alley or getting actual
delivery done then the person will be
sort of speak on the job
but they'll be getting paid the entire
time before that whole thing so I think
the first entry of automated truck is
probably as a solo sort of like an
assistant auto pilot yeah yeah yeah
because it's so interesting interesting
enough that's currently the case with
Airlines all right so they're on
autopilot the vast majority of the time
that you're being flown on a plane but
what they'll do is they'll check
coordinates check whether contact
airports which they're gonna be passing
to notify them just in case of emergency
here's our continuously so on and so
forth so they keep themselves really
busy but it's not super high stress
because the plane really just lasts
itself so I think it's probably to me
more like that for a while until you
know more true AI is gonna just drive
the entire truck yeah totally all right
Harris Akutan says hi dr. micha dr.
James so I guess I'm the MRV guy now
because I'm becoming obsessed with
understanding its Ella you're not the
MRV guy you're a little late to the game
on that Mike's done the MRV guy for
fucking forever at this point hey monk
dr. Mike if I got to my booger MRV yeah
yeah hey what's the MRV in this random
like my failure to make an actual funny
joke like oh yeah just insert MRV needle
you should joke that no one will ever
see on Instagram remember when you hit
your MRV for MRV jokes yeah I really did
and look Harrison if you want the title
of mr. Murray please for the love of God
take it from me okay so you mr. Murray
I'm like no offense Harrison khatam from
rp+ like who like just look into it all
right so he says I won't understand how
to best derive personally Murphy
baselines for all muscle groups in
hypertrophy and all movements
squat bench and deadlift and I have per
trophy training would you say it's true
that the byproduct of raising volume has
a metal cycle progresses the performance
decreases is finding out where your
systemic MRV is aka have any actual
story of ever changing a body can handle
absolutely yeah it might even be that
the direct goal to in some cases totally
really yeah so I'd like to put forward
the following hypothesis given a fixed
and universal number of sets rep range
and re are for are lots of groups as a
starting point
personal such kind over the course sir
weeks can use autoregulation to
gradually increase sets for all muscle
groups until MRV is reached in each
muscle group as well as systemically
interesting let's find out how maybe to
do say it well say again I was just
saying maybe sit like
it's sound reality so this is kind of
what we I mean this is mostly in line
with what we typically are talking about
the thing is like sometimes getting
every muscle group to local MRV and
getting a systemic em RVD all in the
same as a cycle is just not feasible
yeah um so let's keep that in mind
alright to do this I would start with
eight to ten sets per week for muscle
group focus on movements that can be
loaded heavily in target specific muscle
groups well like press hack squat versus
barbell squats interesting not switch
exercise to keep the same ones
throughout I guess throughout what
mesocycle should be doing that anyway
keep rir constant one or two okay that's
interesting but will be shitty
ecological validity because you don't
actually do that in real life
he trained previously a Beachbody put
the same Jersey two or three times we
each get an interesting intensity would
only increase it for up succeed at the
target rep range ie hitting 14 when
you're trying to be in the H 12 rep
range that's would increase by
autoregulation Dom's and performance the
overall idea is that by the endlessness
I'd be able to have a baseline of how
many sets per week across a group can
handle when priority hasn't given to any
particular muscle group from the
planning stages but time and training is
allocated evenly at least at the outset
so I'll tell you this at least at the
outset yes so there's a problem at least
at the outset eight to ten maybe over
your hamstrings MRV but one third of
your biceps are V so already there's a
problem there because it's not on a
regulated start and then you actually
have no guarantee that each muscle group
will reach their individual MRV because
we could happen is you could reach
hamstring MRV and quaternary
four weeks in but your biceps through
this on a regulatory process are still
nowhere near fall off on performance and
to your point you could reach quadriceps
MRV and hamstring MRV which also led to
systemic MRV even though biceps yep did
not you know what I mean so you have
it's it's not a linear like a
symmetrical puzzle and especially once
you kind of as a beginner yes you can
kind of use that same strategy to say
like I'm trying to hit as many of the
muscles and I'm tranch MRV and hit find
out where my systemically Mark V is that
will likely happen at least a couple
times but for intermediates and beyond
that it almost certainly will not happen
yeah and here so we'll see what you say
in your sort of follow ups miss book the
way we
have been doing it is you sort of have a
mesocycle where you train just normally
yeah some very much like this but with a
normal variation you know 3ri are all
the way to zero so on and so forth and
you see where each muscle group falls in
relation to its local MRV when the
systemic I might be is reached he have
to deal it at the end right him and so
for example you'd be like okay
hamstrings so systemic Emperor he was
reached for my body at five weeks out
okay great
took a deal okay let me look at what
happened throughout that whole time in
Week three my hamstring of our view is
basically there you need for Mike wada
Murphy was basically there and you know
where volumes are for those two Lakers
twelve sets for hams 16 sets for quads
in week five my biceps were feeling like
they were pretty close to MRV but not
yet they're like the workouts are really
burdensome and my performance was really
starting to just very much stabilized
and about to dip probably but didn't do
so I know my band that was twenty four
sets of biceps or you know my bicep
armor he's probably did something like
you know 26 28 maybe 30 and then my side
delt I had been training with 20 sets at
that point it feel like anything was
happening to them and that performance
was just increasing the entire time
there was not remotely sore not really
fatigue so I know my sites out shit is
way off so what you would do is next
time you repeat it a measure with those
muscle groups you would have in mind
that's why James and I actually earlier
we said we don't have MRV as a target
you auto regulate all your progressions
but you keep in mind where it's going so
when you know member we have a formula
for the coq au bison didn't get sore at
all and your performance went up a ton
and you didn't feel it all obstructive
so you need more well if you know that
your biceps I'm gonna review like 30
you only have four weeks to climb
anymore by some sets maybe you had two
or three sets to biceps next week but if
it's hamstrings and Hampshire engine
really get sore and the performance is
great you know the shit doesn't have a
big window so maybe just add one or two
sets so that wisdom of how far off
everything is for an RV in all of your
local muscle groups when you hit
systemic will tell you first of all
where to start some of the muscle groups
there any these will probably reflect
their RVs very very well and also you'll
know how roughly far you need to
progress so when the question becomes
how much volume do I add per you know
week if the indicators for the sub
progression algorithm tell me yes the
volume addition is a good idea we can
bias that too
little more volume addition for the
muscles we know have a big window and a
little less for the ones that we don't
everything in between James any
Corrections for that or any other
insights on that no I thought that was
great so like this is kind of a really
shitty lame analogy but to me if you
think about like driving directions
where it's like okay if I want to drive
from LA to Seattle I'm probably gonna at
least type it into Google Maps or
something and look at an initial plan
that says you should probably take the
five and then get over here and get over
here but at some point when I'm actually
making that drive I'm gonna pop on like
waves or something else and that's gonna
be telling me exactly what to do right
now right so it's kind of a same idea
where you have a tentative plan which is
like what you look up on Google Maps
really quick to see where you're going
and then you have something like Waze
that's giving you real-time kind of
corrections as you go all right so you
have like a plan and all a regulated
strategy you put those two together
you're probably gonna get on the best
track yep and then the biceps versus
hamstrings thing of huge' more vide a
smaller view would be kind of like are
you driving through the Portland metro
area during rush hour or not Leakey
could driving during the middle of a
Maui bike lab systems take us an hour to
get to Portland no big deal but if
you're driving during rush hour okay
let's stop for food here because just
wait out rush hour we have to eat dinner
at some point might as well eat dinner
now at 4 p.m. be out of here by 6:00 and
have most of rush hour gone versus
trying to get to Portland between 4:00
and 6:00 going fucking nowhere and then
we get hungry and we have to stop anyway
when the traffic is good so yes and the
only way you really know that is you've
driven through Portland before right so
all right all right and he says the
overall idea is by the innocent as a
head of a baseline if I'm honest that's
Greek each muscle group I can handle my
priorities and given any particular
muscle group for planning stages about
time and training is allocated evenly at
least at the outset yeah so for multiple
mezzos run in a similar way you would
have that so he says number one do you
think it's worthwhile endeavor or rather
pointless I think it's rather pointless
because you can just train normally and
watch based on what James and I said how
close to local MRV various muscle groups
get when your systemic hits you can make
all those adjustments just from training
normally watching
so aims to talk to real pop in if you
need not just just a reiterate a point
you made earlier you want to do this in
the most ecologically valid fashion that
you can which means don't just like make
up a thing that you wouldn't do in
training do your normal training observe
and adjust in like kind of scoot your
expectations each subsequent mesocycle
that's kind of what we're saying yeah
number two would you keep our er
constant a lot of progressively go down
from three zero three zero because it
simultaneously gives you good data
because he needs relevant data you need
our IRA and that's how you would train
exactly and then number three would I be
able to locate what my systemic fatigue
is by seeing decreased performance and
all exercises not just the ones I
increase that's an absolutely that's
very straightforward and he says I have
my last pilot capitation form of 2020 in
October after this comp I plan on doing
my first ever cut I don't plan on
competing again until July August 2021
lament length of time do you think that
I could conduct this sort of test on
myself and then see and see productive
weight loss I think this would take 60
weeks after we just switch back to a
more structured type of training like
the MPT I think the structure type of
training with perception with noting
where your responses are without a
regulation is the best way to note this
kind of thing in the most
technologically relevant
yea and shameless plug but if you
haven't read how much should I train
that whole book is dedicated to figuring
this shit out yeah
if you're mr. Emory a battery how much
should I train it's like we've literally
started riding the recovery book and we
had so much to say about the volume
landmarks we wrote another book in
between the time that we at least the
recovery book literally that's how much
we had to say about it so that we can
say in the recovery book hey by the way
if you need a real big refresher on what
MRV means we're not gonna get into it
here we have this whole other book I
love the RP basic books because in in
the newer books we could just say by the
way you should be recovering if you're
dieting do you want to know about
recovery this whole fucking book as
opposed to just trying to pepper in a
bunch of knowledge randomly dude I was
working on the project that I'm working
on for the volume landmark stuff and it
would felt so good
I brought up the idea of what the same
thing that we're talking about today
pre-planned versus auto regulated don't
pick one do both and then I was able to
write in like if you're not familiar
with this idea check out recovering from
training right like boobs already
covered feels good yep he says thanks
probably helped PS girlfriend update
since my girlfriend and I had both
unable to go to the gym right now I
convinced her to buy the at-home
training template I'm doing a 60 ml
version and she's the 60 female one we
served the program on the same team
that's really cool as we can see what
each other is doing for the workouts and
it gives us more to talk about as we're
in a long-distance relationship you're
gonna be in a long-distance for a while
with this Kovich it you feel oh damn
salt in the wound dr. Mike nobody going
anyway she can she about to give you
that box on you can't afford that shit
like social distancing oh man you got to
give for that Drake like ooh
Corona this was her first encounter with
RP I think if first encounters of the RP
kind was just spaceship lands and gem
case walks out kicks you in the balls
like man oh this first thing I said I
just had like the daydream of them
finally like reuniting after all this
stuff and like both are like super
excited to like embrace each other like
passionately but then they're both like
motherfucker have you been tested for
Cobra at 19 I'm not putting my mouth on
your mouth get out of here go back to
where you work you've messed and put on
that mask before you get to make it out
also because they've been doing RP for
months they're like super jacked alright
I think they don't even attract into the
people that they are now they were
attracted to who they were
wow you buff now not into your doubts
this was her first encounter I'm not
into your dolls by the way with
something I would never said to a woman
and never will yeah nonsensical
statement this was her first encounter
with our P and I'm happy to report that
she's doing it I'm making an RP junk out
of her yes yes get her addicted to the
good stuff
perfect the octopus tentacles spread the
mechanical octopus that encircles the
globe I've been using the RP diet to
fill my weightlifting performance for
years and our peace simple science-based
approach has been instrumental to my
success with the new RP diet app
following our peace principles is as
easy as entering my goals and schedule
in choosing my favorite foods the app
builds a diet to my exact needs reminds
me to eat my meals and adapts to my
body's changes every single day and week
the RP diet app is a huge health and my
quests become the best athlete I can be
and if your goal is to be your best it
will help
Khalid B says hey Doc some questions to
you about medical progression I'm a bit
confused about CLE B always has really
two questions number one I start my meso
at MeV so weeks one two three I'm
usually always increasing sets given
that soreness or performance or a check
for instance the seems session and week
one and week two might have the same
intensity and weight especially for
isolation double exercise for
progression and micro circular sets but
week four I would find that on some
sessions increasing sets might either
cause overlapping soreness or decrease
in performance so mess of progression
must come from intensity or weight in
that instance if week three the template
and week four of the template are both a
to rir and let's say the weight on a
certain exercises 25 pounds in template
I set that n aramis the weight of each
dumbbells so the progressions aren't
often and in both instances 2ir would
yield twelve reps should i do thirteen
reps for one iron week forward or to
progress that micro cycle or is that not
necessary
meaning you have two sessions in the
same exact variable stats weight rir is
fine and is equally Simulink you
remember to our UPS is still the same so
I think that it's a very very moot point
as long as you're not regressing in
variables week to week you're fine but I
would say if you feel like 13 would be a
more accurate gauge of your to RER now
go for it if you don't then don't yes
so doing it for its own sake would be
incorrect right doing it because it's an
accurate representation of how you feel
is what you should be doing and if it's
difficult being same it's fine you
didn't like we've talked about this
before you don't have to see a truly
linear increase in any one of those
variables of volume intensity frequency
at any one time point across the meza
cycle as long as the general trend is
that you are making it harder over time
getting up towards your MRV you're good
to go
so just because two sessions ended up
being virtually the same doesn't mean
that they're not stimulus of anymore so
long as over time they are yeah um I did
that actually recently so we're working
out with barbells at home and on the
roof and I did though we do this cool
thing a row to chest superset to row to
tummy like rotational barbell weights
but funny enough the mechanical
advantage is so much
of all worlds and it actually works but
like I wrote a chest it's like a pitiful
movement and then yeah here too compared
to standard for sure it's so
uncomfortable though because you're like
I'm falling forward I hate this I
actually did the same number of reps
except I added one repetition versus
last week same number of sets too but
last week I wasn't super happy about my
technique like it was good but it could
have been a little smoother this time I
just added one rep literally to a total
number of reps in the 60s but my
technique was way more rock solid and my
RR was the same even a little bit there
I say higher so instead of one rir it
was like two so then next week because
remember play the conservative game
unless you're being too conservative so
next week I'm for sure right because my
technique is super rock solid MIRR
screen next week I'm gonna add raps to a
bunch of stuff it's totally okay every
now and again to you know do basically
the same thing maybe push forward a
little bit and then be like okay that
was great I can go forward it's better
than Icarus burning yourself away doing
things you yes agree number two must I
always match the reps as weights
progress trough from progression or is
that really just to ensure our our Falls
it's just to ensure our er Falls but I
will say is that rep matching is a
really great way to ensure our tower
Falls and then simultaneously that
you're crying hard true re are right
because a lot of times like James how
many times I feel like looked at what
you did last week like squats or
something and you're like fuck how the
hell did I get 13 raps and you warm up
and you go this is heavies fuck
and then you nut up and you get like you
know it's like five pounds more and you
still hit 13 or if it's like the same
weight you hit 14 then at just just when
you hit the 14th fret you're like fuck
man like I didn't know what I had in me
and I would have never done this many
reps had I not known I was capable of it
from last week like for me matching reps
oh wait that's like an awesome bar and
unless I really am fatigued and can't
achieve it I try to hit it what do you
think yeah yeah I totally agree and at
the very least it's like even if it's
wrong sometimes it's right most of the
time right so like you're gonna have
some plus or minuses
but the baseline is get the mean is
gonna be like a really good strategy
overall you're probably going to be on
like 75% of the time and then you're
gonna have like twelve and a half up
twelve and a half down every now and
again and it's it's a good trade-off in
terms of like implementation yeah
actually this questions a lot easier I
thought it was for instance last most
certain exercise my week progressed from
say 90 to 95 pounds and if I'm the
ninety pounds a day 13 rep I got an 11
on the 95 pounds and I assess that my
level of intensity was the same o2
sessions will that be fine it's a hard
set fine to go Jared feather because the
conversion probably works but there's a
specific formula you can use to convert
the to their weights and reps James
knows I were talking about but you don't
even need the formula like when it's a
new weight don't worry about matching
reps when the weight chunks are jumps
are this big look if you're squatting
315 and you go to 320 you did 13 reps of
315 320 should be 13 reps you know or
more in most cases and if it's not you
probably hit your MRV but if you go from
90 to 95 that's that's a pretty big jump
it's okay that you go from 13 or 11 the
next time you do 95 you had better get
at least 11 or technically speaking of
detective a memory yeah what I was gonna
say actually too is like you when you go
to 95 you might get 11 and then if you
have another week you might end up
getting 13 the next week you know what I
mean like and then you're then it's
clear yeah I find that sometimes not
increasing the weight when the template
says to increase it works better for
instance if I target is told to 15 reps
I got 12 2 or 3 are and last session and
the templates was to increase weight
I'll keep the same weight and just
increased intensity by adding her up
until I get to 15 reps and increase knew
it would that be a good stretch it's a
totally fine strategy totally fine
shreds I think that's one or sometime
yeah
number three what if I miss s to me my
are on some exercises beginning of them
as ohm going one re are instead of two
or three and by week three I'm going to
failure on those exercises are our Falls
only three well the template to progress
those intensities actually happened to
me in my first medal the template is it
wise at this point to keep going to
failure no no no mean you're the mezzo
knows exercise or should I do fewer reps
and go back to two or three are
absolutely fewer reps two or three are
as soon as you detect that you've
overdone it ease up so for example if
you overdid it in the first week and on
the second weeks first set you
like fog man there's no way that was
actually to Ri Ri was a fucking zero
last week re norm all the weights don't
do 1197 do eight six five and then next
week would be great next week would be
great next week would be great versus
trying to catch them you know catch the
dragon that you can't catch especially
the first week that's the easiest time
to correct course like when you're in
the last couple weeks then you have to
make a decision of like today is this
one kind of a wash did I fuck it up real
bad and should I just start anew or do I
try and keep going so would this be a
trade-off accumulating more fatigue
versus progressing optimally in the
mezzo you know I wouldn't worry about
progressing optimally in the mezzo
because fitness and fatigue largely
cancel each other out so progressing you
want to progress well fundamentally and
you know your accumulation of the more
fatigue would destroy your optimal
progression it wouldn't actually destroy
your progression on paper but you would
accumulate so much fatigue that would
interfere with hypertrophy even if you
hit the numbers the amount of King later
fatigue would literally interfere with
the mechanisms of hypertrophy so you
don't wanna have like a religious
experience every mental cycle trying to
catch up to make sure you do a good job
so if you start to aggressively back off
as soon as you can and then go back to
the street now yeah and yeah I think you
may be just kind of gauging from these
last few questions I think you might be
putting too much emphasis on the week to
week progressions cover lead that's kind
of how it sounds to me you worry you
seem like you're really gunning for that
week to week and that's an okay thing to
aspire to but not if it comes at the
expense of having an entire mezzo of
shitty training because you're pushing
the intensity up so high aggressively
Khaleed my my best advice is start at
like a real comfy real conservative 3 or
4 RR in the first week and then just
plan to either add a little bit of
weight or a ttle add a repetition every
single session you'll almost certainly
be able to do it you'll almost certainly
will get to a point where in the last
week when you go to failure failure you
might be able to have squeezer two or
three more ups and hit big PRS on the
exercise most it much rather do that
then start to aggressively and fucking
flutter out coming from somebody myself
winky face who used to do that it's just
not worth it once you learn how to back
off your training just gets like
infinitely better all the
Wow I'm not ever systemically
overreached anymore this is great I did
progression on Smith machine shoulder
presses last year year and a half ago
where I basically added 50 pounds to the
exercise for the same reps 11 months and
the way I did that was I would only ever
go up by five pounds five pounds every
every week and I would take a deal owed
and then I would start the progression
of 5 pounds every week and like I'm a
really gnarly overhead presser and this
is like this isn't a 300 pound range
right I basically went from 275 to just
over 315 and never lost a single wrap
but the way I did it was I could have
gone up by 10 but I didn't I went up by
5 and I never got super super close to
failure and it was unbelievable
progression so training to failure is
cute it's nice it works really well for
a week or two but it does not work
sustainably and it doesn't work on super
compound basics which when you go to
failure on those the systemic load is
unbelievable you know a lot of people
pat themselves on the back for going a
failure all the time and you look at
what exercises are doing it's a cable
rope curls good that's nice you know go
to failure on that rose every week
properly done and let me know how that
works out for you
and even then so I want to get off this
topic a little bit but even like even if
they're doing something that's better a
generally better exercise like a bench
press or a squad or something it's like
okay if you go to feel you're on school
squats on the first set what's the rest
of that training session could it be
like you know what I mean
less less and I remember watching a lot
of DL B's old videos where she would
immediately go into doing about partner
assists which is basically super maximal
beyond failure for any given movement
that you would start and it didn't the
rest of the session is then your
partner's getting mostly a workout at
that point you know what I mean that's
just driving me nuts we're just like
also how do you track that you know how
do you track that it's like you just do
a fuse like you could just do more sub
max sets and probably get a lot more out
of it and have a longer mesocycle or you
know more frequent exposures per week
whatever how many however many ways you
want to spin it but yeah it's just not a
good strategy going to fit 100 Sun
lastly and I'm tablet focus phase of a
male physique template I'm currently
doing anywhere between 15 to 25 reps and
all my first set of exercises
I'm also resting 34 seconds between them
so I'll podcaster dr. Michael if I'm
gonna throw metabolites at the end of
workouts instead is that the goal of the
metabolites focus blend up heavy rep
ranges moderate and light or am i doing
it right by doing 15 plus and all reps
and first set well if you're using the
male physique template use it verbatim
but the male physique template is cannot
to be made very complex because it's
designed for folks that just want to
simplify their fitness and get a really
great result it cannot be a program that
it gives you the optimal result so clean
you can actually change it a little bit
to do a spectrum of ranges even in the
metabolites phase and see if the more
metabolites work for the later part of
the workout that's probably better but
once you start messing with a template
best of luck to you and just make sure
your auto regulation was really spot-on
I think for what he was saying about
your recommendation Culley just to be
clear I think what Mike was saying is if
you're going to do any metabolites work
it should be towards the end of the
workout not in the beginning of the
workout not necessarily that you can add
metabolites work to the end of workouts
hopefully that makes sense so it's like
if you have what's that black stuff to
do do it at the end but don't just tack
metabolite stuff on for its own sake
excellent questions from colleague TJ
Jankowski says get a podcast with him
Oh after sitting down and making a rough
guide for a pro years plan about two
months ago discovered 19 is annoying we
fucked off this entire plan yeah bus I
appreciate our like a.m. and that's
probably the biggest problem I've had to
deal with because of this I have a bad
day yes
alright but it's still a motherfucker
problem as someone who's been strength
training for all over ten years my
systemic artery and probably more for me
time as far lower the sum of each
muscles Amari probably even the sum of
their MeV do you know if that's being
correct maybe yours was
I was about to spend a good three blocks
of training with a lower body focus mass
now that I only have access to some
bands handles a park and some homemade
sandbags things sandbag thingies I
switched up to an arms buyers and tries
calves and hamster bring these body
parts up good idea they're thinking
nature like mass would have just been a
yeah to wash this was also the following
questions number one even though I
anticipate not
stuck at home for the entire three
blocks would you suggest I stick with a
focus the entire mass do you mean
mesocycles does he need blocks about
circles I use mouse I think he's using
them interchangeably yes sir mesocycles
okay would you suggest stick with us
focus the entire mass I think yeah I
think it's important to present a
consistent stimulus oh yes James yeah
totally okay am i sage or trainee I just
don't see one or even two motorcycles
being long enough to significantly bring
about improvements on a certain body
part yeah yeah agreed
yeah - would it be feasible to emphasize
my legs on my mini cut following these
three blocks nemesis on mini cuts is not
a good idea because many cuts do not
have the bandwidth to support
emphasizing anything since they should
be so sensitive the farm that I can
potentially add some muscle and deficit
probably not not at your level of too
much too late in the game for that my
man or is it just better to remain
patient in hammer than once I go back to
masam absolutely patient hammer
number three I'm doing pull-ups and push
up there Asians that I think should be
enough to cover the upper body and still
get the arms or just how low is I meet
MV four legs how much is it affected by
frequency and intensity am I better off
doing work to failure or very close yes
because the minimum access to equipment
I have yes once a week or I need to pump
it up put occlusion training help
occlusion training would help it's not
very sustainable I would say twice a
week leg training is a good idea and I
would say with at home dumbbell work I
would say four to six sets for quads and
three to five sets for hamstrings twice
a week
each is a good for sure maintenance so
you don't have to worry about losing
stuff yes sorry I was chuckling because
this MV thing these becomes like more
and more interesting the more and more
we talk about it so I was thinking about
MV sore some muscle groups and it
actually might not be on a traditional
time scale that's worth investigating
right and Vees for like something like
your legs might actually be like once
every scaled like once every two to
three weeks rather than once per week
right we use our once before we grab
recommendations and we generally stay
those are conservative meaning like you
definitely won't lose a soul if you hit
your quads for example two sets twice a
week right that's something that we
would typically recommend that that is
probably an over estimate more likely
than not and these might be on like a
non-linear scale where it might be like
every you know two sets every nine days
or something like that might be just
enough to keep you going so it's one of
these funny issues where you just
haven't really we haven't really found a
bottom end for the MV and so you can
generally assume it's it's probably
lower than you think yeah unless you're
like dr. michael it's alright no i just
it was just gonna reiterate like if
you're a bodybuilder you might have two
shifts what i just said a little bit for
but for most people and training but you
know if you're somebody with Mike's eyes
legs then your MVS are gonna be a little
bit higher than somebody with like my
size legs
I don't want personal note dr. Mike and
dr. Mel are you still doing you need you
J training of a music Dan hearse at home
training video that he put out for free
and although it feels super weird shadow
grappling I think I've made some
improvements although it's impossible to
actually tell actually yeah that's a
really great idea and James just talked
about a lot that even visualizing and
for sure moving with a pretender
grappler can make you better at
grappling especially in ways where you
execute a particular game plan not just
gonna you're not gonna give me live
rolls out of a shadow grappler but if
you practice specific game plan moves in
a specific sequence and solve specific
problems then you can get a lot out of
it absolutely yeah and actually Tom and
I had a really interesting talk this
week I don't think he's posted it yet
but he was kind of talking about MVS for
fitness for working at home and we
talked about that a little bit but then
I said what I think is really the
interesting thing and he works with like
a lot of rugby people and I said what's
probably more interesting is looking at
MVS for your skills and tactics because
fitness you can maintain pretty easily
but the actual tactics and skills for
your sport are what are going to start
deconditioning immediately during this
like co vid stuff so finding creative
ways to maintain the feel the
proprioception of a skill or maintaining
the sharpness and decision-making of
certain scenarios that you encounter in
your sport those are things that do
start to go away in a very very short
amount of time and if you don't get any
exposure to them at all they're gonna
start deconditioning immediately so
finding ways to keep those at least the
feel for some of those skills sharp was
probably really important and finding
ways of maintaining that by kind of
mental sharpness
learning understanding of the game
is also really important so like
watching film watching like these at
home videos is probably a really good
way to stay some of the deconditioning
that you're gonna see in skills and
tactics in lieu of doing direct training
so I think it's a good idea all right
another quick question I'm an ethical
vegetarian yet most of my protein from
protein powders eggs
my body's chicken coop social distancing
stop doing that I'm just eating tofu
seitan bread and grains and beans
probably never in your opinion would I
still need to shoot higher my protein
intake to be sure to full-spectrum
aminos who are the more complete sources
kind of lead into that not complete but
woody a species do any eater BCA is
there waste of time ease are also a
waste of time if you couldn't assume
eggs then you're really fuckin good to
go man yeah and I think you got a good
combination of you know like the eggs
the tofu seitan stuff like that you're
you're probably in pretty good shape I'm
not sure was he asking if he should like
like round elses proteins yeah yeah oh
so it's a protein powders TJ what kind
of powders because if it's whey protein
powders and you don't need to change a
fucking thing because it's a key protein
or something maybe you do I think you
can largely just keep doing whatever you
have been doing and you don't have to
adjust for this kovat stuff if that's
the question
alright Paul de saddle ear another spicy
one yeah hey Doc's could you please
discuss systems oriented thinking rather
than I'll Comorian and thank you for our
per trophy ie relentless execution of
the process rather than outcome based
goals yeah I can I could really give my
insight on the games can give his there
are essentially three types of goals
that there are outcome goals performance
goals and process goals
outcome is I want to win the Olympics
performance is as I am i running fast
enough weeks week and month to month to
be on track to that and process is and I
actually eating the meals and doing the
workouts to get me there the thing is
out the outcome is this nebulous hazy
thing that is kind of irrelevant in
large sense the only thing outcome does
is constructs your need analysis for how
to design your system to Train
and performance is cool as a keeping
track sort of thing and making sure your
auto regulate properly but it comes back
down to the system does all the heavy
lifting so it's kind of like 90 percent
systems oriented thinking or rather
whatever term and this is a long-term
process goals are absolutely way more
important than performance goals or
outcome goals because there would
actually get you done okay you can have
all the outcome goals alive I want to be
famous I want of the mr. Olympia that
doesn't matter but if you actually have
a process goal if I would eat six meals
a day and train five times a week
all the WHA that's very actionable and
if you stick to that whatever
performance you have coming your way is
gonna come your way and whatever your
genetics mix with that performance
improvement that it's gonna what there's
gonna be leading to your outcome so the
outcome goals and performance goals are
really guideposts it all comes down to
the process goals or what you call
systems oriented thinking so I think
it's important to have a little bit of
the outcome based goals to sort of point
you in the right direction but after
that the car the drives you there is the
systems oriented thinking James
yeah I'm mostly on par with what dr.
Mike said I think having those outcome
and performance goals gives your whole
whatever it is that you're doing whether
it's training in this case or you know
life ambitions it gives you a sense of
aim and a sense of purpose so I think a
lot of people often don't put enough
effort into actually outlining what
those things are because if you don't
have any aim you have nothing to aspire
to nothing to work for and then you fall
into you know nihilistic thoughts of
like I'm a piece of shit and everything
sucks and I can't do anything so I think
it is important to you like have a
really good you know performance and
outcome goals that you can aspire to and
is something that you should be seeking
and something that feels the pursuit of
those things fills your life with joy
but it's the pursuit and the the process
that tends to bring the most joy rather
than actually seeing like did I get on
the podium when there's more about like
I wanted to be on the podium and that's
what was able to funnel my life into a
series of events but I was able to
occupy my time in a flow state where I
felt challenged and I felt rewarded and
I was engaged and I wasn't just sitting
around brooding doing nothing I think
that's it's noteworthy and it's
important but ultimately I agree with
what Mike said or it's those process
goals of making sure that you're doing
things consistently you're engaging in
the ways that you are so
to engage on a daily basis those are
what ends up being the most satisfying
and from a fitness and training
perspective you really it's that little
like embrace the grind kind of mindset
really is true it's really more about
like showing up and doing it every day
even when it sucks rather than thinking
about like on I want to be mr. Olympia
it's like yeah that's not you're never
gonna be mr. Olympia little bitch you
got to do so you gotta have a better aim
you should have a better aim and so I
don't think that we should downplay some
of those things but I think from from
what I have looked into I'm not a
psychologist but I have looked at this a
little bit the outcome goals do seem to
be just proportionate excuse me the
process goals do seem to have a
disproportionate amount of in their
importance meaning meaning they should
occupy more of your your and in an
effort yep
all right number two from Paul why is
hypertrophy /ba turbulent style training
not a widely accepted in the medical
community is a prime area of
preventative medicine for general
population what do you think needs to be
done to further advances narrative I
think the narrative is advancing and now
there's a lot of good recommendations
but honestly I think they need more meta
analytic data as to how much of a
difference it makes a lot of their
resistance training stuff is very short
term intervention data with very low
volumes that doesn't help as much as you
could if it was longer term and more
high volume so some analysis of like
cohorts that are like you know more
ecological observational data might help
but it's slowly changing I don't know if
much needs to be done other than the
fact that more research to be conducted
and as more research is conducted the
medical community slowly turns its gears
it's a good thing that occurs relatively
slowly because then you want doctors to
say mostly stuff that works and even if
it takes them a while to accept the
stuff that works that's probably okay
for things like preventative care we
definitely don't want doctors to have a
reputation of like going with fads and
plenty people in the wrong direction so
yeah it's kind of one of those
interesting things to where you could
you could flip the question and reverse
and stay why in the fitness community
have we not embraced genetic testing and
risk factor analysis and blood work as
part of our daily thing well there's
just a significant diverging in the
fields that's at some point right
they're gonna start overlapping more and
more but doctors go into medicine but
exercise physiologists go into exercise
like they do overlap a little bit but
they also distinctly diverge
so they don't you know we don't see
these kind of our recommendations enough
because doctors don't study exercise the
way that exercise physiologist do and we
don't study health the way that doctors
do so there's gonna have to be some
intersectionality in the future for that
to become more and more mainstream yep
Aidan gives us a series of questions as
hi Mike James hope you're both doing
well all these on certain times a few
questions that I hope you can answer
question one can you give us a brief
outline of the study he carried out with
chair on the cycle progression what were
the results if you could give them the
study I believe is publicly available
it's not a study it's actually just a
review literature there was no study
conducted but the brief outline is that
in when you're choosing how to progress
during another cycle adding volume is
probably good idea give give that a read
it's like four pages long so it's not a
tough question to with all the Cronus
virus stuff going on I decided my home
gym with mostly essentials but I'm
missing heavy dumbbells I am able to
carry Otto's no one worth to plan
there's no setup I'd like to try to date
training when I start my next mass do
you've any guidelines on how to set up a
training yes what to do not to do yes if
I recall there's a twice to the training
section than our people look at if I
know which I can over for the nutrition
side of things yeah one idea had us to
do heavy quads they aim and then light
hamsters in the PM am I on the right
lines maybe we can be able to outline
your split when you did twice daily
training absolutely not but I can do one
better in about a week or two we're
gonna be releasing a free RP plus folks
free twice daily training at home guide
with sample programs and in addition to
that Steve Hall on revive stronger
YouTube which you should be subscribing
to just did an interview of myself Jared
and Charlie my training partners and it
was all about basically an hour or an
hour and a half all about twice daily
training and so that's gonna get you
really really well set up excellent
question three I need to said that
socialization phases should be kept for
more advanced lifters for once the total
body hem RV will not be high enough to
allow parts to be trade silent a need
remember V but I'm really keen on
bringing up my chest delts and arms in
terms of planning this with a good idea
to be to Mel cycle of arms chest and
delts specialize with a lower body on
back and V then after these two
motorcycles put arms chest and else on
and be in the take my legs back through
the review number V but what would you
do after this anything you want by the
way we remain in spirits them in anytime
you want as well as many kinds fat loss
phases so the easy one I give because
loss phases say what I do that to my
clients all the time to like what
happens next like whatever you want like
when should we do it like whatever you
want so the easy there is actually me
the answer here many cuts of fat loss
reasons should always be done with
everything either on MV or MeV so no
priorities and then during a mass
gaining phases whatever you want to grow
now you should be doing him that's a
yeah also with he only trying to grow a
select amount of body parts does that
warrant to Lord caloric surplus no
because you should be squeezing all of
the volume you can out of your plan
anyway you just biased it more of some
body parts and last to others but the
total volume should be basically the
same so you'd still be training to
systemic MRV it's just a different
composition but if you can train your
entire body just systemic ever V that
you shouldn't be prioritized but if you
still want to prioritize by definition
training an average of everything less
than yes you should mitigate your
caloric surplus ability yeah we've
talked about this in a previous webinar
look at this one this will only kind of
come up if you're doing something like a
biceps triceps mass phase where it's
like it's just not a lot of muscle mass
to be soaking in a lot of extra calories
so it might be worth adding you know
another muscle group at that point what
gain weights would you recommend to grow
my arms chest and salts you know on the
lower end if you really intend on doing
this and not training everything else is
hard the lower end of the 0.25 to 0.5%
question for I'm sorry feel like havin
fun this one was all I've got my dad
recently went to the doctor and they
said he had some sort of metabolic
syndrome because probably not some sort
of metabolic syndrome it's probably just
called metabolic syndrome and that he
could possibly be diabetic that means
he's probably pre-diabetic they told him
that he needed to cut out all carbs and
only eat meat for at least three months
good advice for someone who is possible
diabetic yes because they're probably
doing this in order to get him to drop a
ton of weight rapidly and get him out of
the pre-diabetic condition with doctors
devices kind of got all carbs how the
Hema bringing back insulin 70 not
directly unless the doctors was informed
but it sure as hell make you lose a lot
of weight and that will probably
increase your insulin sensitivity this
is they do this kind of diet for folks
that are really really on the edge and
really need it's not sustainable diet
doctors usually know that it's just to
bring you out of that danger zone as
rapidly as possible yeah I am a little
surprised they said only eat meat that's
they generally will say like mean that
Jesus veggies or something like that
yeah that's Nair it's never just like
because that sounds an awful lot like
carnivore diet and that has been
recently popularized by joe and jordan
peterson who did it for other reasons
yes i would just be my stink i kind of
raised a little bit at the only meat
that would i would want to verify that
the things that were just do what the
doctor says yeah for a reason and also
if your dad is uncomfortable with the
doctor saying and you both think he's it
doesn't nobody's talking about that i
would go to get a second opinion from
another doctor what I'm guessing is like
his dad said law if doctor wants me
being on this diet we're only meat and
he left out the parts where the doctor
said like okay we're primarily meat and
vegetables or something like that you
know what I mean question 5 what are the
downsides of too low fat intake the
standard recommendation is to have fat
set up 0.3 per pound of body weight but
I'm currently undergoing any kind of
lower calories usual dude not working
because the Colonna virus would it be
okay to drop fats below the 0.3 this is
only four weeks at a trial run on this
in my last cut but only 2-3 weeks in the
end seemed okay but wonder if it was a
good idea whether it was a good idea for
now for my mini cut sorry for make a
question no big deal
so the point three that's the downsides
they're like hormonal stuff and hunger
stuff and energy stuff some health stuff
but that really only presents after
weeks and weeks so we actually do
specify in orbit a two-point ohm that
occasional or several week or even
several month extrusions from a point
three totally fine so I think you're
totally fine know what you're talking
about this guy's gonna die if you go
below point three do you are John you
remember Total Recall when Arnold was
like out in space and his face got all
fucked up that's gonna think that's from
the Martian atmosphere but it was really
was chronically under dosing his fats
just a strange coincidence didn't happen
right when he fell out question six do
you have the release dates for form
alterations of the squad unlike press
form no but we have those videos
recorded and we're going to point out
one of those a week they will eventually
thank you for answering your questions
you're absolutely welcome
ernõ toivonen is up next hi mr. knockers
yes indeed i am from finland ha easy
mode him in finland yeah
regarding the last times question about
five days a week in a gym at the moment
here gyms are not closed by ors the
government and i don't think they will
ballsy ballsy idea some gyms have closed
on their own and people refer you from
going etcetera but my gym is open and
will stay open unless government steps
in it's a fairly good-sized one but has
a lower number of members I've been
curious how it hasn't gone bankrupt even
before we had viruses yeah there's a
real boat of some businesses ax my kind
of fuck like this one pizza place I go
to in Philly I'm like how fucked is this
place make money no clue yeah I know
what you mean
also I already bought the fight am PT
month ago out of curiosity then
questions number one if I were to
indulge in heavy black out and pass out
style alcohol activities for David would
the D load week be the best time for it
yeah probably the middle d- yeah don't
do it at the end because you need to get
some swag back for your week middle part
of the deal at week early part of the
deal of the week fine
yeah like once you don't feel like total
shit anymore then yeah then go for it
number two in powerlifting weightlifting
it has always emphasized to lift every
rep with every weight as hard as
possible so with her per trophy training
no not necessarily
is this more technique thing or stimulus
thing so in policy weightlifting your
nervous system performance can actually
independently get boosted by a maximum
intent to move in a particular this is
the case and we have reason to believe
it might not be the case as long as
you're trying hard and getting closer to
fail you will have to do this toward the
end of sets but you might not have to do
it the entire time so yeah it's also
more necessary because other sports tend
to rely on strength and power
characteristics more so it's a way of
increasing like the central activation
of the muscles and getting closer to a
maximal effort
which puts you more into the range of
kind of strength the activities rather
than just pure hypertrophy or endurance
I will say though that especially for
well if you're doing a set
you probably want the faster fibers to
get a lot of tension through them when
they're fresh because the faster fibers
fatigue fashion solar fibers so if you
really just go really low velocity
throughout a set and you only turn up
the intent to move towards the end when
you're already tired
keeping the velocity low but trying
harder harder you may sort of be
inundating the spacer fibers with a lot
of nurse fatigue and a lot of metabolite
fatigue they may actually prevent them
from getting their real swag on towards
the answers when you want them to go
they're kind of too fatigued to really
do much so I would say that getting a
good forceful concentric at least on a
very very theoretical very tentative
basis is probably good idea you
definitely don't want to do is like go
through the motions and then really turn
it off in the last several raps yes
that's what I'm saying
get a good thing going but don't
overthink it consistency
greater than accuracy in this case
number three does excessive stretching
and/or massaging have a negative effect
on your per trophy almost certainly
because it accumulates fatigue James
please excessive stretching yeah can it
has definitely a more tangible effect
where you can actually start to see
susceptibility to injury goes up and
this is like when we say excessive
stretching we're talking about like
doing hours and hours of stretching
throughout the week it's a lot you can
actually start to see force and power
output go down and a whole bunch of
nasty stuff happens that which could
have like a downstream effect on your
ability to train hard so definitely on
stretching massaging it's not clear if
there's going to be like a truly
negative effect on hypertrophy what I
would say is you're more likely to make
type 1 type errors in terms of your
preparedness so what that means is
you're gonna feel like you're ready to
go when you're not actually ready to go
and you're gonna go into the gym and
either have a bad day or maybe even be
more susceptible to injury and I would
say with the massaging it's also just a
huge opportunity cost like you're just
kind of wasting time that you couldn't
be doing something else frankly so I
think stretching is definitely more of a
red flag on this one than massage but
massage certainly is worth mentioning
yep
number four is MRV etc related to the
intensity meaning you can do more sets
the further you are from failure and so
on yes last week with my absolute in
relative sense yes last week fifth
microcycle I did my final on emphasize
workout before alerted with four sets of
arrows and squats five gave reps with
stops and three sets of hack squats with
twelve reps and stops also and he both
from about one hour I are the previous
quite emphasized workout fourth
microcycle I skip doing happenings in
life but for the one before the third I
did the same volume and to our our from
the final workout I got super painfully
sore quads and apparently also reached
since the glute-ham emphasis workout
later in the week so I drop in
performance a quarter later movement and
then think of any explanation other than
close proximity of failure no positive
another one yep took a break that's we
were on this line same way yelling
closer proximity to failure definitely
helped or some weed small change in
Exorcist Anika the fact that both of us
were near the rotation since the volume
was the same that had done a couple
weeks earlier without overreaching yeah
Mike and I seem to agree I think it was
more the time off that got you then the
one from fail now you could also say
like the time off in combination with
like their large Delta and intensity
from the last one could be contributing
to but more likely than not it's like
you just had some time off in either so
time off Karl VG says hi dogs I'm
currently planning my upcoming mezzo
massing mezzo I'll be training at the
gym six days a week AM and PM oh sorry
a.m. and doing PM workouts from home
three days a week calves delts biceps
and forms I want to train biceps and
forearms four days a week and everything
would fit so much better if I did a
bicep and form workout pmo a seventh day
no gym / rusty this would be very low
stress five dates out twenty thirty rubs
biceps and eight to one hundred twenty
my reps warm curls twenty to thirty reps
first set I'm wondering if this is a bad
idea from the systemic forty perspective
yes I know be better off resting
completely on day seven or if I'm all
good I think I would just rest
completely under seven Carl have tried a
bunch of these man and every day
training Fox with you like nothing else
yeah this is just one of those were
you're never going to find a situation
where Mike and I are going to back down
on having that take one day off
standpoint like there's infinite reasons
why you might try and squeak in you know
five sets of something light on that day
off but ultimately you still have the
stress of another session coming
overhead you still have that's building
systemic fatigue there's it's just it's
always in your best interest to tap that
one day off for a variety of reasons
yep and look we might be wrong try it
yeah all right through the YouTube a
person with unreadable names let me
share my screen yes Jared up person with
that name right there says always rather
in in invalid name invalid name the
internet speak some of our numbers he
took time to do this is dumbbell wall
squat hack squat limitation where the
back is flat against the wall and you
slide on a foam roll or something
cylindrical up and down the wall keeping
all the focus on quads and of course
done with good ROM a good main exercise
four quads during gym closure I've got
plenty of wait for this to be done in
every desired rep range damn I've never
done hack squats before due to space
constraints I can I get a squat rack so
I can't get the desired weights in
position for front squats or how about
squats things well so if you have enough
weight and you can get a position the
only other thing I'd worry about is make
sure you set your feet in such a way and
the surface is good so you don't slide
away from the wall then if it's an
exercise that really like allows you to
load it feels good to dust a fatigued
ratio don't feel weird on your knees you
feel like you're forcibly capped can you
try not to get the foam roll or shoot
out of your ass if you can produce
meaningfully high forces and really
tacks the muscle then it's kind of like
it's kind of like a self answering
question try it and in if it's certainly
on a technical examination could work
but you know we all have our best
intentions and sometimes you get this
thing really you're like man now paper
this is gonna work great you try it like
this sucks and it just blows so I don't
want to say it's gonna be for sure good
but it certainly can be a thing
James you know what got me fucking
pumped this week I saw I think it was on
your Instagram actually some guy was
doing squats with his garage door I was
like you are the man that is the
craziest shit I've ever seen for like
these at home modified workouts but you
know what like if it works it works and
I think that's fine so just answer your
question yet so I think what mics it's
create kind of a self-correcting problem
where if you don't feel it in your quads
and you feel like you just do a thousand
reps you don't feel any disruption you
don't feel any tension you know feel any
soreness like then it's not worth the
time trans out let's try and find
something else can I shout out if
somebody real quick and scroll down a
little bit old YT channel my man so I
think that was a guy who asked the arm
wrestling question so that video should
get posted this week it's actually I did
two videos on arm wrestling because I
was so pumped and awesome yeah so and
actually just a shout out watch those
two videos I don't know when the second
ones gonna get released but if you want
to bring up more specific scenarios cuz
I did more of a general overview of what
this kind of might look like but I don't
have enough personal experience with arm
wrestling
to know like the skills the drills that
the you know tactics training I just
don't know it well enough so if you have
anything specific you want me to address
holla at your boy and I'll do another
one because I really enjoyed the arm
wrestling question
Adam Conrad says with everyone on
lockdown in the advice heat up
maintenance or slight surplus is your
opportunity for recomposition up a
dropping weight after coming off of
three months strength mass for
powerlifting and all of us high rep
effort if you work pepper Jeffery band
work makes me believe I could recall on
the maintance calories sound reasonable
it depends on your level of training
experience and how hard you're training
at home and how good your attrition is
if you're not super experienced in
training or a beginner intermediate if
you're trading a ton like doing twice to
a workout so you're really getting great
signals to fatigue ratios and hitting
the target muscles getting really good
roasting those magnitudes then I think
that you can get a lot get some recup
going but on the other hand if you're a
person who's used to really heavy
equipment not getting the aratus
workouts at home it also is pretty
advanced than the Recon is much less
likely than just a mean
yeah I would say like again we said this
before but recap is nothing to program
it's not something you aspire to it's a
happy accident so if your goal was to be
leaner I would say just do a cut and if
your goal was to be more jacked just do
a mess I mean there's nothing wrong with
training for hypertrophy under
maintenance conditions you're gonna have
great workouts and there could be some
like long long term recap that could
happen there it's just not gonna be a
big payout in terms of effort in time so
I would say pick whatever you want and
go for it yep lastly none of the Milo
Wolfe himself says regarding your
comment on vomiting once your legs get a
certain size because blood gets diverted
away from the GI tract towards the legs
in Max's class one of the first thing we
learned was that during exercise the
proportion of blood flow towards GI
tract learn on muscle tissues is reduced
but the absolute blood flow of cardiac
output essentially is increased
several-fold
this is during aerobic exercise on
normally sized individuals and may not
transfer to an aerobic exercise for
gigantic individuals which is why most
people don't vomit from training legs
just really giant ones
this means the blood flow towards non
muscle tissues is not actually reduced
during exercise very good point
instinctively that makes sense your body
probably doesn't want your brain for
example Toronto blood Falacci and where
your thoughts appear well if you've
trained hard enough and you're big
enough your brain actually doesn't feel
all that great either so in very large
very muscular people in resistance
training where blood pools and fluids
pool in the legs versus being circulated
as much may actually be true they get an
absolute decline in blood flow to some
of those organs or relative to how much
metabolic throughput is happening even
if they have more blood flow your body
may make some neural and hormonal
decisions with stomach contents that are
basically like bad this is way too hard
of activity we're not gonna get proper
digestion and delivery to all the places
in the body that we need and time to
throw up that being said and this Philip
with the last name that was wildly
impossible well couldn't it be lactic
acidosis lactic acidosis is almost
certainly the main cause of this and
it's certainly a contributor yeah and
the lactic acidosis is going to be more
prevalent in somebody who's either due
like a large amount of a large amount of
muscle mass activity or somebody with
like giant muscles right so if you're
doing something like CrossFit right your
chances of vomiting is probably a little
bit higher or if you have dr. Mike size
legs and you're doing you know hack
squats for sets of 20 it just has such a
large metabolic impact even at the local
level as it starts to leech out and get
you know we have taken into the
bloodstream that purging some of that
stomach gas it ends up being beneficial
boom folks that's it that's all that's
it okay just a few housekeeping things
for me I recorded my two sport ones I
did a Q&A session and I did a little bit
of arm wrestling and then I did another
arm wrestling session where I just went
on for a little while so that will
hopefully get posted this week so if you
guys want to ask any more sport
questions you can post them in this
webinar or if you see the training for
sports with dr. James you can post them
in that webinar too and I'll kind of
selectively go through and pick and
choose which ones I want I don't know I
don't got anything like anything for you
no but we're working hard on some cool
stuff in our piece of the Emma look out
and check out our YouTube videos man oh
you guys are on YouTube huh
we always have some new videos we have
the technique videos are coming out
every week picking up our doctors and
some of those has obnoxious amount of
views I just was scrolling through like
the webinars would be like all this one
of two thousand views this one had
10,000 views and then it was like side
without correction video like 50,000
views oh that's life so many people want
to know about the side delt correction
yeah you know uh so this week's video we
just released today it's probably gonna
be pretty big
if you thoughts can pass it around it's
tough are you the push-up video or like
eleven ways to fix her push-ups because
people do push-ups so fucking wrong I
got the motivation to do this I put it
in the in the list of exercises we
filmed and we filled it with Joey sat
strength on YouTube just recently but
like the reason I got the motivation to
finally do it is because people are
telling me these push-up challenges and
an Instagram and I'm like mother fucker
you said I should do 50 pushups you have
a son you've done zero in this video
these are not push-ups there while the
terrible range of motion terrible body
position not
is going on here you didn't do any
push-ups so we released this video since
a lot of people are training at home now
I think it's gonna be like a cool video
it'll be like hey look you want to do
push-ups here they here's how to do an
actual one it's a lot harder than people
think it'll be good I'm sure it'll get a
lot of views so if you guys want to see
all those crazy videos on exercise
corrections and not to mention all the
RP podcasts the webinars my shit some of
our rp+ videos are being uploaded there
subscribe to the YouTube channel that
way you'll get a little notification or
you at least see it in your stream
whenever we post new stuff and you'll
always have access to all our RP stuff I
think that's it we're gonna wrap it up
folks have a good one hope you guys are
staying healthy and well supplied and we
will talk to you next time peace