there might be four muscles in your legs
that you're not even really training
right now you train your calves so why
wouldn't you train these you do train
your calves right the four muscles I'm
referring to are the gluteus medius and
Minimus and the Ador brevis and lus
while many people train their quadriceps
through knee extension their glutes
through hip extension and their
hamstrings through knee flexion they
don't often do hip abduction and
adduction movements just do some form of
hip adduction and hip abduction twice a
week congrat congatulations your legs
now look much bigger from the front kind
of contributing to that quad sweep look
and you have a bigger butt bonus tip for
more gluteous Maximus and adure Magnus
growth Lean Forward during hip adduction
and abduction training that's why