if you come up to a super Jack
bodybuilder at the gym and you're trying
to get some Keen real specific insight
as to why he's Jack something he knows
at some high level must be there for him
to look like this and I'm here to tell
you that the answer is
no hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and today's
topic is
about how to
explain why some people are fitter than
others and specifically with the top
three most important factors
are that determine how fit someone has
gotten and how fit someone can
get to be less technical here's the
example you look at someone in your gym
and they're like a super fit like figure
girl or they're like a really jacked
bodybuilder and you wonder to yourselves
like how come that's not me what's
different between the two of us that
that person is super ultra fit in
whatever way you define Fitness
and why am I not as fit what is the
difference between us and more
specifically what can I do about my own
body to get as close to that as possible
is there a secret that that person is
doing is it the shoes that they're
wearing they're sponsored by a
weightlifting shoe company is it the
straps that they're using is it the
specific program they're on it's an RP
template I heard those are good is it
the supplements that they're taking it's
the kind of creative I've literally had
people ask ask me people that were way
way charitably out of shape what brand
of creatine I use I know the logic that
occurs behind the scenes for that
question to pop up into the imagination
and then implicit logic is that guy is
56 250 lbs with veins because of the in
large enough respect for me to ask the
type of creatine that he is using which
is a Preposterous idea that's just not
true so what is is it that separates
myself from folks less fit to me or much
more common circumstance other jacked
lean people from F you know regular
folks let's say at the gym why are they
so fit two caveats that explain a ton of
the variants but there's not a whole lot
to say about them in the context of this
presentation specifically is first
genetics and second drugs if you see
someone that's really really really
jacked they probably have good genetics
for it and they've maybe taken drugs
if they're Ultra super psychotic jacked
they've probably taken drugs those
things work genetics is a huge thing
drugs do their role so that explains a
bunch but drugs are not something we
focus on in this channel plenty of other
great channels where you can get that
kind of info and genetics for the time
being you got what you got hopefully in
the 2030s we'll have some genomic
engineering and then you can fucking
just code in whatever you want which
would be amazing but until then you just
sort of have the genetics you have what
about stuff you actually can change you
wouldn't come up to a pro bodybuilder
and be like hey like how do I get your
genetics that's nonsense hopefully if
you have any sense of propriety you
wouldn't come up to a pro bodybuilder in
the gym and be like hey where do you get
your drugs what kind of drugs are you on
it's kind of a strange question to ask
being that they're illegal and at the
very list FR very least frowned upon but
you may come up and start asking them
details about the training program about
their diet about Etc and let me tell you
starting from that Vantage Point how the
rest of that expectation of a
conversation should go your expectation
for the reality of what it is they can
tell you and how you can expect it
because if they're real smart maybe
they're not they'll tell you basically
the next three things and here they are
the number one factor in getting as fit
as you can be is to get the basics
correctly even roughly correctly what do
I mean by the basics here are some
examples relatively good technique at
least technique that stimulates the
target muscle train relatively close to
failure with relatively heavy weights so
anywhere in five to 30
reps as many sets as they can recover
from and no more than that
chronically any kind of technique that
stimulates the back the chest the
shoulders and it's not that hard to
figure out stimulus you're like oh my
pecs are burning and I feel the tension
great good enough doesn't even have to
be perfect if that is something they're
doing that gets them well on their way
if they're training between their
minimum effect of volume and maximum
recoverable and if they're getting
weaker over time that's above mrv most
people don't do that intuitively they
get so systemically fatigued
psychologically they'll just stop
training for a few weeks feel better and
then ease back in D loading we're taking
some time off at least when the fatigue
gets too high if they're doing that
that's a big deal if they're not they're
probably not very fit they eating
something like high protein meals at
least three times or more per day in the
context of a generally healthy diet
they're in a surplus when gaining if you
see someone who is 280 PBS and jacked
they've probably been in a surplus or
two before is all I'm trying to
say so on and so forth and you'll notice
that this is the end of the list the so
on and so forth doesn't get into any
more minutia it's just examples of other
big
rocks like they get decent sleep for
example that's really all that's kind of
left
over what you'll notice is people can do
a lot of wrong stuff in here I mean your
Technique could be atrocious your
training plan organization could be
awful the specifics of your nutrition
can be terrible
but as long as you're doing these
fundamental Basics you can be really
jacked and here's one of the reasons I'm
even I even wrote this PowerPoint to
give you guys this uh this video this
lecture if you come up to a super Jack
bodybuilder at the gym and you're trying
to get some Keen real specific insight
as to why he's jacked and you notice
that the technique isn't even good and
you asked him about nutrition and he
just said yeah like a lot of protein bro
you're like something he knows at some
high level must be there for him to look
like this and I'm here to tell tell you
that the answer is no I'm here to tell
you you can become enormous and jacked
and lean if you have good genetics
sometimes if you take drugs and even
with drugs it's like they might not know
a lot just take lots of drugs and they
fucking work yeah the side effects will
be nasty but you're not really noticing
those if you don't have an aute eye for
it sometimes genetically they just get
the lucky card and they don't even get a
whole lot of side effects and so when
you're coming up to someone who's really
jacked and you want to know like what
what is this what is this Insight that
you have they might not have Insight is
what I'm trying to say just challenging
the body decently over time works and
speaking of time Factor number two is
how long they have been at
it very few people look very impressive
or perform imp impressively after a year
of lifting or running or swimming or
playing tennis or whatever it's just not
enough time the people that are very
very good at it generally have been at
it for five years or more if you train
hard for 5 years you will at least look
like a very different person than you
were before you start a train train hard
for 15 years and have decent genetics do
the decent normal shit right eat well
train like some semblance of progressive
overload which happens automatically if
you're egotistical anyway because you're
just like I feel like lifting more and
then you do it you will leave almost
everyone else behind because almost
everyone around you has not dedicated 15
years of their time to getting fit they
just haven't and they
won't time is the big deal here and so
when you look at a jacked bodybuilder
and you want to walk up to him and ask
how did you do this what's the secret
one of the secrets is that he's been
lifting since 15 years ago and then G
Whiz It's not really a secret I it
sounds like I'm trying to get you to not
walk up to bodybuilders at the gym and
ask them like hey how did you do this
I'm just trying to get you to understand
that before you walk up to them know the
landscape that I'm talking about right
now so that you have a better question
for them other than the so what's the
secrets the pro like I've literally had
people be like they come up and they're
like it's protein right you eat a lot of
protein I'm like yeah it's the protein
and they're not that far off because it
really is some Basics like that that go
a long way but other people will ask
like so like what kind of periodization
scheme are you doing and here's the
thing that's a great question when
they're already getting the basics right
themselves but a lot of times people
aren't getting the basics right
themselves like they've been Lifting for
one year not consistently they don't
need enough protein and they're like so
do you like Progressive overload are you
doing like dup never mind the
nomenclature there is all wrong which it
almost always is when they ask you but I
just kind of want to yell and scream at
the top of a mountain it doesn't matter
for you yet that is not what makes me me
if I did stupid bro training
high-intensity in it in it in it you
know Kingdom Doan Yates style training I
would fucking be very close to as jacked
as I am now just like significantly more
hurt or whatever but I would have been
very jacked because it still meets the
criteria of training hard with the
basics for long enough time
and lastly in the time of training you
can say hey like when did you start
training and someone be like yeah like
15 years ago but they don't look very
impressive and you're like ah let just
have bad genetics which factor number
three is worth a mention and that is how
many retrogressions have you had in the
span of your training career okay you've
been Lifting for 15 years but for a few
years here and there you might have
fallen off completely and just done
nothing that happens all the time to
people you share a shit won't be as fit
as you would be if you train
consistently for 15 years because
some of that time maybe much of that
time was spent regaining the Lost gains
you had lost from not training for as
long as you did now the bright side here
is that the regaining happens a lot
faster than you think and even if you
didn't train for five years out of a
total sequence of 15
years you end up getting almost as
jacked as you would with 15 years of
consistent training almost but closer
than you would
think but if you have a lot of layoffs
they add up and this is um a bit of a
mini tragedy in in in my experience with
the gym world and gym
culture is people who when they train
for a few years or a few months hard
they go hard they put all in their lives
are organized for training and diet and
then they disappear for months or years
and don't do anything and you look at
them 10 years later and they're just not
very impressive and they're sort of like
struggling and they're like man I just
like I just want to get really in in
great shape and I'm almost like but you
can't just quit all the time you can't
do that it's the
consistency that's key within the time
span of how much you were training 15
years of training what have you been
doing that time I've I've actually this
happens in Brazilian ji- Jitsu all the
time I I'll roll with someone I'll be
likey like what's your belt Rank and I'm
like blue but like they're like you know
but I've been rolling for six years and
I'm like oh man that's like a that's
like a purple belt that's like a brown
belt and then you roll with them and
they suck and then inevitably after the
roll in many cases they will tell you
well you know like I haven't really been
training all six of those years like uh
sometimes it's just once a week
sometimes like I go a couple months
without rolling and I'm like I can tell
you don't say that but you can tell so
same way with any kind of Fitness being
right with the
basics training for a long time dining
for a long time and never falling off
the wagon too much or for too long
couple weeks here and there no worries
couple months here and there you behind
couple years here and there and it's not
going to be so impressive that's the
stuff that makes you 85% of as fit as
you could have been the exact
priorization scheme the exact details of
your diet etc etc that's all layers on
top but that's not what determines most
of the meat potatoes give that some
thought and if you want to hear more
nerdy stuff like this we'll we see you
in our members area we get extra videos
every week usually on more in-depth
topics and the team full round Forum you
can ask me personal questions in there
you get tons of diet and training uh
work with the whole team it's a great
form environment ask any question it
gets answered that's also in the
description like subscribe comment and
I'll see you next
time