so the whole idea of like enhanced
people or Advanced people don't need
Progressive overload anymore so just try
absolute nonsense bullshit Progressive
overload is something that has to occur
with training otherwise you're not
progressing you got to make shit harder
somehow Advanced folks might do more
pump and metabolite work bigger muscle
sequester metabolites better and they
benefit from it probably marginally a
little bit better and because they can't
keep going super heavier and heavier and
heavier in Low Reps and big compounds
due to joint and axial fatigue like yeah
you may be able to deadlift 500 for 10
to get a big back 600 for 10 very few
people get to without a ton of injuries
or a ton of fatigue 700 for 10 is almost
unheard of in bodybuilding it's very
rare maybe you start doing more
isolations before you actually do
compounds or do even fewer compounds and
more isolations that stuff but these
folks if they're training logically
still add load progressively to the
isolations that they're doing and still
add load and add repetitions even if
they're in the high rep ranges with less
weight