how many push-ups can you do in one one
round what the most I ever done was
probably uh 141 well let me count these
reps here 0 0 0 0
z0 that is not a full
[Music]
push-up hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am a
professor of sport actualise Science at
Lan College of the Bronx and I have PhD
in sports physiology which is the
science of taking good athletes and
making them better by integrating their
sport training their weight training
their conditioning and all other aspects
of their preparation I am also a
competitive Brazilian Jitsu Grappler I
have a brown belt though I have been
punched in the face numerous times
slightly odd circumstances I've never
formly boxed however I will be taking
look at Mr Floyd Mayweather's training
Floyd is by some statistical
calculations and inferences the greatest
boxer of all time I don't think I would
be debating that this is a man who was
born to fight and and did it better than
everyone does that mean his training is
Rock Solid and the boxing part it
probably pretty good in the
weightlifting part and the conditioning
part we shall see and by the way all
love and respect here no offense made
all just having some fun and trying to
learn and yes Floyd me Mayweather would
beat me to death probably just with one
hand so I take a KNE to begin with
ideally I'd take new Tes but uh that
would be a sex joke and maybe not even a
joke what let's get to the video the
difference between me and any other
fighter they wake up early in the
morning and they do their run and exert
them exert themselves so when it's time
to go to the boxing gym they don't have
anything left so what I do I like to let
my body so this how my day go I wake up
at
2:30 AM or
PM pm
there's almost certainly partying too
much I will say it's not ideal they've
done a bunch of studies for circadian
rhythms almost all of us would benefit
from waking up kind of at the latest at
11:00 a.m.
consistently so if you wake up at 2:30
p.m. you got s sort of slowly push that
back next two days try two next two days
after that try 1:30 next two days after
that try 12:30 etc etc etc until you get
to maybe 11:00 a.m. but what is
important very important more important
than when you wake up is that you get a
full night's rest that you're refreshed
and that without much further Ado as a
professional athlete after you wake up
you go and you hit the gym hard training
your most overloading most difficult
most specific training that you care
about which in Floyd's case is probably
boxing I'm not sure if he's going to say
that's what he does but that's what good
sport Science would say you do and a
sure shit is not waking up artificially
early fucking up your sleep sometimes
people get some of their best sleep
between 5:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. and they
wake up at 5:00 to drink raw eggs and do
Rocky bboa things like run around but in
reality you probably want much maybe not
all but much of your conditioning from
boxing to come from actual boxing drills
which means you're learning to box
getting better at boxing and getting
conditioning at the same time versus if
you're just doing road work running
there is a place for that in boxing
training but that place is a lot smaller
than most other boxers think maybe
Floyd's going to get at that Floyd tell
us the truth here buddy I have to be I
have to be to the boxing gym at 3:00 we
work from 3:00 from 3:00 to 6:00 I go
get a meal I rest a couple hours then I
go out and do I run between 5 to 7 Miles
5 to 8 Miles that's not a crazy amount
that's pretty good so that's actually
all pretty good advice I think the best
thing to take from that for Mr Floyd
Mayweather is that you want plenty of
rest you don't want to wake up
artificially early in a way that screws
up your sleep doesn't give you a high
enough duration of high quality sleep
and that you want to put your most
important training which mostly is going
to be boxing training first because
you're refreshed and ready and uh then
later when you're already tired you heal
a little bit rest a little bit and then
go and do your an Slayer work that is
probably a really good way to think
about things and that's I would say
something that Floyd is doing very very
well has Floyd ever gotten physical with
a girl is is he the guy that that got
physical with his woman I Googled it in
the first article is Floyd weather's
violent history of beating his
girlfriends Jesus
listen I got to be honest
man Scott the video guy and I we joke
about everything and that does not
disclude spousal abuse that being said
there's a difference between joking
about some shit and doing some shit
Floyd Mayweather apparently beat up a
whole lot of bitches people that were
his girlfriends it's Urban vernacular
over the years and that means that every
gram and ounce of respect I ever had for
Floyd is shut out by the fact that he
beats up women which is the most
pathetic thing you can do next to
beating up a child or maybe an old
person
so yeah
lame and I wouldn't say this to everyone
because most people could beat me up but
uh if I ever caught Floyd in the street
and he Mook before woman that' be the
last several punches he ever thrown in
his life it's highly unlikely he's
knocking me out it's highly unlikely
he's trained to stop single legs which
your boy is good at dishing out soon as
I get Floyd on the
ground now I'm Floyd Mayweather bitch
up out of here spouse abuse ass bitch
ass mother seriously that's lame as fuck
I'm not going to get social justice with
it I'll shut up but like you be you
beating bitches you a bitch dog period
if I take a long period of time off I
would train two weeks of just shaking
out and then 8 weeks of training so I'll
say eight that's really good advice uh I
like that he has the two weeks shaken
out this is good stuff from a
professional athlete to hear for other
people people
get into whatever they're doing whatever
Fitness goal New Year's doesn't matter
and they want to hit the ground at 100
the thing is your body's not ready for
that shit your body at that point you
haven't trained for a while is like a
car you've kept in the garage for a
while I have a fleet of 268 Lamborghinis
in my underground Super Garage the
Butlers run but when I want to take them
all out for a spin I make sure that the
Butlers are always keeping up and
keeping everything tuned if I leave a
Lambo in the garage for a year like I'm
not so sure all the oil levels and shit
are all good so I got to take that car
out and just drive it around real nice
check all the gauges do all that stuff
same idea for a human being you haven't
been fighting in a while you haven't
been training hard two weeks of shaking
it out that means a slow ramp to see
where your body's at and then he says
eight weeks of fight and that is a smart
a lot of people just 0er to 60 even
fight Camp they start fight Camp they
haven't done shit foring weeks they
start fight camp and they go to 100% all
of a sudden their shoulders isn't feel
quite right and then they have to cancel
the fight 6 weeks later cuz they got a
laum tear slow clap 10 to 8 weeks yeah
yes testing that's a good enough time to
get in shape guys remember that once
you've been in shape before getting back
into shape is profoundly
easier it takes not nearly as much time
as you would expect getting to boxing
shape originally can take 5 years doing
it again and again and again can take
months especially if the camp is very
difficult 8 to 10 weeks may be all you
need what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders
the most effective muscle growth
training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now how many push-ups can you do in one
one round what the most I ever done was
probably uh 41 but I just reg lunch 100
well let me count these reps here 0 0 0
0 0 0 that is not a full push-up I do
believe that with his endurance he can
do a lot of push-ups but is it 141 I
don't know anyone who ever tells me that
they've done more than 50 push-ups I'm
increasingly more skeptical and higher
the number goes after that because I
haven't seen too many very fit very
jacked people actually get there and do
the real push-ups with Ecentric control
with a touch of the chest at the bottom
and with a full lock out at the top Dems
as hard push-ups can people do more than
100 yes I believe they can is that much
more rare than most people think yeah C
is so can Floyd do 141 push-ups I
honestly I don't give a because he's so
good at boxing it doesn't fing matter
how many push-ups he can do is the last
thing I'm interested in can he do a lot
yeah is it 141 with good technique yes
almost certainly not that's that's what
I've done straight 100
straight how many straight gay jokes do
you think I make in one
minute I ain't never done 100 anything
straight I'll just shut up more Floyd I
started doing 436 push-ups 436 oddly
specific he is he on his knees or is he
one leg what the is going on there Scott
what is what is all that
I think he's one leing it if I recall my
man so 436 then
870 then
1,38 push-ups per day don't do that
that's probably just really unkind to
your joints I would say do less pushing
up if you want to be the best boxer you
can be I would say probably lift most of
your weights in the 5 to 10 repetition
range a variety of all kinds of lifts
but definitely tons of close grip
incline and flat presses which transfer
best to boxing and do them ballistically
which means with them uh as you push the
weight you essentially throw the weight
because you throw a punch if you can do
them in a Smith machine and actually
release the weight and catch it on the
way back down that would be amazing you
only need a few sets a week maybe twice
a week you do a sum total of six sets of
five to 10 reps relatively heavy in
those kinds of lifts and you're going to
be good to go on your physical fitness
component for muscular size and strength
for muscular endurance can you use
push-ups to build build it yes and it's
a fine alternative but it's better if
you can to do more boxing build your
endurance for punching that way and your
endurance for keeping your hands up that
way and that's the most specific form of
endurance that also brings in the
technical qualities and the Tactical
qualities that you need
because I am way stronger than Floyd
Mayweather would probably ever become
but he'd beat that ass if it was a
boxing match because his endurance and
his Technical and tactical skills
endurance he's got me by a bit but I do
live rooll in the Jiu-Jitsu so mine's
not terrible on Technical and tactical
qualities that is knowing how to box
when to punch when to back off when to
move when to aggress when to regress
that he is Master of the world at that's
what makes you good at boxing having
fundamental strength isn't that hard
having a good deal of endurance is a
factor of boxing a lot so do a lot of
boxing because only boxing and boxing
drills can give you Technical and
tactical ability which is the two things
by far far most important to making you
a boxer can you tell if someone's a
boxer out the street street Clos
probably not why cuz what they have is
up here that's what's most important and
only through high volumes of boxing and
boxing drills can you do that basically
tldr I'm just telling you guys to train
your sport more and do less lifting uh
the lifting should be good it should be
hard but we just don't need to be doing
13 trillion push-ups in most cases if
you guys are liking this the extended
edition is available only to our members
give a thought to clicking on the
membership subscribe if you like what
you like there's lots of other good
stuff in there as well
oh shit we got the moonwalk
baby oh shit he's walking all the way up
there yo hold up is he stepping on the
air somehow does that
work we got a regular Marissa end out
here this is showing off
baby shit look at that facial expression
you up out of here I'm chewing gum
too
yeah okay that's cool cool Little Gym
trick really he just did one pullup with
a slow concentric slow Ecentric I think
if you do like can do eight good
pull-ups this is a trick you can do in
your own home right now Floyd Mayweather
is appealing to a specific demographic
here and so are his promotions people
it's people who love boxing but have no
idea what physical fitness is all about
and what's difficult and what's not most
of them will see that and be like damn
this W Moon walking on the air up here
but it turns out what he did was
actually not that hard in context but
the vast majority of boxing fans which
no big deal that's not really a
criticism um don't box or have any idea
about physical fitness whatsoever but
that's not really different from many
other sports I mean the average Formula
1 fan doesn't exactly drive a race car
to work so makes sense and the result of
growing up with the championship caliber
family that trained him from birth
that's right beat these white people up
am I allowed to say that hell yeah yeah
Apollo Creed all day baby better than
the other way around yeah yeah it is
Italian gloves off my face but to start
punching from childhood comes at a heavy
price brittle hands as a result
Mayweather was never a power puncher but
this perceived weakness gave rise to
Mayweather's two other greatest
strengths his never-ending cardio and
his Sublime technique that's way more
important than power punching in thickly
gloved boxing for
sure is there any truth that punching
from a young age gave him brittle hands
can you speak highly unlik
uh there is a way to do it you mangle
your hands so badly that they never
fully recover and then you have just a
bunch of like bone problems uh that's
possible possible it's not very likely
as a matter of fact if you punched from
a young age and you remotely took care
of yourself you actually should have a
bone down City in your hands and wrists
that's reallying high and keeps you from
getting hurt trust me your first day at
the boxing ring your hands are going to
hurt a lot more than anyone's been there
a long time so yeah there is a way
through which you could you know people
do dumb shit in their youth maybe he did
that but uh uh Curious I wonder Floyd
must have said something about this that
that's the reason or he just can't punch
that hard he does weigh like Scott what
does he weigh um yeah anywhere from 130
to like 155 yeah that's just he SM and
uh yeah you don't have to punch anyone
out you can just keep going even out of
Camp he'd hit the road for a casual 5 to
10 Mile jog then there was the skipping
double jumps crisscrosses heel Taps
crossovers you name it yeah it's just
pressed a bullshit at speed often with
ankle weights and sometimes without
rounds he'd just go 15 minutes flat out
because he could yeah you can jump R 15
minutes in good shape not a big deal his
actual boxing is 50 times more important
than
this the regular media I say I know why
regular media does this because it's to
make Floyd relatable so most people
sitting on the couch watching boxing it
would be a
profound just W Wilderness through them
to slck through intellectually to
understand how hard boxing really is
because typically if you've ever been a
fight about 30 seconds later you're
completely gassed out these guys are in
there for minutes and minutes and
minutes and minutes and minutes and
minutes and minutes on end uh 15 minutes
jump rope sh shit is impressive to en
roll person I will say
that ball on my
face yeah it's this like press through a
medicine ball with one arm lying down
bullshit shit range of motion shit
stability uh this is exactly the kind of
crack Pottery we would expect from
boxers eventually getting to it this
total dog shit random nonsense yeah shit
technique un crunches Floyd thank you
dick for range of motion yeah press days
uh open workouts a lot of times reveal a
lot of dumb shittery but that's kind of
what the people are there for also like
his wears Waldo shoes and socks Lassie
he's like I'm going to get to the club
I'm going to beat all these bitches
up is that my
wife would you fight Floyd Mayweather no
and I got offered that fight interesting
our uh friend of the channel you know I
had a yes and also Woman exploiter
Andrew
Tate he said he's he wouldn't take that
fight uh I wonder what rule set he was
offered I suppose it's boxing Andrew
Tate would have an unbelievable reach
Advantage but uh double the body weight
or something like that but um I'm
kidding a lot more body weight and reach
so it' be curious fight let's see what
Andrew says about it he's retired and
he's small and I'm a lot bigger than him
I wouldn't get knocked out it'd be
totally fine uh agreed uh with Andrew
Tate here I think he was the best boxer
of all time also agreed I love his story
I love his confidence I love how he self
hypnotizes if you appreciate defense
he's the best has ever been I absolutely
and not love Floyd May I have very few
heroes in the world and he's one of them
that's true if you know technical boxing
Floyd is phenomenal to watch if you
don't know technical boxing and you're
just like well Irish and you're
screaming at the TV and throwing chicken
wings at it to see a knockout sorry Scot
the video Guys these Irish are slow
people they eventually know you're
making fun of them Irish people I love
you all I'm totally kidding but then
again Irish people take aing awesome
joke um yeah technical boxing fans
Floyd's The Man to watch regular boxing
fans not even regular below average
boxing fans who just want to see
somebody here come off man uh Floyd's
fights would not be up your
rally okay generally speaking there's
lots of good stuff in there good o to
fatigue management good o to ramping up
for a few weeks before you get into
crazy fight
Camp a couple nods to really good full
range of motion lifting in there though
that was not all the
case and really good description of the
fact that you should be boxing fresh and
boxing more and limiting your endurance
work agreed with all of that the stuff I
don't agree with is is your entourage is
too big not all those people are your
friends you got to get rid of at least
half they cost you a lot of money and
two uh people do time for the crime and
I don't like to perseverate on these
things but um beating up people weaker
than you in general sucks and beating up
women especially sucks so that
sucks you Floyd Mayweather you get a
beat women out of 10 go yourself you're
the greatest fighter of all time though
we can sleep at night see you guys next
time all right that was fun YouTube
thinks the fun can continue if you click
on this video right here I'm not sure
but the YouTube algorithm knows things
see you guys next
time