what's going on everyone welcome to the
video last night I put out a request for
questions on my Instagram and I got tons
of questions from you guys so I'm gonna
go for a workout we're hitting an
upper-body workout today I think I'm on
week four of my new upper/lower program
and I'm gonna go through the Instagram
comments select some questions and see
what you guys want to hear so check in
with you guys over at the gym got my
notebook handy so what I can do here is
actually go back and look at the
previous week at what I did on the
overhead press
look at my RPE so last week I did 145
for four so this week I'm gonna put 145
on again do that for four see how that
feels
when you have that data to look back on
it's just so much more helpful in terms
of ensuring progression over time but
anyway I think I'm gonna go ahead get
into this workout really get in the zone
put on my headphones and I'm gonna check
them in to you guys after the workouts
over answer your questions and we'll
overlay okay with some b-roll from the
workout so I'll check in with you guys
now what's going on guys we just
finished up the workout we're here
looking for an optimal Q&A place outside
the gym there's gonna be a little bit of
background noise maybe we're like
there's an airport right over there
anyway I'm open up my Instagram go
through some of these comments and do my
best to answer them the best I can first
question in the interview you did with
dr. Brad Schoenfeld you said that squats
are often overrated and you can get most
your quad development or you can get
more quad development using the leg
press over time than squats over time
first of all that's I think a
misunderstanding of what Brad and I were
saying basically I asked Brad the
question do you think squats deserve to
be put on a pedestal meaning they're way
better than other quad exercises in the
way that a lot of people do especially
power lifters and Brad basically said no
and basically said he just doesn't know
because we don't really have that study
whether or not squats are like presses
would be better over enough time for the
quads in particular with that said I
think that the squat is the superior
exercise all else being equal because
the squat is going to activate so much
more the spine
directors so much more of the core in
general also you've got the bar on your
back so your back is gonna be playing a
pretty solid stabilizing role and I
think you're just gonna disrupt more
muscle tissue in general with the squat
than you would with a leg press but with
that said if you're someone who can't
perform the squat because of just the
way your skeleton is set up or if you
have the lower back injury and you don't
feel like you can do it safely you can
get great results doing the leg press as
an alternative and that was kind of the
main point there not to say that one
exercise is better than another because
that's almost always context-dependent
if you're gonna use the leg press I
would say to combine it with either some
kind of hip thrust or like a lower back
extension just so you can get a little
bit more lower back and glute activation
that you're not going to get out of a
leg press on its own so hopefully that
clarifies that I'm gonna try to go
through these a little bit quicker
because last time I gave like really
long did answers and the video ended up
having to be broken up in a bunch of
parts so we're gonna try to go through
these quickly the effects of marijuana
and cigarettes with muscle beans
so I'm actually planning to do a video
with in my opinion one of the fittest
guys in Canada
he's an absolute legend in Fitness
circles his name is king sim bat also
known as timber wolf and he gets blazed
more than anyone I think I've ever seen
and he's in amazing shape so we're
actually gonna go for a workout in
Toronto I'm gonna try to pick his brain
on some of this stuff so you guys can
stay tuned for that all right next
question so this question has to do with
lemon should women periodized training
and will the results vary due to women
having differences in type 1 and type 2
muscle fibers so I think that the term
periodization gets confused a little bit
in general
so all that periodization really means
is how you organize your training over
time and how you very different
variables over time so pretty much any
program that periodically varies over
time is going to be periodized or that's
structured and organized over time I
think it's always a good idea to period
eyes but I also think that people
overcomplicate what that term actually
means so a non periodized plan would
basically be like muscle confusion you
just go in the gym do whatever machine
is in front of you throw whatever at the
wall see what sticks
that's not periodization also if you
just do the exact same thing every day
in every week and you're still you may
still be progressively overloading but
you're
not periodically varying anything that
would also be a non-periodic plan and
from the literature we have it's pretty
clear that periodization outperforms non
periodization when it comes to strength
and the jury seems to be still a little
bit out when it comes to hypertrophy but
I think that's just because the results
haven't shown up yet in the literature I
think that periodized routines are
better so there's not really a sex
difference there per se when it comes to
type 1 and type 2 muscle fibers women
and men actually have the same fiber
type distribution distribution until
they start training and then women start
converting more of their type 2 muscle
fibers into type 1 muscle fibers so type
1 muscle fibers are the slow twitch
fibers and these are very slow to
fatigue so they're better suited for
more endurance type activities type ii
fibers are the fast twitch fibers
they're better for more explosive bouts
so in theory you could make the argument
that higher reps since they're more on
the strength endurance end of the
spectrum might be better at targeting
and growing those type 1 fibers whereas
lower reps are gonna target more of the
type ii fibers and so i guess you could
make the argument that maybe women
should use higher reps than men I'm not
sure if that's really been shown in the
literature even though in my coaching
experience I have found that women are
better at tolerating higher reps
especially for the lower body with that
said I think that men and women can
benefit from having most of their work
come in the 6 to 12 rep range I feel
like that's the most practical
hypertrophy zone and then you can have
you know let's say a quarter of your
work or maybe even less in the 1 to 6
rep range so let's say pure strength
work and then you could have another
quarter of your work coming above 12
reps somewhere on that endurance end of
the spectrum women could probably do
more in that endurance end but they
should still have most of their work
centered around that 6 to 12 zone
another side effect of women having more
type 1 muscle fibers once they start
training is that they're able to
tolerate more volume because they're
more fatigue resistant so when it comes
back to periodization I think that women
can probably get away with having higher
volume blocks of training where they
might overreach a little bit more and
then see more of like say a super
compensation response than maybe men
could because they are able to tolerate
more volume better and the research does
really seem to support that but there's
so much more to get into there and women
are not just like little men they are
actually physiologically different so
I'll link a couple really good articles
down below if you'd like to read one
that next question is it possible to
gain size on your wrists so this I think
came because in the photo I posted it
was a selfie and I was kind of like
stood like this and I had my wrists down
and my wrist my wrists are actually
pretty thick I don't know what the
measurements are off the top of my head
but there is no way you can change your
bone structure you could technically
make your wrists wider if you just
gained body fat because your whole every
bit of your body will have a little bit
more cushioning around it but you don't
want to have just like a fat looking for
them you want to have a lean muscular
looking for them so unfortunately
there's not much you can do about like
your ankles knees wrists that's your
bone structure and you're kind of stuck
with that but honestly if you can build
up a nice set of forearms and you have a
thinner wrist it actually makes the
muscle belly kind of swell out more and
it gives you an aesthetic appearance so
if you do have thin wrists and you want
to build up your forearms watch my
forearm science explain video I go over
everything that you should do in terms
of volume and exercises and everything
in between so you really want to focus
on developing your forearms but there's
not much you can do about the wrist
itself okay what is your opinion on
lifting three days a week so you have
one heavy session one light session and
then a medium session so I think that
training three days a week is good for
people who are limited on time I would
do either full-body three days a week or
do full body upper body and lower body
so you're at least hitting every body
part twice a week and maybe three times
a week if you do the full body three
days a week split I don't know if I love
the idea of splitting out the rep zones
so you do lightweight medium weight
heavy weight I would rather just see you
do a mixture of all three on each of
those days and just split out the heavy
work according to exercises so for
example you might do heavy squats on day
one you wouldn't then also want to do
heavy deadlifts in an also heavy bench
and also a heavy row because you're kind
of just you're gonna fry yourself by the
end of the session I'd rather see you do
like heavy squats then do more of say
speed deadlifts do more of a hypertrophy
work on the bench press and then maybe
hypertrophy work for the other stuff and
then on another day do your heavy
deadlift and another day do your heavy
row or something like that
I just think you'll max
my recovery better by splitting it up
that way and just doing like all super
high reps stuff on one day I don't
really see any reason why you'd want to
split it out like that but the three day
a week split is actually a really solid
would you say that shorter guys like
ourselves bracket 5:5 technically five
four and a half but I'll save five five
don't have to eat as many calories as
taller guys in order to gain weight it's
a good thought I think that when it
comes to basal metabolic rate taller
guys are gonna have faster resting
metabolisms just because they have more
active body mass but when it comes to
total metabolic rate I think that a lot
of short small guys can have super fast
metabolisms and that's because there are
variable components and metabolisms that
can differ massively between individuals
and the main one is meat so basically
how much you move around during the day
I'm fidgeting so for example rashon
who's holding the camera he's like 64 65
and he diets on I think I would say that
the same or maybe lower calories than me
and he has like a foot on me not a
slight rashon but it's just the way it
is like then there are some guys who are
my height who can diet on like a
thousand calories more than me and a lot
of this is subconsciously regulated in
the brain unfortunately there's not much
you can do about it
but there's no real hard and fast rules
in my experience it's not like taller
guys always have faster metabolism
shorter guys or slow or anything like
that it just seems to be hardwired into
your brain and you know there are things
you can do to help preserve your
metabolism and I did a full interview
with an expert on metabolism about that
but when it comes to like where your
body likes to settle in terms of its
metabolic rate there doesn't seem to be
a lot of correlation between body mass
and total metabolic rate in my
experience oh and a second part of that
question is like is it easier for
shorter guys to build muscle and I think
I'll cover that in a separate standalone
video because that's a question I get
asked a lot and I don't think I could do
it justice and a Q&A because there's
actually a lot of nuance to that next
question having optimized nutrition and
training so you're not crash dieting and
you're training in a variety of rep
ranges what would be my best tips for
attempting body recomposition too long
didn't read any new tips besides who
the ones in my body recomposition
science video so binary composition for
beginners it's actually pretty easy you
just have to progressively overload in
the gym and pay attention to your diet
eat enough protein and you should be
able to get body recomposition pretty
easily if you're eating at maintenance
or in a slight deficit especially if you
have significant fat to lose as you get
more advanced it actually gets
significantly harder to achieve true
body recomposition and so what I would
emphasize is really trying to optimize
everything so in your training program
are you tracking your progress in the
gym or are you just kind of freestyling
it when it comes to your diet are you
really optimizing your protein intake in
the day or you're just kind of winging
it intuitively eating are you spacing
out your protein appropriately or you're
just clumping it all on one meal which I
don't think is necessarily the most
optimal way to do it are you paying
attention to your premium post-workout
nutrition even though the literature
doesn't show a significant effect I
think it still has mechanistic merit at
least potentially and since there's no
downside why wouldn't you pay attention
to what you're eating premium
post-workout are you optimizing your
sleep how's your stress levels there
there's so many facets that can go into
achieving recomposition as a more
intermediate or advanced trainee and
that's something I'm actually working on
project on I won't say too much about it
now but I'm gonna be producing a lot
more content on body recomposition
because it's the goal that I have
personally and I think there's a lot of
interesting topics to cover around it so
you guys can stay tuned for that sweat
in here
alright when it comes to building the
most muscle would you lean more towards
a push-pull leg split or an upper lower
split so I don't really have a
preference I think both are very
effective right now I'm actually
preferring the upper lower split because
going upper lower upper lower upper
lower rest has me in the gym six days a
week and it has me hitting every body
part three times a week and I feel like
I'm just responding really well to this
program right now whereas the push-pull
leg split is only going to have me
hitting each body part twice a week so
if you do the upper lower split as a
four day a week split I think I prefer
the push-pull xsplit because it just has
me in the gym more frequently in general
if you're going to set it up as a six
day upper lower I really love that split
at the moment
but I don't think there's any split
that's necessarily way better than
others except for maybe like bro splits
are probably worse than everything else
so I think that periodically varying
your split makes the most sense so if
you do upper lower split for eight to
twelve weeks you can do push-pull legs
next then you can do maybe like a
modified bro split then you can do a
full body split
I think switching up your training
frequency and all those variables
periodically is the best way to make
progress over the long term all right
next question all right any advice for
those who are trying to gain mass but
can't consume a super high caloric
surplus so I got asked this question a
lot basically I'm a hard gainer how do I
gain mass I think that people who claim
to be hard gainers I mean there's no
question that some people can put on
muscle much more easily than others but
I think that people who claim to be
hurricane errs the most probably haven't
just given it enough time you basically
just need to be patient and realize that
it you know over enough time you might
actually end up building more muscle
than you realize so you might just be
impatient not actually a hard gainer but
ultimately ultimately it comes back to
caloric surplus plus progressive
resistance training so the caloric
surplus part seems to be what most
people struggle with and I think the
biggest problem there is people are just
trying to eat foods that they're not
able to eat enough of so if you just
stick to the stereotypical bodybuilding
foods like chicken rice broccoli
whatever it's gonna be really hard to
meet your caloric requirement as a
person with a thinner frame and a faster
metabolism so you just have to open
yourself up to non-conventional foods
eat some junk foods add high calorie
foods including oils to your dishes the
peanut butter you can go the weight
gainer route if you can get a
high-quality weight gainer even though I
feel like maxing out your whole food
options first is probably the best route
mmm and then also I think that if you're
a hardgainer you should get very
analytical with your training figure out
exactly what you're doing and then
figure out how you need to modify it to
make your results better basically and a
lot of hard gainers just end up spending
their wheels in the gym because they're
hopping from program to program or
they're taking advice from this guy and
that guy and going with it trying to
figure out what works I would say to
really get analytical figure out what
you're doing
and adjust and tweak variables one at a
time
until you figure out what your optimal
program is and then just be patient with
it over time I think I'm getting towards
the end of it here I do have a bunch
more questions but I think I'll wrap it
up for this one and maybe in my next Q&A
I'll ask questions here on YouTube just
to see if the the types of questions are
different or see what kind of ground I
can cover last question here
Raptors vs. Golden State Warriors who
you got I would love to see the Toronto
Raptors win the championship but I'm
just honestly so happy about they
actually just won the Eastern Conference
Finals last night I was so stoked to see
that up in a fan for like as long as I
can remember as long as I've been a fan
of basketball so it's really cool to see
them take it this far I would love to
see them win but I know the Warriors are
going to be a really really tough match
but who knows I'm super stoked to watch
it so anyway that's gonna wrap up this
Q&A guys thank you guys so much for
watching please leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video don't forget to
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one