so if you are gaining weight steadily
then you know your calories are straight
if you're not gaining weight steadily
slowly on average then it just doesn't
matter how much you're eating cuz a lot
of times people ask me this and when
they do interact with me in real life
which is almost never they'll say like
you know I'm trying to like trying to
get jacked trying to work on my eating
but it's tough I'm like no I got you
it's tough for all of us and they're
like yeah like I'm eating like and they
say whatever number doesn't fucking
matter 150 lb kids I'm eating 4,000
calories like oh dope are you gaining
weight you're like no I'm like oh I got
you you got to eat more and they're like
but it's but it's 4,000 calories what
the fuck am I supposed to say back to
you bro what do you expect I'm like oh
oh it's 4,000 Oh I thought he at 2,000
4,000 let me write you let me write you
a hul p excuse doctors note I'm a
fucking doctor right here's an excuse
for not being jacked cuz reasons cuz
thermodynamics what if it's 4,000 is not
gaining you weight up more food and
there's tons of different ways to do it
you just search on YouTube how to eat
more some shit like that we've got tons
of videos on that more calories enough
to gain weight slowly