do I need one week if I get overreached
or what I don't think so there was no
evidence ever to support that you need a
week
off folks Dr Mike here for anization
this is manah hansmans from manah
hms.com
and menow I have a question for
you I'm a religious man you know this
and my religion is that every single
eighth week of training I D Lo I never
Delo before eight weeks and I sure
should ever deal it after am I doing
something wrong could I do something
better yeah that's something that a lot
of people actually believe and in fact a
lot of people inspired by the by Paquin
in large part based on the was Paul
Quinn the guy that did all this uh if
you had asked him probably he wouldn't
be as literal about it but there were
some Publications with him is the offer
that basically says four weeks hard
training full week off or massive de lo
and that has actually been recently
studied by Mike and um other good offers
so it doesn't work very well for one the
whole concept of taking a whole week off
is Hardcore you you need a good reason
for that if you don't build up to an
overreaching phase you don't need a full
week off if you look at Muscle Recovery
times of trained individuals doing
habitual workouts to very crucial points
there you're not an untrained individual
and you're doing a workout that is not
novel for you the recovery time of that
is 72 hours at the very most even if you
look at very high volume workouts and in
many cases if you're not going over say
six sets per muscle group the recovery
time can literally be a day there have
been frequency high frequency studies in
Norway where they look at individuals
doing six sets per day for six days a
week can probably even do it seven days
that's hardcore that's super hardcore
but you can work up to that and actually
recover from it so the idea that you
need a whole week off again this is
massive Gregorian calendar bias you know
it just happens to be a full week
because we organize our calendar in
weeks there was no evidence ever to
support that you need a week off so
that's point one the duration doesn't
make sense two the need to Deo every
single muscle group doesn't make sense
unless every single muscle group is
overreached at the same time exactly so
if you are again the the concept with
all week off or whole D out week it
would only make sense if you are
overreaching or working up to super high
volume and then doing a more targeted D
Lo period ideally for every single
muscle group that you indeed did high
volume four so what's much more apt to
use in my view is to do a reactive de
load also because you can't predict when
exactly you will need the D Lo a
reactive D Lo means that in contrast to
a proactive D Lo which means you plan it
in advance you react to how your
progress goes during a program you can
react to other stimuli as well whether
it's pump muscle soreness delay onet
muscle damage all of that stuff or you
can just react to Performance which is
often what I do and I think RP
hypertrophy app also primarily looks at
performance right correct so if your
performance is going down instead of up
that's a bad sign and if you're training
very hard if you look at the General
Adaptation Syndrome that's an indication
probably you have not yet fully
recovered you are still in that stress
and Recovery phase and your performance
has not yet superc compensated if you're
training like an absolute wuss it's also
possible that you didn't train hard
enough but I think for most individuals
watching this hopefully it's more likely
that you are overreaching than massively
under trining so if your performance is
not yet recovered from your last workout
that is an indication that for those
muscle groups again it's specific to
those muscle groups you have not yet
recovered and it might make more sense
to do speed work or take that session
off for that exercise and especially if
you see that say two days in a row or
two workouts in a row like you do bench
press performance is worse you do bench
press again performance is again worse
okay now that's definitely a trend you
need to take action for if you're just
going to wait eight weeks and you see
your performance go down for eight weeks
you're going to dig yourself into a
terrible recovery hole for absolutely no
reason because this has been studied and
the super compensation response that you
get after that it's not going to be
worth eight weeks of gains it's more
like one week of gains that sucks okay
so what man is saying I guess is let me
let me so what you're saying is you
don't necessarily want to pre-plan all
of your dads MH I would say is you want
to pre-plan some occasional D loads
because a week of easy training costs
you no gains lower systemic fatigue
increases your motivation to train again
allows you a week of easy stuff to
handle some life but we need some stuff
in the middle there if a muscle
overreaches too soon are you saying that
if my biceps overreach in week three of
a six-week plan I should take a one week
de lo for biceps or do you have any
other tricks that maybe are not as
extreme do I need week if I get
overreached or what I don't think so I
think most of the time you don't need a
week in fact most of the time especially
if it's just one workout that was off
just take off the rest of the sets for
that workout that's often enough if you
do that every single time super simple
reactive Deo model if performance goes
down instead of up you take the rest of
the sets off for that workout and if
then you see the next workout is fine
again that was evidently enough to get
you out of your recovery hole and
recover so that can be a very simple
reactive de lo model now if you notice
that you're not yet recovered afterwards
then you might need to do other things
if you might need to even do another
reactive de lo and if you are really
going to step it up on the volume or you
do a PL overreaching phase those type of
things then it might make more sense to
take more than one workout where you
deload but most of the time I think
especially if you're not doing super
high frequency training one workout that
you Deo is enough for like the you know
the the daily life didn't sleep that
well didn't have your nutrition that
well in order that type of stuff okay so
what you're saying is if I leg
pressed 200 kilos for a set of 10 this
week or this next workout I leg pressed
200 kilos for a set of nine and I really
tried it just didn't happen instead of
doing the five other sets that I was
planning for quads I just don't do any
more quads that is enough of a super
small volume or stimulus and fatigue
accretion that by the next workout that
I do leg press I might get 200 for 13 or
200 for 11 because uh just taking all
those sets off is good yeah yeah I would
personally never just do like one
workout per week where you train quads
yeah sorry uh per unit time yeah uh and
then for extra cautious something we do
at RP is a recovery half week so if your
muscle let's say your back is really
beat up take all of the workouts in the
next half of training as roughly one
half of the volume one half of the load
and even one half of the repetitions
that's so easy it's a warm-up you do a
week a half week of warm-ups by the time
you come back to week you should be
recovered enough to at least finish out
the rest of your mesal cycle before your
pre-planned de lo because of that
functional overreaching that we do at RP
decent all right let me ask you another
question that's a little bit related to
D loing aliens come they point the
phaser gun at Earth and they're like
meno which actress would you be married
to for one whole Gregorian calendar year
convincingly treating her like a
quain so that we don't blow up the
Earth you better be convincing two men
on none this I have I have an
answer for myself for a celebrity
actress I want to hear yours I can go
only by looks because I I watch quite
some movies but I really don't follow
any of the celebrity gossips I have no
idea what their personalities are but
the the girl that was in or woman that
was in The Matrix Matrix 2 she kind of
cheats with Neo she's the wife of the
the oh Scott's a perfect he knows Monica
beluchi she's legendary by the
way sure she exemplifies this right
here right Monica beluchi yeah o dying
peace good answer meno always great to
have you on where can people find you
meno hanson.com if you don't know any of
my contents you can get a free tour free
email course go to my website
immediately spam it in your face and you
get a tour of my most popular contents
if you're on YouTube I'm also on YouTube
at men. hansome and of course Instagram
guys thank you so much for tuning in and
by the way my question my answer to that
question I asked earlier isar lizo see
you guys next time what's
[Music]
lizo