[Music]
hey folks dr. marcantel here for
Renaissance period ization chapter 2 of
the RP diet book 2.0 linked below here's
the big summary implications take-home
points if you want any more detail
because we're gonna be razzing through
these videos here this just is designed
to be short if you want any more detail
any super in-depth explanation we have
all of it I promise
fully cited references you know multiple
dozens of page chapters on every single
one of these videos so if you want more
the by link for the book is right below
the video now let's get into the quick
summary
first of all calorie balance what is a
calorie technically speaking calorie is
the amount of energy it takes to heat so
a gram of water one degree Celsius
between fourteen point five and fifteen
point five degrees Celsius right in in
you know normal pressure environment so
it's very technically defined in physics
but that means it's a Hyuna dove energy
so you don't really eat calories but all
the food you eat can generate a certain
amount of energy and that energy can
also be stored as body fat and various
other substrates so calories are a unit
of energy and that's very important and
that means they affect a whole lot first
of all super obvious point how many
calories are eating per unit of time
we'll talk about per day a lot is going
to give you or not give you a certain
amount of energy for performance your
body can absolutely break down its own
tissues to get you to perform but when
your body breaks down its own tissues
particularly muscle and fat to get you
to perform in sport at a certain level
it's kind of like a last resort and it's
more fight or flight and it doesn't give
you nearly as much energy as is ideal
certainly nothing you want to rely on
sport competition yeah if there's a bear
chasing you you've been starving in the
woods for a while you'll get enough
energy to run away from the bear
but if you want your best absolute
performance you've got to eat enough
calories to supply that energy
externally from the food you're eating
to your working muscles and if you eat
too few calories your levels are gonna
stink you be just the right amount of
calories or even more your energy levels
are going to be sufficient to get you to
where you need to go now if you eat too
many calories specifically from certain
kinds of macronutrients fat being the
number-one carbs being a close second
and proteins up for debate but if you
eat more protein that stops fat loss in
other ways so on and so forth main point
being if you eat too many calories
usually your fat stores go up if you
need too few calories you'll have to
burn your own fat stores and possibly
some muscle for energy so weight gain
and weight loss is actually entirely
accounted for by calorie balance the
difference between how many calories you
burn day-to-day and how many you eat so
if you burn more calories than you eat
you will lose tissue which will reflect
itself on the scale so tissue loss how
big your body actually is and we'll get
to measuring and tracking in later
chapters sometimes that's not entirely
reflected by your weight over long-term
insurance if you under eat calories you
will lose tissue every single time
if you overeat calories you will gain
tissue every single time that has a
really really big implication for some
stuff that we're gonna be trying to do
in sport nutrition like building muscle
and losing fat all right we'll get to
that in just a bit first let's talk
about the calories in relationship to
their position in the fat loss or sorry
in the body composition diet pyramid and
performance of course roughly 50%
we've attributed in our analysis in this
book to the total effect of how you run
your diet is to calories so what does
that really mean
well 50% is a really really big deal
and that means a couple of things first
of all it means one thing for sure you
can get your macros spot-on you can get
your ratios wise you can get your timing
crystal clear you can eat all the
healthiest sand most
performance-enhancing foods you can take
every supplement in the world and you
can just monitor your hydration to
perfection and if you mess up your
calories enough you will go nowhere fast
for fat loss you could go nowhere at all
for muscle gain you could go nowhere at
all just by messing up your calories you
could shoot yourself in the foot that
much now on the other hand so that's
point number one so we cannot ignore
calories they're super important if we
get them really wrong or really
hampering ourselves the corollary to
that implication the other side of the
coin is that because calories are so
powerful they can make an effect with an
otherwise really crappy diet can start
to look maybe not so crappy but in some
fundamental way effective to some degree
for example the cabbage soup diet comes
up every now and again every ten years
or so it's rediscovered by lifestyle
magazines it's a diet in which you eat a
whole lot of cabbage soup which is by
most accounts not very delicious I don't
know if you ever heard anyone say they
just craving cabbage soup right it's
very rare it's a very filling it has
very few calories you eat enough of it
and your total daily calorie start to
get really low and of course the diet
prescribes don't overeat other things
what you end up getting from this diet
is that you know if macros aren't great
its timing is whatever it's food
composition is pears interesting at best
certainly not optimal so it fails on a
lot of these main principles but because
it gives you a hypo caloric environment
an environment in which the calories
you're taking in or insufficient
compared to the calories you're burning
you will almost always lose weight so
people will say things like we lied to
the cabbage soup diet and it worked
explain that with your fancy science and
that's actually quite easy to explain
with fancy science because you're
generated a calorie deficit then
calories are 50% of the effect
like are you doing pretty well for
yourself think about it this way if you
have a multiple-choice test and you're
guessing completely guessing the answers
you know you're gonna get a 25% on that
test usually if it's well made on
average 25% because you only guess a
quarter of the time for four questions
four answers to each question but if you
are doing the calorie balanced approach
and only hit calorie balance you're
scoring a 50% of that test that's a way
better than chance right
so calorie balance is so powerful that a
lot of diets that either really stink in
every other regard aren't that great in
every other regard can be made to look
like they function and indeed do
function fundamentally well especially
for weight loss maybe not so much fat
loss versus muscle gain that's a bit
more attention to the details there and
in in fact for waking right so let's
keep that in mind
calories should not be ignored if you
want a big effect and if they're set
right a lot of other things can be not
so great and the diet fundamentally
still works pretty well so definitely
calories number one for a reason right
now the next question is okay if we can
really work certain things and other
things can we get the calories just
right so maybe we can lose fat without
cutting calories so let's be honest
cutting calories stinks and you get
hungry you can't enjoy food with your
friends as much theirs has to be
trade-offs it's annoying can we lose fat
without cutting calories yes but it's
gonna be very inefficient and will
require a huge energy output so if you
keep your calories identical but you add
like three hours of marathon running
training per day to your plan you lose
weight like the world's coming to an end
but that's a hell of an investment or
you could just cut like you know a
thousand calories from your daily intake
and if you eat 3,000 calories a day
that's not the end of the world and you
get the same unbelievable rates of
weight loss probably even too fast
without doing a single bit more work now
of course a real good calorie deficit
should come from a combination of
exercise increasing expenditure
increasing activity of other kinds and
decreasing intake but we don't want to
put ourselves in this position where we
say well we're not distressing the
intake at all it's got to all come from
Excel
because to lose meaningful amounts of
weight we got to do a whole lot more
energy output that's fatiguing
inconvenient takes up a lot of time so
on and so forth on the other hand can
you gain muscle without increasing
calories at all
we'll remember calories determine your
body weight almost exclusively so if you
want to gain weight but you're not
willing to increase your calories for a
while you can inefficiently gain muscle
as you lose some fat and gain some
muscle over time once you become lean
and for whatever that your genetics and
other training variables and so on and
so forth environment make that number
maybe let's say 10% fat once you get to
maybe around 10% fat if you're male
maybe 17% if you're female for most
people body recomposition doesn't just
occur after that point your body really
doesn't like to lose fat and gain muscle
at the same time once it's sufficiently
lean if you're considerably over a pfaff
30 40 50 % you can do that for a while
still not ideal but it works once you
get lean enough you know there's just no
way to add much muscle unless you're
gonna gain weight and you have to
increase calories for that so our huge
advice right just just to recap that
last point if you want to be jacked and
you're 5 foot you know 5 11 and a half
wing 135 pounds it's just never gonna
get you jacked it doesn't matter how
lean you are 135 511 half you're gonna
have to gain weight only way to do that
is to increase calories so at some point
gaining muscle that increase in calories
almost a contradiction in terms of the
physical raw material you need to be
huge is you know bringing calories in
with so our huge advice from Rp and from
all the research we've done is if you
want to lose fat give yourself the best
power you can and manage your calories
don't try to do without without cutting
food intake or without reducing your
calories logically intentionally
conservatively but reduce your calories
if you're trying to gain weight increase
your calories again with all the
precautions but don't slice out 50% of
the pie for whatever reason doesn't make
a whole lot of sense these are super
powerful ways to gain muscle to gain
weight and to lose weight or lose fat
now we go back to just maintenance
calories you know people say like I have
a fast metabolism I need so many
calories per day what factors actually
influence calorie demand there's tons
more data on this in the book but a lot
of the big ones are body size look if
you weigh 400 pounds the amount of food
it takes to just keep you at 400
rebuilding and maintaining those
structures and keep you moving your
giant 400 pounds but around right there
strongmen that weigh 400 pounds that eat
8,000 calories a day just to stay the
same size so if you're really really big
you're gonna need a lot of calories if
you're really really small you're gonna
need way way fewer which let's refute
even though this isn't a myth chapter
yet let's refute the myths right out the
arrow is that the 2,000 calorie diets
that nutrition labels in the United
States are based on that's just pure
nonsense them some people are a 2,000
calories for daily maintenance some
people are way bigger way smaller
there's just nowhere close to that
another factor that's really big is
activity level alright if you teach five
yoga classes a day you bike to and from
work and you have children that you're
super physically active with and also
you personal trained clients on the side
you're gonna be burning thousands of
calories a day just doin life on the
other hand if you're an engineer or an
architect and you spend a lot of time at
a desk sitting down making drawings
designs you're just burning a whole lot
of calories maybe you take a you know
car to work and back or public
transportation and you just don't have
you know meat you might work out or car
you know once a day or something like
that or three or four times a week
it just doesn't add up to the same
activity level one so I tip it a level
second to size usually in how much
calories you demand and a lot of that is
what we basically call unplanned
activity or not exercise activity
thermogenesis which was a acronym is
neat isn't that neat I'll wait for you
guys to laugh at that one so neat is
basically not intentional exercise
people think oh I got to burn calories
I'm gonna go to the treadmill and do 600
you know calories on a treadmill just
walking around and talking on a cell
phone with your friends burns calories
doing housework you guys have friends
that can't ever really seem to sit still
they're always doing something
those folks burn tons of calories
doesn't have to be exercising just
activities
huge part of the way there's tons of
other factors you can look up in a book
but basically your maintenance caliber
level is going to be really individually
variable it's up to you to find it and
then work your diet from there and the
next question sort of set that up is
well work your dye from there how much
extra calories should we add if we want
to gain muscle and how many calories do
we cut if we want to lose fat well
generally speaking if you're trying to
gain muscle gaining it anything more
than about a pound a week it's probably
too ambitious and results in a
disproportionate amount of fat gain
right
again if anything less than about a
quarter pound a week so really hard to
track and some weeks you might not even
gaining at all and it's like sort of
needlessly slow right so if we look at
the calorie values that correspond
roughly to those amounts it's anywhere
between about 150 to 500 excess calories
a day added into the diet to gain that
weight over time now a really big point
your calorie intake and your calorie
setpoints change you may burn more
calories as you get bigger you may
become more active as you gain weight so
you might need what you thought was 500
calories extra could already be wrong
but you might need more and more and
more later so basically when you pick a
calorie number and you do yourself 500
more track your body weight to make sure
you're gaining on schedule and if you're
not eat more or eat less to reflect that
on the other hand for fat loss generally
speaking we get to anywhere between half
a percent and a percent of body weight
per week is a really good sort of
boundary zone to lose a real good decent
amount of fat a good good rate of fat
loss but without you know getting too
much fatigue going too quickly
and losing too much muscle and getting
too motivated getting too hungry and
quitting the diet and if we go much
slower we kind of just going slow for no
reason at all and we end up getting more
frustrated and have a tendency to
burnout so you know for most people
point five to one percent of their
weight loss per week
is is something that's gonna be between
Oh 250 and a thousand calories per day
cut out of their diet or added through
activity usually some combination now I
know hold on freak out moment did I just
say cut a thousand calories a day
I must lost my mind well remember we're
covering a wide swath of individuals
here a lot of whom are heavyweight
athletes somebody who weighs 350 pounds
and competes and shotput you know they
may eat a 6,000 calorie diet to maintain
for them a 1,000 calorie cut and that's
not really a whole lot of food that's
down to 5,000 oh no ring the alarm bells
we're starving here on 5,000 calories so
we're not saying for every one cut a
thousand counts that's in credits in the
same somebody could be eating 1250
calories a day for their maintenance and
you don't cut a thousand calories then
right then you cut 250 see how that
works so there's a range depending on
your body weight and how quickly you
want to lose it dude right now we just
talked about calories can we just cut
anything like when we say cut a thousand
calories or add 500 do we just add fats
do we just have proteins we just have
carbon does it matter for results it
sure does and we'll get into macros in a
next chapter
[Music]