[Music]
welcome to the house of hypertrophy how
crucial is the length you supply tension
to a muscle does hypertrophy notably
differ between training a muscle in a
more shortened or stretched position if
so does this apply to all muscles let's
dissect what the scientific literature
suggests
parting with the quadriceps does this
muscle grow more with exercises
achieving a stretch a 2014 UK study
compared leg extension training with a
partial range of motion at a shortened
muscle length to one at a stretched
muscle length and vastus lateralis
growth across three regions was greater
when training at a stretched muscle
length the differences were particularly
notable at the 50 and especially 75
regions another 2014 study by the same
researchers compared leg extensions with
a partial at short length to a full
range of motion that would have achieved
a stretch vastus lateralis gains were
overall better with a full range of
motion where the differences being very
large at the 75 region
a 2013 Denmark study compared squatting
at shortened muscle links to training a
larger range of motion that stretched
the quads and thigh growth across all
measured regions was more pronounced
with a larger range of motion like the
two previous studies the differences
again were more striking in the lower
regions of the muscle
a 2019 Japanese paper interestingly
compared a partial range of motion to a
full range of motion Squad and
quadriceps gains were similar between
both the partial range of motion was
done to 90 degrees of new flexion and
this still achieves a stretch of the
quads so maybe the stretch attained with
90 degrees of knee flexion is sufficient
for Quad growth further stretch isn't
beneficial or any worse but this is
purely speculation from a single Paper
more research would be needed to verify
this idea in any event it is clear to
see stretch either through a large range
of motion or a partial range of motion
in the stretched positions provokes
prominently greater hypertrophy
particularly at the lower quadriceps
regions a fascinating question is how
does a large range of motion compare to
a partial range of motion at striped
positions for quadriceps development a
2021 Brazil study examined this matter
of fact they compared virtually all
kinds of range of motions a full range
of motion a partial one at stretched
positions a partial one at shortened
positions and a combination of partial
at stretched and shortened positions
rectus femoris and vastus lateralis
growth was overall period with a partial
range of motion at stretched positions
versus all other conditions the
differences were particularly
discernible at the lower regions of the
muscle thus perhaps partials at
stretched positions could be better for
chord development versus a full range of
motion yet it's worth remembering this
is merely one study and only the leg
extension was utilized hopefully future
research further Compares stretched
partials and a full range of motion you
could experiment with stretch partials
if you wish anyhow it's clear you'd want
to select exercises that stretch the
chords and ensure you use some kind of
range of motion that attains that
stretch
I've patched the clues and the doctors
together as there's only one paper
technically exploring how stretch
influences their hypertrophy this paper
is the aforementioned 2019 one from
Japan which compared a partial to a full
range of motion squat the full squats
would have stretched the glute Max and
the doctors more and both these muscles
grew strikingly more with this versus
the partial range of motion
there actually is another 2020 Brazilian
study technically examining stretch on
the glutes they compared full range of
motion squats to hip thrusts full range
of motion squats would Supply tension to
the glutes while stretched while hip
thrust Supply tension while shortened it
was supposedly found glute Max
hypertrophy was markedly more wither
squads yet a major problem is this
specific group of researchers has had
the validity of their data questioned a
lot of their work seems to be improbable
so I don't believe we can sincerely
trust the authenticity of these results
it would be neat to have future data
comparing squats to hip thrust full
group development at any rate that
Japanese paper is still Fair evidence
with squatting variations at least
deeper ranges of motion that stretch the
glutes and adductors more notably
induces greater hypertrophy
[Music]
evaluating the hamstrings except for the
biceps from aura's short head which is a
one joint muscle that only crosses the
knee joint all the other heads of the
hamstrings are too jointed since they
cross both the knee and hip joints due
to this structural Point seated curls
are going to stretch all two jointed
hamstring muscles more than lying their
curls even if the range of motion is the
same between them a 2021 Japanese paper
established that when comparing these
two movements hypertrophy of all the two
joint hamstring muscles were Superior
with seated lechos while biceps for more
a short head hypertosphere were similar
between both seated and line cores the
researchers also nicely assessed
regional growth of the biceps femoris
long head and semitendinosis and growth
at the upper and lower regions of these
muscles was also Superior with the
seated Liquors there's no other direct
research on the hamstrings but I think
given this study indicates the
hamstrings May benefit from stretch
performing deadlift variations with
minimal reflection which permits greater
hamstring stretch May better develop the
hamstrings for example a speculate
stiff-legged deadlifts May produce
greater hamstrings hypertrophy compared
to Conventional deadlifts given the
former commonly involved lower knee
flexion and thus greater hamstring
stretch
[Music]
evaluating the biceps a 2012 Brazil
study compared partial to full range of
motion preacher curls and found biceps
thickness gains tended to favor the full
range of motion but the differences
between groups was not statistically
significant suggesting the difference
could be due to random chance yet I
think the difference could be due to a
real effect as if the biceps didn't
respond more favorably to stretch we'd
expect a partial range of motion at
Short lengths on the preacher curl to be
similar to a partial at stretched
positions but a 2021 Japanese paper made
this comparison and observed overall
greater biceps Regional gains with
stretched positions the difference was
particularly striking at the 70 region
now there is another 2021 Brazil paper
some used to suggest that biceps do not
respond more to stretch these
researchers compared barbell preacher
curls the cable preacher curls with the
same range of motion and observe similar
biceps thickness gains barbell preacher
course would stress the biceps at a more
stretched position versus cable curls so
one may suggest if the biceps responded
to stretch more the barbell preacher
curl should have elicited more gains yet
I think it's worth noting cable preacher
curls still plays some tension on the
biceps at a stretched position and
perhaps even more importantly biceps
thickness was only measured at the
halfway region of the muscle given we've
gone through data indicating stretch can
be very potent for growing the lower
regions of a muscle including the study
just overviewed before this perhaps
gains in such regions would have favored
barbell over cable preacher curls
a 2019 Japanese paper may suggest the
triceps do not grow more with more
stretch they compared Skull Crushers
performed with a partial range of motion
to a full range of motion and triceps
growth at one region favored the partial
range of motion
yet the partial U still fairly stretched
the triceps so this study does not
precisely suggest the triceps don't
benefit from a stretch it's just further
range of motion on the skull crusher
didn't confer added benefit
it's currently unknown mechanistically
why this partial was superior to the
full range of motion in this paper
nevertheless we have other research
suggesting the triceps particularly the
long head May grow more from stretch the
medial and lateral heads only cross the
elbow joint but the long head crosses
the shoulder joint plus the elbow joint
and is resultantly stretched when placed
overhead if the long head grew more with
stretch overhead triceps extension
should develop this muscle more than
push Downs a 2018 Greek study found this
long head thickness gains at two regions
tended to favor overhead extensions
versus push Downs now the difference in
this study was not statistically
significant but I think this study was
underpowered it only had nine subjects I
confidently speculate this as another
2022 Japan paper did observe
significantly greater long head growth
after training with overhead extensions
versus push Downs fascinatingly this
Japanese paper also found that bind the
lateral and medial head growth was also
Superior with the overhead extensions
versus push Downs no I've seen some
people on the internet simply disregard
this paper as there's currently no
explanation for the great immediate and
lateral head growth with overhead
extensions since these muscles are not
stretched anymore in the overhead
position but I think we can all agree
just because we can't explain something
it does not mean it did not happen there
could be other mechanisms in play with
simply not currently aware of it's also
worth noting this particular Japanese
study was very well designed it was a
within subject design meaning subjects
trained one arm with overhead extensions
and their other arm with push Downs
thereby removing confounders such as
nutrition genetics and outside lifestyle
[Music]
crystallizing things thus far we have
scientific support the quads glutes
adductors hamstrings biceps and triceps
May indeed all experience more
pronounced gains across numerous regions
with stretch unfortunately no research
has explored the effectiveness of
stretched-based exercises on the back
shoulder calves ABS or chest muscles
hopefully future research will change
this with the chest though some very
indirect data might suggest it benefits
from stretch a 2022 Spain study involved
training the Smith machine bench press
with either a full range of motion
two-third top range emotion or one-third
top range of motion strength increases
on all three bench press ranges of
motion were Superior after training the
full range of motion these findings
partly oppose the principle of
specificity which states you get the
best adaptations on what you train so
we'd expect training the two-third top
range of motion to produce the best
strength with this range
and training with a one-third top range
of motion to produce the best strength
with this range of motion but neither of
these two events happened full range of
motion training produced Superior
strength on both these could muscle
growth explain these results one reason
for the principle of specificity is
simply that what you train frequently
allows you to develop better skill and
coordination on that movement thereby
leading to more strength yet a Smith
machine was used in this study and this
lowers if not removes any skill
component to the movement thus the role
of muscle growth by way of increasing
the number of force generating units may
play more of a factor in promoting
strength with Smith machine exercises so
perhaps the full range of motion group
saw the most muscle growth potentially
due to the greater chest stretch thus
explaining the greatest strength gains
on all bench press ranges of motions
[Music]
numerous muscles grow notably more
across their regions with stretch so
it's worthwhile selecting exercises and
range of motions that attain stretch in
your training
one could experiment with a partial
range of motion in stretched positions
if they like it's clear to see this can
build significant muscle and that
there's a crystal clear difference
between a partial and shortened
positions and one in stretched positions
I'm currently not comfortable in
concluding a partial range of motion in
stretched positions is superior to a
full range of motion as only one study
has explored and found this it would be
awesome to see more research examining
this with other movements if any new
data comes out we of course will be
covering this as a House of hypertrophy
if you've made it here I have a free
ebook you might like The Ultimate Guide
to bench pressing for strength and
hypertrophy with more than 100
scientific references from technique to
training variables to comparisons and
other fascinating science we cover it
all grab it through the link in the
description or comments
[Music]
thank you
[Music]