hello everyone and welcome back to
another episode of the ice cream for PRS
podcast my name is Jeff nippard and
joining me this week I have a very
special guest his name is Josh Fogle
welcome to the show Josh pleasure to be
on here Jee for sure man um yeah we've
been uh wanting to to collab now for for
a while uh so I'm glad that we finally
got the opportunity to do it um so why
don't you go ahead and and give our
listeners a little uh brief introduction
um how about you tell us a little bit
about uh your training background when
you got kind of started into
weightlifting and uh yeah well as Jeff
said my name's Josh Fogle I am a NPC
bodybuilder I also have done a
powerlifting meet and I am doing another
one up in coming up in February but
pretty much all my training throughout
my career so far I've been doing this
for five years now I want to say yeah
five years um it's all been bodybuilding
based and I've worked with few different
people
but yeah I mean that's pretty much I'm a
bodybuilder cool um so yeah Josh's a
very humble guy if you guys aren't
familiar with him I'd recommend going
and checking out some of his uh photos
on Instagram he's uh he's a beast um how
old are you Josh 20 20 right so you're
like a yeah like you're crazy young as
as far as bodybuilding goes and so uh
yeah I think that you're a guy who uh
people need to kind of look out for um
in the future uh so so what is your what
is your contest weight and your
offseason weight okay well when I first
started working out or anything I'll
give all this information to I was 103
PBS I couldn't do a
pullup and I currently I'm in my off
seon um I'm about 200 PBS right now and
this past year when I died it down I was
175 at stage yeah so I compete at 175
um and how tall are you I I think you're
like we're about the same height I think
uh should I give my e stats or my real
stats let's let's get let's hear the
real ones yeah five I'm 5'6 okay okay
yes so you're a little bit taller than
me I'm 5 foot four and a half okay
um so you're so short yeah crazy
hey um yeah I was shocked when I saw uh
what's his name Jose Raymond uh he did a
a guest posing at um a local contest in
New Finland and uh he he was
significantly shorter than me like I I
would say he's no more than 52 maybe 5
foot three yeah he's not a big guy like
height wise yeah it's crazy yeah um so
let's talk about your powerlifting then
what what what sort of lifts are you
looking at um what I what I'm planning
on hitting um I'm doing squats and wraps
so I want to hit about a 630 to 640
squat I want to pull anywhere between
650 to 700 in bench
4 wow those are some really big numbers
yeah and so that's that's like raw plus
wraps is that yes okay it's called like
classic raw so it's everything's raw
just squats that use wraps right and
what what was it you're hoping for 600
to
six for what for your squad uh I want to
hit about 630 to 640 wow that's that's
huge man that's impressive thank you and
this is just your second meat hey uh
yeah wow that's crazy um so yeah let's
let's dive into your uh training
approach um so I guess you would be
another example of someone who balances
both bodybuilding and powerlifting so
hopefully we can get into the
nitty-gritty of that uh so Josh how
would you describe your your basic
approach to training in terms of you
know frequency exercise variation and
periodization or PR um when I'm not
training for a meat I do pretty much
every body part twice a week I do a
little bit higher frequency but I still
will focus more so on my weak points
which in my case is my shoulders and
arms so most like Push Pull legs
programs you're going to go through it
and you might hit two or three exercises
per body part I'm still going to go in
and hit about four or five exercises on
those weak points and still really try
to bring them up as I'm prioritizing
those at the time but right now um since
I'm focusing more on a meat and doing a
meat prep uh my volume is up to um
everything three times a week for my big
three three times a week
and doing still accessory but nowhere
near like I was doing I'm only doing
about three exercises for my um uh other
body parts right um
so are are you doing your own
programming or do you have a um no um
for my nutrition I work with Matt Jansen
still but for my programming for my neat
I am working with Adam Miller who is one
of the mi40 coaches oh I see yeah okay
so yeah so you you're trained at the
same gym as as Ben pulski as I
understand it is that right correct it's
actually his gym right yeah so you've I
guess had the pleasure of training with
him and around him and all that kind of
stuff maybe you can tell us a little bit
about what you've learned from Ben and
what it's like to to train with a guy of
his caliber I will say I am very blessed
to be a part of like his whole like gym
and everything like it's just an awesome
opportunity like if I stop and think
about it like I training at a private
gym around some of the top people in the
world and they're willing to help me in
whatever I need and it's just an awesome
opportunity very thankful for that but
yeah I'm always learning new stuff I
mean I don't always see eye to eye with
everything they they do but I mean
you're never going to see eye to eye
with everybody but like some of the
things that Ben has taught me that has
made like the biggest impact is more so
especially when it comes to more
bodybuilding style training is kind of
slow down your lift THM and really focus
on the muscle working have that mind
muscle connection and I believe that has
made a big difference and as he says
like he's like you know big weights will
get you big muscles but he's like if you
were to reduce it slightly and really
focus on what you want to be working
he's like I he says that's what he
believes separates the good from the
great and I do agree with him on that
aspect right um so do you do you ever
find that that uh impedes you as a as a
powerlifter because I was reading a an
article that's soon going to be
published by Greg Knuckles and it's
about sarcoplasmic hypertrophy so the
idea that the actual muscle fibers
aren't growing but it's the kind of
stuff inside of them uh or or around
them so like the glycogen and and the
you know the piroplasm basically um that
that's growing and so that allows for
you know a lot of nonfunctional strength
that you see in bodybuilders so they've
got all this muscle but it's not it's
just kind of like water and glycogen you
know it's not actually like functional
useful muscle um and so what you see is
a lot of
bodybuilders end up making weights that
should look really easy to them look
really hard you know what I mean like I
remember seeing this video of of Brandon
Curry I don't know if he's a bodybuilder
you're familiar with or not but he was
deadlifting something like 185 or no it
was 195 pounds for like seven or eight
reps just ridiculous in a Sumo deadlift
and he was just cringing with the weight
and it's like how can a guy of his size
struggle with with such little load but
I think it has to do with what you said
like they're just so so focused on
feeling the concentric and eccentric
contractions that they're not so much
focused on moving the weight with Max
Force it's just actually feeling the
muscles work that they want to be
working right and I don't agree with
that extreme form of it I mean obviously
at that point I believe that's
absolutely ridiculous I mean heavyweight
definitely has its place and in my
training um even when I'm more
bodybuilding Focus I will still train
relatively heavy with exercises they're
just my my goal isn't to Move It from
point A to point B MH so I will have a
little bit slower Centric maybe pause
you know try to initiate a contraction
more so before I begin things like
that so I've heard that Ben has
engineered some of his own training
equipment can you tell us a little bit
about that I don't think I don't think
he's well yeah he actually he has the
psky bench which is what Watson made for
him which is a bench with a very small
back for like if you're doing dumbell
flies you get a greater scapular
retraction and it's actually after using
one it's like you really don't want to
do flies on anything else ever it's like
just such a better feel yeah that that
actually sounds cool I'm just trying to
think of how I might be able to rig that
up maybe you can R if you use a foam
roller or like if you do like seated
cable flies you can put the foam roller
of air on the bench and it will allow
you a very similar type of movement
that's that's actually a cool tip so I
guess the the scapular retraction just
allows for a little extra range of
motion and then like you get a better
feel correct very cool yeah so that's
like one of the ones that um he's helped
engineer but like the big thing he's
actually I believe they just sponsored
him it's called Prime equipment which
was formerly strive but uh strive would
not business so Prime got all the
patents for it but the machines they
have three parts to where you can load
the weight and you can actually load it
through different ranges of the motion
so example uh incline chest press
instead of just a hammer string where
it's going to be all the way on one of
the loading bars there's going to be
three spots on each side so you can
either make it heaviest at the beginning
the middle or end of the Ranger
motion like for me right now um I'm
using the the incline Prime machine and
I'm loading it more so at the beginning
because on my bench press the hardest
part for me is actually getting off my
chest my lockout is very strong so I'm
loading it mostly at the beginning so I
can really just focus more getting power
out at that point right yeah that's
that's very interesting it would be cool
to see uh some maybe EMG uh studies done
um using that equipment to see how well
it actually does isolate different
aspects of the muscle belly um but I
have no doubt that I I'm not skeptical
that it works it would just be really
cool to see um you know H H how how
that's happen happen right my favorite
one is actually um it's a back row but
we took the normal backpad off and
actually put like um an elevated bench
in there so you can do like the seal
rows with it and you can load it at the
different angle or the different ranges
of motion there while doing the seal row
yeah that sounds awesome like I would
just love to have access to that kind of
equipment just just to be able to play
around with it if nothing
yeah um okay so let's let's go back to
the to the bodybuilding and powerlifting
thing so um so you're you're planning on
Computing and powerlifting is that
something that you would do uh
preferentially in your offseason or do
you think that you would do that leading
into a contest and how does your your
training change from offseason to
contest okay um powerlifting I don't
think I would do
pre-contest um as I have to diet on
generally a little bit lower calories
than a lot of people and I Strength does
does go down significantly when I diet
um it's very hard for me to keep my
strength that where where I would like
it to be so if I did a meet training for
a show like it would just be kind of
pitiful on my my list would be pitiful
and I just I just wouldn't do that
but um training offseason wise um is a
like when I dieted I did I did more of
like a broit very similar to like some
of the video stuff you have been posting
about like how bro splits do work and I
actually very like that um like I was
only hitting my chest and legs once a
week but like my shoulders and arms I
was hitting more frequently as I was
really trying to bring those up but like
in my offseason I do a more Push Pull
legs type split when I'm not prepping or
when I'm not prepping for meat yeah I
actually think that that's interesting
because well obviously like you have
just a ridiculous set of wheels um and I
would imagine with that I actually
didn't squat this last contest prep I
didn't squat from May till September
yeah I mean I I that doesn't shock me or
anything I think a lot of people for
whatever reason think that squats are a
mandatory exercise but there really are
no mandatory movements so um is there
any reason why you didn't squat or um
one they're just very
taxing very taxing for me so if I go in
and do you know a pretty St pretty heavy
squat session um you know while on low
calories and doing more cardio things
like that my CNS was just fried I mean I
felt like crap all the time and it just
wasn't being beneficial for the overall
progress I was trying to make so we can
still get the same gains without having
to kill myself on squats while I do
squats yeah for sure I I'm curious to
hear what it is you replaced them with
um um hack squats and like press like
like just more accessory stuff yeah yeah
I I do I have a love hate with hack
squats some days I like them some days I
don't I really don't know how I feel
about
them yeah I like them they're they're
not something I use a lot but and it
depends on the hack squat machine too CU
some of them are just horrible
feeling yeah my the gym that I currently
train that doesn't even have one so if I
wanted to do more of a quad dominant
Squad I would probably just do a front
squat mhm um but I I can see that in
prep where would you say that um front
squat would
be superior for Quad development than a
high bar squat you would say or wouldn't
say or would you say that I'm asking you
um like why wouldn't you just do a high
bar
squat I I would I would say that the
front squat probably involves more quads
than than the high bar squat but I would
say that the actual differences might be
insignificant if you tried to measure it
got
yeah
but yeah I think that uh like I said I I
would do hack squats more often if I had
access to the machine
regularly um so with the squats I I
actually had to leave them out for my
prep for the Mayhem last year um because
I had a back injury and I just replaced
them with leg press and barbell hip
thrusts uh and I found that those were a
good enough combo to you know hit the
quads and the glutes and then for
hamstrings I would do you know a um
dumbbell Romanian deadlifts and either
seated leg curls or lying leg curls uh
Swiss ball leg curls and then that was
essentially how I structured my leg
training okay yeah I just I want to go
back to what you said about um hitting
your quads and I think maybe it was your
chest once per week yeah um yeah I was
only doing those once per week because
they were they're a stronger body part
of mine so I rather use the other days
to really focus on what needed to be
brought up or worked on more right and
yeah I think that's a really important
point and and it ties in nicely with the
idea of specificity for bodybuilding um
wherein just because you're a
bodybuilder doesn't mean that Push Pull
legs is is the best split for you uh you
can be highly highly specific and say
well you know my legs are a strong point
maybe I don't need to hit them uh as
frequently if if they're already very
highly developed very highly developed I
should dedicate more of my training
volume to points that aren't quite as
developed or you could say well you know
I have a really good back it grows for
me quite easily genetically I'm
predisposed to a lot of muscle there um
you might want to hit it more and make
it even more of a strong point but that
still doesn't violate the specificity
principle I guess what I'm trying to say
is is that there's no set frequency that
you need to train at if you're a
bodybuilder it's all about building the
best physique that you can correct yeah
and then at the end of prep which was
actually different than my my training
changed completely I was actually doing
two a day routines in which I was
hitting everything multiple multiple
times per week that way so I was doing
two a days every single day for like the
last three or four weeks of
prep can you tell us a little bit more
about that so how how do you how did you
structure your training split when you
did two a day I actually played around
with this for a little bit in at the end
of my last off seon and I did like it uh
what I would do is I would say do a back
workout or something like that in the in
the morning and then come in and finish
off with biceps in the in the evening so
that rather than just tack on because
this is something I've always struggled
with with the push pull leg split is
that arms just seem to get tacked on at
the end and so they don't get enough
priority um so so splitting up splitting
up that workout into to a tu a day um
was a good strategy for me so how did
you manage that if I can remember right
um I would go in and I would do like
chest in the AM session and go back and
I believe it was quads in the PM the
following day would be back and then
shoulders and then I would do hamstrings
and then arms at night and then
repeat so was my workouts actually
everything was it was more hit style so
it was really work up to one working set
per each exercise it just make that set
all out everything you
got so the volume was a little bit lower
but the intensity and frequency was
up that's interesting I I haven't played
around with a split that even resembled
that remotely to be honest but uh did
you find that you were able to
adequately push yourself in the evening
sessions did you find like when you did
chest in the morning your your quad
session would suffer a little bit
actually no I mean you know I was tired
because I was dying pretty hard but my
workouts like every time I went in the
gym I you know it was a very good
session each
time but and then you would take a full
rest day and repeat the cycle um
actually no usually just the day of
cardio and then go back right yeah but
at one point we weren't even taking an
off day we were just going straight
through at that point M but it actually
decreased the amount of cardio I was
doing when we started doing that as well
so how long would each of those sessions
be anywhere between 30 to 45 minutes
okay so that that's why it was so
manageable because I'm picturing like a
Ronnie Coleman style chess workout
followed by you know a quad workout no
I'd probably do like four exercises and
like I said like you do moderate like
three moderate work like three moderate
sets as quote unquote warm-ups and then
one set all out of like 8 to 12 but that
all out set like is everything you got
gotcha so what are your thoughts on on
training to failure do you do you do it
often it has its place it has its time
and place
um it really depends on the individual
depends on you know how well you can
recover things like that you know if
you're sleeping two hours a day and work
work work work you don't have time to
eat you're eating minimal calories you
know training failure is not going to be
beneficial at all for you but I mean it
does have its time and place I believe
that you should be able to push yourself
that you should be close to failure each
time you train yeah I think that's one
of the qualms that I have with over
application of the
RP concept is that people it's not it's
not a problem with the with the RP
concept itself but rather people's
misapplication of it in that people are
just really bad at determining how close
they are to failure in my experience and
and I'll see a lot of people calling an
RP 9 set what realistically is like an
RP 6 or seven set yeah they've got four
or five reps left in the tank and and
they're just not really reaching uh
close enough to that failure point I
think to to spark some growth they're at
least they're at least leaving some
growth on the table in my opinion right
and I I like to say that there's two
different types of failure there's the
failure in which you can no longer do a
rep on your own if you're training alone
like you and then there's the oh you
have someone there pushing you they
might not be helping you but just like
the extra push from them being there you
know sometimes you can hit two or three
extra reps so yeah that's a that's a
really really good point and and like
they didn't help you so you're not
pushing past failure but you're still
hitting a failure Point yeah if I know
that I have a spotter on the bench press
like just as an example I went in and
hit 335 for a set of four um a couple
days ago and I had a a good competent
spotter on hand um and if it weren't for
him I probably wouldn't have been
comfortable doing more than a single
right so that is really important and I
do think that there's sort of an
umbrella of of safety concerns around
that whole conversation um because if if
you do tend to to point push yourself
too close to the failure point then you
do run the risk obviously of injuring
yourself acutely and then also um you
know having fatigue accumul in a way
that you don't want so there there are
concerns on both sides of of
that and then you have it in a more
power lifting style perspective in which
you know if you say you have a for
people who do lift a lot a lot of weight
say you do a day where you have 700 lbs
on the bar you do it for some singles
you know you're that's going to be very
very taxing on your body um four days
later if you go in the gym and try to
squat again I mean odds are you well
most likely you're not going to be at
Peak Performance there so failure is
going to be a lot different and a lot
lower load used yeah exactly and because
you're still not fully recovered from
that yeah I I very very rarely will go
to do that did that make sense yeah oh
no of course okay cool of course I'm
just making trying to sure I making sure
I uh kind of said that right yeah yeah
no exactly I I very rarely go to failure
on the power lists actually it's usually
I save that for the for the platform or
for a max testing or something right
yeah uh so how about we move on to the
nutrition stuff Josh I eat gummy bears
what's their more to say gummy bears
okay um so uh are you a iym guy do you
do clean eating what's the what's your
take on that I'm both um I do track my
macros I try to keep the majority of my
food Whole Foods but you know if my
girlfriend and I are going to go eat
IHOP at 12 at night we're I'm going to
go eat IHOP at 12 at night if the
craving hits and I'm not training for a
show it's going to happen but I'm not so
restricted to where like in my offseason
it's like I won't even compete for like
another year in bodybuilding so it's
like if I'm going to eat these cookies
I'm going to have them I don't care
right now but I'm just not going to let
myself get carried away and get sloppy
with it either right so what are your
thoughts on track macros in the
offseason do you do it um I actually
just started back I've been kind of
ballparking it and I realized my
ballpark was in a different ballpark so
um I definitely was not eating nearly
enough protein but right now um I'm
tracking again so I'm eating 280 grams
of protein my carbs are at 500 grams and
my fats are at 80 okay so those are some
pretty reasonable numbers for a guy your
size in his offseason you said that you
were you were ballparking wrong does
that mean you were you were undereating
or overeating or undereating undereating
protein I was undereating protein and
overeating carbs and fats right so total
calories were probably higher than you'd
like them to be but protein was lower
yes yeah okay yeah so I I'm kind of in
the same boat Josh like I as you
probably know just finished up my
competitive season about a month ago or
maybe a little bit more than that now
and so I've been kind of
tracking um intermittently I guess uh
but generally for the most part kind of
just eating intuitively and I try to set
the constraint on myself that I will get
some bolus of protein say 25 to 40 gram
every 3 hours or so whether that's a
shake or whatever um and I found that
that's a pretty good way to keep my
protein up but I do find that if I get a
little bit busy uh I can fall behind and
then you know my day is over and I'm
still only at like a 100 grams of
protein or something and so obviously
that's not good and uh so I think that
if there is a case to be made for
tracking in the offseason it's to ensure
that your protein is adequate and your
calories are at least somewhat
consistently where you want them to be
um I think the problem comes when people
just spend their entire lives in in my
fitness palet and they're trying to
measure and weigh out everything that
they eat not sure if that's unhealthy
but it it certainly doesn't reflect
typical human eating behaviors so
exactly I mean and like the ifm crowd
they always claim oh like if you like
broccoli you have an eating disorder
blah blah blah it's like well some
people number one like to eat like that
just because you enjoy plain chicken
does not mean you have an eating
disorder I can't stand why people always
say that yeah and then you have the
people who can't eat anything if the My
Fitness Pal does not have it in there
it's like the whole point of flexible
dieting is to be flexible if you can't
go out and enjoy yourself where's the
flexibility in that just because your
app doesn't have a food in
there yeah no exactly I I completely
agree um I think that there's a balance
to be struck between having the
structure that a stereotypical clean
eater uh would have and then having the
flexibility that you know a idealized
flexible Dieter would have or just like
a normal healthy human would have in
that you know if if you don't have the
macros available on your app then you
can either just estimate them uh to the
best of your ability or just eat it and
see what happens right yeah it's like
one bad meal is not going to ruin
everything especi I mean if I was
contest prepping and I was close to a
show you know I'm not going to go out
and eat there's like a greater picture
there yes ex like what I'm working for
but if you're not training for anything
like that where you have to be super low
body fat on a stage and barely anything
it's like I guarantee you going out and
having a hamburger that wasn't tracked
is not going to kill
you and then I I also say like as long
as if it's say a hamburger just to run
with that a hamburger in and of itself
isn't going to be problematic it's when
it turns into a a full night of
hamburger and then fries and then you
come home and you eat the tub of ice
cream and then you get cereal and all
that kind of stuff that's that's when it
can kind of throw you off a little bit
uh but if if you just want the hamburger
and the macros aren't available then you
can just have the hamburger and like you
said uh that's that's not going to throw
you off in in the grand scheme of things
at
all exactly and it's like well oh I
don't need a cheat meal I know I track
everything in my macros well it's like
you know I see nothing wrong with having
a cheat meal you know I call them free
meals and it's more of like a reward
because I don't really consider it
cheating on my diet but you know you
don't always need to be tracking every
single thing you eat all the freaking
time yeah like you said it's not normal
eating Behavior to do that yeah um and
then I think in contest prep it just
becomes an inevitability that if you
want to get to a certain level of
leanness then that's yes at that point
but that's different yeah that's not
just general living yeah exactly you're
starving yourself on purpose yeah so So
speaking of that phase um I I think I
remember you telling me at the Olympia
that you switched to a meal plan so many
weeks out from the show can you tell us
a little bit about that yes um I
switched to a meal plan just because
it's easier to follow um it involves us
thinking you get diet brain you don't
want to have to think as hard and I just
I don't mind it I mean I'm sane enough
I'm not going to have't been well I did
eat quite a bit after but I didn't care
to gain a little bit of fatback I wanted
to I don't really like being super lean
all the time but yeah um I just prefer a
meal plan I do not mind it at all just
makes it easier I don't have to think
too hard about what I got to buy or what
where where will this fit where will
this fit it's like oh this is what I eat
here here and here it's
okay yeah exactly I I did a video on
this on my YouTube channel um and I I
did the same thing Josh actually you
probably inspired me to do it after
chatting with you at the Olympia was
when I uh switch to a meal plan and I
just ate the same meals uh every day and
if my macros changed I would just switch
out the food portions so that they they
match the macros that Eric was giving me
um and and I agree it took a whole lot
of mental pressure off of me and that I
knew exactly what I was getting each
meal and and then it also ensured that
my my pre-workout nutrition and my
post-workout nutrition was on point and
and at the very least consistent from
day to day so I I found that to be a
great benefit and I also believe that
consistency on prep is going to be a
pretty key factor like if you're always
doing the same thing and things aren't
changing you know exactly what you're
doing you have very very or you're at a
very good point to fine-tune things
exactly how you want them to be because
you've been so consistent with it yeah
exactly that's a really good point
too so uh let's talk about your cutting
your typical cutting macros so you said
you compete at around 175 lb yes um so
take us through let's say the last month
or so of your your prep how does that
typically look for you and then briefly
touch on your your strategy for peak
week there were no Gummy Bears I was so
sad I was so
sad but um in seriousness um my protein
I do or Matt had me on pretty high
protein so that stayed up around like I
I think it was like 300 gr while dieting
right um my carbs when I calculated them
there was points where we got them there
was certain days where they got really
low like I think it was like 70 or 80
grams a day and my fats were at like 30
but um I generally stay I can lose good
weight closer to the end like the last
four weeks my protein was like at 300
carbs were at like 130 140 my fats were
like 40 so did you start to reverse into
the show um no um I had to continue to
drop them you had what oh continue yeah
yeah I had to continue to drop them as I
led up to the show and so then did you
feel like uh you were flat as a result
of that or did you did you find like
peak week was enough to sort of fill you
out um Peak Week definitely did fill me
out how we wanted it to but like about
10 days out I remember doing my progress
pictures and I remember like literally
coming to tears in my eyes looking at
them because I thought I look so
horrible I was so flat and stringy like
nothing like I couldn't even like Flex
my back cuz nothing was popping I
remember like I lost everything all my
muscle it's gone I remember just like
freaking out and then on stage you know
it's completely completely different
look yeah so I was pleased with how we
peaked um I did two shows this past year
the first
one we actually kept it we increased my
food gradually up until like the from
the last week gradually increased it
that week but the second show because I
actually missed middle weights at the
first one I I weighed in heavy so I had
to be a light heavyweight but at when I
did North Americans we had to come down
to middleweight so we had to drop cows
and pretty pretty low to make weight for
that to ensure so when we peaked for
that um actually we had I think it was
two days of
eating we I know the day the day
before from like 5:00 a.m. to 10 p.m.
every two hours I ate like 80 grams of
carbs and like 30 grams of protein and
minimal fat whatever like was in the
beef or whatever I was cooking was like
the fat every two hours I ate that about
10:00 at night I was still super super
flat super stringy had to go out eat
like a hamburger french fries all that
good stuff a lot of sodium got back to
the hotel still kind of flat had to eat
like another huge meal wake up in the
morning I we just had to keep feeding me
like at that point like the food was not
sticking to me at all that's
crazy but we end we ended up filling out
nicely though for it in the in the end
so I was happy right um I'm wondering if
you'd mind sharing
uh if you did anything with your water
because it sounds to me like maybe if
you if you drank a little bit more you
might have filled out more if you
weren't already um we still had yeah
after I mean before weighin you know we
did cut the water back slightly but we
were still drinking like we
drink I can't remember exactly but know
like a few liters the morning of and
stuff like we had good am good amount of
water still coming in like we never
completely cut it out right right okay
yeah no I I hear those stories of guys
who just like you said it's like the
food just isn't sticking and you just
are eating like crazy and and seem to to
not be filling out I remember like I
would get on the scale and like after I
would eat like just ate like and it be
like a little bit lighter I'm like how
is that
possible yeah I I would love to be able
to to trace what it is that's that's
happening like actually measure um like
where those carbs are are going how
they're being partitioned um because I
I've been looking at some research on
this and uh I think one study cited that
after I think like in in a glycogen
depleted State uh I think that they
cited uh we have the capacity to store
15 grams uh of glycogen per kilogram of
body weight um so for me I'm I'm about
you know 75 kilos that's just over a
th000 gram of of carbs as a as a
potential store so that's quite a lot um
and then I read another study that that
cited that after 400 gram of of carbs or
it might have been 500 I forget now um
we start oxidizing those curbs at just a
drastically increased rate just kind of
burning them off um and then also it it
there is a significant increase in
denovo lipogenesis um but in in the case
of a bodybuilder you know who's been
dieting on 70 gram of carbs and 30 gram
of fat I'd be really curious to know
what's happening with with all that food
that you're taking in exactly that'd be
interesting yeah uh so um yeah that's
that's really cool Josh thank you for
sharing that with us um yeah no problem
as for uh let's let's just flip back to
the offseason really quick and then
we'll jump into the rapid fire questions
here okay I want to point out I did not
reverse diet this year to people oh sure
okay yeah like I know like that's a big
thing people oh I do a slow reverse I
think you even have a video on reverse
dieting where you don't necessarily
agree with it correct Jeff yeah I I
think that like most things it should be
uh fitted to the individual I think that
some I think that reverse dieing is more
of a psychological approach than a
physiologic um so I think that for some
people it works really well with their
personality types and for others it
would just be a disaster so
yeah yeah I I haven't been uh reverse
dieing in my last I think three shows or
so um and I found that just eating
intuitively getting back to my uh stable
offseason set point weight uh as as
quickly as I want to and then just
sitting there uh is a better approach
for me um I think that what a lot of
people struggle with is the and then
just sitting there apart they tend to
just keep eating and eating and eating
and and push themselves above and beyond
their set point uh but for me even
though I don't find it that difficult to
exceed my set point because my appetite
just goes all the way down um even if it
didn't and at sometimes it it isn't uh I
just think well you know if I had the
discipline to go through my prep and
stick to my macros when I was you know
under 8% body fat or whatever and and
really struggling then you know I just
ate X number of pizzas and everything
like I can have the discipline to not
overeat one night and and make sure that
my weight you know gets gets comfortable
and and sticks around here so that's an
approach that I've taken and been
successful with and also like the point
of reverse dieing is really to get your
body back to normal get your hormones
and everything back to how they were so
why would you stay in a deficit for an
extended period of
time yeah exactly that's the point that
I make in my video yeah I don't
understand that why would you want to
continue to be in a deficit if you're
trying to normalize yourself yeah I've
been trying to figure that one out and
I've asked quite a lot of people about
it and it seems to me that the the I
guess the most charitable answer would
be uh that it's important to that person
to to stay within you know distance of
their contest weight I see this a lot in
women bikini competitors say who don't
have to get Ultra ultr lean and want to
retain some resemblance of their stage
shape for as long as they can which I
think is a reasonable goal and so as as
long as you know they're not suffering
too much or it's something that they
genuinely want then in in that case I I
wouldn't see a problem with a a really
slow reverse diet I guess um but the
reality is that if if you are going to
go with that approach you you have to
accept the impeded recovery likely you
know variable moods um and uh I guess
probably to some degree um impeded
progress as well uh because I I try to
emphasize that most people should gain
some weight after their contest if they
want to you know improve their overall
look as much as they can by adding
muscle after the show right so I think
there I think like I think we're on
exactly the same page I think that
there's a there's a balance to be struck
there and it's really going to depend on
that individual their personality their
goals and so
on so uh Josh let's jump into uh I've
got some rapid fire questions here for
you okay um so uh maybe you can give a
quick answer and I'll give a quick
answer and we'll move on so uh question
one what is something that people think
is bro but actually isn't um I think
we've talked about two of those things
training body part once per week
and following the meal
plan training of yeah yeah exactly that
those are good I I I think I would
probably have to say those are the two
things that are always pinned as bro
like you follow a bro split you're never
going to make progress blatantly not
true like we have Decades of
bodybuilders who have made great
progress on and everybody who does work
out when they all started they were
training one they made the most games
when they were training once per week
yeah I mean I I would say I think that
the research is pretty clear it's not as
conclusive as people think
I think uh but it is pretty clear that I
think you know higher training
frequencies generally speaking are
better for Progress um I do agree with
that yeah yeah um but in your case I
think you have a good example here
because it's you know it's someone who
already has massive legs uh your legs
probably take a long time to recover
given the amount of volume you'd have to
put them through in order to to actually
stimulate them optimally uh so it would
make sense that you would you know need
a week of recovery in between sessions
yeah uh what food do you crave the most
when prepping
Pizza Pizza I love pizza's the one food
um pizza and hamburgers I would say
pizza and hamburgers are the one thing I
crave as much when I'm prepping as when
I'm not prepping like right now it's
like I just ate not long ago but if my
girlfriend were say hey let's go get
some pizza be like on it ordered done or
like hey let's go get a Hamburg like
done don't care and then when prepping
it's like I see like Domino's
commercials I'm like oh I want I want
pizza it's like I want it so
badly I remember um it was like two
weeks out um I was at work one Sunday
and like a commercial for Domino's came
on I ended up going on their website and
like acting if I was going place at
order like oh this is what I would eat
right now oh I would get this and this
and this I'm like I can't get it yeah
I've done the same sort of stuff I'm
like I love pizza yeah
for me it's more of the sweet stuff I
find I don't start craving the fatty
stuff until a bit after like I I just
really want sweet stuff so like cheese
cake and ice cream froo cookies yeah I
guess everybody's different but I I
definitely wouldn't turn down a slice of
pizza if you put it in front of me I'm a
sweets person um if you know you've
probably seen my post I love candy and
stuff like that but whenever I get
really lean I crave more fatty type
foods rather than sweet it's like if you
told me oh don't eat sweets anymore it's
like okay no worries but like the
fattier foods are what I Cate the most
that's interesting I guess that there's
probably a an individual component uh to
that I I guess I I kind of crave
everything like I would eat an extra
serving of oatmeal and be ecstatic over
it when I'm prepping yeah it's like
there was a time like I had my oatmeal
increase like one serving I was like oh
my gosh this is the greatest thing ever
I was like yes for whatever reason on
prep I just crave oats like crazy it's
all I want to eat um but it's weird in
the offseason I I probably wouldn't even
be able to choke it down to be honest
yeah I don't like oatmeal when I'm not
ding it's hard to eat yeah I agree and
like you said like waking up throughout
the night I would do that like in the
mornings I know I would have almond
butter with my oatmeal it was like I
would go to sleep so excited like it's
like oh praise God I'm getting almond
butter tomorrow it's like I'm so excited
wake up like at 4: and I usually wake up
at 6 I'm like if I do my cardio now I
could go ahead and have it like I could
go ahead and eat it right now yeah it's
it's crazy I was like why wait two more
hours yeah I mean the good thing about
prep is it does get you into a good
rhythm of of of waking up at a
reasonable time and going to bed at a
reasonable time because you just want to
go to bed so you can get up and
eat literally that's like the one thing
on your mind is if I go to sleep now I
can wake up and eat I'm so happy exactly
yeah I've heard I think I saw on a meme
somewhere or something it's like
sleeping is just a time machine to
breakfast that's so true all right guys
uh thank you very much for listening to
this episode of the ice cream for PR's
podcast um thank you Josh very much for
for coming on the show and sharing all
of your wonderful Insight with us yeah
no problem man it's been a pleasure and
uh hopefully I'll I'll get to see you at
the at the Arnold Classic and maybe
we'll get a lift in or something like
that yeah definitely awesome man all
right thank you guys very much once
again for listening and uh I'll see you
in the next one