I was wrong about short rest times being
bad for muscle growth that's what came
out of a recent study I was involved in
let me explain
why welcome back Dr M wolf here PhD in
sports science contary popular belief
still involved in actual science no
YouTube is not my full-time gig as part
of my ongoing work within # science we
recently conducted a meta analysis on
rest times for muscle building that
revealed things I didn't think were true
but first let me give you the takeaways
from the previous video I made on rest
times first based on the data I said
that resting for less than 60 seconds or
so for growth is definitely worse on a
per set basis than resting for more than
60 seconds between sets I also claimed
that resting for at least 2 minutes
between sets was probably a good thing
for growth at least when it comes to
maximizing the potency of each
individual set and these takeaways were
based on a systematic review by GJ and
colleagues on rest times from around 7
years ago I also generally made the
claim that 3 minutes of rest between
sets was probably even better than 2
minutes of rest between sets however
based on a study by long-going
colleagues that compared 1 minute of
rest between sets to 3 minutes of rest
between sets when in the one minute
condition participants did more overall
sets to make up for the reduction in
volume load by those short rest times I
also came to the conclusion within that
video that if you do only rest for say a
minute or two between sets you can make
up for the reduced potency of each
individual set by just doing more sets
so those were my takeaways from this pre
previous video it turns out though many
of those were wrong and let me break
down how in the next few days as of the
shooting of this video right here there
will be a pre-printed met analysis by
singring colleagues on rest
times one of my roles as part of the
publication of this paper was to extract
the data from each of these individual
studies so I got to take a close look at
the results of each individual study we
included there were nine studies in
total a metanalysis is basically when
you take the results of each study as
far as the numbers go kind of crunch
them together crunch the numbers and
find one more conclusive result that
incorporates all of the results from all
these studies essentially by pulling all
these studies together you're able to
have a bit more confidence when it comes
to your effect estimate how much of a
difference is there for example between
resting for less than a minute versus
over a minute Etc We performed a few
different analyses on this data set
first we performed a par wise comparison
of all of the shorter rest time groups
to all the longer rest time groups every
study included one shorter rest time
conditional group and one longer rest
time conditional group we just grouped
all of those together and then compared
them seeing does the longer rest time
group generally see better results than
the shorter rest time group and that's
where we performed a network met
analysis where essentially we categorize
each group in each condition from each
study into how long they rested for and
then we plot this out and see how much
rest generally resulted across these
studies and the most hypertrophy we
categorized rest times into being 1
minute or less between 1 or 2 minutes
between 2 and 3 3 minutes or over 3
minutes between sets resting for 1 to 2
minutes between sets resulted in the
most hypertrophy on average across these
studies resting for under 1 minute
between sets resulted in a worst growth
out of the four groups when you went
above 2 minutes of rest between sets say
between two and three or above 3 minutes
of rest between sets you maybe saw worse
growth the difference was small enough
that I personally wouldn't read too far
into it then we also looked at how
results differed if we exclusively
looked at studies training the arms for
example versus the SI essentially upper
body training versus lower body training
personally I like resting a little bit
longer when it comes to light training
because I become a little bit more
gassed compared to upper body training
and although it was a very small
potential minor difference generally
longer rest times were a bit more
beneficial when it came to the lower
body versus the arms in this metanalysis
we included both studies that were
volume equated and set equated volume
equated studies matched for volume load
between groups or conditions so that
would be sets time reps time weight
being the same in the shorter and longer
rest time group and so that would
generally entail the shorter rest time
group doing more sets to make up for the
reduced performance in each individual
set to arrive at the same total volume
load across the session we also looked
for studies that were set equated
essentially doing the same number of
sets with a shorter or longer rest time
for example three sets with 3 minutes of
rest between sets versus three sets with
1 minute of rest between sets
importantly though only two of the nine
studies included were volume load
equated so the vast majority of the
studies included equated for number of
sets this is important because in the
real world if you're doing the same
number of sets with a shorter or longer
rest time one you will likely have a
reduced performance with shorter rest
times and two if you do use shoulder
rest times you're in and out of the gym
faster or you could use that additional
time you just saved to do more sets so
because most of the studies in this
metan analysis were set equated it seems
that resting for 1 to 2 minutes between
sets is beneficial for hypertrophy even
when it seems to result in a slight
reduction in performance on each set and
even when you don't really make up for
by doing more sets and in fact on
average across all your muscle groups
Etc resting for 1 to 2 minutes between
sets might be ideal for growth so if
you're resting for less time should you
still be doing more sets to make up for
the reduced potency of each set let me
break down the results of the two volume
loow quid studies to try and get an idea
of whether or not that's true cuz
ultimately that was one of the takeaways
of my previous video on rest times first
we have the aforementioned Long Way tole
study they had four conditions using the
unilateral leg press in one condition
they rested for 1 minute between sets in
the second condition for 3 minutes
between sets in the third condition they
rested for 1 minute between sets but
equated for volume load by performing
additional sets until the same total
volume load was reached as in the
3-minute condition and finally in the
fourth condition they rested for 3
minutes between sets but only did as
many sets as it took to match for volume
load with condition one resting only 1
minute between sets so essentially
comparing condition 1 and two is a
comparison of rest times while being set
equated meanwhile comparisons of
condition 1 and 3 and 2 and 4 are
comparisons of rest times when the
volume load is being equated by doing
more or fewer sets to make up for it 3
minutes was better than 1 minute between
sets when it came to maximizing
hypertrophy on a per set basis however
doing more sets with 1 minute of rest
negated this difference altogether so
resting for 1 minute or less May indeed
reduce the potency of each individual
set and that's basically what our
analysis found as well the second study
is a study by Hill Hassen colleagues and
here's what they found they compared
around 20 seconds of rest between sets
to about 80 Seconds of rest between sets
once again in the 20se second rest group
they did more sets to make up for the
loss in performance on each set and if
anything when making up for the loss and
volume load they saw slightly better
hypertrophy when resting 20 seconds
between sets as opposed to 80 Seconds
between sets so in the volume load
equate studies things didn't
consistently favor longer rest times
which makes sense and this is all well
and good but one common claim is that
trained lifters will need to rest for
long or between sets and there's a
couple of rationales there on the one
hand as you become stronger you're able
to lift more weight for the same number
of Reps for example your squal goes from
135 for 10 to 315 for 10 thereby
increasing energy expenditure and
increasing Central demands for example
on your breathing your heart blood flow
Etc on the other hand as you become more
trained even lifting will make you more
cardiovascularly trained and so while
you might be lifting more you should
also be fitter so there's kind of two
rationals that contradict each other
what does the evidence on trained LIF
Ros actually say well we have three
studies that were included in this
metanalysis looking at trained lifters
first a study by shonfeld and colleagues
in both the upper and lower body
generally found more favorable muscle
growth and resting for 3 minutes versus
1 minute between sets second we have a
study by the suan colleagues in both the
upper and lower body once again
comparing 80 Seconds of rest between
sets to about 120 seconds of rest
between sets in this study if anything
the hypertrophy slightly favored the
lower rest group resting only 80 Seconds
between sets and finally we have a third
study by Souza junor and colleagues also
finding the same thing broadly speaking
in the upper and lower body when resting
80 Seconds versus 120 seconds between
sets more favorable hypert was seen with
80 Seconds over 120 seconds so two of
three studies generally favor the
shorter rest time condition when resting
about 80 Seconds versus 2 minutes and
the final study found greater hyper
resting for 3 minutes versus 1 minute in
train lifters so once again when you
take the overall picture here it seems
that 1 minute or less probably not ideal
for hypertrophy even in train lift res
however when you get to rest times of
say 1 to 2 minutes as in the studies by
theza and Souza Jr that seems to be very
effective so even in somewhat trade
lifters it seems like 1 to 2 minutes is
really effective for hypertrophy so it
seems I was wrong about rest times and
here are my recommendations based on
this most recent paper as far as
individualizing rest times here's what I
would do I would break down exercises
into four categories upper body
isolation upper body compound lower body
isolation and lower body Compound on
average for for upper body isolation
movements I would rest for about a
minute between sets for upper body
compound movements I would rest for
about 1 and 1/2 minute between sets for
lower body isolation movements I would
rest for about a minute and a half
between sets and finally for lower body
compounds I would rest for about 2
minutes between sets this is all in the
context of muscle building because most
of the studies in this met analysis were
set equated meaning the shorter rest
time group likely saw a decrease in
their performance by taking shorter rest
times this means that you likely don't
need to be perfectly recovered or even
most of them recovered to get a good
hypertrophy stimulus from the subsequent
set so just because you don't feel
perfectly ready to go for your next set
doesn't mean you're missing out on
hypertrophy if you're resting for less
than a minute between sets on average
there is a decent chance you need to do
more sets to make up for the reduction
in performance however if you're resting
for 1 to 2 minutes between sets there's
a good chance that you don't need to do
more additional sets to make up for the
reduction in volume load it's still a
possibility and we don't have a ton of
evidence there yet but I would say
you're probably fine to not do any
additional sets if you're resting for 1
to 2 minutes between sets this paper's
conclusions for hypertrophy is great
news for people who are short on time
you can see great hypertrophy even
resting for less than a minute between
sets and you'll probably see your best
hypertrophy resting for 1 to 2 minutes
between sets and so a 20 to 30 set
workout may only take you around an hour
just over an hour and that's a super
effective session and the final takeaway
is I was wrong and I'll readily admit
when I'm I'm wrong on this channel if
the evidence comes out and says as much
my YouTube channel is a place for you to
get the best information possible and
that's why I do it just kidding that is
not why I do it and let me sell you my
new product called myapt myapt is a
training app coming out soon that is
designed to essentially be your
evidence-based coach in your pocket at a
much lower price tag whenever new
evidence comes out that's important for
hypertrophy and how you should train we
make sure the app reflects that for
example based on the results here I went
into the app and make sure the logic
that is used to design your training
program is using the appropriate rest
times to maximize hypertrophy the same
thing happened when it came for example
to the longer muscle length research the
app sorts exercises for you based on
which ones are most effective based on
the existing literature this app is
coming out in just a few months and will
be a fraction of the price of many
coaches out there it will provide you
with an individualized program aimed at
muscle building that gets better week
upon week based on your feedback and
this is all coming out soon so if you're
interested check out myod app.com to
sign up to be notified when it comes out
conversely if you'd like me to coach you
check out the coaching at my website
above and we could become coach and
client if you like the video please
comment like subscribe let me know down
below if there's any other topics you
want to see me cover from an
evidence-based perspective in the
meantime have a fantastic day and I'll
see you guys next time peace