how do you finally grow a stubborn
muscle Group Well muscle is muscle and
to grow a muscle you'll need to follow
the same principles lift weights eat
sufficient protein ideally being a calor
Surplus sleep a sufficient amount and
manage your stress however past these
basic principles there are a few steps
we can take called a specialization
phase to increase growth of potentially
stubborn areas one thing we can do is to
increase the training volume while you
can see solid hypertrophy for a variety
of muscle groups between 10 and 20 sets
per week you may see additional
hypertrophy by training it with 20 to 35
sets per week per muscle however such a
high training volume on all muscle
groups at once might not be feasible so
if you increase training volume for one
muscle group make sure that you lower it
for another muscle group Additionally
you can consider training that muscle
group a little bit closer to failure to
get more volume in across the week
consider increasing training frequency
slightly for that stubborn muscle group
finally to make sure that stubborn
muscle group is being trained
effectively incorporating a greater
amount of isolation movements can be
helpful isolation movements simply
increase the chance of the toret muscle
that stubborn muscle group being the
limiting factor and getting a good
training stimulus I hope that answers
your question of