can you guys hear that
[Applause]
spring break is coming spring break
spring break spring break oh my God so
exciting but you gotta get in shape
which is why you're watching this video
the all-encompassing super guide I think
it just made a love a little heart love
thing with that great how appropriate
for spring break
all encompassing guide to getting lean
jacked tan everyone should fucking see
how jacked and tan I am and fine as hell
to make your spring break go as well as
possible now we have eight things to
talk about
this will be a meat potatoes video so
you get your fork and spoon out and
let's get to it first we have to define
the exact goal and time frame there is a
little bit of a mythology as to how to
train and prepare for spring break that
uh a few people get wrong so we're gonna
clear the air there make sure we really
really know exactly what we're setting
out to do
we're going to talk about the diet plan
that you can take as a really good
approach the training plan the cardio
plan
then 0.5 is the vacation bloating
problem because you can be in really
good shape getting to a vacation two or
three days later of eating pure shit
hopefully not literal shit otherwise I'm
not here to judge your vacation you will
look bloated and terrible but there are
ways to make sure that doesn't happen
it's a huge deal you don't just want to
look good at the airport in Cancun you
want to look good well we'll leave all
the disgusting jokes for literally in
five minutes when they begin
died in training during vacation because
like you get there you're still
hopefully alive for five to seven days
and you might want to know how to eat
and how to train so that you can you
know maintain as close to that really
good look that you got when you arrived
as possible and we will absolutely cover
you the sauce question for you Saucy
folks if you don't know what that means
just skip over it it's
um no big deal and uh number eight last
point we'll cover is what to do after
the vacation when you deal with the
depression and sadness of coming back to
Kentucky State University in its
mid-march and the snow is rotting the
fucking trees out of the ground
it's not Cancun
but it does have potable water coming
out of the faucets here we go
defining the exact goal and time frame
big fact is that a thing Scott the video
guys that a thing the kids say now big
facts
you don't know what the kids say
as Scott the video guy gets we're gonna
edit out all the other stuff you said
all right
so here's the deal it is
totally awesome to be jacked and lean
for spring break
but you're very likely watching this
video when we released it or hey a year
or two from now great welcome back to
the channel
what's up new subscribers but in any
case
you got like four to eight weeks to get
in shape for spring break fact muscle
cannot be added very quickly
you can put a few pounds of muscle on in
that time which is great for later
but a few pounds of muscle doesn't
exactly change your visual appeal a ton
what does is something more like 10
pounds of fat loss
if you lose something like 10 pounds of
fat
it's totally reasonable within that four
to eight week time frame especially
closer to eight no problem 10 pounds of
fat
and also it's got a huge visual change
visual appeal versus gaining even 10
pounds of muscle which is impossible in
these time frames unless you're
completely new to training so really
it's you know maybe optimistically two
to four pounds of muscle you can gain in
this time and versus 10 pounds of fat
lost and a little bit of muscle gained
there's no contest getting leaner is
absolutely the way to go for the best
short-term change
just to put kind of some guard rails on
what we're going to talk about today
it's really all about keeping your
muscle on your body and getting leaner
we're not going to be like this is not
the ultimate how to get jacked guide for
spring break because that guide is
something you should have been doing for
like a year and eight months or a year
and eight weeks before spring break and
then you could look uh significantly
different so
with
four to eight weeks left hopefully
you're seeing this video with not
something like two weeks left in that
case just just be yourself and smile a
lot the ladies love that sort of thing
but not too much because then you look
like a like a creep geez I'm really bad
at this kind of advice I have no idea
I've never interacted with a woman but
I've read a lot of books about it so
here check this out you can drop in 48
weeks in many cases 10 pounds of fat if
not a little bit more
and especially with proper water and
salt manipulation which is what we're
going to cover later you can look pretty
damn good I'm gonna put better much
better than you've been looking in the
weeks before this
and that means that potentially you
could have more lady friends on this
trip make new friends
Airport
smile people get in the same cab same
Hotel same phone party
same love life
in reality you'll probably just be
masturbating with whiskey dick at four
in the morning in your hotel room while
your boy lays it down in the door next
or the room next door and you can hear
all the shit
that's how my Cancun trips work
can do better you can do better and
here's how you're gonna get in shape so
first the diet plan real basic stuff
four to five meals per day
the core of the meal is a fist sized
roughly it was like that in all the
fisting jokes in the comments please I
got time for all that shit this size
portion of protein for each one
and of course fisting practice is good
to have on a spring break trip maybe if
you get into some weird crowds Cancun's
crazy
two fist-sized portions of your favorite
veggies preferably green veggies or
something like that to get the fiber
going it's a great anti-hunger effect it
brings in tons of nutrients
one to three fist size servings
of fruits and or whole grains the
healthy stuff
more like zero or one if you really want
to drop a lot of body fat you have a lot
to go
if you're already pretty shreddy and you
just want to sharpen up then two to
three of these is great because you're
going to want to support training energy
and so on and so forth like if you're
already pretty lean and you just kind of
want to put the finishing touches on two
to three servings is great if you have
the energy and and the drive and the
cognitive wherewithal to survive the
almost exclusively protein and veggies
only diet you can totally do that that
will change your body really really fast
really profoundly it sucks it's
difficult but it will work and it will
make a very big change for your spring
break so that's something to keep in
mind so there's a range there you can
choose on some combination of how lean
do you want to get slash half to get
versus how much of you know wiggle room
do you have like ostensibly you still go
to school or work spring break I guess
just school you know you have to pay
attention and pass tests and stuff the
instructor is not going to be like oh
yeah man you've got an F on your test
but flipped it around for for an a
because you're going to Cancun in three
days bro have fun like that doesn't
happen I mean that's the kind of
Professor I am
not everyone's that cool huh so yeah
it's all up to you a good suggestion
here is start the diet in the first week
with like two fistfuls of fruit slash
grains with every meal see how you do if
you're like man I'm not even that hungry
I love the results I Can Do Better drop
to one fistful and then next week drop
to no fistful so then the meals are just
a fist full of protein and two fistfuls
of veggies
if you go at two and you're like whew
this is a tough diet I'm still getting
shredded like stay at two or even bump
to three we want to make sure that you
actually succeed in your diet Journey
starting a diet and after a week just
going and having 10 burritos doesn't
exactly prepare you for spring break
although if the burritos are large
also all kinds of crazy shit happens in
spring break you got to be ready the
anatomy has to be ready write that down
so number five
typically we would put fats in right
healthy fats are a good part of a
sustainable diet notice this is
sustainable this is not sustainable
because it doesn't have to be it's four
to eight weeks of dieting for your
maximum ability to lose fat I would just
take the healthy fats out so like the
steak or chicken or beef or or whatever
that you have for your fist full
servings of protein really will
constitute the trace fats that you need
will you be having a great time during
this plan no if you're leaner and you
don't want to lose that much fat you can
absolutely do like you know like a
two-finger serving uh of of healthy fats
good God we're in a spring break video
that's clearly designed to get you laid
more on spring break I've already
mentioned fisting I have two fingers out
Scott's video guy this is supposed to be
a family channel
who approved this
who wrote
who wrote the script
the dream is gone
as is the family I don't see a family
around it just Scott the video guy and I
in a dark room God that sounds like a
terrible thing also there is no script
there's a PowerPoint and it's right
there so yes I do make most of this
bullshit up on the spot to answer a
long-awaited question
in any case
if you need help with a diet here's me
up selling your ass
the RP diet coach app 15 bucks a month
in the first two weeks is free it'll
just lay this plan out for you you say
hey like I want to lose 10 pounds by
this date go and it just goes Wham
here's meal by meal all your Macros you
pick the foods it auto sorts it it has
pop-up reminders to tell you when to eat
like if you're serious serious and you
want to suffer a little bit this shit
works like I uh wrote the code logic
myself so you know it should should work
really well
it's brutal it will take you seriously
if you tell it I want to lose 10 pounds
of fat it'll be like okay motherfucker
here's a little mouse amount of sized
portion of food you're like shit but you
will get shredded up for spring break
which is exactly and only while we're
here all right next up the training plan
I'm not going to go into a ton of
specifics on training because so many
approaches work but the approaches at
work have to check a couple of boxes
here are those boxes you should be
training four to six times a week
ideally because you want to make a full
effort at this right you don't want to
be like hey hey Stacy do you want to
leave the phone party with me and come
back to my room and make terrible
choices she's like um I kind of would
but like your side gels just aren't like
capped enough for me so I buy and you're
like fuck I shouldn't have trained twice
a week you know that's a realistic
scenario but in any case you want to
look your best right and you're in
college motherfucker I've been to
college I'm still in college I'm a
professor I know you don't have shit to
do get your homework done and then go
train four to six times a week it'll
make a really good visual impact can you
train once twice or three times a week
still get decent results sure but I'm
trying to give you kind of the best plan
and you can always scale down from there
if you want four to six days of training
per week
a bunch of different splits work like
push-pull legs Works upper lower works
that that there's an example for a six
and a four day split for you uh push
likes pull upper lower uh works as well
you can try all those splits but
fundamentally if you hit every muscle
between two and four times a week at
minimum two times a week hit it pretty
hard with three to eight working sets
for that muscle per session so like if
your session for you know shoulders
looks like you know four sets of lateral
raises and then four sets of upright
rows and you do that twice a week like
you're pretty much golden and remember
the goal here is to increase muscle a
little bit while really just providing
this workout as an anti-catabolic
anti-muscle loss stimulus so that as you
lose your 10 or 12 pounds of fat your
muscle stays roughly the same and maybe
increases a little bit and so just a
basic effective program is all you need
you don't need to get super fancy
what about Focus this is a little bit
more of a big deal like there may be
zero times in this world that like
you're playing soccer on the beach in
Mexico and like you know uh Scott let's
even make up some female names Ashley
from Raleigh North Carolina I was like
oh my God I'm here with my friends and I
know it's your quads are like so big
let's look like
legs I'm sorry fellas I'm sorry my quads
are like my favorite muscle group on me
I think it's awesome to have Jack legs
if you're trying to hit the statistical
average of like spring break groupy
interest
leg training is not highly prioritized I
know come get me in the comments and I
deserve it I just blasphemed against
lifting gods
that being said is shit is true so my
best advice to you and this isn't some
shit I would ever be doing but also your
boy's not getting late on spring break
so trade-offs
focus on your arms
your dealts specifically side delts
nobody ever looks at your fucking weird
also not a bodybuilding show
chest okay and it pains me to say this
your abs
because like the standard for what is
considered a fuckboy physique is
actually quite low you just have to be
lean have little baby arms and a baby
chest and some delts and just like do
the shirt pull thing and like you have
like a four or six pack and the girl's
like oh my God Connor ah you're in such
good shape you're like Vin Diesel swear
to God who also isn't jacked in the
grand scheme but then Conor is 50 pounds
smaller than Vin Diesel ah but abs are
important
train them for hypertrophy they will
marginally pop out more
and because you're dieting for fat loss
the fat around them will recede and you
will have well some abs and then you got
abs and spring break is the place where
ABS live that's where they they Frolic
that's where they express their full
potential so I would recommend training
them in this case if you want maximum
fuck potential I've even wrote that down
that's right the potential to have
consensual sexual relations with people
of the gender that interests you yes
it's 20 23. I said that right okay
now
the training plan
can be super basic but if you want
something laid out for you
Shameless plug the custom Training
templates
buy them below they're 100 bucks and
they last for like four months or some
shit like that so you can use them way
after spring break you just pick all the
muscle groups you want to train and you
can actually choose as priority muscle
groups biceps triceps delts chest and
abs it's literally right there in the
the ordering form and then it craps out
a program for you that trains all of
those exactly as hard as you need to
make your best results so Shameless plug
go get that shit now
I'm not just gonna be
a type of motherfucker that tells you go
buy shit and there's nothing else if you
want to learn how to build your own
hypertrophy plan we have the
hypertrophy Made Simple YouTube video
series that's 16 videos each one's like
eight minutes long going step by step as
to how you can construct your own plan
so if you're in college you don't have a
trust fund where you can get 100 bucks
from Mom and Dad or Grandma and Grandpa
whatever fucking East Coast Mansion
built by Christopher Columbus you
fucking ancestors live in if you're not
like the Dartmouth type of motherfucker
then just build your own program for
free and the whole guide will take you
like an hour and a half to watch and you
can fucking just make a program so enjoy
uh but remember buy shit because I need
Lamborghinis they are not free which
pains me to think about
all right number four
the cardio plan
big news here
cardio is persistently
overrated as a fat loss modality
doing a ton of cardio has some effect on
Fat Loss before the energy and time
invested that effect is not worth the
trade-off in most cases
so what you want to do is Diet the diet
is how you get lean
contest bodybuilders are leaner than
everyone else in this world if they
don't do more cardio than like endurance
Runners and you think for all the cardio
endurance Runners do them they're pretty
lean but they're not as lean as
bodybuilding how and the answer is by
the way two things before you say
bodybuilders on drugs one endurance
athletes take a shitload of drugs top
level and also drug-free bodybuilders or
leaders Insurance athletes so now that
we've rounded that
the reality is that the diet is the big
difference maker and so when you guys
are getting ready for spring break
getting ready to get in shape just know
that if you're the type of person to do
like an hour or two of cardio a day and
then not watch your diet so closely
you're just gonna do a lot of work for
kind of disappointing results at the
beginning they're gonna be good but for
the amount of time you spent doing that
shit it's not going to be ideal and like
you have homework and sorority parties
to go to or whatever so you got other
shit to do what I would recommend is
this get a baseline decent amount of
steps your cell phone has a step tracker
in it I promise you can get one of your
cheap ass step trackers it's like eleven
dollars assumes from China they know
where I am at all times I like to notify
the Communist Party where I am at all
times in the United States so it's super
cheap to track your steps just get a
minimum of 10 or 12 000 steps uh every
single day and then hold up find which
sites are gathering your info with
personal data cleanup
Scott how do you say this is it McAfee
or McAfee
McAfee McAfee I pay for your fucking
service
you're the only people that spam me
thank you for preventing all other
spammers stop popping up when I'm
fucking at work three times an hour shit
like they say shit too like oh look try
look at look at who's trying to spam you
look Mo motherfucker that's your job
don't tell me about it just do it
I love you guys I'm kidding don't turn
off the virus protection on the back end
and fuck me over in any case
10 to 12
000 steps a day or just stay really
active let the diet do the rest of the
work if you want to go and do some
treadmill cardio or some elliptical
that's totally cool I would say like six
days a week maximum 45 minutes at a time
of like hard work that makes you sweat
is the most I would ever do this whole
two hours a day of cardio nonsense is
for the fucking Birds and the thing is
when spring break is getting closer when
you go to your University gym you will
notice that no less than 1 times 10 to
the 15 million sorority girls are in the
cardio room jabbing to try to get I
don't know what look they want for
spring break cocaine look and uh boy do
they get it because they don't really
lift weights and the muscle sloths off
their body and so does the fat you end
up going on spring break looking like
Kate Moss and if that reference dates me
I'm old but Google that shit it's an
interesting look in any case
supplements gotta say something about
them first thing is you just don't have
to take them they're just not a big deal
if you're going to take a fat burner or
something like lipo 6 or some shit like
that no corporate affiliation here it
works just fine stick with the
recommended dose or even a little bit
lower these these things hit really hard
don't take the pills late at night you
won't be able to sleep if you take
pre-workouts just keep doing that you
don't need extra pre-workout if you want
creatine five grams of creatine mon
hydrate uh you know every day is a good
idea for the duration of of this whole
exercise and do bring your creatine with
you
so you can take it in Mexico or in
Thailand or where the fuck you're going
because
um
it will keep your muscles Fuller and
it's a cool look
and there's nowhere in the world where
you get popped for powders that are just
creatine so don't worry like oh but I'm
thinking I think it's cocaine it's not
their first rodeo if it was that easy to
fucking smell a cocaine an airplane
good God yeah Scott new uh career idea
creatine smuggling
Count Me In in for a penny and for a
pound
on my person yes yes in your person
the old purse the universal purse as
they call it everyone has one
but the aperture is you know I'm just
gonna stop while I'm behind okay we got
plenty more shitty jokes to make in the
rest of this video
all right we got your training we got
your diet we got your cardio you're
looking like you're getting in really
good shape but hold on
the goal of the trip isn't to look super
awesome on the airplane going in there
girl walks by from the first class
bathroom like so she's like oh my God
what hotel are you staying at you're
like I don't fuck no I just go there and
just go get wild I don't even book a
hotel she's like oh my God you're crazy
huh that's cool but when you get to the
place
you eat total shit you drink a ton of
fluids we'll call them
and what ends up happening is you get as
the French say a Le bloated
and then you got the puffy face look and
the muscles are puffy the ABS are puffy
and it kind of sucks because like you're
looking puffy two days in and your
friends are like dude phone party
tonight and you're like I guess but I
look like shit and it sucks to look
worse than you just did I mean
confidence is a thing right and and
ladies know it so if you're going to the
club like oh no like come on Gunner show
us your abs or go no Goods I'm feeling
good or whatever like you're for sure
not getting late get the fuck out of
here you want to look your best
problem
how the fuck do we deal with this this
bloating shit it's a difficult thing
however
however
if you want to avoid
what doctors call dry dick disease and
you want to stay nice and sharp you can
do something it's wacky but guys I swear
to god it works
two weeks before your trip
not including a trip
so if your Trip's on March 15th or some
shit March 1 you start the following
process
you double your salt and water intake
fuck
if you don't know how much salt you're
eating cause who the fuck does outside
of weird contest bodybuilders just eat a
lot more salt put more salt in your
foods and you don't even have to focus
on doubling your water intake that'll
happen automatically because your thirst
will be like holy shit I need to drink
more fluids because I'm eating so much
salt
but I would say double your salt intake
or eat more salt and really make sure
you're putting down the fluids like
pretty well don't over drink or some
shit but like don't go thirsty and have
brown pee that's all I'm trying to say
for one week of this
as soon as you start doing it after a
couple of days you will look way worse
why
because
you are have a normal uh expression of
What's called the diuretic response your
body pees out fluids normally
and you shoved a crap ton of fluid and
salt and so for a while your diuretic
response doesn't catch up and you get
bloated
this is what would happen on your spring
break vacation we're doing it early why
we're going to continue to apply this
much higher salt and water all the way
up until we actually get to spring break
even before the flight you step on that
flight before you have like you know two
Gatorade zeros and put some salt in
there person at the airport Circle what
the fuck are you doing what kind of
flight is this what are you getting
ready for a mile high club times ten
here's the thing after about a week your
body is going to adjust and you're going
to look normal and you're going to say
what the fuck am I doing this for I look
just normal why did I do this keep going
when you get to you know Panama Beach or
whatever
Mexico Scott where do people with
friends go on spring break I never had
friends
I mean there's got to be other places
I've got it's just Cancun Jersey Shore
huh Jager Bombs that's a little cold
then for spring break I guess
so um wherever you're going you're going
to get there
and you're just gonna eat and drink
normally because like you got time for
other shit then
but because your body has been exposed
to so much more salt and water than
usual when you go in and eat some junk
food and get a little dehydrated and all
this other stuff your body's gonna be
like Man compared to what I have been
doing this is actually like very low
water and salt environment so
automatically you're going to get dried
out and then you're actually going to
look your best
two or three days into your vacation
which is amazing because that's when the
foam party is
and that's when you get to fucking pull
off the shirt and be like hey ladies and
like oh my God and then the Mexican
bouncer like one hand picks you up and
throws you the fuck out
it's a sign on the wall sir you can't
take shirt off in the foam party do they
even force that sort of thing
Scott you've been to a phone party
Anything Goes that's my uh line to my
lawyer when I call him from a Mexican
prison the day after
you
will be low carbing it on your way in
obviously
high water high salt
when your vacation begins you'll almost
certainly eat more carbs than you used
to because food's going to taste good
and there's tons of it around and your
water and salt are going to come down
increasing carbs and dropping salt in
water is like a contest bodybuilding
Peak you're actually going to look
fuller in your muscles and drier
underneath your skin it's a fucking
thing
if you really give a shit about how you
look like you really really give a shit
like if it's trying to get in shape
fucking who cares but if you really give
a shit just at least remember to have a
little bit more salt and fluids maybe a
lot more in the few weeks leading up a
week and a half to two weeks and you are
going to look really really good when it
comes down to it and by the way
the thumbnail hopefully it looks like I
think it's going to look has me a couple
days before my recent well it wasn't on
spring break it was a December trip with
my wife and her older friends where we
just go to bed early
I have a cocktail
less fun but nonetheless still
illustrates the point it was Cancun
you'll see that I look pretty fucking
Ultra shredded in that second picture
and in that first picture I look not so
Ultra shredded because that first
picture was taken when I was doing the
water and salt intentional bloating and
then when I got to the all-inclusive
dude your boy was putting down I was
down to 5500 calories of food met like
four or five meals a day snacks all this
other crazy shit but I was fucking dry
because I was so used to pounding in the
fluids in the salt before it fucking
works so give it a try all right
now
what about dieting and training during
vacation
we got a couple rules three to be exact
just follow these some semblance barely
and you'll do better than not rule
number one try try
not to eat like a total piece of shit
100 of the time that you're there
light high protein breakfast when you
wake up at 2PM or some shit like that
a reasonable dinner that's not entirely
made of junk food
and if you keep your dinner lighter and
I shouldn't be saying this but here it
goes if you keep your dinner on the
lighter end
you get drunk with less alcohol so
mission accomplished I guess but a lot
of times it's all inclusive so the
alcohol is included who gives a shit but
just throwing it out there if you're
gonna have a light dinner remember that
your tolerance is going to be lower now
I sound like you're fucking Dad I'll be
careful out there Connor humble girls
and cut holes and condoms I'm
Woodstock was a terrible time in any
case
just know that if you eat a lighter
dinner you'll have to drink less could
be a good thing could be a bad thing
it's up to you to make it a good thing
but at least it's more convenient
because you don't have to be like I'm on
my sixth beard I don't feel shit
during the day and night to try to
hydrate well for two reasons reason
number one ooh three reasons
number one it's fucking hot and humid as
shit in Cancun you will fucking die out
there if you don't hydrate number two
let's be honest you're drunk as shit or
you bought fucking Molly from some weird
Hotel worker or now you're on
methamphetamine because it's not actual
Molly and that does not help matters
because when you're drunk or on drugs
you have no fun clue what's going on and
a bunch of them have a diuretic response
so make sure you stay hydrated and
lastly you're going to want Little Willy
that's right your friend downstairs to
work really well there he is and uh you
know he kind of needs hydration because
he's kind of uh he does his best work
when you're fully hydrated and if you
can't put those two things together
good luck in Cancun good God
second rule
this is a bit of a departure from the
first rule
do not or rather you don't have to eat
like a contest bodybuilder the whole
time
when you're at the fucking club
you know it's bottoms up that's why
you're there so don't try to be like oh
I gotta order the diet drinks I mean
sure but unless you're doing some
purposeful gaining phase you just can't
gain enough body fat in a week of actual
partying because remember the party is
the number one thing
to really make a huge impact or almost
any visual impact on your physique so
just don't worry about it right because
a lot of people are like who are into
fitness or like oh man uh only diet
mixers or only four drinks like just
shut the fuck up and have fun right I'm
here to tell you I'm obsessed with my
body my little fucking career out of it
it just doesn't make a fucking
difference not for a week yeah for four
weeks you don't fucking for sure make a
difference but for a week of partying
just enjoy yourself after the club get
you something nasty enjoy that shit and
uh good news it'll help soak up the
alcohol so you don't die in Mexico alone
your parents have to go through customs
to get your body back
oh
rough
third rule
if you do choose to train first of all
do not schedule early morning training
that is insane you won't be awake early
in the morning or you will be awake and
fornicating with lots of other fun
Spring Breakers hopefully in an
environment you all find Pleasant and
not overly dirty
midday training is where it's at another
benefit to midday training is typically
in these locales the equatorial regions
so to speak where you go for spring
break he's so fucking hot midday is just
like a path to heat stroke so just go to
the gym which is hopefully air
conditioned if it's not don't go to the
gym and get your workout then
am training is not likely after training
you can get a good little pump get you a
shower put on your little fuckboy outfit
go get dinner drinks Club face down on
the street at 3 30 wake up in a Mexican
jail and it's just Tuesday baby and I'm
here till Friday let's get at it
lastly you can totally just deload the
whole trip or not train at all now you
might want to train a little bit get
them demons out a tad get pumped with
your friends
um it was always the the thing where
they make some friends there and it's
like six girls and they're like oh my
God you're really buff can you teach us
how to do like gem stuff we're gonna go
left here of course ladies and you just
spend
the rest of the hour showing them Dr
Mike YouTube videos which you should do
because your boy knows what he's fucking
talking about JK
um get in there and get some training
going but I will say this
feel free to deload just two or three
upper body training sessions that whole
week
will keep you looking exactly as good as
when you got there you do not have to
train two days or seven times a week to
look your best to maximize your Club
performance and as a matter of fact if
you want to maximize your performance
don't train a ton train a little bit so
you got that fucking nasty man energy
for the phone party that's right the
phone party and Christianity mutually
exclusive satanic things happen at the
phone party and I hope you enjoy them
all praise Satan all right
quickly if you're on the business end of
things if you're a saucy guy if you're
using the special sport supplements so
to speak
you may have questions about how to
manage that and I have a few answers for
you
the uh the PowerPoint says if you're a
drug addict which is probably true for
you you really need to think about shit
growth hormone pull it out yes it is a
very powerful fat burner but it also
results in bloating and if you pull out
growth hormone about ah you know a week
to half a week before you go you're just
going to look way more shredded hands
down also growth hormone helps you sleep
if you pull out growth you'll be less
apt to sleep on the trip which is good
because you'll be parting Your Face Off
you won't need to sleep anyway
another thing
yes the drugs you were taking help get
you in shape
especially if you're shooting long
Esters if you don't know what that means
just skip the next three minutes
you should not have a meaningful change
in how much serum concentration of
anabolic you have in your bloodstream in
any relevant capacity throughout this
week of party
do not take drugs with you you can go a
week without injecting I promise
and if they're long Esters Mr whiskey
dick won't have to happen everything is
all gravy and the good thing is
a lot of bodybuilders pull out pretty
much all of their gear almost all of it
before contests anyway like a week or
two out because less androgens actually
make you look drier as well will you
have your best gym performance well if
you shot a week ago yes probably still
would you look your absolute fullest no
but who gives a shit you're going to
look sharper and drier so it's better to
pull out all of your gear stop shooting
it when you fucking get on the plane
don't bring fucking drugs with you to
other countries look like you bring
drugs into Finland they go to America
because this is a very bad thing for you
to do and who are worried about your
health so please just leave them here
and go to Finland and enjoy sorry I
finished people I fucked up your accent
uh if you go to Thailand and you got
stairs on you
he may not be coming back Scott what's
that one video uh with the the movie
with the people they go and broke down
palace
bro watch that shit don't you fucking
bring drugs anywhere else in this
fucking world Mexico uh Thailand that's
for you Aussie motherfuckers you Aussie
cunts always trying to bring gear
everywhere cut it out you don't need it
straight up and this is an honest advice
I'm not trying to be your fucking parent
here
does she have the latex on no then the
answer is she's no longer my girl came
back and stale you are valid as a human
and always but to me as a sax object
only when you're in your uh was that a
movie called
underworld outfit
I love vampires or werewolves or
whatever you are Kate beckinsdale hello
[Music]
in any case
she shows up without the outfit I'm like
who are you
all right
lastly
after the vacation assuming you survived
of course most of the funnest Spring
Breaks end in death which is a good way
to live until you're 22.
I would take a week or two after the
trip to just like eat clean like fruits
veggies whole grains Meats just to you
know I'm saying a lot of toxins into
your body time to let them float out as
you put only good stuff in for a little
bit
ease back into training you don't want
to just hit it hard right after because
you just deloaded basically so you gotta
ease back in no crazy stuff three reps
in reserve lower volumes
Etc and then keep trading so next time
you don't have to rush back into shape
and you can be jacked and lean well in
advance of spring break
go there and just mop it all up baby and
if I have to tell you what the it is you
got a lot of growing up to do which is
going to happen on spring break for you
or here in a few weeks so
lastly in that two-week time span
afterwards
hopefully had fun hopefully you were
safe
go get STD test because I'm pretty sure
the foam party foam particles are
actually made of the HIV virus
it's just more fun that way
and uh take care of yourself folks have
a good time if you have any questions
comments concerns about specifics shoot
them in to the comments below and I will
try to get to them and answer them and
uh have fun and be safe don't do
anything stupid unless it has a high
payoff it involves titties I'll see you
guys later