these are four super effective quad
exercises you probably don't know about
that all emphasize a deep stretch first
Smith machine squats with a Twist do
long length partials on every rep that
means you stay in the bottom half the
whole time these are tough so don't go
too heavy the first time second reverse
nordics these let you go much deeper
than any leg extension machine will Loop
a band around a squat rack kneel down
and lean back while keeping your hips
straight go as low as you comfortably
can and squeeze your quads to lift
yourself up switch to body weight once
you're strong enough third squats
don't let the name fool you these are
hard grab a cable for balance and as you
lean back come up onto your toes and let
your knees travel forward don't worry
studies show this won't hurt your knees
it'll make them stronger fourth Smith
machine deficit split squats save these
for when you got some serious demons to
fight