[Music]
hey folks
Dr Micheal Chall here for Renaissance
period ization coming at you with a
video number 13 an hour hypertrophy made
simple video series if you want more
details about all the topics covered
here
check out the hypertrophy guide central
hub on our website and our other longer
form YouTube videos on this very channel
video number 13 how to prioritize muscle
groups let's check out why we need to be
prioritizing in the first place
can't you just train everything you
absolutely can but a couple of reasons
to prioritize reason number one is at
one side of your body or one muscle
might be bigger than there are for
example one of your biceps is bigger
than the other you want to put some
emphasis on another one or let's say
your legs are a whole lot bigger than
your upper body so you want to
prioritize your upper body for a while
totally fine reason reason number two
there are limited resources and
sometimes when you're training it really
really hard training more of one means
less of another's for example you know
if you want to train your legs and back
really hard really grow your legs and
back you might have to pull away in or
touch some shoulder or maybe some arm
training in order to just give your body
the resources and the energy needs to
really do good work outs for the
prioritize muscle groups and number
three my favorite fries personal reason
for specializing and prioritizing you
just you know want something to stand
out you know big arms are never wrong
so someone asks you why are you
prioritizing arms you got to look at him
like what why the hell wouldn't I
so here those are the reasons to
prioritize and look if you don't meet
any of the reasons you just want
everything to grow that's totally cool
keep on growing everything normally you
want to prioritize here's how to do it a
simple six step checklist number one you
want to train a local muscle group that
you're prioritizing from its local
minimum effective volume to its local
maximum recoverable systemic fatigue
should not limit you so if you're not
training your legs as much as you could
be because the rest of you is beat up
your soul is beat up you've got to
reduce some other muscle groups more
something so that your legs are getting
trained as much as they can tolerate not
the rest of your body local limits not
systemic limits next and most of
the weekly sessions which you train
prioritize muscle groups they should be
trained first that's when you have the
most energy so if you're prioritizing
your chest its chest then back chest
then biceps chest and triceps not the
other way around in any of your sessions
number three you want to consider
training a muscle that you're
prioritizing at least at first and
training it really hard after a layoff
from the previous week so for example if
you take sunday off if you really want
to prioritize back Monday should
probably be back training after a day of
full rest you don't want to say you're
prioritizing back and your biggest back
workout of the week is on a Friday or on
a Saturday after a long week of all the
other training and all the work that you
do you want to start fresh super super
important number four you want to choose
exercises that have the highest Ross
stimulus magnitudes the one that really
mess up the target muscle yes the most a
fatigue ratio is important but when
you're prioritizing you want to hammer
things you're not so concerned about
fatigue spillover because you can reduce
other muscle group volumes for that so
for example if squats really just
destroyed your quads but like yeah they
beat up the rest of you as well and they
make you training for other muscle
groups tougher no big deal if you want
bigger legs squatting is number one
which is one of the reasons why a lot of
bodybuilders who want to bring up muscle
groups do we more of a compound heavy
barbell work for them because that stuff
causes a huge stimulus it's worth it
causes a lot of fatigue so when you're
not trying to bring up a monster group
you might do less barbell work so give
that some thought you want to choose the
most hardcore exercises that really mess
up the mas group don't worry about the
fatigue too much worry about that later
when you're training more in a balance
next you want to increase the frequency
for that muscle a little bit more than
you normally would probably starting to
get towards its highest sustainable so
if you can train biceps twice a week and
recover just fine that's not really
biceps priority
maybe you should train your biceps three
times a week for a little while maybe
you should train it four times a week
and really milk it out Toro oh my god if
I start training biceps five times a
week my biceps will fall off a couple
months of that barely sustainable will
get you ahead on the biceps and you can
reduce frequency or volume for the other
muscle groups in order to make room for
that kind of adaptation or that kind of
training and that's number six the last
point is you want to reduce the most
interfering muscles to their minimum
effective volume or even to their
maintenance volume like roughly a third
of what you'd normally do most
interfering would be the ones that
really get in the way for example if
you're a really prioritizing chest
triceps are really interfering in that
because if your triceps are cooked from
a ton of tricep training you hold your
presses are gonna be tricep limited so
if you're really prioritizing chest you
got to reduce some triceps if you're
really prioritizing biceps you should
probably reduce them back because all
back training makes your biceps tired
pretty much if your systemic ly limited
if the reason you can't push your legs
into the stratosphere is because your
back and chest and all the other
training is really breaking you down you
want to look at reducing the systemic
load by reducing the systemic exercises
more in the systemic muscle groups for
example chest shoulders back as tougher
really beats you up reduce to that if
you want to do more light training don't
reduce your forearm volume and your calf
volume because that doesn't interfere
with anything it barely causes any kind
of systemic influence when you're
prioritizing your legs instead of doing
less back for all exercises do less
things like barbell rows and one-arm
dumbbell rows that really hit the
structural parts of your back your
spinal erectors are really super heavy
hit your glutes as well and hamstrings
barbell rows do that just for
stabilization if you do more machine
stuff for your back more vertical
pulling you could still do a ton of leg
training and not have to back off on all
of the back stuff that you're doing last
question how many muscles should you
reduce and how many muscles at the same
time should you prioritize literally
however it makes sense for you to still
get great training for the prioritize
muscles so you might say okay I'm gonna
prioritize for muscles and puts you know
- on the back burner you try that you
realize like there's no way you can do
justice to four muscles just not great
training so you go three and three all
of a sudden three prioritised on three
on the back burner and you're getting
amazing training for the prioritize
muscle groups that's awesome if it takes
two muscles that's what it takes
if you can do six muscles and just have
one on the back burner that's also fine
too folks give this a thought if you
want to prioritize do it you don't have
to but it's always a good way to do it
right if you're gonna do it thanks for
tuning in
time
[Music]