so guys we just finished up with some
breakfast at first watch we're here
right now in Jacksonville Florida and my
boy Patti lifts just got in town so
we're going on a little road trip today
we're actually going to Tampa Florida
then we're going to Orlando and we're
gonna be going seeing a Brock Hampton
concert in Tampa and then we're going to
Universal Studios in Orlando we're just
gonna vlog a whole thing for you guys so
this is gonna be a really hopefully a
really action-packed video so we're
gonna get into that right now
[Music]
all right now so just change our view be
here in Tampa and this is sweet give you
guys quick little tour so we've got the
TV rooms over here arrangement of
candles to bedroom so this is it's a
romantic getaway for Rashad and Pat so
we need a quick bite to eat here now and
then we're gonna claim some pre-workout
and head to the gym so we'll check in
with you guys in the gym we're here a
powerhouse gym Tampa and when we were in
Tampa this is my favorite gym to Train
out so much equipment here we're gonna
be hitting a back workout today just
show you guys a couple exercises Pat and
I are gonna kind of like putting the
headphones get in his own have a solid
workout for billions that right now
we're kicking it off with they're called
Meadows rose you guys didn't see it I
didn't interview with John Meadows who
in my opinion is just one of the best
bodybuilding coaches out there and this
is a movement that as far as I know he
trademarked and basically what you do
Pat's doing I'm here so you kind of set
up you hold on the fat part of the bar
and you grow up out to the side almost
as if you're in a wide grip rub you
amid crap contraption doing these so
we're gonna load them up with like 25
pound plates get a little bit more of a
full range of motion
one thing you want to keep in mind which
is exercise you want to make sure that
your brace against your leg here so if
you're like this there's going to be a
lot of extra stress on your lower back
you're just have to be able to go as
heavy so plant your palm here for
support and you're gonna grow straight
up to get squeeze your shoulder blades
together I should say
even with like no weight on it I still
feel a pretty like crazy crap hump
already Union a few of those I think
we're doing course that's a eight on me
so next we've got a super set wearing
these super setting Rascals just above
the knees so this is for a trap focus
with wide grip pull-ups over here we're
gonna be doing three sets each for these
we're gonna be going on sets of six to
eight reps and then on the pull-up I'm
gonna go eight to twelve reps
I'm gonna try to complete 30 total reps
so I could basically however long it
takes me to get there we're just kind of
doing this now for the for the sake of
time and the fact that you are kind of
working different movement patterns with
the rack pull here you've got like a
very small range of motion we're going
pretty heavyweight remember me doing
bodyweight pull-ups over here as a as a
vertical pole and and by the way this is
sort of like a modified version of a
John Meadows back workout that we're
doing here now so shout out to John for
the crazy workout
we're gonna finish up two more exercises
the second last exercise is going to be
a stretcher exercise so I'm gonna look
for like either a pullover machine or
we'll do maybe a dumbbell pullover or if
not maybe with a rope but some kind of
just stretch exercises to really stretch
the lats so we're gonna finish off with
a lower back extension machine and just
do some some kind of high rep work for
the lower back and then after that do a
little bit of biceps through those three
exercises right now no finish it out
strongly we're done with the dumbbell
today because I find I actually can't
get quite as much of a stretch with the
cable even though it's more constant
tension I finally the dumbbell you can
get a really strong stretch up at the
top and almost extend the range of
motion further than you'd be able to
with the cable and there is no machine
here so we're gonna go over this today
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
one
you
all right so guys she's made it back
from the gym that was like I think that
was the sweatiest workout he's doing bad
in a while he was cooking in there man
but anyway yeah I've got some
post-workout protein here ready to go to
blend of casein in way and I've talked
about this before on the channel I'll
put a link to a video actually a science
explained video about me talking about
the benefits of a blended protein
there's a bunch of reasons for that but
I'll just link a video up above and yeah
I'm gonna have this in an apple and
that's gonna be my post-workout meal
I've actually got to prepare for my next
myth bus mine day I'll check them with
you guys all tomorrow
[Music]
[Music]
here in Ybor cities and this is like
more of like a historic out of Tampa
tonight we're going to see Brock Hampton
right over here so that you can see the
line is already it's like actually you
guys don't know Stephanie while Brock
hands in in Toronto both pretty big fans
we're looking forward to seeing them
again they're really kind of on the
come-up right now and like the still
underground a little bit hip-hop scene
but yeah they're really talented so
we're looking forward to the concert and
we just got this like little a 5100
we're gonna try to sink it in and get
some clips of the show if not we'll
there's working the steps foam again
well yeah we're gonna go just explore a
little bit more and then go check out
the show
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
alright guys so the show is a wrap
they played star five times anyway
working against and now we've got some
hats hi
okay good morning everyone it is couple
days later and we're now in Orlando
Florida at an Airbnb it's actually a
hotel but we booked it through Airbnb it
is January the 30th today rashon Pat
Steph and I are all staying here and we
all basically spent the last two days
just sat right here whom were the
weather was really bad we also had a lot
of work to do I've just finished up my
latest mythbuster
yesterday so that's live on the channel
now it's about how much protein can you
absorb in one sitting so if you haven't
seen that I'll put a card up here
somewhere
over my head you can go check it out but
for today we are all going to Universal
Studios and Islands of Adventure we're
going to call it a team-building
exercise I'm sorry I'm gonna do a bunch
of rides together it's gonna be a ton of
fun so stay tuned we're gonna go check
that out now but first we're gonna run
over to Denny's and get some breakfast
okay guys we had a slight change of
plans we came to I hop over Danny's I
know so we've got this fruit soup got
some egg whites turkey bacon I've got
some hashbrowns on the way they actually
look that looks really good this is why
I always get this is key she can be key
to armlet maybe wait we're gonna dig in
we're gonna check in with you guys at
Universal Studios it's gonna be sang
[Music]
if we just finished up Universal Studios
or just on our way back to the car right
now that was an awesome park we had an
awesome time and we had a really good
weekend Tampa and then Orlando I hope
you guys liked this vlog was a little
bit of a different style from me but I'm
gonna assume Shaun killed it with the
Edit you liked it please leave me a
thumbs up leave me a comment let me know
what you thought subscribe if you happen
to be new and I'll see you guys all in
the next video