[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and today we're going to
do a coconut not rice pudding this is a
brand-new recipe it's not in any of my
cookbooks and I'm doing this because I
made this meal for myself I've been
cutting for a while I don't get a whole
lot of fats so I started playing around
with these miracle noodles miracle rice
the zero calorie stuff and I made this
not rice pudding one day for my meal one
on my templates and I posted the picture
and surprisingly a lot of you guys are
rice pudding fans and everyone was like
oh my gosh what is that so let's talk
about these rice that's this miracle
rice so it's kind of like a grain sized
and these are like kind of tricky to
work with so I had a lot of you when I
started using the they're also called
shirataki noodles so when I started
using the shirataki noodles the shitake
fettuccine and posting pictures people
were like oh you guys were like I tried
that before that stuff is disgusting
again it is all in the prep process not
gonna lie when you cut into this bag it
smells god-awful it smells like fish I
don't know why it's horrible but you
have to prep it correctly and actually
the instructions are right there on the
bag if you just follow that you didn't
need to rinse these I mean I think the
bag says to rinse it for like 10 or 15
seconds overachieve on that I'll go
ahead and rinse it for like a minute
just like that'll wash off a lot of that
weird smell that's on it then you need
to boil these just for two minutes
that also kills that smell that's in it
and then drain it after the two minutes
and then step three so yes there's a
little prep involved is to dry them out
in a dry saute pan so we have I have
drained them out of the bag gotten rid
of the liquid there they're in a liquid
so when you buy this it's in a pack and
it's packed in liquid I've seen them in
the refrigerator section with the tofu
these I got on
so they are at room temperature shelf
stable product they're still packed into
water but I got them from like thrive
market and they just sentim in a box and
I've just had them in my pantry so they
don't need to be refrigerated so I've
seen both kinds so right now if you can
see it it's kind of shiny it has a
little bit of a shine to it and that's
the moisture that's the water that's
still on it so you want to leave it in
here it might even Brown a little bit it
might even like you know turn a little
bit of color that's okay too
the whole point is to dry it out if you
don't the texture is different you might
even still have a little of the weird
taste but if you prep it correctly it
doesn't have any weird taste at all all
right so this is looking good most of
the shine is gone so this is ready to
use so I will switch this into here
transfer it we're ready to make our
pudding now star the show then what
we're gonna add is vanilla it's
unsweetened vanilla cashew milk you
could use rice milk you can use regular
milk I can't have dairy so I don't use
regular milk so you can use almond milk
rice milk whatever whatever milk you
want and then I'm going to add the rest
of that milk some sugar free coconut
Taurani some vanilla and cinnamon and
I've got some extra of the cashew milk
in case we need it like as this starts
to cook and the water or some of the
milk starts to evaporate if it starts to
stick or get too thick I've got this on
hand but you could use water you know
obviously if you're counting your macros
you can't just add in a splash here and
a splash there because it you if you
want to count it just use water at this
point once you've used the measured
amount of your coconut milk or whatever
milk you are using just use water after
that if you need it so now I'm gonna go
ahead and stir in my protein powder you
guys have heard me say before I don't
like baking with protein powder all that
much I'm
I will but it it does leave a weird
aftertaste that's kind of hard to mask
you have to get pretty scientists ii I
think mixing and stuff and masking and
all that to make it work so I don't like
baking with it but stirring it into
something like this where you kind of
cook off a little bit of the weird
aftertaste totally worked fine for me
I'm gonna go ahead and pull it off the
heat and just let it set and it'll
continue to thicken a little bit stir in
a little salt I'm gonna go ahead and
stir in my coconut flakes now and I've
got some fresh mint I'm gonna tear it
instead of chopping it chopping bruises
believes and tearing just kind of
releases all that good flavor there we
go and ready to enjoy
[Music]