the worst part of Efron's Baywatch
experience was the need to use pills
called diuretics that Baywatch look I
don't know if that's really attainable
is that Zack Efron what the
[Music]
damn hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I'm a
professor of exercise and Sport Science
at Leman College in the Bronx hey the
Bronx so fucking wet whoa anyway Zack
Efron is a person
that I didn't know was a person I
thought it was Efron Ramirez the guy
from Napoleon Dynamite whose name I
probably also got wrong but no Scott the
video guy tells me this is a real human
being who's been in 2017's remake of
Baywatch with The Rock and was also
apparently in High School Musical a
video I was uh banned from seeing due to
a slight misunderstanding with my parle
officer the high schools in general and
especially the children that attend them
so I don't think this is a violation of
my parle but I'm going to be examining
Zack Efron's dare I
say body young male body and all the
suppleness and Just Pure Health that can
exude what am I saying let's look at his
workouts let's see if they're some
combination of not a good idea to do or
a pretty nice idea to do we'll do a
positive note as always all jokes all
after all fun and a little bit of
learning too three two one video time
first of all he's in shape that's lean
you can see someone seratus muscles all
the ribs and shit separated you're in
good fucking shape he's got lats he's
got abs also another trick to seeing
who's lean or not his face is really
sunken in not a lot of fat face like I
currently have right
now uh he's in shape this is already
very good because hey when you're lean
some shit you're doing has to be working
I
think American
Ninja yeah jumping off a motorcycle this
is my typical Monday morning hi I'm
Patrick Murphy founder Murphy Fitness at
Murphy Fitness this is a real human
being so I'll try to be as polite as
possible Patrick welcome to the show I'm
sure you're an excellent person in
almost all regards time to find out if
you are doing to whatever extent I deem
is a good job with Mr Zack
Efron no offense and I was hired to
train Zack Efron for the movie Baywatch
I had to get him in the best shape of
his life he's in good shape let's find
out how it was done and his program is
one of the most most dynamic programs I
put together they sure don't want a
static program but maybe he means actual
movements we'll see when I had to get
Zach in the best shape of his life I
decided to introduce the super setting
workouts and what that entailed was two
exercises followed back to back without
rest this created an elevated heart rate
which maxed calorie burning so far so
good this created muscle efficiency High
muscular endurance I don't exactly know
what muscle efficiency means it will
improve your overall muscular endurance
so so far pretty good and I created an
Unstoppable machine did he just say what
I think he said I created an Unstoppable
machine a Hollywood actor who weighs 165
pounds
Unstoppable he does look good though
anytime I watch Zack Efron I think of
pulling what am I talking about pulling
well we can't quite admit that on
YouTube can we you fill in the blanks
however for pulling that's done inside
of a gym ideally with your clothes on
for the purposes of pushing your muscles
really really far the versagrip is a
huge addition to Your Arsenal this isn't
just me selling you on some bullshit I'm
not just trying to sell you whatever VPN
company pays us the most money Versa
grips actually work I actually use them
and you know what I pay my own goddamn
hard-earned money for the ship why
because the versagrip is such an
incredible gripping tool that when you
put it over your wrists and over the
barall or dumble you have whatever
muscle is moving that let's say it's
your back let's say it's your shoulders
is now the limiting factor your grip is
a non-issue with completely bolted and
grip you can focus on the muscles you
need and you can push them Ultra close
to failure even Beyond without your grip
giving out this is such a huge deal in
hypertrophy training because look your
grip gives out then the grip muscle is
the one you're really training your
forearms the other muscles you're not
training really as much the muscle that
gets closest to failure gets the biggest
stimulus now every muscle you train can
be that muscle and no longer grip firsta
grips are awesome there's a link in the
description below give them a click and
uh yeah enjoy become uh God on your own
terms treat the rest of us well once you
become
immortal okay guys let's start with a
dynamic warmup I'm going to wake up Hey
look it's Zach afron no wait it's Albert
Hammond Jr a singer songwriter guitarist
and is The Strokes nope I read that
wrong he's a guitarist and singer and
songwriter for comma The Strokes Scott
you've been known to stroke it a few
times this is awesome we it's like a
bonus to videos because we get a rock
star to demonstrate the actor's workout
damn this Patrick Murphy guy works with
a lot of highle people where are the
dicks that I have to suck to do that
myself I'm all famous on YouTube now but
God damn it it's just me and a fucking
desk give me some tasty actors and maybe
even a songwriter or two and then we can
get to talking and by talking I mean
having training with them training with
them training with them that's why I
don't have any clients let's see what
kind of job has been done Albert's body
with Dynamic stretching Albert's body
indeed get some blood in his shoulder
are you ready let's do it external
rotations bad news folks external
rotations do almost nothing unless you
have some kind of problem in your
shoulders you can just start warming up
for whatever exercise you're actually
going to load that day first so this
external rotation shit is something
someone previously injured who knows
that doing this is a must for them to
warm up should be doing everyone else
it's aing waste of your time focus on
the rotator cuff keep the shoulder down
keep the ABS in ABS in why the does that
matter what your abs are doing excellent
very important to put blood in the
shoulder start a workout is it also
doesn't the warmup itself for the
workout do that like light sets of bench
press before bench press yes now we have
at least one study to show that just
doing a couple sets of the actual lift
you're going to do is as good for
performance warming up as doing a whole
cardio warm-up beforehand this is
inferior even to a cardio warm-up
because it doesn't even warm up the
shoulder joints that much as much as
just doing a minute on the elliptical
would do this is not a very good use of
time my apologies but it's just not
ready for the workout let's do this all
right guys let's get into Super setting
two exercises repeated back to back
without any rest this is a good idea
idea it's a crapload of stimulus in a
very short time it burns a ton of
calories it gets the person sweating and
really excited about working out or
miserable depending on I see things it's
awesome to do with adults that have busy
other things to do in their lives and
you need to get them in shape as quickly
as possible would this make you your
most jacked no will it make you a really
good combination of jacked and lean if
you're relatively untrained yes
absolutely so this is uh this is good
stuff we're doing three rounds with all
of these exercises three rounds 15 to 20
reps here we go
[Music]
is he standing on One lag or am I losing
my
mind great stabilization for the ankle
yep he sure as shit is that's stupid
unless you have brittle ankles and you
can't move them and you need
stabilization training which is true for
almost no one standing on one leg and
doing lateral raises only reduces the
activation to your side delts that you
get because stability is the number one
pro of Maximum muscle activation as soon
as you lose some amount of stability
some amount of muscle activation goes
down and it's usually the biggest most
growth prone parts of the muscle that
lose activation first so this standing
on one leg nonsense is exactly that
nonsense otherwise this technique on
lateral raises is just fine wonderful
good there you go excellent perfect
range
boom here we go
wait two exercises or is it three now
no shrugging the shoulders pull with the
elbows unless you're targeting some very
specific very small part of the back no
shrugging the shoulders is not good
advice you do want to shrug the
shoulders forward so you can shrug them
back you get a lot of trap activity and
brow the rest of the back musculature
which actually grows better when you
stretch it so I would say the no shrug
in the shoulders is probably bad advice
the movement itself looks quite good he
did do a front raise with dumbbells in
that I missed was was a super set to a
super set or something I would say super
setting side to front raise is not so
intelligent because you're just kind of
diff using different parts of your
shoulders I think it's okay but I would
like to see two kind of very different
muscles get suers seted in this style so
that one muscle is really completely
left alone while the other muscles goes
hard something like a set of squats
suers seted to a set of lateral raises
that can because you don't use your
shoulders when you Squat and you don't
use your legs when your lateral raise so
one rests while the other one is burning
you flip the script and you can get a
lot out of both muscles muscles training
muscles are very close to each other
especially muscles which have a lot of
actual fiber overlap like a lot of the
time when you do uh scapular plane side
delt stuff you actually hit a lot of
front delt and vice versa when you do
front risers you get a lot of side belts
so not an excellent combo I would say
nice no elevated shoulders right ABS in
y ABS in and also this is targeting like
the rear adts guy's got 45 minutes to
train he's just trying to look like a
healthy fit strong person isolating the
rear adults is probably a bad use of
time any back movement you can do any
kind of Pull-Up any kind of pull down
any kind of row will similarly hit the
rear delts and hit everything else as
well so if time is of the essence and
you admit the time is of the essence by
structuring your workout in super sets
anyway then you might as well not do
weird small isolation stuff also
anything banded is usually inferior
because you get less tension at the
stretch where it grows more muscle more
tension at the contraction where it
grows less so not a big fan of that on
that count as well gez I'm being
negative nasty
today chest presses from the floor are
so great for your shoulder joint it
stabilizes your whole body when we press
from the ground this is the best way to
develop your chest okay everything he
say ising wrong it doesn't stabilize
your shoulder joint any more than
anything else unless you have I don't
know like champagne flute glass
shoulders or some shit like that it
limits the range of motion that you get
because you don't get that stretch so by
definition at least for hypertrophy and
definitely for strength it's not the
best way to improve your chest in any
regard wrong wrong wrong let's see what
else is is wrong floor press with
dumbbells wrong I didn't even say
anything uh yeah the floor press is a
fine movement to do in some contexts
like working on your lockouts maybe if
you're a powerlifter but then it's
better to do with a barbell uh you can
use more weight that way and it's more
similarly replicating the bench press
experience but uh for general fitness
things like that I think the floor press
is a trash movement and I would much
rather see someone do deficit push-ups
regular bench and dumbbell pressing and
machine pressing with an actual deep
stretch at the bottom that's how we grow
muscle most or we can get into weird
semi squat stance and do whatever the
that is and it is imaginary chair highy
R Scott kill me why don't we just
imagine the whole workout at this point
the worst part of Efron's Baywatch
experience was the need to use pills
called diuretics which are usually
intended as a treatment for high blood
pressure it's one of like the 50 things
diuretics do but thank God someone at
Men's Health Ed the Google that Baywatch
look I don't know if that's really
attainable there's just too little water
in the skin Scott you're seeing the
screen is is that Zack afron yeah who
the that guy's like 90 years older than
him yeah I think that was like a
specific role what the damn I much
prefer to have an extra you know 2 to 3%
body fat respect it's a different look
some people like it better I guess the
philosophy around my current diet is
intermittent fasting mixed with getting
enough nutrition to sort of sustain me
throughout the day typical Hollywood
intermittent fasting not terrible not
terrible for a purpose you'd be better
off eating uh three to five high protein
meals per day evenly spread but
intermittent fasting is not terrible as
long as you meet all your Macros
especially getting high protein in
especially if you train first and then
have your feeding window after just when
the muscles are most sensitive and prone
to growth and need the recovery you fuel
up uh not a terrible way to go just
after I stopped being vegan oh we
stopped being vegan mission accomplished
my body wasn't processing the the
vegetables in the right way so I decided
to to stop it and try something new
intermittent fasting has been really
helpful with that does that mean you
didn't eat vegetables at all huh I like
that the exclamation mark for Men's
Health said there's no one diet that
works for all people could have been
phrased better but they're on to some
truth find what works for you in a way
that you're emotionally and socially and
physiologically really compatible with
the diet pick something that's
challenging but you can do for a while
something that chucks the boxes of basic
physiological principles like calorie
balance macronutrients and uh has enough
healthy food in it and then you're good
to go you can eat five meals a day you
can eat two meals a day and accomplish
roughly the same thing for most roles
you you change something but I think
probably the one role that I had to
change the most for was probably
Baywatch makes
sense that movie I adopted a really
really specific eating regimen clean
fish or meat with sweet potatoes like
that I just did that the entire film
yeah standard bodybuilding diet works
every time I've got training pretty
locked in the diet kind of does the
finishing touches diet will take you to
the next level and if you're doing it
right you can train better I don't know
it's sort of like the chicken in the egg
I can't believe I finally get to do this
but bear with me for quick side tangent
into
nerdland Scott you shut your fucking
mouth while you were getting laate in
high school I was studying this is my
time now what comes first the chicken or
the egg it's supposed to be a conundrum
that has no answer but I'll tell you
this the way philogyny works is that
whatever animal we categorize as the
first representative of modern chicken
has to have one ANC
maybe charitably two ancestors really
just one first real chicken let me ask
you a question did that chicken
instantiate into the universe unaltered
with no prior form as an egg or did that
first chicken that first combination of
mommy chicken and daddy chicken's DNA oh
sorry Proto chicken Mommy and Proto
chicken daddy DNA combined guess where
that happened first the egg so no it is
not a conundra what came first the
chicken or the egg the answer is
unequivocally the egg the chickens
before that were not chickens they were
Proto chickens you're welcome anyone who
does genetics or bi biology or philogyny
get in the comments and support me and
if you disagree with me I'll be blocking
you instantly cuz I I know science not
you in any case the egg came first if
you guys are liking how this is going we
have an extra extended super unfiltered
too hot for YouTube cut of this in our
members area click on that link and uh
give a thought to getting into the
members area and see if it gets fun we
have all other kinds of bonus videos
that you will not see on a regular
YouTube so give that some thought
toughest diet I've ever done for a r
probably just not eating I've done that
a couple times that's rough that's what
High School Musical was all about I just
went to slow down the tiniest bit and
just came to a complete stop I felt a
pop so I have a fully torn ACL dude that
sucks that's a long road to recovery
usually you need surgery as well going
Johnny
Fontana vitru trainer can you show us a
workout that doesn't involve my my knee
and Will Keep Us jacked and handsome
plank row look guys there are
legitimately like entire machines where
you can just sit and knocked your back
the out and it leaves your knee
completely untouched the plank row is
not one of them because you still need
double foot support this is bad exercise
selection with someone with aing broken
knee I'm going to have you guys get it
handle and we're going to see who can
get max power so we'll go rep for rep so
Z will be rep you'll be rep we'll go
back one arm bullshit waste of time
unstable crap grab them both save some
time get some better stimulus God damn
it
okay oh shit they got a some way to
measure something what is this machine
even measuring effort points that's not
a good that's not a bad question like
what are the units on
this table R the same concept here Pull
It in fast hey let's do the same
movement we've already done except from
a cable not from a dumbbell oh wait we
already do that twice for the press and
now we're doing it for the
row amazing also it requires a lot of
stability and rotation and
anti-rotational forces which all
generate from your feet and ankles and
travel through guess what
structure no it couldn't be yeah it's
the knee it's theing knee I thought we
were trying to stay the off the knee
this is the worst possible work out for
this you got to have them do squats next
godamn it the most important thing that
I have learned in terms of diet is to
stay away from processed foods and stick
to organic as much as you
can organic and processed are not
antithetical to each other they're
barely even related organic is a
nonsense term in the industry that's
supposed to mean earthy and it
technically means nothing at all in
chemistry organic means
contains the carbon atom in some
capacity and since your entire body and
every food you ever eat is going to be
organic that doesn't make any sense so
organic's nonsense processed does mean
something it's the degree of
modification to food but there are
plenty of healthy foods that are very
processed like whey and Cas and protein
are processed to shit and they're
insanely good for you and all those
little herbs and mushrooms you take as
pills they're you know know what I'm
saying ashwaganda and shit that's great
for you too that is insanely processed
it's a powder and it appears in a pill
so most of the time having minimally
processed foods is a good idea for your
health but that's always the case and a
sure shit has nothing to do with Organic
which is a waste of your money and a
scam I am a firm believer in not eating
chemicals and not eating chemicals my
man did you know that every single part
of every single food you have ever eaten
and will ever eat is made entirely of
chemicals only of chemicals you're also
made of chemicals do you guys want to
see me breathe in chemicals watch this
yes it turns out the air is also
exclusively made of chemicals strange
maybe Zack Efron if you did less high
school musicals and went to more actual
science classes in high school you'd
have known this but I'm getting quite
irated and this is all a joke anyway
Namaste
guys the shit pisses me off all right
Zack Efron is a handsome man excellent
physique uh most of the stuff in here is
quite good with the usual Hollywood
catch of stable stuff and unstable stuff
and push one stick and do this bosu ball
and make up these terms and do a bunch
of rounds and all this crap so in
general I give this kind of training up
seven out of 10 a lot of really good
stuff some really highlight stuff and
the three out of 10 missed points is
like just stop using the boso balls to
Goddamn much get into a stable machine
go through a full- range motion hit the
muscles hard go home you don't need to
do all that fancy stuff no matter how
much Hollywood brainwashing you have to
give to your celebrities cuz they just
don't want to do the regular stuff
anymore anyway all love and respect all
for the laws and the education if you
happen to be any of these people in this
video consider me irrelevant at best and
at worst I could be wrong about all this
but uh if you guys like learning stuff
we'll see you next time for more peace
all right that was cool right here is a
video that YouTube thinks you like and
maybe they're not wrong so give it a
click watch more stuff get us paid more
so that my Butlers can afford to send
their children to school a it's a butler
school so the children can become mini
Butlers later also for me see you guys
next
[Music]
time