recommendation here just to review is
drink as much as you can and you'll
recover see you next time just kidding
you're still with us right thank God
alcohol is a poison you guys know that
it actively poisons you it at high
concentration poisons you a lot and that
f up your recovery to basic biochemical
level add number two alcohol directly
and Via hormonal Pathways interferes
with muscle growth and repair B number
three is it disrupts a bunch of other
hormones that are good for Recovery bad
number four is alcohol dehydrates you
which is a big no no for recovery bad
number five even if alcohol helps you
get to sleep especially if you drink
quite a bit three or four drinks or more
you can notably and predictably disrupt
the Sleep Quality of the sleep that
follows B