hey folks Dr Mike here for Amazon's
periodization and today's BS topic is
food pairing what uh you want us to eat
all the foods by themselves now Mike
what is this
actually the opposite
so
food pairing is very common in religious
circles for example if you are Muslim
and you eat according to the rules that
determine what is uh Haram and Halal
then Halal is has some real things about
what you can eat together and what you
can't and some things you can't eat at
all
almost identical just kidding very very
frighteningly similar rules to the
Jewish religion
um kosher food has all kinds of stuff
you're not supposed to pair oh one food
with the other milks and meats aren't
supposed to pay are not supposed to
happen the same time when Christians do
lent there are some food pairings that
are not allowed and you're actually
supposed to take a food group and take
it away altogether and stuff like that
so it's it's very common in religious
circles but it actually has uh
been seen in nutrition circles
for example and this is the Todd this is
not a religious video I just want to
point out that food pairing is a thing
that exists in another realm that has
nothing to do with nutrition really if
you think about it
here are some things that are actually
advocated by people
in the nutrition Community not to say
qualified nutritionists actually to say
the very opposite unqualified
nutritionists or people that aren't
nutritionists really just people that
say things we'll say things like you
know proteins and carbs digest better by
themselves than if you pair them and I
actually have I was at a a hangout a
picnic that my parents had with their
friends and our older folks and they
were in their 60s at the time and I had
a lady sit me down and be like you know
things yes you're sort of an expert I
was a cow why not and she's like I'm
doing this great diet and now that I
know nutrition too you and I can talk in
like we know things and I was like oh
okay cool what's the diet like she's
like well I know I know now that the
enzymatic environment in the stomach and
the intestines is so different between
digesting proteins and carbs that I have
all of my carbs separately in meals and
all of my proteins separately so she'll
have like some whole grain bread and
some fruit in one meal
not what I would call a meal that's like
where's the meat at and then she would
have like you know a slice of fish or
something like that in another meal and
then the next meal would be again some
carbs and the next meal again some
protein so she was doing that
fun conversation because she was like
this is good yes and I was like actually
you would be surprised that this is all
nonsense I think I said it slightly more
politely but not by much
I've heard people say Don't eat fruits
and vegetables in the same meal because
there's some kind of interference effect
and something I used to do in Fall for
is don't eat both high carb and high fat
in the same meal
the carbs they raise the insulins and
the insulins they're very bad
and they make you fat fat but not if you
don't eat fat but if you eat fat with
the high carbs the insulin from the high
carbs takes the fat and smashes it into
your fat cells and you become fat
forever and people make fun of you then
you have nobody to talk to but you can
eat ice cream and so it's a
self-fulfilling prophecy until you die
of obesity 700 pounds precisely three
days after you start so don't do it and
I used to avoid this as well
now here's the deal
all those three things I just said it's
all total bullshit
the religious stuff respect you do you
do your thing religious freedom is an
amazing thing
but if it's not religious you don't have
to justify it
because religion justifies things on
faith dope end of discussion total
respect
nutrition people will ask you is this a
religious thing and they go no no no
something that like we figured out works
like oh okay
why
and uh what follows is usually a descent
into madness because there is no why let
me prove my point
proteins and carbs they just better by
themselves than together
almost everyone who tries to do this
kind of diet is trying to lose weight
if you are able to digest your food
better
you actually take more of the food
pass it through your GI tract more of it
gets to your body's cells including the
fat cells if you had a condition whereby
you were unable to digest food very well
or at all untreated celiac disease if
you have lots of gluten is that thing
I don't know if you guys know anyone
with untreated celiac disease but they
usually weigh like 100 pounds because
all the food that goes in it goes right
back out it goes mostly undigested that
is a recipe for Extreme Weight Loss and
inability to gain weight
so if you claim that a diet
enhances the digestion of the foods that
you're eating maybe you're interested in
gaining weight cool I know bodybuilders
that are very concerned when they're
putting on a ton of bulk they're like I
have to make sure my digestion is good
which is a good legitimate point because
if you're pooping out all the food
you're eating good God you'll never gain
weight these people though that do these
diets they want to lose weight and
they're like my digestion's better it's
like that maybe the opposite of what you
want let's just say that you want bad
digestion but if oops by accident you
poop out half the food you eat your life
just became a lot easier you're trying
to make things harder good news for you
it doesn't work
by themselves and together almost all
the nutrients you can eat as a human get
digested almost completely either way 97
efficiency but for a couple of weird
situations where you're allergic to
something or something doesn't fit or
you just eat way too much of it and then
your digestion is like fuck that I'm
passing it all the way through but for
rare circumstances carbs alone carbs
love protein carbs protein fat you're
just gonna digest and absorb all that
anyway and there is no upside
but there's a huge downside and the
downside is you're wasting your time
destroying your Quality of Life by
disassembling your meals needlessly into
different
sub-fractions like you go to a
restaurant with friends and you're like
oh I love this chicken risotto
I'm gonna have to can I get the chicken
separately and then the risotto
separately the waiter's like yeah okay
all right that sucks I guess you're like
yep that trying to get lean so you know
proteins and carbs they don't
they don't
you know and the waiter's like yeah yeah
they sure don't
give me 10 minutes and I'll give you
your pathetic plate of everything
separate so you can save something for
later kind of nonsense is that
don't eat fruits and veggies in the same
meal why why
Christian Bale why not
yeah there's no there is no good
theoretical reason and absolutely no
empirically validated reason and There's
no practical reason it's just make
belief like and the bird of proof is on
those people that say that to give us a
substantial amount of either logic
or evidence or at least some like hey
let's fucking let's get some before and
afters going and then if you get those
going the first critique is like well
didn't you just eat them healthier
altogether well yeah like how do you
know that did isn't what did it
fruits and veggies not together it's the
acidic and and whatever nonsense comes
out of that and what about the high
carbs with high fats isn't that bad well
if you have high carb plus high fat you
just have more calories so number one
way that works well is if you tell
yourself I'm not going to consume foods
that have both High fats and high carbs
at the same time you've eliminated
almost ever had calorie food cookies
gone Pizza gone ice cream gone cake gone
Totino's Pizza Rolls gone what
sorry nobody takes Totino's Pizza Rolls
out of my you pry them out of my cold
dead hands but all of a sudden I can't
eat them so yeah I don't get as fat but
isn't there something molecularly
chemically
hormonally a good fix there no because
you get a lot of insulin secretion quite
quickly if you eat exclusively meal of
carbs okay insulin yeah lots of it it
will if there's fat present will cause
that fat to be animalized to some extent
into a fat cells
quirky thing that happens
which has been known in nutritional
science for I don't know 80 years is
that when you have lots of fat anime
with carbs it takes the glycemic index
the rapidity of insulin response and it
lowers it all the way down to like what
brown rice and apples are
so if you have a simultaneous high carb
and high fat meal the glycemic index is
incredibly low which means insulin
slowly leeches out which means like
nothing special happens that's very
insulinergic or very fat game promoting
if there's also protein in that meal
then it's just like a great anabolic
Feast that makes your body more jacked
over the hours that it releases
to the whole idea that this is even
possible just forgets the idea that your
insulin Dynamics change when you
introduce fat to make things less
insulin energy so it's a self-fixing
problem
it's not a problem
and if you get people to be like yeah
I'm just trying to avoid high glycemic
index Foods man that's what causes fat
gain bullshit by the way and they're
like yeah like I can't have like treats
and stuff you're like I just looked up
the GI for ice cream and it's it's 17.
okay pure glucose is a hundred brown
rice is like 40.
so you can definitely have ice cream and
they're like well no because I had a
sugar in it you're like hey fructose has
a GI of like 15 or something by itself
but like
right I just don't know they just don't
know these things so then they make them
let me tell you guys about the RP
hypertrophy app with over 28 preset
programs already in the app you can
choose to make your own you can modify
an existing program or you could just
run the programs exactly as they were
written by me personally this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the app adjusts to
your unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
grouping secular food
in arbitrary ways is pointless
and here's the worst part like I sort of
said before it intentionally
inconveniences your clients if you're a
nutrition coach and you tell them to do
that and if you're doing it yourself it
intentionally inconveniences you making
your diet adherence lower on average
because if you think splitting up your
carbs and proteins is the way to get
healthy that's what you've chosen as
your sort of vector for health
as your salience through the battlefield
of Health then once you get really sick
of doing that and it obviously isn't
helping you any more than anything else
would you have a pretty high probability
of being like man you know what fuck
this I'm going back to normal eating
where this you could have just eaten
healthy without any arbitrary rules and
then you just have most of the food you
like anyway you control your portions
you have mostly not junk food and some
junk every now and again it's an awesome
balance thing you can sustain forever
but if you make arbitrary weird rules
that destroy your quality of eating all
of your friends go to a restaurant you
can't come your family eats food at home
you have to split it up it's nuts and
it's so inconvenient you're probably
going to do it less and you're probably
gonna fail
and human beings if they fail at
something enough times they get kind of
dejected we have probably dozens of
millions of Americans if not hundreds
dozens of millions millions of people
for sure hundreds of million people
across the world that have tried a bunch
of these bad stupid wacky diets that
don't work inevitably failed with them
and are just check boxing failure in
their brain over and over each time they
fail a diet after a while your brain
learns like dieting not for me I will
fail so I stop trying and then the
Obesity epidemic continues
so let's make sure to diet irrationally
logically if you guys want to learn how
to diet we have fat loss dieting Made
Simple series we have a healthy eating
Made Simple series you just Google them
shits right on YouTube enjoy watching
them it's like an eight part series each
video is like eight minutes long and
you'll know everything basic and
effective there is to know about losing
fat gaining muscle and being healthy and
you can save all this other bullshit
and just take the word bullshit and just
let the people who say it best say it
which is to say Arnold which is say Bush
head nine see you later