welcome to the house of hypertrophy this
fairly recent study has exciting
findings about the optimal rep range to
build muscle and provides deeper Insight
compared to all the other previous
research on the topic to get everyone up
to speed it's long been believed that
the 8 to 12 rep ranges are optimal for
building our soul but in the last decade
or so a substantial number of studies
established this isn't quite true rather
reps approximately between 6 and 35
provided they are performed two or very
close to failure produce similar muscle
growth but these are the average
findings from the studies could some
people grow more with either higher or
lower reps and if so how significant
could these differences be this fairly
recent study is the first that provides
an answer it also aimed to answer the
fascinating question of whether changing
rep ranges could delay a plateau in
growth let's Dive In
[Music]
the researchers recruited 24 previously
untrained women to train the leg press
leg extension leg curl and calf raise
each for three sets a session training
once performed three times a week for 24
weeks one group spent the first 12 weeks
training with loads resulting in them
achieving voluntary failure in their 8
to 12 rep range while in the following
12 weeks they trained with loads
resulting in them achieving voluntary
failure in the 27 to 31 rep range the
second group did the opposite they spent
the first 12 weeks training to voluntary
failure in the 27-31 rep range while in
the next 12 weeks they trained to
voluntary failure in the 8 to 12 rep
range since each subject trained both
with 8-12 and 27 to 31 reps were able to
identify if anyone grew significantly
more with either just in case anyone's
wondering I did say 27 to 31 reps I have
no idea why the researchers use this
unorthodox rep range instead of
something a little more standard but of
course it's not a big deal nonetheless
Progressive overload was applied
throughout the study by having subjects
increase the load they trained with to
ensure they reach voluntary failure
within the rep range they were training
at the time we can't see the subject's
progress the loads well within the rep
ranges across the study
Psy leaves of tissue Mass was measured
throughout the study on average
phthalene soft tissue Mass increased
similarly between both rep ranges
thereby aligning with the rest of the
scientific literature in their average
growth is comparable across different
rep ranges but when we look at the
individual responses we see something
seriously interesting although there
certainly were individuals aligning with
the average and seeing comparable gains
between the 8 to 12 and 27 to 31 rep
range other individuals grew more with
one or the other with some of the
differences being quite significant for
example one individual actually
decreased their thylene soft tissue mass
by approximately five percent when
training with 8 to 12 reps but saw just
over a 10 increase when training with 27
to 31 reps another individual saw
approximately a 13 increase when
training with 8-12 reps but only
approximately a three percent increase
when training with 27 to 31 reps I
believe these results are quite exciting
imagine you've been training hard with
8-12 reps for numerous months or even
years but your dissatisfied with your
hypertrophy you may look at the
scientific research and figure since
hypertrophy is similar across a wide
range of reps there's no reason to try
something different but these findings
are an important addition to the rep
range literature since they
fundamentally tell us how well you grow
with 8 to 12 reps isn't strongly
correlated with how well you may grow
with higher reps the findings also have
implication for the concept of high and
low responders it's all too easy to have
people perform the same training program
and then categorize them as either high
or low responders overall however these
results tell us that being a high and
low responder is specific to the
training variables used in this case the
rep range
before going any further we must address
some potential limitations
foreign
performs 8 to 12 reps in the first 12
weeks and then 27 to 31 reps in the next
12 weeks whereas group 2 did the reverse
of this the rate of muscle growth
decreases across time so it's possible
that any slightly lower gains with one
of the rep ranges were due to the
subject training it in the final 12
weeks however this absolutely does not
explain all the individual differences
why because 50 of all subjects saw their
greatest increase in thigh soft tissue
lean mess with the rep range they
trained in the final 12 weeks a second
consideration is subjects were
instructed to perform repetitions to
voluntary failure which isn't
necessarily true momentary muscular
failure the current literature fails to
convincingly support the notion that you
must train to failure to maximize the
growth from higher or lower reps but you
likely need to get fairly close to
failure and doing this is harder with 27
to 31 reps so perhaps some subjects fail
to get sufficiently close to failure
with this rep range thereby explaining
why some grew less from it but but I'm
unsure of the validity of the
speculation and of course it can't
explain why some grew more with the 27
to 31 reps
finally the subjects were previously
untrained women with an average age of
58 and a BMI of 27. I know that some
people's instinctual reaction to this
will be what on Earth how could you
waste my time on this paper house if
hypertrophy if you had this reaction I'm
assuming you're not a previously
untrained woman 58 years of age with a
BMI of 27 nevertheless let me describe
why this likely isn't a massive
limitation firstly we need to ask
ourselves if strong data indicates that
muscle growth from different rep ranges
differs between demographics such that
we can be confident the results on
untrained women above 50 failed to
generalize to others the answer is no
remember average muscle growth was
similar between the rep ranges in line
with the rest of the research that's
been conducted on a wide range of other
demographics individual differences
aren't unique to untrained women above
50 either we've had studies finding in
younger trained men the existence of
individual differences as we'll see in a
second secondly the subjects were
healthy enough to tolerate the training
they were performing multiple sets of
lower body movements to voluntary
failure and we saw these graphs
demonstrating how they overloaded well
across the study we also know meaningful
gains occurred in fact the gains are in
the ballpark of what we'd expect
[Music]
these findings may come as a shock to
some as perhaps you've had thoughts
similar to Mike Minster it is this fact
the fact that the principles of human
physiology are Universal that makes it
possible for me to state with absolute
certainty there is only one valid theory
of training I.E one best way to train
but this isn't the first time we've seen
individual differences and I don't
anticipate it being the last we've
previously dissected this study by Neves
finding when trained subjects train
their chords with 9 sets a week some
subjects grew their courts more when
dividing these sets across three days a
week While others saw similar gains
between training once or three times a
week this shouldn't be mistaken for
assuming a study's average results are
useless a study's average results can be
used to push back against myths there
are still going to be people who align
with averages averages can be a solid
starting place and finally not all
training variables May display as robust
to individual differences why might some
people grow more with higher or low reps
no definitive answer exists currently
some may be tempted to speculate fiber
type explains the results that is
perhaps people with more slow twitch
fibers since these fibers are low Force
producing but highly fatigue resistant
grow better with higher reps while
people with more fast twitch fibers
since these fibers are high Force
producing but highly fatigable grow
better from Low Reps this would appear
logical but indirect data would question
him the soleus muscle is one of those
muscles that's predominantly slow twitch
dominant in an abundance of individuals
yet previous research found Soleus
hypertrophy was comparable between
higher and Low Reps so if we don't know
why some people may grow more with
either higher or lower reps what should
we make of this information for now
consider different rep ranges as a tool
in your toolbox if you're seeing minimal
results from training with 8-12 reps
assuming all other factors are dialed in
then you may wish to give higher reps a
try or vice versa another interpretation
is since it may be tricky to establish
if you respond better to a certain rep
range in reality it may be simpler but
just to train with different rep ranges
in your program that way if you do
respond better to a certain rep range at
least part of your training includes
that
speaking about constructing an effective
program to help you attain your desired
physique it can be tricky and time
consuming but our high quality partner
the alpha progression app can help you
generate an evidence-based training
program that's 100 custom to your needs
in less than three minutes simply
specify the equipment you have
how often along you want to train for
and if you want to focus or neglect
certain muscles there are even Advanced
options to Paradise your training and
Implement deloads there are over a
quadrillion input combinations on which
your plan is based and with the touch of
a few buttons you can customize things
further such as changing the rep range
you train with through analyzing your
past performance the app provides
Progressive overload recommendations
during your workouts to help you
continue making gains the app
automatically generates graphs that
display your long-term progression
thereby saving you time from having to
manually track your progression the link
in the comments and description gives
you a two-week free trial of all the
app's premium features and if you like
it and go beyond the link gives you 20
off a subscription I truly believe the
app is awesome and the reviews speak to
this
[Music]
recall at the start of this video I
mentioned that this paper technically
also examined if changing rep ranges
could delay a plateau the authors of the
study suggested their results indicate
it does but I actually disagree with
their interpretation the author's
position was as follows previous
Research indicates the rate of muscle
growth slows down a fair bit after 12
weeks but given both groups in the study
actually experienced a similar rate of
muscle growth in the final 12 weeks to
the first 12 weeks and since both groups
changed what rep range they were
performing halfway through the study the
authors interpreted this as successfully
delaying a plateau but remember this is
the average we can't ignore the
individual responses to simplify this
let's say we have subjects A and B they
trained with 8 to 12 reps in the first
12 weeks and then with 27 to 31 reps in
the final 12 weeks subjects a grew well
with the 8-12 Reps seeing a 0.8 kilogram
increase in thigh soft tissue lean mess
but when they switched to the 27-31 rep
in the final 12 weeks they grew less
seeing only a further 0.1 kilogram
increase subject B experienced the
reverse they only gained 0.1 kg when
training with 8 to 12 reps but they saw
a better 0.8 kilogram gain when training
with 27 to 31 reps in the final 12 weeks
if we average their hyperchief together
we see similar growth between the first
12 weeks and the final 12 weeks but this
isn't because changing rep ranges
delayed a plateau rather it's because
different people were growing well at
different time points this is what was
going on with the majority of the whole
data sets if anything this data
indicates changing rep ranges may be
inferior for certain people so if you're
growing well with whatever rep range
you're training with it may be ideal to
stick to this
no no
traditionally 8 to 12 reps was
considered to be the optimal rep range
for building muscle yet a substantial
number of studies in the last decade or
so demonstrate that reps approximately
between 6 and 35 can produce similar
muscle growth provided reps are
performed two or very close to failure
but this is on average this fairly new
paper established though people did
align with the average others grew
meaningfully more with either 8 to 12 or
27 to 31 reps the mechanisms behind this
are currently unclear but there might be
two implications if you're seeing
minimal hypertrophy with a certain rep
range trying another may work
alternatively just training with
different rep ranges in your program
could be a decent idea that way if you
do respond better to a certain rep range
at least part of your training includes
that
remember to feel free to check out the
alpha progression app or feel free to
check out our Ultimate Guide to
developing the lats