are you doing too many sets per session
such that you're doing more work but
you're not getting any more marginal
gain here's the reality you get your
biggest and strongest from what we can
call high quality sets especially on the
size end of the spectrum these sets have
a couple of check marks that have to
occur for them to be counted your
Technique on the sets has to be very
good the amount of Drive neural Drive
you're pushing into the sets has to be
high you're not mailing it in you're
you're there for it and ideally the Mind
muscle connection has to be high as well
so if you get off of a set of dips and
someone's like feel your lower packs
you're like bro I feel it everywhere and
yes versus some you get off of a set of
dips and your training burns like lower
packs you're like I don't know I don't
know I just went up and down and maybe
not even that much I have no idea what's
going on