this is not a thing where they hit us up
and they're like here's ten thousand
dollars just go say nice things you
don't mean we don't do that and we never
will do that every video you'll ever see
us endorse machines we mean everything
we say there's tons of machines I hate
you won't see them on this series
because I hate them
[Music]
YouTube what up
you guys remember the story of
Goldilocks and the Three Bears and they
were trying some stuff and uh she was
trying their porridge and she got the
middle one just right well if porridge
was rowing machines
the prime seated row is that good good
in my opinion this is the best rowing
machine money can buy and it's also
profoundly simple this is where
engineering meets art folks the prime
seated role let me tell you about it
[Music]
[Music]
what is it that makes the prime seated
row so special
here's the deal
first of all
disclosure Prime did not contact us to
do this video we just did it the prime
seated row I mean clearly I can explain
to you the basic function it is a seated
row machine where you get the handles
and then you wrote
awesome but so many other machines on
which you can do this basic movement
what makes this one so special
let's walk around to the back side and
show you where the money is
this fundamental feature which I'm about
to describe to you is what makes the
prime row and in fact many prime
machines super super special it's their
three peg system
depending on which Peg you put more or
less weight on is where the machine
leverages to make it harder or easier in
your range of motion generally speaking
if you put weight on this first Peg as
far as order is concerned they named it
Peg number two I'm not really sure why
but I'm sure they had a great reason
if you use this Peg right here and you
put all the weight on this Peg the
beginning of the movement is going to be
really easy the end is going to be
really hard so if you're working on an
exercise or a group of muscles or an
exercise that's specific to something
else and you need really a crap load of
tension here
this is where you are going to be
putting most of your weight there are
absolutely applications for this they're
not insanely High there's a a peg here
I'll talk about in just a sec which
you'll use much more often but for
example if you are in the very uh in the
sport in which there's not a lot of
people left shirted bench pressing your
ability to pull from here to here is
huge for being able to touch in your
bench this Peg right here replicates
exactly that without hardly any tension
at the other end the middle Peg
generally gives you a feel that
replicates something like a barbell row
it's just going to be pretty even
beginning to end no big difference real
good place to start for many people this
top Peg which I like to call the money
Peg
that sounds like money Penny from James
Bond I always hated that name but it
could work for me change that name
anything else in any case
this Peg is super super interesting
because the way training on this machine
works
is that if you put a ton of weight on
this Peg the bottom part of the machine
is super highly loaded at that deep
stretch and then the top part gets
progressively less loaded as you pull so
that you experience essentially no load
at the very top
the really cool thing about that is that
a body of research that's pretty old but
is accumulating and it's accumulating in
how much confirmatory research there is
about this is showing us that a lot more
hypertrophy by a decent margin is caused
by taxing the loaded stretch at the
bottom of most muscle groups and much
less is caused at the top
here's the thing if you were to do a
traditional barbell row you may be able
to get quite a few more reps at that
bottom range but you won't be able to
touch your tummy after a while because
it's much harder up here than it is down
here thus When You Reach failure on
metros yes technically you reached
failure but that most productive bottom
and range could have gotten you more
reps and more stimulus
should you do partial rep rows maybe but
it's really hard to see if you're like
am I stopping just short or how many
inches away do I stop what's considered
failure can I tell if I'm five or six
inches away from my tummy it's a it's no
game you want to play with this machine
what you can do is put a majority of the
weight here some of the weight here what
you get is a super good but not
challenging Peak contraction you can
still feel all the muscles Crunch and
then as you descend your back gets
ripped apart more and more for that
psychotic deep stretch at the bottom and
that essentially can give you
oh damn near the optimal Force curve for
hypertrophy this is amazing and very few
machines on the market have anything
that looks remotely like this and as far
as I know no machine comes close to
replicating this level of feel this is
the ultimate and I can't recommend it
enough but wait there's more
very very cool part of this machine
setup is there essentially four ways you
can use this machine and probably a few
ways I haven't thought of
way number one is the traditional row
where you would row
with your spine held relatively straight
your elbows and shoulders do the
movement you're sitting very upright
and it's very good for back hypertrophy
specifically if you're targeting the
lats and some of the muscles back there
very awesome stuff doesn't fatigue the
spinal Erectors or the lower back much
basically replicating something like a
chest supported row you would see in
most other contexts another way to roll
on this is to essentially do something
similar but lower the seat substantially
pull up and out on the handles which
because of the variable handles you are
able to do and then you hit a lot of
kind of mid and even upper traps and a
ton of rear delts this doubles as maybe
the best rear delt machine you're going
to use why because a lot of times when
you're training rear delts with free
weights it's really hard at the Top If
you do like bent over face pulls or
something and at the bottom it's too
easy here if you put most of your weight
on the top Peg you get an unreal squeeze
mind muscle connection with your rear
delts at the top and at the bottom it
pulls your rear delts off the bone this
is I would say the best also reared out
machine so they could easily say
seated row and rear delt machine and
make double the money Prime call me
we'll get you loaded we'll get you rich
how many Lambos do you guys have here HQ
in any case
another way to use this is something
that coach casim has made pretty popular
it's when you lean into the chest pad
and the way we like to do it here is
actually putting our legs back and then
you grab the handles and you're going to
do a row that really looks like a hybrid
angle wise between a pull-up and a row
and thus it hits the lats much more and
all of the other muscles much less
rowing for the lats isn't I would say
the number one choice there are many
other exercises for the lats but as a
variation of rolling that biases the
lats more that's an incredible
incredible movement and a great idea and
that's the third literally different
exercise that you can use this machine
for the fourth my personal favorite and
something we've popularized here through
RP
is the flexion rule of course and that's
when you go all the way down with a
super Flex spine everything rounded all
the back musculature pulled apart and
then as you come up your tummy continues
to hit the the pad but your chest comes
up and your chest points to the sky and
you try to take your elbows put them
behind to touch your spine while you
drive your chest as high as it goes it's
like arcing up a ton Crunch and hold for
a second and then slowly lower and let
your entire back lat rhomboids Erectors
traps everything come all the way get
super stretched rounded over and then up
again the really awesome thing is
because of the chest support or in that
case tummy support there's not a ton of
the kind of forces through the lower
back that are likely to cause some
irritation or potentially increase
injury by a tiny bit this is like maybe
one of the safest ways to get juicy
gigantic spinal Erectors I just say
juicy interactors at the same time yes
that would be my recommendation for the
kind of rowing movement to really get
into to see overall back growth but
essentially we have four potential
exercises to do here no doubt others of
course if you wanted
you can absolutely do a situation where
you grab the support here pull out the
chest pad a ton
get your Versa grip in there and you can
do in one arm at a time no problem
so in reality
well gee whiz that's at least five
exercises
so this is just a piece of equipment by
the way we're filming here at our Jam
here Renaissance gym and I I just had to
have it right it's like me with
Lamborghinis I show up to the dealership
and I see that blue-ish I don't know
what it's called I don't care get it in
the Butlers they go they get it this is
the same way
to me this is the best back training
machine ever made
are there criticisms of it are there
some detractions
I can think of one but it's a real
scuzzy detraction here's what it is
[Music]
because we're being honest with you guys
I'm not here to sell this machine Prime
doesn't need help selling it it's the
greatest back machine in the world
they're selling just fine if you want to
buy one or bother your whoever owns your
gym to buy one hugely recommended My
overall score for this machine is a plus
okay here's why it gets a 98 instead of
100 this bottom Peg here the one that
biases the back at the very top
based on recently increasing Revelations
from research and tons of personal
experience
I would say that Peg probably doesn't do
a whole lot of good and what I would
love to see is them take this Peg and
just put it onto this one so we can have
more potential to load here not like
most people are going to use five plates
on this thing but some people's 45s at
their gyms are thicker and if you get
pretty strong like I use four of these
on here and some change in the middle
maybe take this Peg and put it here and
this one is definitely good because it
can let you play with how much unloading
occurs at the Top If you put all of your
weight on this Peg you literally get the
sensation at the top at the very top
that it's it's like it's free it's like
um unloaded completely it's like zero
gravity if you get to here and like a
good part of rolling a minor part but a
really a good part is to get that crunch
against resistance and really sometimes
it's cool to like hold for three seconds
at the top and then really Let It Go
if you put all your weight here and none
in that middle Peg it's going to be like
okay I can take one hand off and I can
just hold it with one I can take the
hand off I can take both hands off and
put it back on there's no load up there
which is sweet because it's so well
engineered but you definitely need that
middle Peg and how much load you want to
cap off the movement versus how much
Insanity at the stretch you want it's
nuanced it's different for each
individual people have different bone
lengths limb lengths Etc they put the
chest pad in different positions so
there has to be that play which is why
I'm not saying just the top Peg that
would be a bad idea two pegs is great
that third I think is as a bonus point
to Nowhere super minor critique and I'm
probably getting that wrong too
the other critique is this a critique
you have to level at every single
machine so it's a general everyone this
is why I never there's no machine that
scores 100 this is what if Prime took
for me this Peg and put it here it would
get up to a 99 percent
is that some people will use any and
every machine and they'll have machines
they really connect with and like and
the mind muscle connection just tears
them to bits and it's almost perfect and
some people have machines that even in
the technical sense like this machine
are unbelievable they just oh man it's
just something I just don't like it that
much they can't put their finger on it
I've met a few folks somewhere near and
dear to my heart in fact that has used
this machine and they're like ah so what
I'm saying is if you see one of these in
your gym and this is the true for every
machine there is yes take this video to
heart and get excited but don't get
insanely excited it's like if someone's
like dude you got to go to this new
sushi place it's the best sushi ever is
it probably going to be great yeah is it
going to be the best sushi ever for you
or maybe not because we have different
tastes and sometimes the way they make
the eel at this place is better than
that place whatever this machine won't
be the ideal fit for everybody but damn
is it close my God is this close and if
I was to build a back machine other than
moving that Peg
and not knowing enough engineering to
build a machine this is how I would do
it folks that's all I have this time for
the prime seated row machine
I love it I love it I love it it's
difficult for me to recommend it any
more highly I think it's a phenomenal
piece of equipment I think they really
thought this through I'm privileged and
honored to use it and if you have a
chance if you're traveling around or if
your gym gets one absolutely get on
there and here's my biggest tip don't
just get on there and crank some reps
and be like ah or be like oh wow this is
great play with the chest support play
with the seat play with your body
positions play with your angles that you
put your hands and arms at and you will
find in the course of several minutes of
warming up almost certainly a few angles
that just hit so right you didn't think
it was possible best of luck to you out
there enjoy getting a humongous back
through the prime seated row and
hopefully you can still walk through
doors it doesn't destroy your life
[Music]