hey folks Dr Mike here for anos sounds
periodization today's video is to ask
the question of how different grips and
positions and widths hit your back
differently in rowing and in vertical
pulling let's take a look so first rows
these are all generally so there are
definitely exceptions and your
experience may be different but on
average in most cases there is a little
bit of a difference between how narrow
grip
rows versus wide grip rows hit your back
narrow grip rowing generally hits the
lats proportionately more and other
parts of the back a little bit less wide
grips generally train the rhomboids and
the mid traps kind of what some people
call the upper back a little bit more
and the lats a bit less but really the
main factor here is how that grip
position affect the lines of pull
specifically where your elbow goes so
that's actually the second part of
rowing the question here is what is the
effect of having your elbows flush to
your sides when you're rowing
versus up and out flush through the body
trains more lats it's directly in that
line of pull and up and out trains more
rhomboids and mid traps quote unquote
upper back both positions train the rear
delt similarly and actually I might say
quite well so well in fact that I think
good God I got something in my fucking
eye God damn
it oh I can see oh my God I'm on camera
oh I'm not naked oh well it's not the
dream I had last night the Scott is it
okay if I get
naked I mean that help withs yeah Show
Business see rear delts are trained very
well during back training especially if
you get that deep stretch and a lot of
people will train lots of rear delt work
lots of front delt work and lots of side
delt work and I think most of those
people are better served doing very
little front delt work because all the
chest pressing you're doing trains them
very well very little rear delt
isolation work because all the back work
you're doing trains them very well and
then focusing mostly on side delts in
their delt training which is what I do
in my program what Jared feather ifb Pro
does and it seems to work really really
well there are cases where you can
specialize and focus on the rear and
front delts but back training of all
kinds really trains the rear dos super
super well and it doesn't much matter
where your shit points next more rowing
variations on how they affect the back
development whether you were rowing to
your chest or if you were rowing to your
hips High Row versus low row rowing to
your hips generally trains the lats more
rowing to your chest generally trains
the rhomboids and mid traps more
especially if and usually because when
you low row you low row when you low row
actually works both ways when you row
low you usually because you're trying to
go low you push your elbows down and it
ends up flushing your elbows to the
sides and when you're rowing High
imagine doing a high row but with your
elbows to the sides the fuck does that
even look like when you're rowing High
almost always you'll catch your elbows
and pull up and out so yes rowing to the
hips hits the lats more rowing to the
chest and higher hits the upper back a
bit more but mostly that's an artifact
of where your elbows end up going so the
real critical thing to understand here
is elbows in and flush more lats elbows
up and out more rhomboids teras major
mid traps lower traps quote unquote
upper back lastly for rowing is the
question of overhand versus neutral
versus underhand position for back
activation and growth it seems to me my
best guess is that there actually no big
differences here mostly these things end
up being a proxy for elbow position
anyway overhand grip means more flared
elbows in most cases neutral
automatically brings your elbows in most
cases flush to your sides and thus
neutral is more for lats but it's not
the neutrality of it because if you take
a close grip on a on a row you can still
push your elbows in just as much neutral
grip kind of guarantees that but an
overhand grip can still hit your lats
exactly as much as a neutral grip will
and underhand typically also lets you
bring your elbows in more naturally so
really it's just about elbow position in
most cases and not about which grip you
take so if you're like wondering if you
want to hit your lats more or kind of
your upper back more and you're like ooh
should I do overhand or neutral or
underhand grip for rowing it just
doesn't seem to matter much which really
is another way of saying that there's
kind of no wrong answers and do whatever
you want as long as your elbows are
flush to your sides you're hitting lots
of lats and if your elbows are up and
out you're going to be hitting less lats
and more of what many people would call
your upper back though I thought the
lats were part of the upper back the
fuck do I know now next part second part
of the video vertical pulling okay
pull-ups assisted pull-ups pull Downs
Etc narrow grips allow you to stretch
the lats more at the top and because
that stretch is so muscle growth
promoting narrower grip vertical pulling
generally trains the lats a little bit
more wider grip is okay for variation
and to get good at wider grip but too
wide a grip means most of the muscles of
the backs don't get a very good
stretching anymore especially with the
lats and I think it's just a net
negative so what I would say another way
is you can totally use wide grip
vertical pulling for variation just if
it feels good good stimulus to fatigue
ratio but unless you're compelled to do
that I would say medium and closer grip
on vertical pulling generally trains the
lats and really most of the back a
little bit better than wider grip on
average next is elbows flush to the side
or out I think there aren't any huge
differences as long as the elbows Point
towards the hips at the bottom so what
do I mean by that I mean that if you
bring your elbow down in front of you
and then it points down to the hip at
the bottom you're hitting a lot of lats
and a lot of back if you bring your
elbows out from the sides and Arc but
the arc ends up not going back to like
behind you but all the way down to still
point to your
hips you're still getting an
unbelievable back and lat stimulus so
the good news here is that because both
elbows out and elbows flush hit the back
and lats very similarly in vertical
pulling if you bring the elbows to point
down to your hips at the very end and
then Arc whichever way you want be it up
or be it forward it's easy to just use
them both as excellent variations so you
can use one variation for a while it
gets a little stale on you you switch to
another one no big deal for me if I keep
my elbows flush it does seem to hit the
lats a little bit more but I don't think
that's a Dependable thing I would say
works for everyone try it yourself let
us know in the comments which one seems
to work a little better for you but
remember something working a little
better doesn't mean it's better forever
if you prefer pasta versus rice 60% of
the time that doesn't mean you never eat
rice again that means you might eat
pasta more often but at some point your
girlfriend's like hey do you want to do
Italian you're like H let's do Chinese
man I'm feeling some rice and she's like
I thought you don't like rice like I
like pasta better but you get sick of
everything so just the same way if
you're doing a lot of neutral grip
pulling with your elbows flush yeah it's
great but at some point you're going to
get like some dings and wears and tears
and the fatigue is going to suite and
you're going to have a situation where
it's a stale and you're going to want to
do some maybe wider grip work maybe with
your elbows coming out and it's still
excellent excellent back work is going
to work super well for you couple months
later you're like ooh I missed the
neutral grip shit and you're going to go
back to that next variation in vertical
pulling is where to pull do you pull
somewhere uh to roughly the clavical
area or do you pull down to the nipple
line which is a fun thing to say in most
contexts I've actually said the word
nipple line in a formal University class
of dozens of students those were
learning about training technique and I
swear to God every time you say this in
public at least one person you can tell
them trying to squash the biggest giggle
of their life you're like and the nipple
line you look around the room and some
guy's
like be like really Jim what part of
that is funny to you nipples nipples are
hilarious they're just this huge comedy
Trope Jim why don't you stand up and
write tell us a story about nipples and
why they're hilarious of course at that
point I think you're technically
harassing your students maybe even
sexually that's why I got fired from the
University and no no wait it was for
something else nah never can't tell in
any case clavicles versus nipple line
where to pull cuz it's going to feel a
little bit different I don't think that
there is a huge difference which one you
pull to is just variation so sometimes
you pull to the nipple line for a while
and that feels really great then it
feels a little stale you start pulling
to the clavicle so you can maintain a
more vertical posture it feels great I
don't think there's any wrong answers
there lastly for vertical pulling what's
the difference between overhand neutral
and underhand grips I think again it's
just a matter of how this affects elbow
position if you pull vertically overhand
and your elbows end up kind of behind
you at the
bottom not going to be as much work for
your lats and more for your upper back
whereas if you pull overhand but you
make sure to really drive your elbows
down to your hips then it really isn't
much different or different at all than
a neutral grip or an underhand grip but
in most cases a neutral grip or a close
underhand grip will promote your elbows
going down to your hips anyway and thus
probably hit the last a little better
now I love overhand pull-ups they are my
favorite type of Pull-Up by a mile and I
get the craziest stimulus to fatigue
ratios for them so I can tell you this
even though overhand pulling is by a
small margin a little bit more
challenging uh way to which to hit the
lats and neutral and underhand puts you
in a slightly predetermined better
position for that for me and for many
others even still overhand pull-ups and
pull Downs are still my best choice
they're still the best sfr for me so
what I'm saying is here there are these
margins that are like by a really small
margin on average for people neutral
grip and underhand might promote
slightly better lat growth but there are
more exceptions than there are rules in
this case and at the end of the day the
stimulus to fatigue ratio you feel how
pumped the lats are getting how pumped
your back is getting how tired it's
getting how sore it's getting how much
stronger you're getting over time versus
how much it hurts the joints and how
tough it feels if you get all the right
answers just follow what your person
personal sfr is if it starts to degrade
and go stale switch grips switch
exercises find whatever works best for
sfr cook that for a few weeks few months
when it gets stale you just repeat the
process and continue so to wrap up this
video the tldr here is this back growth
is much simpler than many people would
have you believe now some people have
trouble connecting with their back they
have trouble connecting with their lats
the traditional exercises don't seem to
work well for them in that case go give
CM Hansen a follow on Instagram I think
he has a YouTube too and he'll do all
the he'll teach you all the Cass
bullshit which is term I came up with uh
ironically and it's all this great
exercises that are for one arm specific
kind of reach around pull around type of
stuff and it really lets you develop an
awesome mind muscle connection with
especially your lats and other parts of
your back as well on occasion some folks
May really benefit from that stuff but
most people will do amazingly well with
back work of every single different kind
of variety so what I'll say this uh to
you is two things if you're a beginner
intermediate do all the grips that you
think are fun and you think are cool to
try do all the different positions pull
High pull low pull to nipples pull to
clavicle underhand overhand neutral it's
all right answers you just use all the
variations your back is going to get big
as you get more advanced you may notice
that some of those lines of pull are
better for you than others and then
definitely make more inroads on the ones
you feel the most benefit from and if
you're struggling with the traditional
exercises and you've already mastered
what you think is a very good technique
try some unconventional exercises that
someone like uh cassm Hansen can teach
you in that case you might be able to
really work on those exercises really
get some great gains and then maybe take
your new found Bine muscle connection
and be like oh my God I can now do
pull-ups way more productively because I
know what it's like to feel a lat
contraction give that some thought let
us know in the comments which what your
experiences are with your own back
training which grips and positions and
pulling angles you have found to be best
for you and maybe I'll get in there and
comment and maybe I'll just look at the
comments and just just watch and he
listens and he waits and he never
comments cuz he's so
Sly
yeah I'm fucking weird all right I'll go
be weird somewhere else see you guys
next
[Music]
time
it