[Music]
hey folks I'm Dr Mike and this is News
of the World what is News of the World
well it's a little bit of a comedy news
show sort of thing we're trying out here
we'll talk about some Fitness happening
some controversies in the Fitness World
maybe some world news maybe some other
stuff and if it's not funny and it flops
we'll just never do it again and if it's
funny and you guys like it please upload
do it all YouTube stuff we'll just keep
making one maybe once a month maybe even
more often to keep you appraised of
what's going on let's get to our pieces
of news this just in our team in Texas
tells us a few interesting updates it
turns out powerlifters are still fat and
lazy sets of five are not cardio and a
gallon of milk a day will probably make
you look like a bag of
in related news a Florida man shot
himself in a grocery store parking lot
after finishing a gallon of whole milk
in one standing I was going to say
sitting but he was in fact standing in
the parking lot and he did it all to
himself and he yelled go mad and size or
death as the police restrained him and
put him into a squad car reports coming
in that getting huge still isn't getting
anyone laid folks I am sitting over here
dry as hell please send help I just want
someone to talk to someone that'll
listen to me
now a quick word from our sponsors of
course
Lamborghini Motor Corp please don't sue
us Lamborghini you're not really our
sponsor because your boy only drives the
finest oh and by the way check out the
suit Lamborghini also made it time for a
random hilarious story funny story time
so I was at the gym and this guy was
like how many sets do you have left and
I was like 15 because I thought he said
reps and
um
yep that's what happened
good story
shout out videographer Scott in
geography news The World Is Still flat
that's right let me explain turns out
that there's this huge conspiracy have
you ever heard of the CIA yeah well
they've heard of you and they fed you
the lie that the Glo um that the Earth
is a globe I almost said the globe was a
globe that would have been ridiculous
now you think okay but what about the
ice it's a wall all around give it some
thought if it doesn't make any sense
you're probably insufficiently
intelligent as it takes a real big brain
to understand
believe understand that the Earth is in
fact flat and I won't see you on the
other side of it because it only has one
side
coming in now in Global News the
Olympics just happened that was neat and
the best part everyone was drug free
in entertainment news Unfortunate Events
the covid crisis especially have led to
the fact that the artist known as pink
is not conducting any concert tours in
2021 and this has devastated worldwide
fans especially myself
all right folks that's all the news you
get for this time check this out if you
like it if you think it's dumb comment
let us know upvote down vote and uh
maybe we'll make another episode or
maybe this will be this really
embarrassing thing that I'll tell you
never to talk about but you'll just
mention it every comment as always I've
been Dr Mike and this has been News of
the World
[Music]
all right that's uh one episode in the
books and I'm sweating to death