[Music]
Man start the timer get my money ready
overly worrying about pre-planning your
training way ahead in the future is
somewhat overrated especially if your
main focus is hypertrophy Dr pack here
another myth busting video here to wake
you up from the deep sleep that big
periodization has you in for years
you've been told that you need to have
12 week or 16 week or how many every
week training blocks where everything
needs to be meticulously thought out so
that you can actually make gains
tracking progress standardizing this and
that uh choosing exercises that are
completely consistent and so on and so
forth are things that you may have heard
in the past and they may have made you
think that you need to be really on top
of your planning if you want to make
meaningful hypertropin strength gains
let's get the disclaimers out of the way
periodization in strength training is a
stematic approach to organizing training
into distinct phases or periods with
each period having specific goals and
training priorities as defined now when
it comes to strength training and that's
disclaimer number one and more
specifically strength sports like
powerlifting periodization and
pre-planning your training or at least
having an idea of where you're going
with your training and how it aligns
with your uh competition dates is
important sure you could be all about
your training and just go into a
competition without planning ahead but
that's probably not the best idea
however when it comes to hypertrophy
things are much different if we look at
the literature the literature has found
that some form of periodization is good
for strength and there are some terms
and conditions even there but that it
doesn't really make a difference from a
hypertrophy standpoint there does not
seem to be an effect of periodization or
at least the way periodization is used
in the literature on hypertrophy the
issue with periodization in the
literature is that we don't have many
long-term studies that have actually
taken people and had them follow a
pre-planned yearlong program or anything
of that sort we essentially have 8 12
and maybe 16 week studies where people
have followed different training
Arrangements um some increasing weight
or reps every week others using
different rep ranges on different days
and following different periodization
models but the concept of periodization
has not been properly explored in the
literature why am I saying all this
because it is not uncommon to hear
people trying to sell you the idea that
you need to be pre-planning your
training way in advance if you want to
make progress especially as an
experienced lifter if planning your
training ahead of time and
having a rough idea of what you'll be
doing in the next 3 months helps you I
know that there's a lot of people that
like to be super organized then I'm all
for it that's totally fine but you do
not necessarily need to pre-plan your
training if you're just trying to get
bigger and stronger without any
competitions in mind so for hypertrophy
specifically we know that as long as
you're performing enough training volume
and that could be anywhere between 6 to
20 sets depending on your goals whether
you're trying to maximize her
um as well as your personal preferences
recovery uh capabilities and so on and
so forth and as long as you're
performing enough training volume and
working close to failure to muscular
failure you're covered selecting
exercises that you can keep relatively
consistent um may also be of some
importance so that you can track
progress and know whether you're
actually making gains but at the same
time even if your weeks are not looking
exactly the same as far as overall
structure goes or or even number of sets
or even rep ranges used it's not a
really big deal you're still imposing a
sufficient enough stimulus to your body
to stimulate growth and whether you've
pre-planned what you're going to do on
week four uh of this month or week six
or whatever does will not really make a
big difference now if you are a physique
competitor whose livelihood depends on
gaining as much muscle as possible
possible and you may also have a few
competitions or photo shoots or even
life events that you know are coming up
pre-planning may actually make some
sense from a scheduling perspective if
you're someone who's trying to make
really solid muscle gains I personally
and based on the current scientific
evidence do not think that you need to
overly worry about pre-planning your
training uh scheduling D loads uh way
ahead of time or anything uh of that
sort I would go as far as to say that
you could even be training somewhat
randomly every week I'm obviously I'm
not talking about you picking completely
different exercises but you could be
playing around with your exercise
selection um trying different variations
of exercise that you are doing or doing
exercises at a different order or or on
different days as long as things are
somewhat consistent over the long term
I'll take myself as an example I'm doing
the lat pull down at the moment some
days I'll do that a second exercise
other days I'll do it twice a week other
weeks I'll do it once a week and so on
and so forth now my back growth is not
going to be affected by whether I did it
on Monday versus Thursday on any given
week given that I'm still following
volume and intensity guidelines
obviously for long-term progress
tracking it makes sense that you're
keeping exercise somewhat consistent um
and you're using you know similar
machines or pieces of equipment but at
the same time it will be very difficult
for you not to know whether you're
making progress Even If you're sort of
freestyling your training here and there
if my lat pull down um strength for sets
of let's say 8 to 10 reps in 3 months
from now is way above what it is now it
is very likely that I have made some
solid progress there so the idea that
unless you're pre-planning your training
and being very meticulous with how you
organize things that idea is usually
sold as the solution to the problem of
tracking progress and knowing whether
you're making gains making gains and
tracking progress is not as complicated
as some people may make you think make
sure that you're pushing you're actively
pushing your sets close to failure
you're actively trying to add weight to
those exercises and it is very unlikely
that you won't be able to see whether
you're making progress obviously if
you're the one crazy guy or girl who's
now going to take this information and
literally roll a pair of dice every time
they go to the the gym and pick the
craziest exercise they have never ever
done or anybody has ever done before and
okay obviously there may be some issues
there I'd still argue that you'll still
see solid gains if you're training hard
and you're consistently In and Out The
Gym tldr don't worry too much about
meticulously planning your training if
your goal is mainly hypert in sort of
General strength if planning your
training and knowing exactly what you're
going to be doing in a few weeks works
for you then be my guest as far as Del
loading again you don't need to plan
those ahead just take an easy week of
training or a week off whenever you're
feeling absolutely thrashed and
performance has been regressing for
let's say around a week and keep in mind
that pre-planning your training or
trying to force a specific plan that has
accounted for your training for let's
say the next uh 1 to 3 months may also
be somewhat problematic especially if
you have a lot going on in your life if
you've planned to consistently increase
training volume and follow a specific
periodization scheme over time you may
run into the problem of missing a week
of training here and there which may
then affect you psychologically because
you may perceive your training as less
effective which can then come with a a
host of problems as for example you
skipping the gym or feeling less
inclined to push push some of your
exercises and so on and so forth whereas
if you're keeping things a bit more
fluid and you have a few weeks where
work has relaxed you can choose to
actually push training volume a bit
harder and so on and so forth versus
being tied to a specific schedule all
that to say just to make sure you lift
make sure that you are consistently
pushing yourself close to failure doing
your best to increase load and or reps
on the majority of your exercises and
you'll be fine at the end of the day it
is literally Sport Science not rocket
science not that rocket science is an
actual science cuz we all know what
happened during the moon landing the
moon landing thank you Disney Studios
for that amazing movie that you made
there on the moon and round earth and
all that propaganda if you stayed this
long you are now officially woke welcome
to the second part of the video where
we're going to be talking about the
skeletons on the moon what's in our
water and so on and so forth unless the
government shuts this
V don't forget to like subscribeing
support my editor with this amazing cut
now I'm cursing you have to uh beep
the that cost me now a lot of
money but hey ball out you know the deal
subscribe notification icon hit the Bell
buy me stuff send me money buy my
clothes buy the lemons from the other
video Free the guys free the
editor