on day two you will train legs the first
exercise is leg extensions suers seted
with exercise number two leg press
indicate that each is to be performed
for 8 to 15 reps then finish up quite
simply with a set of standing calf
raises 12 to 20 reps and that is it for
day two 96 hours or 4 days after legs is
day three day two looks almost certainly
too easy a leg extension super set with
a leg press and then calf raises that is
going to be an extremely quick session
where you could comfortably fit more
exercises in get a bit more volume and
probably see more growth so as far as
session design goes I don't really like
this session and by the way 4 days
between sessions is almost certainly
Overkill given the volumes and relative
intensities he prescribing here when
you're doing three super sets of quads
there's a good chance that you'll be
covered 24 to 48 hours after that
session especially once you're used to
it once you've been Lifting for a few
years so 96 hours between sessions as a
beginner is likely Overkill then 96
hours or 4 days later is day two