you should get your parents to lift
weights Dr pack here back with another
video for some reason I am Omar is with
the intro so Omar is here back with
another video yes I've gained a bit of
weight I have indeed gotten bald and now
instead of the goatee I have this very
nice beard and I am also super Jack nice
tattoos nice watch and overall top guy
subscribe to the new Omar Isa Channel
pack real doctor alter Eagle you know
the deal Free the guys repping the Cs
all day long so getting your parents to
lift weights is a message that I want to
get out there as it is very dear to me
and it's something that I feel a lot of
you may benefit from now most of us love
our parents and we want to see them live
long but also age gracefully as you've
seen from previous videos being healthy
is not rocket science a Lifting for up
to 60 Minutes a week and doing some form
of physical activity that's more than
enough for you to take most if not all
boxes as far as health is
concerned that's relatively easy for
those of you that watch this Channel and
have been lifting and have been active
for some time however for our parents
especially those coming from a
generation where lifting was not one of
those training modalities that was
promoted for General Health it was you
know the thing that either athletes did
or those that want wanted to sculpt a
physique did um for those parents
getting them to buy into lifting I think
comes with a host of benefits and does
not require the time commitment or the
effort that most assume it does lifting
comes with a host of benefits for
reducing the risk of all cause mortality
increasing your bone mineral density
making it less likely for you to suffer
from fractures if you fall and at the
same time allows you to maintain
function while aging as you get older
you will start atrophy when that happens
and you keep neglecting it there comes a
point where it may be too late to
obviously reverse all the damage that
has been done but it's never too late to
still start and reap some of the
benefits of lifting so getting our
parents to lift is about them lifting
enough so that they can have a high
quality of life so that they are able to
stand walk pick up things and in general
feel able and strong not feel fragile
and not feel like ah my back hurts or my
elbow hurts and I cannot do this and I
I'll do that and now I need help walking
and so on and so forth it's not like we
want them to become Champion Power
lifters although it would be cool it is
by no means necessary to have a monster
deadlift in order to reap the health
benefits of exercise so as it stands we
know that any amount of resistance
training can lead to approximately 14%
less uh chance of you dying from any
sort of cause and at the same time we
had done a study where we looked at
thousands and thousands thousands of
participants from a gym in the
Netherlands essentially their business
model is 20 minutes of resistance
exercise per week the individual data
that we looked at were from people that
were around their mid 40s early 50s and
were recreationally active individuals
who just went to that facility and
lifted weights for 20 minutes per week
keep in mind we had data for over 14,000
participants and for a period over 7
years and um with just 20 minutes per
weak those individuals were able to
increase their strength substantially
we're talking um 20 to 30% at least over
Baseline for the first year and then
they were able to maintain that while
slightly increasing it for the remaining
seven years keep it in mind that those
were individuals that were aging as well
so maintaining their that strength and
and also slightly increasing it is very
positive keep in mind that they
specifically did a single set on five to
six exercis is depending on the day to
Absolute failure with the help of a
trainer which is something that not
everybody can afford or has access to
and that level of effort may be a slight
barrier to entry for some of your
parents who may not be you know Iron
addicts like us and are used to pushing
themselves to their limit however the
good news is that even if your parents
were to start by doing a few very basic
exercises with some resistance even
their own body weight without
necessarily going all out or to failure
even that at least for some time we'll
be able to give them some of the
benefits of resistance training and
definitely allow them to maintain their
function and age gracefully up to a
certain extent but let's look at how you
can get your parents to lift
realistically now the first step in my
opinion would be to get them some form
of equipment to have at home I have
personally bought my mother a few kettle
bills of different weight and have asked
her to do some kettle bell deadlifts
that I have shown her and are very easy
to learn much easier than learning the
deadlift with the bar doing them a few
times throughout her day like exercise
snacks I've told her hey if you have
time between your work take the 5
minutes grab the kettle bell do a slight
warmup and then do a set of some wraps
until you start getting a bit tired
leave it and do that later if you have
time for you know an actual session
where you do three to four consecutive
sets that's even better the other thing
that you get your parents to have at
home is a set of push-up handles so that
they can be more comfortable with doing
push-ups which I think are a great body
weight exercise especially at home uh
that we can get our parents to do
without the necessity for help or other
way the addition of a couple of dumbells
or even better adjustable dumbbells then
makes uh an at home intervention even
easier and gives you so many different
options so showing your parents a few
basic exercises they can do with dumbles
like again maybe Roman deadlift with
dumbbells or the KOB bill that I've
mentioned a few shoulder presses maybe
some floor presses some overhead tricep
extension some curls some bent over rows
either with the support of a chair or
simply just by you know bending over and
Rowing the dumbell themselves all those
although not you know enough for an
amazing Roni Coleman style
workout will be more than enough for
your parents that said if the at home
intervention is something that you
rather skip or is not an option or you
know that your parents will not stick to
that taking them to a gym or Leisure
Center is an even better way at allowing
them to get many if not all of the
health benefits of resistance training
with minimal time commitment and not
that much of a learning curve so instead
of trying to force your parents to
barble squad or deadlift getting them to
do just machine based work or at least
primarily machine work where you get
your parents to sit on a leg press a leg
extension a leg curl um a lat pull down
a chest supported machine row a chest
press a shoulder press I would also
include some form of work for the lower
back either in the form of a hyper
extension or um a lower back machine and
that's literally
it doing those exercises and getting
your parents to live through a full
range of motion while also teaching them
that hey over time this needs to get
harder stay somewhere between 8 to 20
reps depending on what feels most
comfortable for them that sort of setup
is going to be a game-changing setup for
their muscle and strength gains doing
things that are easy for them to do that
will get them to actually buy into the
process comes in clutch you don't want
to force your parents to learn the low
bar squad or the Baro bench press unless
they enjoy doing that getting them to
lift is your main priority and even if
they end up doing three of those
exercises just one for their legs and
two for their upper body that is still
much more than doing absolutely nothing
so to recap get your parents to lift
either start them is easy with some at
home interventions or get them in the
gym with you show them a basic machine
based exercises to get them warm to the
idea of lifting get them to slowly learn
how to push their lifts harder and
harder get them to understand that hey
even if they were to go just 20 minutes
per week to the gym and do some lifting
they will be looking at it tone of
dividends as far as their their health
goes and most importantly Guilt Trip
them by saying hey I need you to be
strong and it doesn't make sense for you
to not do this cuz it's so little work
and you're going to get so much from it
and then essentially do what they did to
you as a kid and see them be like huh
the student has now become the master
they'll give you that sort of reaction
or beat you or disown you but hey ho who
cares they don't even lift you don't
want to be their kid anyways anyways
thank you so much for watching I hope
more parents out there lift I hope you
get your parents to lift and we will see
you at the parents who lift competition
Dr pack sponsored 2027 where we get our
parents to fight and actually see for
the first time ever in history if my
parents can beat your parents and so on
and so forth don't forget to like
subscribe and tell your parents to pick
up the phone when I call them it's not
actually a scam it's more like a pyramid
scheme but pyramids are good just tell
me the damn credit card number I don't
know who you are trust me I am a doctor
I know better thank you for watching
peace
[Music]