[Music]
all right welcome everyone to a new
episode of myth-busting where every
Monday we're gonna look at some popular
fitness or nutrition myth look at where
it was that myth got started and then
look at why it's actually wrong based on
the scientific literature so this week
we're gonna be investigating the
question of whether or not weightlifting
stunts growth and like always let's
first take a look at where it was that
this myth got started so back in 1964 in
Japan a team of researchers noticed that
children performing heavy labor tended
to be very short in stature the
researchers hypothesized that the hours
spent lifting and moving heavy weights
were responsible for the stunted growth
over the years the proposed mechanism
became that excessive external loading
would cause potential damage to the
growth plates at the end of the long
bones resulting in their premature
closure and stunted height however this
was only actually shown to occur in the
case of actual bone fracture which is
more likely to occur in contact sports
like football or hockey so where did the
idea go wrong well first of all again
correlation does not imply causation and
so it seems to be the case that these
Japanese child laborers were not only
being overworked but also undernourished
the factor that seems to be much more
central to reaching london's maximum
height potential as for the premature
closure of the growth plates it turns
out that this hypothesis was not only
wrong but actually couldn't possibly be
more wrong as a 2014 international
consensus position statement endorsed by
really every relevant regulatory body
including the American Academy of
Pediatrics all the way to the NSC a
reported that fears that resistance
training would injure the growth plates
of youths are not supported by
scientific reports or clinical
observations which indicate that the
mechanical stress placed on the
developing growth plates from resistance
exercise or high strain eliciting sports
such as gymnastics or weightlifting may
actually be beneficial for
formation growth a much more
biologically focused review in sports
medicine notes that high loads have a
critical role in bone mass acquisition
during and before puberty and that
according to the Makino stat theory of
bone formation actions in sport that
involved tensile compressive shear
bending and torsion stresses on bones
can elicit mccanna stat related
mechanisms during growth you'd have an
osteogenic bone producing the tension
and again boring from the 2014 position
stand itself drawing from 243 scientific
references it's clear that resistance
training for children and adolescents is
safe provided they're given proper
instruction on technique and progression
and are lifting under the supervision of
an adult it's also been shown to be
beneficial for bone health injury
prevention in general strength it may
also help to improve children's
perceived sports competence and just
overall self-esteem and finally I think
it's an important point that encouraging
kids to start weight training early may
help them develop the relevant habits to
continue weight training into adulthood
alright so guys that's going to conclude
this week's mythbuster I think this is
one of those topics that's just been
more or less decided upon within the
scientific community and there seems to
be a lot of converging evidence and just
unanimous agreement within the
scientific literature on this one I
think we can safely say that we can put
this myth to rest thank you guys again
for watching if you like the video
please leave me a thumbs up and don't
forget to comment below any topics you'd
like to hear me cover in a future
myth-busting a I don't forget to
subscribe if you haven't already and I
will see you guys all here next Monday