to answer the question of how hard do we
go on the deficit to get the best
possible results the fastest results
without all these downsides is literally
you go up to as hard as possible
as these three points start to give out
on you right so you can go easier you
can say I'm gonna lose a half a pound
per week never remotely run into any of
these three problems and that's awesome
the downside is that it's going to take
a long time no big deal if you have the
time but sometimes it can be a little
demotivational and you want to get it
done faster and remember the optimum
deficit means the one that accomplishes
the work the quickest with the fewest
downsides so here if you take your
deficit and push it just to the brink of
where all three of these things are
still not problem