hey rp+ dr. James Hoffman here welcome
back and today I wanted to talk to you
guys about a topic that I think is
really really interesting really
unimportant and that is trying to figure
out some of the best evidence-based
practice strategies in the areas of
Sport and Exercise Science so Mike and I
and dr. Davis have had the chance to do
seminars I can say all around the world
at this point now which is pretty cool
but we've done a lot of seminars we've
talked to a lot of people about
different methods of training different
methods of diet different methods of
recovery all sorts of stuff and we kind
of have gotten the vibe from a lot of
people sometimes we don't really fully
understand what doing real
evidence-based practice in our field
actually looks like so what I want to do
is kind of shed some light on what I
think my opinion is on what
evidence-based practice is in Sport and
Exercise Science and kind of a
systematic way for you to kind of think
about some of these things as they come
up so you might be reading an article
that says hey there's this cool sexy new
or covering method maybe I should do it
but you're not sure if they have to
think like what is how does this fit
into the my training equation or you
might see another training method that
comes out and say oh cool Prowler pushes
I've never thought about that before I'm
gonna start doing sled pushes should I
be doing that or not so hopefully after
today you kind of have a feel for how I
kind of feel some of these things out
and I hope that helps you guide your
decisions and how you implement things
like recovery strategies and training
methods into your plan so first off we
have to kind of get a feel for what does
it mean to do evidence-based practice
and Sport and Exercise Science to me
what that means is we have a number of
different resources available that we're
actually blending together sort of a
hybrid of resources first off is the one
that's the most obvious - I think just
about everyone is that is what is the
available science right what do the
scientific paper the literature's
textbooks what do these things say on
whatever topic it is that I'm trying to
figure out whether it's recovery cold
baths something along those lines are
there papers out there that can support
or refute this particular method that
I'm looking at right so that's kind of
our go-to that's what most people think
of evidence-based is like what is the
science or what
kind of literature and papers say on the
topic but that's certainly not the only
thing it's definitely very useful but
it's certainly not the only thing a
couple other things we want to think
about theory and critical thinking
skills we want to make sure that we do
cover our bases on the scientific side
right we want to make sure we know as
much as we can we might not always have
all the answers and that's something
that we run into a lot in this field
where things come and go they wax they
wane
there's trends there's fads we never
always have the full picture right so we
have to fall back on theory and say what
are the theoretical considerations for
this particular thing and how does it
line up with what I already know on the
topic right from there we can use our
critical thinking skills to start
establishing some potential pros maybe
some potential cons for that particular
method and then we can start
brainstorming ways that it might be
useful or might be implemented into a
training program now that also might
include times that it might not be
beneficial to be used at all right
that's part of the critical thinking
process there's usually something good
to discuss usually something bad and
then maybe some different means of
implementation right so that's another
part that using the theory and then
thinking critically about the theory
another part of it is actually doing our
own data collection and this is
something that you've probably heard me
rant about and testing and monitoring
discussions but it's very very important
we can't just rely on a lack of
scientific paper and only just using
theory and critical thinking we want to
make sure that we're actually looking at
what is what's actually happening in the
field can I use this with myself or with
my athletes and can I actually get some
data on this does it show that there's
an effect or maybe there's no effect at
all or maybe there's a negative effect
right there's no way of knowing some of
these things unless you go and try it
right especially in when there's a lack
of scientific evidence for some of those
things which happens all the time right
now so for example right one of the hot
topics in the recovery world right now
is cupping right people say like should
I be doing cupping all these like famous
athletes are doing cupping I see all
these cool Instagram and Facebook
pictures on cupping right well there's
not really much silence on cupping right
there's there so a few theoretical
considerations that we can make but
should we just base our opinion solely
on that no go talk to some people
you
who have used it right see what they
have said what they have reported see if
your athletes are doing it right or
maybe even use it on your own athletes
and get some feedback from them right
it's worth collecting your own data and
having some self validation throughout
this process and that is kind of a
central part of evidence-based practice
taking what we know from science the
theory behind it thinking critically and
then actually going out in the field and
testing it for ourselves and seeing if
it actually works
very very important and then last and I
would argue maybe on the the least side
not totally least but I would say
probably experience an anecdote
experience anecdote can be extremely
powerful can be extremely useful when we
do not have other available resources
however experient dote should not be the
go-to gold standard when we're trying to
make these decisions for example there's
plenty of really dumb stuff that goes on
in the field from top-level athletes
we're talking about guys in the NFL the
NBA world champions Olympians you see
them doing dumb stuff all the time does
that mean that just because somebody
else is using it that you should be
using it too there's anecdote there
absolutely not very often they might
just be successful in spite of doing
dumb stuff anyway right they were born
to be that person and that's perfectly
okay so we don't necessarily want to
rely solely on experience an anecdote
however it can be extremely useful
supplementally where you can draw back
on past experiences and things that
people have done to try and help guide
your decision right so there's kind of
that four tier there that I like to
think of what does the available science
say what is the theory behind what is
going on and whatever I'm looking at can
I think critically about it can I
collect some data of my own and then do
I have any experience or is there any
anecdotal evidence for its use in the
field right if we can start blending all
of those things together we're done our
excuse me on our way to doing a really
good job of true evidence-based practice
in the field for a while and I'm glad
this has kind of died down if on social
media some of you might have noticed
there was for a little while there was
this weird battle going on between
people who thought that scientists
basically had no place in working in the
field of sport and exercise
sure whatever it was kind of like a
scientist versus coaches battle and
luckily at that is kind of subsided and
what's really interesting is you can
kind of split the difference in these
ideas between the two groups so you have
some people who might be pure scientists
they have almost no field experience in
exercise and sports related tasks right
they might not have they might not even
train they might not have done sport but
they're just passionate about it and
they do lab research right well they
probably have a quite a bit of available
science and quite a bit of theory and
critical thinking skills but they might
not have a whole lot of field data
collection and anecdote and experience
to fall back on whereas other people who
have been in the business for a long
time but maybe don't have a formal
education in the sense of having a maybe
a bachelor's degree or a master's degree
or even a doctorate degree like yours
truly right they might have a lot of
data that they have collected over the
years on their athletes and a lot of
experience but they might not understand
the theory of how it works or they might
not just have the scientific resources
available to them so I think the best
practitioners whether you're a sports
scientist a coach strength coach
personal trainer what-have-you are going
to be the people who can take all of
those things and use all of that
information to start guiding you through
this process of deciding what are the
best diet nutrition nutrition training
and recovery methods that you should be
implementing in your program so really
what we're trying to figure out with
evidence-based practice is how we should
be determining if any given method of
these things should be included into our
program so the way I like to think about
it is kind of starting to break down all
of these different little sub categories
into kind of a systematic process so if
we start first usually our go-to place
number one first is the scientific
research what is the scientific research
say on the topic this is also a really
good opportunity for you to brush up on
the basics on the topic because most
scientific papers do a pretty reasonable
job of summarizing all of the major
points that you need to know about the
topic especially if it's in a literature
review article which gives you a huge
huge introduction to the topic but
almost all individual papers have you
know about a page page and a half maybe
upwards of two pages on introduction so
it's a really good opportunity for you
to refresh or brush up on any of the
information that you need to know about
that topic before you move forward now a
lot of people use the scientific papers
to get a quick yes or no answer right
is this right is this wrong does this
work does it not work and to some degree
it can do that but you have to be very
very careful because one of the problems
that you run into when you're reading
scientific papers often the abstracts
can be misleading especially if you
don't have access to the full paper
right so sometimes just reading the
abstract is doing yourself a massive
disservice because a lot of the insights
from the paper might be in the
discussion and the conclusions of the
actual paper right but one of the
problems that we can run into a lot is
actually getting a false positive as a
result of getting bad context especially
this is something we see in the recovery
literature all the time where it's like
cold baths ice baths is there an effect
yes well therefore it must be good right
well maybe but are there other bigger
considerations is that something
somewhat of a false positive right where
we're saying like does it reduce
inflammation yes it does but does that
come at a cost to you well we've got to
think about that a little bit right one
of the other problems is we kind of have
problems of omission or lack of evidence
for certain things one of the and
exercise excuse me Sport and Exercise
Sciences are guilty of this we often
don't publish papers that have no effect
or even negative effects right and that
information is equally valuable to a
positive effect and that is just kind of
a publication bias so some people will
say like oh there's no papers on this or
that and that can be true but that
doesn't mean that it hasn't been
investigated so that's a problem that we
run into as well with some of the papers
now when you're starting to look at the
scientific evidence the first place that
we generally recommend and I'm sure
you've heard dr. Mike rant on this more
than a few times the first place you
generally want to go to our literature
comprehensive literature reviews on the
topic and or a meta analyses again they
have a huge huge introduction gives you
a really good brush up on all the things
you need to know about the topic and the
nice thing is that it consolidates all
of the literature for you and what kind
of tit for tat look at all the results
and start to compile what are the major
trends on that topic so it's a great
place to start meta-analysis is the same
idea just a little bit more mathy and
they usually use more effect size
measurement so a really good place to
start to see you know is they're in
effect for whatever it is that you're
looking at now when you're reading
through some of these papers one of the
problems that I think people get into
the
habit of a saying like is there an
effect here right there just looking at
the end game when you're looking through
science what you really want to start to
establish are what are some of the
mechanisms of action for whatever it is
that you're looking at so if it's a
recovery method right how does this
actually promote recovery and what way
does it actually work so it's not always
a question of like can't I validate this
method using science or not validated
right or refute it really what I'm
trying to figure out is does this
particular thing that I'm looking at
have an effect a measurable effect on a
physiology that we can see right is
there some variables that I can measure
that seem to have an effect and can we
kind of either know or guesstimate a
mechanism of action from this particular
study that was looked at so I think a
lot of people glaze over that right and
they just go to the end you look at the
abstract and we said all right cool cryo
chamber or sled push right was there an
effect yes there it must work right well
it's not enough we need to know how does
it work what are the things that acts on
to actually be effective so don't get
caught up in the end of like the
validation of the yes-or-no start
looking at the mechanisms of actions see
what things are actually important it is
important to also note sometimes there
are many confounders right like training
age if they're certain variables were
controlled diet diet ones in particular
like if they're self reporting their
nutritional strategies like that can be
problematic so there's always some major
limitations that you want to be aware of
one thing that you should be checking
out are the effect sizes so if they list
an effect size which is usually a
measurement to show how powerful any of
the statistical differences are so you
can look they usually list things like
Cohen's D and more than a few other ones
and those can be really really useful
because one of the problems you run into
as well as you'll read a paper and it
says hey we did this sled push or this
you know recovery thing and there was a
statistically significant difference
right and you might think oh that's cool
great it was different that's a positive
result but then you actually look at the
effect size and it was marginal it was
not that good at best and you might
actually make an argument for yourself
it says okay there was a some really
small effect here can I actually use it
and allocate my time to something else
maybe that has a bigger effect like for
example relaxation right so that is a
very powerful argument you can make
well and then one last thing I would
encourage you to think about when
looking at the scientific papers is what
are the effects on the underlying
physiology and what are the effects on
psychology right one of the problems
that we run into is a lot of the things
that do have an effect sometimes are
just purely physical sometimes purely
psychological and sometimes either one
of those can yield a performance or very
close to a performance related effect so
one of the things you want to ask
yourself is is the effect here physical
and can I measure what the physical
effects are is the effect psychological
is it a combination of the two and does
it actually have a meaningful outcome
effect on performance right which is for
sports scientists what we're most
concerned about so those are kind of the
big ones when we're looking at
scientific papers in my humble opinion
right things that I like to look for
next we move on to kind of theory and
critical thinking so the theory
basically is we're trying to establish
what we know and what we don't know on
the topic hopefully those things are
also measurable things right because
from our previous discussion in the
science we wanted to know the mechanisms
of action and the theoretical discussion
we know kind of a vague idea of the
mechanisms of action and we have
something that we're looking at right a
training method recovery method a
nutritional method and we're trying to
figure out is there a place for this
does this act on the underlying
mechanisms of action to get the outcome
that I want that's what we have to
figure out so first is there a potential
for this to even work in the first place
if it's totally outside of the ballpark
you can usually just throw it out the
window and a lot of the cases your
investigation basically ends there where
you say well this doesn't even act on
the mechanisms in question so this is
out right more often than not it's kind
of a maybe a little push and a little
pull so the next thing we want to start
figuring out are some fundamental
questions that kind of seek to answer
the validity of whatever it is that
you're looking at so if we're talking
about for example physique training
right one of the fundamental questions
of something that you're talking about
is is this something that will help me
gain or retain muscle mass right so one
of the questions we get a lot of times
is like how much cardio should I do for
bodybuilding and we usually say no and
then people go hah okay I got
but how much cardio and writebol really
not very much right we say what are the
things that we need to be successful in
bodybuilding physique style training
well I need to be either gaining muscle
or retaining muscle when I'm in hypo
caloric conditions does this do any of
those things for me you can make a very
very strong fundamental validation
argument there and say okay well if it
doesn't actually seek to do any of those
things it probably is not worth my time
likewise in recovery and that those of
you have heard my recovery talk usually
one of the fundamental questions we have
to ask is is this sexy recovery modality
adding fatigue or is it taking fatigue
away right that's what I need to know
that is the fundamental consideration of
whatever it is that I'm looking at it
does it act on the mechanisms that I
know are underlying does it add fatigue
or does it take fatigue away if it adds
fatigue it's usually thrown out the
window why because it's certainly not
aiding in recovery at that point so we
want to develop some fundamental
questions that will kind of help
validate the process and our opinion on
the matter and then what I like to do is
start to consider the potential pros and
cons for using whatever method whether
it's training nutrition or recovery that
you're in question right so there's
usually some type of potential we'll say
potential benefit right that could be
useful there's usually some type of cost
right that cost can be kind of hidden
you might have to dig around for it a
little bit some of the costs are more
obvious right like time spent doing
other training or time spent recovering
or eating more of things like
carbohydrates which will definitely
generally have a positive effect some of
them are really obvious some of them are
less obvious right so we want to start
kind of making a kind of a tally a list
of like okay here are some potential
good things that are going on with this
here are some potential bad things that
are going on with this and once we have
that we can start developing some
potential application strategies where
we say okay I understand the mechanism
of what I'm seeking right I know that
this could potentially act on this
mechanism in these ways I know it gains
this benefit but it comes at this cost
so perhaps it could be used in this
special way or maybe not used at all in
certain times throughout the year the
example I've to give in the recovery
talk is some of the recovery methods
help you recover faster but they just
kind of chip away at the amount out of
excuse me uh the amount of fitness and
adaptation that you gained from a
training session so we might say that's
not just neither good or bad
but it might be a strategic way of
implementing those throughout the year
so during our GPP time might be a bad
idea to use some of those sexy recovery
modalities why because it's chopping
away at our fitness whereas during like
a sports season when we have
competitions going on that might be a
strategically good time because it's
actually enhancing recovery at a time
when we're not really gaining much
Fitness at all we're just trying to
maintain fitness right those are the
types of questions you learn and kind of
practical implications that you want to
start establishing for yourself now once
we have that we got a big bulk of the
work done we have a lot of theory a lot
of evidence hopefully that we're working
with at this point the next part is the
data collection part where you actually
go forth in the world and try and
conquer right can I use this in a way
right it doesn't have to be super
scientific you don't have to be a doctor
or a researcher all you have to do is
keep some good logs do a reasonable job
trying to control for some variables
here or there and see if you can
actually get a measurable effect in the
thing in question right so if you want
to try the normal tech recovery pants
you can do something as simple as taking
like a five question survey and saying
like did I have a reduction in perceived
fatigue or it's Dom's or stiffness or
anything like that right is it really
good science that's going to be
published in a fancy art Journal of
course not right but it's evidence in
the field that hopefully you can use to
help drive some of these questions now
again one we're going to go back to a
previous point and when you're making
this data collection you should be
asking yourself can I differentiate
physical effects psychological effects
and performance effects right is
whatever I'm looking at affecting my
body might mind or does it have some
tangible effect on my performance
outcomes or some combination of all
those things right so again here's a
physical psychological and does that
translate into a performance change this
can be a little bit more mathy
unfortunately right so at this point we
might have to look at things like
percentage change pre and post we have
to look at t-tests or maybe trend
analysis something like that but this is
kind of that central validating factor
when you don't have a lot of evidence to
back up whatever it is that you're
trying to look at so again don't just
take somebody's word for it just because
you saw you know NBA and NHL teams using
the normal tech recovery system doesn't
mean that it's absolutely going to work
right all that means is
you know that people in the field are
using it how much science do we actually
have well there's only a handful of
papers at the current time does the
theory actually seem to match up well it
seems to enhance skeletal muscle blood
flow which should help increase nutrient
uptake and waste product removal so it
lines up in theory right now we have to
go forth and see if we can make it work
on our own because we don't have enough
scientific evidence to validate it and
that really can help you go from there
and then last but not least we can fall
back on that experience in anecdote
where you might have some experience
with some of the training methods some
of the recovery methods and nutritional
methods from just you being an athlete
are you being a coach for a long time
and you might have found you know what
like we do our weight cuts a certain way
because this has worked for a very long
time you might not have a ton of other
things that back it up but you have a
lot of experience right again we don't
want to just rely solely on experience
because I would say it's probably the
least powerful but it can be extremely
useful in lieu of having a lot of other
hard evidence so now we can start
putting all those things together and we
say okay I had science I had theory I
did a little bit of my own data
collection and I've used this particular
method in the past or I've seen other
people using it or maybe at the very
least I've talked to some other people
using it in the field who seems to
suggest that using it this way seems to
be a pretty good idea if we can start
putting all those things together we can
really start doing a good job of asking
ourselves does this particular method
have a place in my training program or
my nutrition or recovery systems right
and I think that's what really good
evidence-based practice in our field
should include you can't just have one
or the other so we don't want to be the
pure scientist who only says papers only
if there's no papers it's out of here
right we don't want to be the coach guy
only who says you know what I've been
doing this for 40 years durpa durpa dear
coach dear right that's no good either
we want to hit all of those things and I
think people who are able to make those
four areas and bring them all together
are going to be the best most successful
practitioners in the field so go forth
think critically and conquer do not rely
on other people to tell you do not take
things at face value do these thought
experiments on your own and
will reap the benefit later on and start
thinking like a sports scientist alright
I hope you guys thought this was useful
my little rant on evidence-based
practice rp+
been a pleasure I will see you again
next time
[Music]