[Music]
[Applause]
all right what's up guys so what I've
decided to do this week with the Vlogs
is sort of mash the lifestyle and
informative content together so what
I'll do in this Vlog is I'll voice over
me making my breakfast uh with some
informative stuff mostly centered around
a discussion about
micronutrients um and just to be clear
up front for any of you guys who aren't
totally up on the terminology here when
we talk about micronutrients we're
basically talking about vitamins and
minerals so things like vitamin C uh
calcium magnesium and all that stuff and
when we talk about macronutrients we're
talking about protein car and fats the
things that make up the calories in the
food we
eat so basically uh what you're seeing
here is the same breakfast that I have
every morning and it's just 50 gr of
spinach 50 g of zucchini some mushrooms
onions and ham all just fried up in the
pan and then scrambled with some egg
whites and basically what this does is
it allows me to get two servings of
veggies out of the way right away at the
start of my day and also one fruit
serving since I'll also have uh 100 gr
of blackberries or strawberries along
with my eggs and
oats and so one of the things that I
actually get asked quite a lot is
whether or not micros will affect the
way that we look um there's really no
question and we sort of all agree that
if we want to be as healthy as we can be
and live as long as as we can and avoid
preventable diseases and so on uh that
it's important to eat wholesome healthy
vitamin rich foods and I don't really
know of anyone who would disagree with
that um so it's extremely important for
health reasons and I do actually think
that the sort of online explosion of If
It Fits your Macros and all of the
distortions of the idea that have come
along with that has sort of undermined
this fact um but the question that I get
asked a lot is not whether or not it
affects our health but whether or not it
actually affects the way we look and
I've thought about this for a while and
the answer actually isn't quite as
simple as you might think so what I've
done is I've drawn up the three basic
things that affect the way we look and
those are our genetic structure our
level of muscularity and our level of
leanness and it really just comes down
to those three things so I'm going to
take them one at a time and then examine
the role that micronutrients might play
for each so in terms of our genetic
structure things like where our muscles
insert uh the roundness of the muscle
and just the general shape and structure
of our body is something that we're just
given from birth it's in our genetic
code and this isn't something that can
be manipulated through diet uh so
there's really no role that
micronutrients can play here we're
basically we basically have what we're
given more or
less so now the second thing that
influences the way we look is our level
of muscular development now building
muscle is actually a pretty
straightforward process we build muscle
by training with weights in the gym and
consuming enough protein and it's really
as simple as that uh so the question is
how might micronutrients play into this
how might they play into the muscle
building process process well acutely on
a shortterm basis they do absolutely
nothing uh since vitamins and minerals
have no caloric value they actually
don't provide any immediately usable
energy so when you see these pre-workout
supplements that are basically just
cocktails of vitamins and minerals uh
they're not actually giving you any
energy for your workout um now with that
said if you are negligent about your
micronutrition goals over a long enough
period of time time you definitely can
become deficient in certain
micronutrients which can then certainly
negatively impact on your training
performance uh especially if you become
lethargic or if you just chronically
have low energy levels so over enough
time and enough workouts if you're
chronically deficient in micronutrients
then this could certainly lead to enough
training detriment that you actually
don't build as much muscle and therefore
you could look worse as a a result uh
but notice that the impact here
specifically from micronutrients is
completely negligible acutely and it
would have to happen over a pretty long
period of time in order for this sort of
training effect to become
significant and so the final thing that
I'm going to look at that impacts the
way we look is our level of leanness so
even if you have great muscle bellies
and you're genetically blessed with a
good shape and you're training is
perfect if you have a layer of fat
that's covering everything up then
you're not going to look too great from
a bodybuilding perspective uh so the
question is what is the role of
micronutrients here um and so basically
while it is true that minerals like
calcium and magnesium play extremely
important roles as co-actors in
regulating the metabolic processes that
do Drive fat loss and vitamins play
important roles as enzymes and catalysts
we don't really need to zoom in that
close in order to understand what it is
that actually drives fat loss and it
really is as simple as just putting
yourself in a caloric deficit so if
you're expending more calories than
you're consuming then your body is going
to turn to turn to its own fat stores
for energy and this is completely
independent of how
nutritious uh or vitamin Rich your foods
are so just to conclude this commentary
for you guys the question is can you get
shredded and stay muscular without
eating healthy and the answer is most
definitely no question at all do micros
play an important role in determining
how we look not really they don't play
an important role training and our
macros are what basically drive that
drives that look
um but can they play a role if ignored
over a long enough period of time
absolutely and this is mostly going to
come as a result of micronutrient
deficiencies leading to Performance
detriments in the
gym so the message here isn't that we
should just go and eat whatever we want
because all we care about is how we look
uh I think that we really should care
about micros uh you know they impact how
we feel how healthy we are how long we
live and I think that if we just
disregard them they can affect our
performance in the gym which is clearly
important to us uh so all of these
things should be extremely important to
us as bodybuilders and fitness
enthusiasts and I really think that
setting yourself up with micronutrient
goals things like vegetable intake fruit
intake and dairy goals should be very
high on your priority list especially
when you're prepping for a show since
your overall food intake is going to be
lower all right guys so that concludes
this voice over like I said if you
enjoyed this informative content please
just let me know and it is a a format
that I will continue in the future if
you guys like it and I hope that you
enjoy the rest of the
Vlog so uh with breakfast I get two
veggie servings out of the way so one
serving of spinach one serving of
zucchini and then I get one serving of
fruit out of the way so I try to hit two
to three of each throughout the course
of the day so I've already hit my veggie
requirement but usually I'll have one
more and then with fruits usually before
training I have an apple um and then
also with breakfast I always have two
fish oils uh to make sure I take care of
my EPA DHA requirement since I don't eat
a whole lot of fatty fish so those are
my micros for my breakfast so micros
number two got
strawberries
and the oranges
and my main hat get my
haircut where we're
at looks good so far man yeah did
yeah it so this is the new haircut
that's
Robin all right guys so I just finished
up with my 3dmj pull workout uh Robin
and I are on our way to get some
sushi and so basically what I did today
was I kicked it off with some pendlay
rows so the pendlay row is basically a
variation on the plain old barbell row
where you just really close up your back
angle so your torso is pretty much
parallel with the ground and what you
want to focus on with this movement is a
explosive concentric and then today I
worked on a bit more of a controlled
eccentric
um but they're not always done this way
uh so I did three sets of I think it was
eight reps with that and then I moved on
to weighted
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
chins
[Music]
so after that I moved on
to vgrip lap pull Downs so the
difference between a vgrip or the close
grip uh attachment and just you doing a
regular wide grip lap pull down is that
you're actually training
your lats through shoulder extension as
opposed to shoulder adduction so it's a
slightly different way of going about uh
training the back um and so I did I
think it was three sets of 8 to 12 with
those and then I moved on to rope face
PS which I didn't actually film um but
the way that I did the face pulls is
with the Rope attachment set up really
high and then I would pull the Rope
toward W my chin and actually retract my
scapula and that turns it into a trap
exercise which is basically what I'm
trying to build up uh whereas if you
want to really Target your rear delt
what you would instead do is keep your
scapula protracted so you don't actually
squeeze your shoulder blades together
keep them protracted and pull using your
rear delts or you could just do an
exercise uh like reverse pec deck or uh
what I call Cable um transverse
abduction so you just basically pull the
cable across your body like this for a
rear Delta exercise but like I said I
was using the Rope face pull today as a
trap exercise so that was how I did them
and then I finished off the workout with
uh dumbbell hammer curls and um that's a
really good exercise for not only
targeting the biceps the brachialis but
also that little chunk of meat on the
top of your forearm that Phil Heath has
maybe I'll put a pick of Phil Heath in
his crazy brecho radialis is what it's
called so the bracho radialis actually
crosses the elbow joint so when you do
hammer curls with the neutral grip
you're actually training the bracho
radialis to a large degree and then when
you actually perform bicep curls
supinated you kind of take the braak
your radialis out of the movement and
shift the emphasis to the bicep so I
actually think I have really good break
your radialis development I think in
part because I've always Incorporated
hammer curls into my training um so I
finished off with that and now we're
going to go eat some sushi so that's
where we are now nothing too crazy cuz
it is it is a reefy day but I've got to
keep my fats really low so I'll probably
just go with like teaki and californ
year
[Music]
olds