what is up everyone so in this video
what I'm going to be doing is updating
my whole view uh on training frequency
and responding to any criticisms that
I've received as a result of my video on
why I think bro splits are good for
bodybuilding so if you guys haven't seen
this video yet I'd recommend going and
watching that first and then also if you
do want to hear the thoughts of someone
who is coming at this question uh from a
slightly different Vantage Point than me
I'd recommend checking out my interview
with meno hens man uh where he lays out
the case for high frequency bodybuilding
and then I'll also be putting some
training footage uh up over my talking
uh just to keep you guys occupied uh so
what I'll be putting up there will be my
most recent back day and chest and
shoulder day from this week first
criticism I'll get to is uh basically a
terminological one uh so I've been
accused of basically conflating two
terms uh that we can treat desperately
and those are enjoyment and adherence
the idea is that as evidence-based
practitioners we shouldn't be making
recommendations based on how much
someone enjoys a given program because
if that person is really dedicated and
and really disciplined then they should
be able to adhere to the program even if
they don't enjoy it and to that I would
just say that you know I I completely
agree there have been training programs
that I've I've run in the past that I've
absolutely hated I I would just dread
going to the gym um but I've never ever
missed a training session uh because I
just didn't feel like going to the gym
or I felt as though uh the training
session wasn't going to be enjoyable uh
because I recognized that if I want to
maximize my results there are going to
be periods of time where I just don't
enjoy the training as much and just as
one quick example of this I remember I
think it was in early 2013 I was running
a short lived endurance focused phase so
every single set in this phase consisted
of 20 plus reps I would be doing six
sets of 20 reps on squats with like one
minute rest intervals in retrospect I'm
not entirely sure why uh I was so
convinced that this was a a good idea
given that my goals were both
hypertrophy and strength oriented but
nonetheless I managed to get through
that program if nothing else I came out
the other side with a sort of renewed
sense
of my own self-discipline and I think
that running some programs like this are
a really good way sort of build trust in
your your own faculties and your own
ability to to be disciplined and to to
grind through phases of training that
you don't necessarily want to do but
what I would say is that I think we need
to consider all levels of adherence so
what I'm going to outline here are just
three adherence in showing up at the gym
and doing your split is what I would
consider to be base level adherence you
go to the gym you follow its on your
program you go home I think that going
beyond that you would have adherence to
a certain amount of effort so that means
that you're actually pushing yourself
hard and pushing your limits when
appropriate and then also there's
long-term adherence so longevity just
because you can dig up the discipline at
present and get through your routine
doesn't necessarily mean that you're
going to be able to do that over the
next 5 10 or 20 years you can't just
think about being disciplined and
overriding your lack of enjoyment in the
short term you also need to think of how
that psychological approach is going to
serve you over the course of your entire
training career and I think that that's
where enjoyment can become more
important and then also the other note
that I would have on this point is that
I think it's important to direct that
discipline appropriately it seems
reasonable to me to think that we
probably have a limited capacity of
discipline just like we have a limited
capacity of Focus or attention directing
your discipline towards things that
probably don't matter much is probably
not a good use of that resource and so
just to sort of sum that view up I would
say that enjoyment really is only
important when you have two protocols
that are physiologically quite similar
the level of enjoyment would serve as a
good sort of tiebreaker I think people
spend too much time worrying about their
split how it's organized in the week I
think that when designing a a split for
your program the most important things
are that it allows you to get in enough
weekly training volume it allows for
sufficient recovery between sessions and
then the third thing would be more
personal or subjective factors like do
you enjoy running that split does it
line up well with your work schedule or
the amount of time that you have to
train does it prioritize weak points but
in terms of having one split that's been
shown in the research to be
physiologically superior to another I
think that that's a little bit overblown
and so that leads me into the second
criticism I've received which is that
there's all of this research that shows
a benefit of increasing training
frequency and so it's ridiculous to
recommend bro splits at this point and
to that I would just say that well first
of all I'm not recommending the classic
bro split where you hit a body part
literally once every 8 days I'm
recommending that you hit a body part
with a large bolus of volume once every
5 days or 6 days if you take the rest
day and then also hitting it with
another Small Bump of volume a couple of
days later so really you're hitting each
body part at least two sometimes three
times in that week secondly I would say
that I think that people are
exaggerating the strength of the
research that actually supports higher
frequencies so what I'm going to do now
is just read a few excerpts from the
relevant studies and just try to
illustrate that this data is still
fairly preliminary and doesn't actually
draw the strong conclusions our
certainly not as strong of conclusions
as you would think they do based on the
confidence that people making these
recommendations have so the first thing
that I want to look at is the most
recent study put out on this topic by
Brad shenfeld Dan ogor and James creger
they took 10 studies and they did what's
called a systematic review and a meta
analysis essentially they pulled the
results of the studies together and
tried to draw General overall
conclusions their concluding remark was
that the current body of evidence
indicates that frequencies of training
two times per week promote Superior
hypertrophic outcomes compared to one
time whether training a muscle group 3
times per week is superior to twice a
week protocol remains to be determined
that said training a muscle group once a
week was shown to promote robust
muscular hypertrophy and remains a
viable strategy for program design they
also acknowledge in the discussion of
the paper that a proposed benefit of
using a split routine is that it allows
for a higher training volume per per
muscle group while maintaining intensity
of effort and providing adequate
recovery between sessions it remains to
be determined whether employing split
routines with reduced weekly training
frequencies per muscle group may be an
effective strategy to enhance
hypertrophic increases by allowing for
the use of higher volumes over time so
basically uh there's not a whole lot of
data on this stuff and while the general
Trend does indicate that two times per
week is most likely better than one time
a week uh we still don't know really
anything about whether training
frequencies higher than two times a week
is better or not for hypertrophy when
you actually dig a little bit deeper and
look at the actual studies themselves
what you see is that the results are
even kind of weaker if you go on in the
paper they say that relatively few
trials supported a preferential effect
of one frequency above another with
respect to muscle growth uh so what they
did in the discussion of this paper was
highlight two studies that did show a
statistically significant difference the
mclester AAL study compared 3 days per
week frequency versus 1 day per week
frequency and what they found was that
there was 8% gain in lean body mass in
the 3-day per week frequency and only 1%
gain in lean body mass in the one day
per week however when you actually look
at this study you'll see that all that
the subjects were doing were three sets
per week per muscle group to me this
makes me question how applicable the
results of this study are to people who
are running very high volume programs
literally did only three sets so can you
imagine only doing three sets for your
shoulders uh it would be virtually
nothing like so small compared to what
people actually do in the real world um
so I do have difficulty putting a lot of
weight in that study even though I will
acknowledge that it doesn't really
surprise me that spacing up the training
would be better when you're only doing
three sets once every 8 days for a given
body part the second study that they
highlight is Shan Feld detal I discussed
this in my last video but the main deal
with this study was that they only found
a difference in the biceps and the
changes in thickness for the elbow
extensors the triceps and the vastest
lateralis were pretty comparable between
the two groups and then they conclude
after highlighting these two studies
that the remaining studies found
comparable effects of training
frequencies between 1 and three times
per week across various populations so
just going to another resource other
than that systematic review even though
I think that that's probably the
strongest chunk of data that we have
right now but another really really good
resource that uh I often forget just how
great it is is strengthand conditioning
research.com so they broke up their
section on training frequency into two
different parts one part focused on
untrained individuals so they
investigated four different studies
essentially what they found was that
training with a higher frequency is
unlikely to be superior for hypertrophy
in this population and when you actually
look a little closer you see that there
was one study that actually showed a
superior effect of training with a lower
frequency I guess the case could be made
Al be a weekly uh that for untrained
populations if anything training with a
lower frequency might be a little bit
better uh when you look at the trained
section you'll see that they
investigated three different studies and
what they found was that only one study
reported a superior effect of training
with a higher frequency uh compared to a
lower volume matched frequency and their
conclusion was that training with a
higher volume matched frequency might be
superior for hypertrophy however when
you look at the actual studies again the
only one that did actually support high
frequencies was mclester atal which is
the same study that we already talked
about which used the the ridiculously
low volume of only three sets per week
again I'm not sure that I'm completely
comfortable extrapolating that result to
recommend for people who are running
much much higher volume programs and
then if we just quickly look at their
table on the effective frequency on
hypertrophy in trained individuals we
see that the research quantity is few
studies confidence is low and the
long-term study findings is that higher
volume Ash frequency may cause uh
increased hypertrophy but again when you
look at the studies only one study
actually supports that out of the three
that they looked at and that study does
have its uh limitations and then the
last study that I'll just really briefly
mention uh is wor bomb atal 2007 and
while they do make the general
recommendation to hit a body part two to
three times per week when you look at
the studies that they they investigated
to actually make this recommendation
almost all of the studies didn't match
for volume uh so it would make sense
that if you're training at a higher
frequency but basically just doubling or
tripling the work that you would have
done if you were only training one day
per week then it would make sense that
you would see you know more hypertrophy
and then the one study that was you know
volume equated that that did have an
effective frequency was again mclester
atal
M look at what we
did and I just don't know how much
weight I want to be putting into one
single trial that used volumes that
would be lower than what you would see
in the real world if I were to sort of
Step take a step back from my own
personal biases and just look at it as a
whole I would say that training every
body part once a week uh probably isn't
enough to optimize hypertrophy uh but
certainly is enough to make considerable
progress if I were to just make a weekly
recommendation to people uh I would say
to probably train each body part twice a
week if the split Works than three times
a week but there's no evidence to
suggest that three times a week would
actually be better in the old school
classic bro split you have seven full
days of not hitting that muscle and then
you hit it again on my routine you have
a a big hit of volume on one day then
you have a rest day then you have
another small hit of volume then you
have a rest day then you hit it with a
big bolus of volume again so if we count
the small hit of volume which I think
that we should given that it doesn't
take very much to to see a spike in
muscle protein synthesis this has been
shown in studies where we see that even
just one all out set to failure will be
enough to activate the mechanisms
required to stimulate muscle protein
synthesis but just to be sure I
typically will include four sets with
one set taken to failure okay so summing
up sort of how it is that I've updated
my split is just one simple change I
would add three or four sets of wide
grip pull-ups on the leg day before you
start legs and give you that sort of hit
of frequency um to tide you over until
the next back session but on all the
other days you know that's already done
if you were to walk away with one sort
of uh all-encompassing message uh it
would be that there really are no
special splits it seems to be the case
that volume is the main driver of
hypertrophy it's likely that you need to
reach some effort threshold in order to
sort of optimize your muscle gains and
if you happen to enjoy training at a
lower frequency and that allows you to
push yourself harder adhere to the
protocol better and so on it's not
likely that you're leaving a whole lot
of gains on the table so guys that is
going to conclude this video thank you
so much for watching if you like the
video or you learned something please
let me know down in the comments below
also don't forget to like the video and
subscribe to my channel for more videos
and I will see you guys in the next
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
one
B