what are the best hamstring exercises
for muscle growth according to the
science well to understand the answer we
first need to understand the anatomy of
the
hamstrings welcome back Dr Milo wolf
here with wolf coaching and today we're
talking hamstrings and first anatomy of
the hamstrings the hamstrings are
actually composed of four muscle groups
there's the
semiosis the
semitendinosis and the biceps femoris
which can be further subdivided into the
long head of the biceps femoris and the
short head of the biceps femoris that's
four the main roles of the hamstrings
are knee flexion like during a leg curl
and hip extension like during an RDL all
foreheads of the hamstrings I just
mentioned contribute towards knee
flexion AKA they get trained during a
light C however only three of those
heads contribute towards hip extension
like an RL so when you're doing
something an RDL or a good morning only
3/4 of your hamstrings are actually
being trained if you just count the head
heads the one head that isn't being
trained effectively during an RDL is the
short head of the biceps femoris this
muscle only crosses the knee joint and
thus cannot contribute towards hip
extension so because of this we need to
make sure we include both hip extension
work and knee flexion work within your
program if we're trying to maximize the
size of those hamstrings the implication
of the anatomy is that extending your
knees like at the top of a leg curl
would lengthen all the hamstrings
however if we want to further lengthen
the three three heads that also do hip
extension we want your hips to be flexed
like during a seated leg curl where your
hips are flexed on top of the rep the
knees are extended that will stretch
those three heads of the hamstrings that
contribute towards hip extension more
than if you just had your hips neutral
another important note about the
hamstrings is that because three of
these heads are biticular we don't want
exercises where the biticular muscles
are being shortened at one joint while
being lengthened at another we have the
data for example on the hamstrings in
the squat or on the rectus femoris in
the squat both of which are biarticular
muscles what happens during an exercise
if a muscle is being lengthen at one
joint and shorten at the other it
doesn't seem to produce much hypertrophy
and so when you're talking about
biticular muscles like the
semitendinosis the cmosis and the biceps
foror Long Head we want to make sure
that when we're training it we're either
performing both of its functions at once
so it can go from maximal length to
fully shortened or we want to isolate
one of its functions so it can
effectively shorten at one joint while
its length isn't being changed at the
other joint for example squatting for
the hamstrings has been shown to cause
next to no hamstring hypertrophy because
of this phenomenon one Downstream
consequence of this idea is that in your
program you will need to do dedicated
hamstring training and quad training if
you want to see robust growth in both
muscle groups if you were designing a
very simple leg day squatting wouldn't
just cover it you would need to do some
sort of hamstring work thereafter like a
leg curl if you're trying to hit all
four heads or some sort of hip extension
work if you're trying to train the three
remaining heads at this point you might
be like okay Milo we get it like we want
both hip extension and knee flexion
exercises but there's a lot of them out
there which ones should I pick luckily
for you and as I've mentioned in
previous videos for other muscle groups
you can check those out in the
description there are a few criteria you
can go by that the evidence has
suggested are important to determine
what exercises are best for muscle
growth and here's what they are first
stability if you're struggling with
stability during an exercise there's
some evidence that that might reduce
Force output and thus hypertrophy
generally although you don't need to
take this to the extreme you want to
pick exercises that are a bit more
stable wherever possible so if you're
trying to do a single leg RDL and you
find yourself struggling with balance
and you sometimes fall over during the
set what have you just keep in mind that
falling over prematurely ends your set
and doesn't push your hamstrings as
close to True failure as they would have
been with a more stable exercise the
second criteria is that we want to
Target a a specific function of the
target muscle in this case there are two
functions knee flexion and hip extension
in your program because some of the
hamstrings don't actually do hip
extension we want to make sure we have
both hip extension and knee flexion to
provide a well-rounded growth stimulus
next the target muscle should be the
limiting factor if for example you were
doing rdl's for your hamstrings but you
weren't using straps and you had to end
the set because you can no longer hold
on to the bar it was just slipping out
of your hands the hamstrings wouldn't be
the limiting factor it would be your
grip so whatever exercises we do perform
we want to make sure that the hamstrings
are the limiting factor here next we
want the exercise to be stretch friendly
we have evidence and this was actually
something I looked at in my PhD that the
lengthened position or the stretch
position in an exercise is pretty
important for hypertrophy and so
whatever exercises we do pick need to
have both a stretch position in the
exercise and ideally also have plenty of
tension in that position so any good
exercise for hamstring growth should
place the hamstrings in that stretch
position and should also be quite
challenging in that stretch position
bonus points if the exercise is also
lengthen partial friendly one of the
techniques we've commonly investigated
in the evidence we now have five studies
comparing length and partials to full
range of motion for hypertrophy is a
lengthen partial or essentially just
doing a half rep in the lengthen
position of an exercise across these
five studies four found better
hypertrophy when doing length and
partials versus a full range of motion
and one has found no difference and so
if an exercise lends itself well in
terms of safety resistance curve Etc to
lengthen partials that makes it a better
exercise for muscle growth now for a
couple bonus points these may not always
be important but they can still be
something you want to look at when
you're determining what exercises you
should pick the first one is is the
exercise time efficient if you're
someone who doesn't have much time
available this is going to be much more
relevant to you than some of the final
details about an exercise if an exercise
takes twice as long to do for the same
number of sets guess what you shouldn't
be doing that exercise you should be
picking the exercise that you can do the
most hard sets with all else being equal
in the least amount of time possible
generally this will mean stack loaded
machines are your friend this will mean
dumbbells are your friend and this will
mean barbells generally aren't your
friend barbells need to set up you need
to load the plates on both sides it just
takes a while the second bonus point
that may or may not be important
depending on your circumstances is micro
loadability or essentially what is the
smallest increment in weight you can
adjust the load by if you're talking
about something like cable lader raise
you'll only be able to progress in
weight once every 6 months and that's
not because you're weak maybe you are
but if you're watching this you're very
strong trust me but it's simply because
the exercise isn't very micro loadable
the next adjustable weight is simply by
percentages a lot higher than the
current weight whereas for something
like a barbell exercise where you have
the ability to adjust by often as small
as 5 lb or 2 and 1/2 kg the microl
loadability is much greater you could
certainly get around this by simply
doing more more reps before adding
weight which is what we call Double
progression but it's a small factor to
consider nevertheless now let's jump
into what I think the best hamstring
exercises for growth or quick reminder
we need both isolation and compound
exercises otherwise the bicep femoris
doesn't get much love and so I'll be
breaking down my top picks into compound
exercises and isolation exercises
without further Ado I think the best
compound exercise for hamstring growth
and one that's severely underdone is the
Smith machine good morning first it's a
very stable exercise as opposed to
something like an RDL or a good morning
where you have to worry about
stabilizing the bar side to side and
front to back and all that with a Smith
machine the bar is only going up and
down stability is not an issue likewise
if you're performing the Smith machine
good morning properly the hamstrings
will very likely be the limiting factor
if you're keeping your knees relatively
extending and simply pushing your hips
back not down back in order to maximize
hip flexion while keeping knee flexion
to a minimum your hamstrings will be
getting very lengthened and so most of
the stimulus should occur within your
hamstrings as opposed to potentially
your glutes or your adductors as a side
note if you want to emphasize your
glutes or your adductors you might want
to consider increasing the degree of
knee flexion a little bit to overall be
able to get a little bit deeper get a
little bit more hip flexion because that
will then lengthen the glutes and alas
further there's only so long your
hamstrings can get but if you allow them
to shorten a little bit by bending your
knees and letting your hips come down a
little bit that'll allow your glutes and
eyr to receive more love however this is
about hamstrings so keep your knee
flexion to a minimum keep them
relatively back and just push your hips
back towards the wall behind you the
Smith machine good morning very much
targets one of the functions of the
hamstrings which is hip extension and
finally the Smith machine good morning
is very stretch friendly because of the
way the movement is set up the
resistance gets higher and higher as you
lengthen the hamstrings which as I
mentioned earlier is what we want
additionally by by keeping the knees
relatively extended and by just simply
flexing the hips you're able to get the
hamstrings to a very considerable muscle
length close to maximum muscle length in
fact finally the Smith machine you
morning in specifically is quite length
and partial friendly if you fail a
length and partial you can simply rck
the weight so safety wise it's a great
option however you might be asking why
would I do lengthen partials on a good
morning and the answer there is you
might see more muscle growth we have two
studies in the hamstrings now I'll
mention the first one here keep in mind
this study hasn't been published in full
yet and it's simply a conference
abstract however here's what they did
they compared a full range of motion on
the multi- hiip machine with their knees
pretty extended to a partial range of
motion and a lengthen position on the
multi hiip machine because their knees
were relatively extended just like I've
been advising you to do in the good
morning the multi- hiip with relatively
extended knees is quite a comparable
motion to a good morning now back to the
study they measured hamstring
hypertrophy and glute hypertrophy one
like leg was doing lengthen partials
half reps in that lengthen position and
the other leg was doing full range of
motion broadly speaking they saw more
hypertrophy of the glutes and the
hamstrings when doing length and
partials in the multip exercise so we
have evidence directly in hamstrings on
a very comparable exercise that lengthen
partials are probably beneficial for
hypertrophy so when you combine this
with the idea that there's about 20 or
25 studies comparing more lengthened
training to more shortened training and
measuring hypertrophy it's fair to say
that length partials are a good idea for
hamstring growth and SPI machine good
mornings are friendly towards link
partials now let me give you a few
respectable honorable mentions the
barbell RDL with a deficit is equally as
good roughly as the good morning however
it loses out on a couple of points one
because you are holding on to the bar
your grip may give out first or maybe
your upper traps give out first there's
a few more muscle groups that might be a
limiting factor and secondly and to be
this is the main issue setting up the
death deficit barbell RDL takes a lot of
time the same goes for the Trap or RDL
with the deficit first you need to find
the deficit and set it up then you need
to load the bar side to side with
usually a lot more weight than you'll be
able to H for the good morning and so
overall it's substantially less time
efficient than the good morning for in
the end no additional hypertrophy of the
hamstrings so when it comes to directly
comparing the ble RDL or trapo RDL to a
Smith machine good morning they provide
the same hamstring stimulus roughly but
one is more likely to be limited by the
hamstrings the good morning and takes
less time and therefore for me I think
the good morning wins out but it's a
slim margin especially if you don't have
any time constraints and now for the
isolation exercise that is best for
hamstring growth personally I think the
seated light curl is the best exercise
for hamstring growth or alternatively
the Nordic curl however the only issue I
have with a Nordic curl is that you need
to be very strong to do it and no I
won't be providing B- roll for this one
because I simply can't do them the
reason the seated leg curl is such an
incredible exercise is because it
lengthens the hamstring in all regards
first you can get into deep knee
extension where your hamstrings are
being lengthened at the knee however the
seated leg curl also flexes your hips
which further lengthens the three parts
of the hamstrings that also cross the
hip so compared to something like a
lying like curl the seated lro lengthens
those three heads that cross the hip
more and in fact to take this upper
notch try leaning forward at the hips
not at the spine like a cat stretching
at the hips and in fact the idea that
seated leg curls on account of the hips
being flexed and the hamstrings being
more lengthened being better for growth
than lying like curl is exactly what I
study by my own colleagues a year ago
found they compared seated light curls
to lying light curls and found better
hypertrophy of all three of the
hamstring heads that are more lengthened
during the seated l c compared to the
lying l c if you don't want to do seated
L CS consider the Nordic Cur while it
doesn't have the benefit of flexing the
hips and thus further lengthening the
three heads of the hamstrings that cross
the hip it does have a pretty absurd
resistance curve as the hamstrings get
more lengthened the amount of force they
have to produce to overcome gravity
increases and for hypertrophy this is
likely a good thing now that I've sung
the Praises of seed light crawls and
potentially even Nordic crawls a lot let
me give you a caveat as to why I think
lying like cwls are actually an unsung
hero in line of the evidence while I
still think that seated leg curls and
Nordic curls should make up the majority
of your hamstring isolation movements
maybe about 80% lying leg curls may have
their place if you look at the evidence
and this study by my and colleagues a
bit more closely what you'll find is
that actually certain other knee flexors
like the gillus muscle might actually
hypertrophy more from the lying leg curl
and it's for exactly the same reason why
the hamstrings grew more in the seated
lro it's because it acts as a hip flexor
so the the opposite of the hamstrings
and so when you're doing a lying leg C
you're actually lengthening the gillus
more than during a seated leg C and so
every now and then maybe in about 20% of
your training including some lying leg
curls it won't increase your hamstring
hypertrophy but it will provide some
additional hypertrophy to your gillus
muscle that's the video Try
incorporating the Smith machine good
morning and the seated light curl into
your routine for hamstrings and let me
know how it goes if you like the video
please comment like subscribe try to
upgrade the setup bring better videos
for you and any amount of support helps
likewise if you want to see any other
videos for other muscle groups breaking
down the science behind the best
exercises for each muscle group leave a
comment down below and I'll get to it
and with that I'm out peace