i'm madame a dog for berg and for those
of you who don't know me i'm a strength
coach and a 57 kilogram power lifter on
Team USA I like that I can program into
the RP diet app what time I'll be
training and even if it's a light heavy
moderate kind of session and that will
you know differentiate the kind of
macros that I'll need and it can let me
put in how long my training session is
going to be I use the RP diet app during
all seasons of powerlifting whether I'm
cutting weight bulking up or even right
now maintenance keeping on the same
weight that I am folks we are back again
dr. micha and dr. James we are wrapping
up the forum questions on RP plus
there's still a shitload of them from
July 7th but we're going to get through
them and then next time or very soon
after that we should be switching to the
All You Tube format where people can
upload and down or don't download but
just upload questions that you like
downloading is kind of a dick move right
so just keep that in mind going forward
we're gonna answer up through July 7th
and we're gonna hopefully get through
all those today if not next time and
then we're gonna be doing exclusively
YouTube folks so welcome back dr. Mike
how's it going good good good James
how are your dogs the puppy toes the
puppy nose are good they're sleeping
right now so it's uh it's like fast and
furious like when they go down they
they're just like fucking out cold for
like an hour or two and then Mel and I
are trying to catch up and then they
wake up and it's just PE everywhere it's
just all right now house is just like
I'm like awash in a sea of pee and uh I
don't know what's good what's up with
Montana this time of year but there's
like an unfathomable number of flies Oh
like just like you go outside it sounds
like a helicopter with flies oh my god
disposable fly traps you fill them up
with water and it has like fly sex juice
or whatever and I I just checked on the
bag like a minute ago and there's like
tens of thousands of dead flies in this
I'm not exaggerating like these things
like just fill up it's like a
bag of dead flies and I have like six
live looking around the house and
they're still just flies everywhere it's
crazy drive by the town and throw a bag
of dead flies at someone's face God be
so nasty dude they stink if they have it
the bait they use is like a it smells
like like old bread like somebody peed
on a loaf of bread and then left it
outside that's what it smells like
excellent like why all right let's get
into it yeah let's get into it hopefully
we can folks I think we're gonna wrap
put fire as many of these as we can and
so dr. Mike usually gives a very
thorough answer and if I have anything
to add all I'll chime in and if not
we'll keep going young and this is
mostly because the Jameses internet is
about to get much better but while its
while it's not amazing its wonky
chewbacca out here alright Daniel hacker
says if one has no inspirations of
competing a Bobby Tolan do you think
there's any use of considering to be in
my chart as a means for one to cap on
smashing faces maybe not even getting
above a BMI of 30 which in the first
case which is the first table in the
obese category I suppose away no matter
likely whenever top-end weight one gets
into mass will be held for a month or
two before coming back down but I'm
curious
maybe having some sort of predetermined
cutoff was a good idea from a health
standpoint long term though it's worth
that would roughly translate to a 511
guy never going above 215 a five nine
five nine guys are never going above 200
or 62 guy never go above 230 I'm big if
health is your number one concern then
yes absolutely getting it and then third
is not necessarily a cutoff but you know
something you know the higher you go the
worse off it is I would say that
considering body fat is much better like
you shouldn't be walking around with no
ABS assume that your massive phase
clears sort of makes your abs no longer
visible
obscures your abs that it's probably
time to not get as fat so that would be
the number one aspiration there I think
and also blood work and your physical if
your doctor says are super healthy I
wouldn't worry about things too much and
if you're drug-free especially that's
really not possible we get ultra big to
the point of degrading your health
unless you get ultra fat so don't get
fat is really the
because BMI is cool but sometimes people
like really uh awesome
frames and they can carry a ton of
muscle and get pretty heavy but still be
very very healthy so I wouldn't cut
myself off just like that James yeah I
agree that see the thing with BMI
doesn't tell you anything useful outside
of just so much very vague numbers
whereas like even just roughly assessing
your own body fat in the mirror in my
opinion is probably more useful for your
purposes Daniel yep
for mid-stage intermediates onward
training once a day was a typical day we
need to start specializing because
they're time-consuming relatively
reliable crimen yes absolutely I think
I'm at this age because my workouts
after micro-cycles wanted to take around
2 hours dozen each close two weeks four
and five on paper sometimes looks like a
video game and how much volume from one
session is planned yes absolutely that's
the case and actually just recorded some
YouTube lectures that are going to be
coming out on sort of when to choose
specialization phases and fundamentally
I think a lot of people even in the
early intermediate phase need a
specialized if you trained 4 times a
week and and also record another video
or sorry made a presentation or record a
video soon about how long to train in
the gym like what's too long of a time
and the reality is like James and I get
super skeptical on anything past two
hours like if you're in the gym for two
hours unless you're like a power lifter
who like puts on your app store forever
and we'll show some friends for forever
put some equipment anything other than
that kind of weird thing is any best two
hours really probably just your volume
territory so if you are training for
four times a week or whatever
pretty soon it's just not going to be
the grace' tea in the world so
prioritization phases even if it's like
one massive cycle I push the lower body
a little harder what another cycle up
the upper body but harder even if it's
that simple is probably good idea to
start doing and the easiest way to
figure out why that's a good idea is are
you getting into a situation where a
moderate fraction of your training is
starting to feel junky that is to say
that your muscle is not the limiting
factor any more systemic fatigue is a
limiting factor if you could really say
that's the case for the last half hour
of your training
G you know you've got a really good
argument for taking a lot of your stuff
to maintenance volume and then putting
half their body or whatever two thirds
of the body into MeV MRV running back
for a few months and I'm switching
yeah absolutely and it's just a really
good way of combating you know adaptive
resistance from training age to because
it's like okay you could go to the gym
for two hours or you could go to the gym
for one hour and make great gains you
know what I mean it's like it just makes
sense at that point where it's like why
on earth what I keep doing what I have
been doing and it's costing me so much
when I could just do like an arm
specialization phase my arms grow
everything else stays the same and it
takes half the amount of time or effort
but it makes perfect sense yeah how do
you know when it's appropriate during
one's maintenance phase to reduce the
weeks on actually load an exercise tree
in the Venus phase like a lot about
strength fades it's only reserved for
exotically is that only dessert for
exactly strong folks which i guess is
still subjective related how necessary
is increasing loads in exercise during
maintenance phase ie that 75 to 85
percent range is dealer's choice to do
or not to do some sort of something to
be gained from doing that but she's
training everything in matter of loading
Rangers instead my guest so it's
actually of almost a medical question my
guess is for beginners and earlier
mediums of strength range firstly builds
buy-in because it's fun to do heavy
lifts a common exercise for the most
part secondly sound technique under
slightly heavier loads does have a way
for their grading technique yes
- and thirdly they are pretty likely
pretty weak relative to what they're
capable of doing so fives for them is of
two tough totally however if the
previous positions are true then for the
middle late stage intermediate onward I
don't see the point I'm not suggesting
you train future someone or something
like that but more so just to ask if
training maybe 60 to 70 percent one hour
I'm for everything with three to five
hour for the entire minutes might
actually be a better strategy so it's
not to say it never shifts it's a
spectrum of how hard you're training
during maintenance which are absolutely
correct that the longer you train but
the bigger stronger you become and the
more nagging injuries that you take up
the more your maintenance phase starts
to look like an active or cuffin phase
and James and I are pretty clear on this
that very high level athletes
bodybuilders and stuff actually have a
limited use for true maintenance phases
and a huge expanded used for active
recovery like either going pretty hard
or you're doing very very little um but
for folks that are beginners
intermediates they just don't need an
active recovery phase and they can be
making green tree sensitization while at
the same time regrading their technique
like you said
and getting stronger and all this other
really good stuff and being able train
hard while there every subsidization
occurs so it's it's it's a suspect room
so basically you might do maintenance
face basically like a serious
powerlifting strain phase for the first
three years of your training for the
next three years of your training it
might start to look slowly over time
like a normal maintenance phase like we
recommend we don't really pushing it but
you're still trading pretty heavy in low
volume and then after that your first
six years your mainus phase starts to
look more and more like an active
recovery or sorry an active rest phase
where it starts to be very submaximal
very low volumes maybe even shorter
duration of time and it goes slowly into
like nothing no that's just a maintance
iation or training perspective from the
diet perspective sometimes you do need
to take maintenance phases that are
longer and then for most people they can
still be very strength like but again
you know they can't be in higher rep
ranges and stuff like that just volume
for folks that are too injury limited
and beat up to those super having here
James yeah and so you could cut it is
kind of dealer's choice to some extent
and there's there's definitely pros and
cons to both but if you were to make
like a training exercise physiology
related case for going slightly heavier
it's because it actually reduces the
amount of volume that you need to do
during that phase so every time you
shift intensity up the volume landmark
requirements go down a little bit so
that means your mvs and your MeV are
slightly lower than they would be at the
you know 10 to 15 rep range if you're
working in the 4 to 8 rep range so
that's good in terms of also just
getting that recent citizen effect and
any kind of like volume mitigated wear
and tear injuries now going up in weight
also comes with its own kind of injury
risks and other problems but that's the
case that you make and you say I'm
trying to be sensitised one of the ways
that I do that is by doing less and one
of the ways that I can do even less than
normal is by going a little bit heavier
than I normally do Brandon Armstrong
says I have a few questions about
managing expectations in regaining both
strength and muscle first don't you've a
bit of relevant info before diving with
a question I ended up not being able to
lift for about three months
entitled under quarantine during this
time I was basically able to do push-ups
and sissy squats I was left
she's a few rather light bands and in
attempts to hit the remaining muscle
groups
I finished my massing phase right at 80
kilograms
before the quarantine but I ended up
unable to eat enough to maintain since
my appetite crashed shortly after the
quarantine started here in Madrid and
was basically sedentary aside for the
few bodyweight exercises I had space to
do in my tiny ass room that I was in I
have been floating around with 72
kilograms it's about two months after
the start of the quarantine and have
been eating around me and since I just
started my third week back in the gym
but I'm not sure how much how quick I
should see the strength and muscle
return though to be honest I don't look
like I've lost a ton of muscle from what
I can see at least compared to last time
I was 72 kilogram back towards the
beginning of my masking things however
my strength certainly been less loyal
than a prostitute wife Wow you know oil
although she's not doing anything you
didn't already know she was doing
something she yeah you signed up for
this kind of children question number
one giving that I will be eating around
maintenance trade my reentry into
training meadows I don't expect to be
any Miramax's the end my massing phase
being six kilogram heavy or not to Train
back then at what point would make sense
to stop training in terms of reentry and
instead start my first real training
block my guess would be somewhere around
two to three months and then get back on
the plan I was doing before
hypertrophy strength peak and tests
maintenance dose repeat over I'm not
sure what criteria should I use to
transition from training for becoming
I'm trained to real training is it just
waiting X amount of months or maybe
being back as most rank levels when I
was that weight if the latter how long
it was reasonably take so there's
actually no waiting at all what you do
is you slowly increase the amount of
load you have on the bar slowly increase
the amount of fall and you're doing very
slowly gingerly take plenty of D loads
to recondition your body and you know as
your work capacity goes up as your
soreness levels go down you can you know
keep going and going and going and
adding weight and adding sets and of
course recycling the volume unneeded and
then at some point you're just gonna be
performing at a level very close to what
you were before and then that you do
your training is by definition gonna be
very close to was it what it was before
that's it so you know there's no
restarting mesocycle you left off of
because you finished a massive cycle you
had one planned they're gonna do the
exact one plan but you're gonna do one
very very similar to it but a couple of
measures in between now and then you're
just gonna be doing incrementally harder
stuff
James yeah so this is just classic
autoregulation right you have a you have
a new MeV you have a new ma VM RV all
those things shifted down as a result
and you're just gonna train to those
things and after there's no there's no
predetermined amount of time you're
gonna train and at some point they're
gonna shift kind of back up to what you
were roughly doing and once you're kind
of doing what would have been a
prototypical mezzo for you you're pretty
much ready for real training that's
that's really it's just an auto
regulation kind of thing question two
depending on the answer to question one
and I guess when do I finally transition
to real training should as a person who
trains in powerlifting orietta man I
start with a straight faced and top me
up with my strength levels to get them
as close as possible back to where they
were before the quarantine taking into
account body weight differences before
you should I start my next hypertrophy
phase and get back to man saying will it
matter if I start a massive phase at a
relatively weaker state than my previous
72 kilogram self that's almost not gonna
happen you're gonna be stronger than
previous 72 or will the end of the
strength phase followed a temporal phase
make it more or less awash compared to
try to reach my former strength levels
its ability to before masking those
strength days I wouldn't worry about
former levels at all you just have to do
a series of essentially strength ishbal
youhm phases and so you're gonna start
with basically essentially peaking
volumes but in this sort of five to ten
rep range and then you're gonna get the
strength volumes but in the five to ten
rep range and then your third Mesirow is
gonna be hypertrophy volumes in the five
to ten rep range and all of a sudden
you're gonna do a super fucking jack you
probably have regained some weight or
appetite will be back and you'll be
somewhere between 72 and 80 and you're
gonna be a really really good spot and
then you would just do a strength phase
after that so don't worry about me
establishing pass straight levels that
stuff comes automatically just train
hard again but what's hard for you now
is gonna be really easy compared to what
it was so slowly work back in there
doing mostly sets of five to ten but
you're really really easy in that volume
really really low reps to preserve or
sorry high rep summers are far from
failure and then slowly incrementally
put more load on the bar and as your
body recovers and adapts add a few sets
here and there and then you'll be
totally fine so your body will let you
know it'll be clearly apparent when
you're back to your old usual self and
here's the real kicker right this is
almost like a philosophical
mythology like you'll know when you're
back to your former self and also the
training it's gonna take to get you back
there is gonna start to look real
similar to what your training was before
like so you'll be like okay I'm doing
very much now all the volume are used to
and all the weight that I used to and
hey I'm back where I used to what do I
do now that shit that you used to that's
it but if like you're getting really
sore and really fatigued and really
great gains from way less volume and way
less weight then clearly that's what you
should be doing so there's no like rush
to get somewhere it's just let your body
get stronger until it gets there yeah
legend can't know us all right next
question and the last one from Brandon
Armstrong is unrelated question so is
there a point along the gains curve when
working through your volume landmarks at
the amount of gains you kept versus the
fatigue it builds to achieve those gains
as you get close you're MRV if there is
okay why is it that is not recommended
to work that point of the inflection
rather than the MRV why would it would
it not be better to work to any Theory
be slightly above it and then D let's
start another cycle wouldn't say over
the course of 16 weeks I'll get to that
James yeah okay don't you worry I got
you fam I got wouldn't say over the
course of 16 weeks that proportionately
less amount of gains you get training
NMR via vs. training close to MTV and
they're producing the absolute amount of
gains I don't disagree with what I've
read and heard from you guys so far more
asking how we better understand the why
behind why it works the way it does in
the case of training only up to MeV
before a D load I imagine this has more
of a place and say an athlete that has
been physically taxing endeavours and is
training for those concurrently such as
running cycling or a football just to
keep them from risking taking their body
too much to one area when they need a
minimum of freshness like in another
practice so so the thing is about any V
is any the MRV is very objectively easy
to define mev is objectively very
difficult to define it also changes very
consistently over time and so you think
like okay volume is a u-shaped curve
it's only volume a hypertrophy is a
u-shaped curve it's only usually occur
about snapshot studies so we give the
people five cents we give these people
ten sets we give these people 1015 sets
there's like that right but that 15
cents means they do it means that every
single fucking week um you know there's
all that they're great because there
have beyond MRV half the fucking time
that they're doing that or they're you
know ten cents is great but you know
they could have probably done better
working through a range of that and so
so and this is something that's gonna be
in the hypertrophy book we're taking the
u-shaped curve and then we're applying a
couple of transformations to it that
normally are applied to it and then
we're gonna take it through although how
it changes through every single micro
cycle the TLDR of that is the following
your Emmy MeV is here the curve actually
looks like this there's a very little
peak you get great growth throughout
your cycle and then it goes like that
because your MRV is right there you just
can't train between the peak mev and MRV
for any length of time that's notable
longer than a week or two at most
why because if you're pushing your
relative intensities as hard as you
should be that it's getting close to
failure and you're adding volume your
cumulative fatigue is gonna be its
exponential community is exponential so
by the time you get to the between
theoretical even if it was a u-shaped
curve ma vie and MRV the amount of
fatigue you're carrying with every
single session in this side it's not
some shit you spent months in it's some
shit you spent weeks in so think about
it this way if you just used the average
literature for hypertrophy the per
session averages here are the
intermediates get their best games
between three sessions so three cents
per session and roughly eight cents per
session with eight actually being the
best and then nine ten eleven twelve is
slightly less gains then likes or is the
same as like six seven eight right but
with more volume so someone could say
like you should never really do you know
nine ten eleven twelve cents
consistently because you could just stop
there d load of them come back and just
work back up the curve again that's
totally true the thing is if you start
it through your four cents per session
and you get to eight sex per muscle
group per session slowly by the way
you're getting close to failure closer
to failure every time who the fuck can
train for weeks between eight sets and
twelve cents per see fucking kidding me
eight sets if you start at it
you get over the initial Dobbs and shit
like that maybe you can go 9 10 11 12
but like if you get to 8 having started
at four holy shit you're just not
hanging in there for over number the
average accumulation phase based on the
way we do things our RP which may not be
the best way is four to eight weeks and
if you properly start at your minimum
effective volume and Auto regulate up
this just not gonna be much time spent
training close to at MRV because the
fatigue there is fucking insane II won't
sustain it in in a very very short terms
when you hit your peak ma vie for the
cycle your MRV arrives real shortly
thereafter real shortly and it's not
something you have to worry about in our
view if something theoretically you
should absolutely be concerned with and
folks like ericom's and others have been
concerned that you could be training in
the other end of that you should curve
that's if you start with a certain
volume and stay there but if you
accumulate volumes and make the relative
intensities harder like we do as you go
you're just not gonna be at MRV very
long good news is maybe you're between
ma vie and MRV for like a week or week
and a half or something
that is long enough vetted by the
literature to function as an excellent
functional over reach and then you make
all those gains back and more on the tea
load and voila so it's excellent
theoretical conception and a great
concern but in our view with proper
accumulating difficulty of training yet
mev peak of the curve first of all the
curve is much flatter something we
talked about the volume landmarks books
a book you know at a you know your ma
these real close to your MeV when you
start a cycle so it's the curve looks
like this it's not like that curve looks
like this anyway but when you get close
to the peak ma V is soon after remember
your fatigue is going like that the
entire time MRV comes quick it drops off
quick on you it's not something that you
can like be like yeah I'm doing 15 such
a session today not getting as great a
games as I was but I'm still hacking it
like that just doesn't happen because
who fuck can survive that in a fatigue
accumulative sense not just a one-off
like a one-off yeah you can do 15 or you
can do 20 sets and be fine but if you've
already done five weeks of five and then
six and seven and eight sets you're just
not gonna be able to hang in there long
enough James yeah really good and I
really enjoyed that question so two
points one's kind of just to reiterate
what dr. Mike said so the the prop
a good idea right that's a very
conceptual it's a good idea like why not
just train at MA it shouldn't that buy
you more time it sounds like it does the
answer though unfortunately is no right
so the idea that like okay I've hit my
peak ma vie and that's here and my RV is
like right here why don't I just keep
training here and maybe I can train
longer in theory it sounds great in
reality it doesn't work because the
fatigue that you've been accumulating
the whole time just catches up with you
at that point either game either way
right so the point in this case being
you might as well go to MRV might as
well go to the point of maximal
inflection cuz you're gonna have to stop
either way so you might as well get the
highest magnitude of gains now in the
volume landmarks that we're doing for
this for the sporting book by making a
case that the ma v for sports training
as you've kind of alluded to in the last
part of that is not only the point of
kind of like best possible games but
also in terms of just time efficiency
amount of effort put into it so in
sports you have the problem of how much
preparedness you have for any given
session whether it's power speed skills
tactics etc so the nav is kind of the
optimal dose in terms of how much you're
getting out of it but also relative to
how much time and effort that you're
putting into it because we know that you
could be in that same situation where
here's ma hughes MRV but to get to this
that point of maximal inflection might
be a difference of like several hours of
training per week to get that last
little bit of gains especially for
sporting kind of populations and that
actually is not a good use of your time
when you're getting 95% of the gains
with much less effort so for sports that
idea is actually very very solid but
you're still constrained by cumulative
fatigue so when you're mixing other
things like you gave the example and
then made some other ones yeah it might
be better just to end some of your mezzo
cycles at ma vie for many of those
things because you have a lot of things
that you're juggling at the same time so
I enjoyed your question for bodybuilding
though we still recommend going all the
way to MRV because you're gonna have to
deal it either way might as well get the
most games that you can painting down
says I need help sleeping at the tail
end of icon would benadryl hinder muscle
growth there's no research or mechanisms
to support that so I'll just throw that
one real quick unlikely I've taken
benadryl and similar drugs for a long
time I used to live with James and I
take antihistamines because his cat I'm
alerted to
and it didn't seem to affect shit and
there's no reason to think it would
is there any sleep age that y'all kind
of command that won't affect recovery or
growth yeah benadryl is one of them and
usually like cetirizine hydrochloride
and all those other ones are you know
any antihistamine almost certainly won't
affect muscle growth and will make you
drowsy through the day but shows he'll
put your ass to sleep uh yeah any any
like over the counter like there's
what's that called like the zzzquil kind
of stuff that's all fine I'm good yeah
diphenhydramine and shit you know as
James always says zma like it won't put
you to sleep but when you're asleep
it'll keep you there it's really deep
sleep so guys it will give you a fucking
giant bone or you'll wake up in
all-suite just like what is going on
yeah and if you really if you live in
the United Kingdom where this is legal
and you have thousands of dollars
pharmaceutical grade growth hormone holy
shit you'll sleep like you've never
slept before JK but seriously all right
PS melatonin doesn't help me stay asleep
so there's an option yeah cool melatonin
is one of those things that it's not it
doesn't dependably work for everyone
nothing does but James cranky from our
melatonin has like for some people it
just works great for some people like
firfer for your life mallet works
amazing for you works like pretty good
and for some people it's just like like
am I really been taking anything
yeah and like a lot of the problems you
know a lot of it has basically expired
and most the stuff you get
over-the-counter like half of it has
already expired so it's enact its
effectively inactive so it's very
hit-or-miss alright first actual
question I guess though that happened
doesn't have a question number one my
push days before my cold and when I
incorporate push ups they make my last
sore for like full day if I put my cold
day before push I'll be working my
recovery lat muscles if I put my pull
day before my push day I'll be working
my recovering that muscles want to go do
push ups what do I do
makes your push-ups push-ups is one of
them you know the last shouldn't be any
sore from push-ups so maybe you can try
beating up on a slight decline or
incline that might help and sometimes
things get so we're crossover it's not a
huge deal especially if it's a little
soreness whatever is more important to
you I'll put first
so you want high-performance to be the
leader so if bushings really important
put it first and if you're you know
doing your pulling with slightly sore
laughs that's okay and vice versa but
fundamentally I think you can pick some
better exercises that don't do a lot of
overlap and in that way you do a sort of
a better job managing all those and
clicking them together
seriously though kidding inside think
about tuning up the SFR for your
push-ups you really shouldn't be feeling
like lat soreness from push-ups and like
some people would argue that sore from
bench it's like yeah it's cuz you're
squeezing your lats too hard dummy you
shouldn't be getting sore last number
two I do
I give blowjobs once or twice blowjob
job I do Brazilian Jiu Jitsu once a week
I shouldn't do BJJ when my upper body is
sore to not get in the way of recovery
and doing it right after upper body pull
session would be like doing cardio after
likes to push on all the metabolites yes
I've watched the BG day of lifting video
oh then you know that the answer is it's
depends on what you're prioritizing if
you're prioritizing lifting you have to
do your lifting before your jutsu and
you have to split them by as much time
as possible so that's the related
correct answer if you prioritize you to
a whole lot so that you should do it
before lifting and then to lifting later
but split it by as much time as as
possible although you have to be really
really high level in jujitsu to
prioritize in such a way as to not lift
first lifting before jujitsu and the day
is usually better because you soon
leaves you so fucked up that you can't
lift but lifting almost never leaves you
so fucked up but you can't you do too
and if you're a little bit less
explosive a little bit less strong a
little bit less endurance or still just
as coordinated after lifting your
specially six hours later you're just
not as strong and explosive as you could
be which is fine because most Jiu Jitsu
should be technical anyway once you get
into you're peaking phase for our Jiu
Jitsu competition then your lifting can
occur after go2 and or be so minimal in
volume in intensity and difficulty in
frequency then it really just doesn't no
fear at all and then you could get your
mojo going but honestly if you want to
be big and strong and we could really
good at Jiu Jitsu you should almost
always lift before you need you to do
that after and then just a quick sidebar
there to Jiu Jitsu is more likely to be
constrained by the schedule of your gym
or as lifting these is more yeah kind of
free it up to you to just do I want to
get up earlier do I want to lift later
so
kind of more likely you're going to be
constrained by whatever your gym is
offering jujitsu classes which is more
often about an evening yeah number three
y'all upset it's a possibility after our
cut you may gain extra mile so many get
back to eating enough if this does
happen with then will this be done in my
long maintenance calorie phase after a
contra when I start bulking so we don't
recommend along main this calorie phase
after cut so it sure as hell won't be
done during that it'll be it'll be
what's up oh my god oh my god oh my god
oh my god oh my god oh my god hold up
pull up pull up I gotta maximize my
screen ah James your screen sharing I
can't see much of you Christo come here
now oh honey are you close they probably
just woke up and Mel's taking them for
pee pees I'm guessing did they did they
do good Oh better a potty training yeah
okay oh my god they're ridiculous
they're getting flu fear they came in a
little frazzled and flat and now they're
getting proof here it looks like yeah
give them a little brush and then all of
a sudden they're like yikes
alright so just to finish up we don't
recommend along a maintenance phase
after a cot that's if you want to like
that's a great idea if you want to
continue to go further down and cutting
afterwards so what we do is say log cut
then a will rebound mass phase we might
regain some muscle or longer mass phase
we regain muscle that gave you muscle or
you do a little rebound mass phase and
then you do a little short maintenance
you know two to four weeks or something
get your body in order to get everything
together drop your training fatigue and
you start slow massing yep so you should
not be doing long maintenance phases
after your bollocks if your goal
sighs James nope that's it for me okay
Jack nedovic the mani professor the
natty King
mr. natty son knows the natural man
that's right that's right
hey doctors I hope you guys are doing
well me I've just been ruling over my
kingdom as king of the naty's it's the
weakest least physically impressive
Kingdom around but god damn it it is
evermore my gym opened up recently so
luckily I only had to run three weeks of
the gym free templates before I could
get back to weightlifting training I've
been slowly easing back in using all the
strategies you guys talked about applied
weightlifting applied to weightlifting
but I get it a harder accumulation phase
how should I perform a few exercises for
a lifting like rows presses and back
extensions since the exercise is a very
general should they perform like
modeling exercise with a very controlled
eccentric in my muscle connection or
more explosively I mentioned it's close
to the former this is the general
exercise and the purpose is to build
muscle or what do I do I'm not doctors
or physiology thanks in advance really I
think like there's a bit of leeway there
but we would prefer to see exercises
performed to ask us to their specificity
so like if I'm having a weight lifter do
hack squats to build up the quads
without beating up their back too much
it's gonna be a bodybuilding axe watch
because the purpose is hypertrophy of
the quads later when its strength and
its front squats it's gonna be like a
power lifter would do them like control
slow
rigid but with some roof and then later
when it's you know drop snatches or
something it's going to be super hyper
explosive because that's what way the
thing is about yeah for weight lifters
hypertrophy movements fundamentally
maximum intent to move is good but yet
always eccentric control pauses so forth
James
yeah and it's one of those funny kind of
things where it's like it makes sense to
do the maximal you know movement effort
but at the same time like that's not how
you you operate during weightlifting
right you're not gonna be like trying to
explosively row up during weightlifting
either so there is like a very good
justification you can make during our
first free phase to trying to look a
little bit more similarly to
bodybuilding for those accessory
movement just because you're not going
to be actively using them in that way
and in some cases trying to move really
fast can either really reduce the load
that you can use reduce the mind muscle
connection that you can use
just kind of over rely on momentum
instead of actually contracting the
muscle throughout the full range of
motion so you just like kind of whipping
it up and then not actually controlling
it so I would say there's definitely
there's room for both but for the kind
of non-prime weight lifting movements
like the rowing and stuff like that I
would say train it more like a
bodybuilder than a weightlifter and for
other things training more like do what
dr. Mike already said yeah all right
Nikolas has a few questions so say max I
like to your have your opinion on a
Russian on sports Russian scientific
literature Russians dominated sport for
about 40 years they put a ton of money
into a really deep into greater models
performance with talent detection and
collaboration of all the best sport
scientists a lot of them anyway I mean
deaf sports studies for coaches and
dominate the support scene with a pretty
poor genetic pool compared to the u.s.
population where you find a ton of
diversity I would say it's a pretty poor
genetic pool but in some sports it's
poorer than what the US had like the
lack of West African genes in distance
in sprinting was you know something like
really boy
anytime the Soviet Union won a sprint
event it was just like uh more of the
u.s. reputation because when you have
West African and ancestry folks you're
not supposed to be using sprinting
events so yeah in some cases ramps looks
like not doesn't look good on them it
just looks bad on us like really guys
what are we doing here
shit damn it yeah like you know
illustrate that point like Jamaica and
the Bahamas when they can in order a
number of gold medals and their Olympic
programs are tiny and they have like you
know like two million people for Island
by how the fuck are you doing that well
the answer is like super super West
African genes so alright so my question
is number one how much would you
attribute that success to their drug use
it seems difficult to me not to think
that USA were trying the best to win
this world with drug use on the
capitalist side as well so the thing is
about the capitalist side as it was no
capital side the United States not have
a government coordinated program so you
see the capitalist side of the Cold War
in in true Lake in the war war is if the
US government was in charge of getting
private contracts for various weapons
and tactics and so on and so forth and
because free free markets just produce
value better they just men made better
planes and satellites and computer chips
and everything and fucking won the Cold
War and just sheer intimidation of like
it is the Soviets have their own studies
of like so
in conflicts and at some point in the
late 1970s they're like we're losing
every single one of these like the u.s.
just has better hardware and better
training better everything and we just
can't do this and the new glass nests
with Gorbachev towards the end he was
just like yeah let's cut all the shit
out let's be friends here but the thing
is the United States Olympic program
there is no such thing as this is
completely private entity there was the
governor's never behind it there was
never a ton of money behind it each or
was really just kind of siloed in on its
own the USA trafficked field and talked
to a lifting or didn't talk to anything
else
there was no capitalist driven drug
program it's like if a capitalist
economy decided to have a
state-sponsored doping program you'd be
seeing people that were eight feet tall
weighing 500 pounds in the commander of
ten years just like like like you know
like capitalist countries make you know
have you ever seen a Soviet cell phone
know if a what is the cell phone from Co
South Korea look like Lake magical thing
that's your friends and works on no
batteries at all amuses the Sun crazy
shit right so you'd see the same thing
with drug development but that never
really occurred in the United States
that however American athletes did use
drugs and they try their best to use
drugs was it as regimented and advanced
the Soviet use no so how much what I
sort of say drugs matter to the Soviet
advantage significantly probably like
thirty percent but that leaves another
70% of like other shit right so drugs
were definitely big role most of it
using them properly was a big thing but
not the entire thing as some people
would like to have believed James
anything to add to that yeah and like
the the drug use is the the merit of
drug use is going to vary by different
sports I would be of the opinion that
most people think of drugs and like okay
the strength power sports like okay well
they're just more jacked right and yeah
that's the obvious answer in many cases
but I would actually make a case that
the drug use in skill based sports and
tactic based sports is probably even
more of a benefit just because you get
more frequent exposures to skilled
practice and tactics and stuff like that
which I think you know take a sport like
MMA for example it's no wonder these
guys use fucking analogues because they
have so many different skills and
tactics that they're rehearsing at any
given time so the more that they can
recover the more exposures they can
actually get and the better their motor
learning and
is going to be in the long term where
you have some of these situations where
you're not actually having to go up to
higher brain centers anymore to think
them through you actually become pre
anticipatory responses in many cases
that I think is probably the hugest
benefit and that's going to be different
across a wide variety of sports so
obviously there's kind of like the
typical like aggression strength power
all that stuff sure but in my opinion
for those sports were there's like that
really big skill component and that can
only be improved by just more practice
and more exposures and higher intensity
exposures that's where the big benefit
of the Soviet drug program could have
been yeah I'm sorry it's all over really
number two how would you rate their
support sciences is it possible that
given their immense financial resources
are the access to top athletes here in
the years and years ago and they made
discoveries in science advanced further
we're discovering right now if the
limited access we haven't top athletes
most the resources done on student
cemetery people so Russian sports
science a lot of it still not been
translated was actually done on a lot of
very very good athletes so and they can
test very long-term things like base
potentiation they can do proper tests
cuz they had athletes for years
different developmental programs so on
and so forth now it wasn't pure research
science because it was true sport
science in the sense that number one job
is to make the athletes as good as
possible but play with a couple
variables that you can as long as you're
making sort of like your good faith
guesses as to you don't know which one
is gonna do better so like you can't
test real big theoretical things like is
lifting heavy or light gonna make them
stronger like you know it's heavy such a
shot up and go happy but how heavy is
something they had some control over at
various points so the number one thing
is win right so they weren't doing as
much deep science to the training
process as would have been ideal if it
was purely a scientific venture because
sometimes it's just like let's just get
to the point do this give us victory but
they were doing some and yeah it was
pretty advanced I think most of Western
science has caught up now but some
applied stuff for advanced athletes
particularly like a volume load
manipulations do figure not work the
best are still out of reach from out on
science because we do use undergraduates
like for example like why do they do
ladies and such a way that you only get
to hard exposures per week or they
hypothetically people heal enough for
four well good athletes don't heal for
four good athletes heal for twos
two hard exposures to easy exposures and
that stuff is vetted in the Soviet
leadership very very well where's an
American literature it exists but the
literature says no force totally fine
GSM like some American literature saying
like central nervous system fatigue is
not a factor and repeated little
performance day to day to day yeah an
undergraduates that learning how to live
from the same time that they were doing
you now to accumulate the nervous system
fatigue weight lifters that can can pull
foreign kilos from her grounds but she
needed a shitload of central nervous
system fatigue and there's just no study
studying that currently so some of those
are really really good to take from that
aren't you it's too bad too because it's
like what it was one of the few things
they almost privatized early on right
you had a bunch of amazing coaches and
sports scientists who were doing
research and like the 50 60 70 s 80s and
it wasn't for the greater good of
society it was for we're trying to do
we're trying to make the best athletes
that we can and then the USA and other
Western nations picked up on all that
stuff and they said oh yeah we can do
that a lot better by the way check this
out so it's too bad because it's one of
those things were like they definitely
initiated a lot of that big sports
science push and they did it not to put
the knowledge out in the world and say
hey look check this out they said no
we're doing it like you know almost
privatized sense like we're doing it for
athletes so they could win not for the
greater good in science and uh it's too
bad because you almost would wish they
would have gone all the way but it kind
of came full circle and you know odd
twist of irony
number three scientists like dr. Sally
Aleph talked a lot about hyperplasia
training for the slow-twitch fibers and
non glycolytic training where your
thoughts on those Diaz for him lactate
accumulation destroys mitochondria and
are detrimental to endurance and the hey
lactic aerobic sport like combat and
field sports may be fuckin stupid as the
issue first of all yeah probably just
essentially theoretical extrapolation on
his part which neither Theory nor
science directly such as better than
orange by Ron but I'm sure there's some
grains of truth in some of that stuff
the thing about hyperplasia is that
hyperplasia is definitely demonstrated
or kearney animals but it's just
difficult to pin down in humans we just
don't know if it happens it probably
just doesn't happen a lot so at that
time he's probably just being incredibly
speculative my knowledge training does
not destroy mitochondria
it can make them less dense in the
muscle can actually cause more to grow
in certain cases yes destroy them number
four finally how much faith and time
would you put into studying this
information is worth it because they're
still really relevant or is it mostly a
waste of time compared to the study
amount of science a note spoke of usual
questions very lucky ripens Matunuck
says what shall I come if you have
access to translated Russian literature
it would be really cool to read and I
would just read it with a big grain of
salt and I think if you already know
American sports science the Western
sport science I think it's a really
great base to understand the Russian
stuff if you don't know a lot of
American Western or Western sports
science and you start reading the
Russian stuff it's gonna be fucking
hella confusing because the Russians
also speak but being Russian I can
confirm this is true they sneak in like
needlessly complicated ways like they'll
say transmutation instead of change and
people think like it was just a bad
translation like that's an excellent
translation the Russian speaking Russian
excessively complex complicated for
those are actually trying today so a lot
of stuff is just tough to buy chunks out
of but I think it's nothing that you're
gonna read and it's gonna reinvent the
wheel for you and it's gonna be like oh
my god I know things the Americans ever
did but it can lead some really cool
insights and fill in the gaps with the
American stuff it doesn't have or sorry
the I keep saying America and the
Western stuff doesn't have so if you
have access to a lot of good Russian
literature and you have a good stable
base of westeros support science it's
really cool and worthwhile to read into
but I wouldn't go in there thinking like
this is gonna revolutionize my training
methods and I'm just cover something
that makes me the best looking coach of
all time yeah I totally agree and it's
probably not worth your efforts to read
anything whether it's Russia and Western
or otherwise that's you know 20 years
old or more outside of just for fun and
interest I would stick to things that
are marking I don't use the word
contemporary but you know like within
the last 10 years or so because in this
field hooding review the textbooks yeah
yeah exactly things move really fast so
like what we were doing 20 years ago was
like okay we're cool but now we're like
way beyond that already so it seems
we're an emerging field so that it just
we're on that exponential curve of
growth in terms of the body of research
so you read textbooks for stuff that
came out twenty year
ago you read meta-analysis of literature
reviews for stuff that came out 20 to 50
to 20 to 5 years ago and you read a
current a study single studies for stuff
that came out five years ago or sooner
that would be my kind of basic rule of
thumb and the exact time frames are not
specific what like stuff from the way
back in the day can be summarized
excellently with textbooks stuff that's
a bit more recent the textbooks haven't
really summarized well yet men analyses
and literature reviews and then stuff
that's like published last month
published last year not a matter yet you
can read individual studies for whatever
the brain so all right IDO you're Shea
it says hey dogs hope you're having a
great day
I'm currently debating whether I should
structure my mouth cycles for load I rep
progression or progressing sets from my
MeV close to IRB
I have been okay so I'm just gonna solve
this problem for you right away
you always progress this thing that
seems more straightforward then yes you
always progress and load and reps to
keep your R's where they should be
that's it and then if on top of that
progression there is insufficient volume
for you to know that you are doing a
good enough job to get close to optimal
for example you're progressing and load
and reps to hit the RRS you want but you
are completely not sore from training at
all
you leave training feeling could've come
10 times more and not tired at all you
heal way on time and your strength of
skyrocketing no he and based on the
literature we have on volume you're on
the way low end of what would be
recommend you know we talked about that
three dates of continuum you're doing
two sets per session and you just like
should I go up yes then the answer is
you add sense if recovery allows and a
lot of those stuff but you never use
sets as an interference mechanism for
progressing through load and through
reps take the RRS that you need so in
any one given session to hit whatever
rir you need to hit you needn't
progressing load and reps but between
sessions you decide okay I hit all my
are IRS thereby increasing load or reps
to whatever amount but should I you know
to what extent should I add volume based
on how well I recover because you can
think of a hypothetical example you can
progress and load in reps entirely just
doing one cent per session but at some
point you'd be like okay I'm progressing
as much and loaded
raps as possible I should have
progressed in volume because one set
doesn't matter how good your progress is
is just not enough it's almost like this
it made me I made this analogy other
times before you make an apostille dish
that's really tasty the load and the
reps are the sauce and the meat okay
there's a certain amount of optimal to
have to make a super tasty pasta the
volume is how much of that shit you're
eating it doesn't fucking matter you
guys ever been to expensive restaurants
they like give you the greatest fucking
pasta dish ever but it's like a fucking
spoonful they're like not on turn next
tasting a time you're like what the fine
fuck is this a lot more of this shit god
dammit are you just fucking with me so
you can have the highest quality
training in the world and to that end of
it along with a good technique and a
good mind muscle connection RER is what
controls training quality once you have
high quality training of a certain
amount that's how you keep it high
quality is you would just load or UPS to
keep going but on top of that sense
might also need to be adjusted because
doesn't matter how tasty your fucking
pasta is you just need more fucking
pasta at some point let me see the rest
of the question James generally agreed
with that before I read the rest the
question yes and then the rest of the
question gets back to Erik Helms's point
which I think we beat to death either
last time or at a time before okay let's
see I'll just read it through and now
let's see if there's any other points we
can address that we didn't I have been
looking for the past eight months and
super serious for the past six months or
so in my first few months I focused on
technique which allowed me to reach
where I am today that's really great
great idea a lot of people don't do that
so you're already winning there it's the
first the first month try to try kill
yourself with as much a failure training
as possible most people do and then join
me to reach where I am today I'm able to
do a lot of sense on a single session
without volume early suffering does that
mean volume suffering
anyone can do a lot of sets in a single
session volume is not the outcome of
strength of the outcome but we'll get to
that was time three to five minute rest
on compounds generally can you're
rushing way too long three to five
minutes that's what somebody super Jack
does you could rest much less a lot of
time does he even like my his raps
dropping off is there what he means
yeah I'd we can put like that doesn't
really matter so right I think I'm just
trying to imagine what he meant by the
show and my work capacity is high I can
squat 105 to 110 kilograms for eight
sets of five which is the top of my MRV
I start from about
for some compounds on strength five reps
and I progress them through the mezzo to
aid on the compounds and two-thirds on
the ISOs if it's not like training which
I only increase the squat what do you
guys think should be the way of
progression I feel like your accounts
are made clear that doing more sets is
getting you better at doing more sets
okay and that like it does that too but
we can critique our position of that
lifting more weight only makes you look
better at lifting more weight because I
actually gave you jack to same critique
doing more apps make you do more reps so
that's not that's not exactly a critique
like doing more sets up to a point gets
you more and more hypertrophy there it's
very well aware of that could be
detrimental towards the end of a mezzo
we actually covered that earlier we
talked about the u-shaped curve and the
fact that I may be and MRV are really
good close together when you're
accumulating so we want you to do is
this make sure every single time that
you train your training at the our our
target you set which is start at
something like three at the beginning of
your mezzo and either descend by one
every week or by about or descent by one
every other week so it's like week 1 3
are our week 2 can be 2 hour and then 1
hour and zero are ss4 mezzo or anywhere
in between that and weak ones and one
and two or three re are weeks two weeks
our units three and four are two IR
weeks five and six or one hour and last
two weeks are really close to failure
something like that like anywhere
between those is totally fine and you
will have to modulate the load and the
reps accordingly to hit those but yeah
as you do that modulation if that is not
enough volume or too much volume based
on how your performance going based on
how you're recovering based on a sore
you're getting then you add volume as
needed to make sure you're getting
enough so you got a flavor the pasta and
put on the wrong why right I'm gonna
meats but then you also have to choose
how much of that shit you're gonna so
it's two separate questions they
interfere with each other only at the
extremes
here's where they interfere with each
other you say okay yeah if I put a
shitload more load on the bar I can't
get stronger faster but that would push
my re are too high I don't have to drop
how much volume I'm doing well now
you're just doing strength training
you're clearly just biasing it's one way
or another so do a good job
adding reps and load to get these clear
our a our targets starting around three
or so and as you do that let your volume
law to regulate appropriately that's it
so and we've talked about this before
but the the
cheak of like doing more sets gets you
good at doing more sets is also flawed
for the reasons that Micro already
stated because it's circular but also
like yes that's also true because you
build more capacity and muscle that's
why you get better at doing more sets
right it increases your tolerance to
training so it's kind of like yes yes it
does make you keep better at doing more
sets which may is because you're growing
muscles do in every now and again you
get in a situation where you train you
get into the high volume so often that
you become sort of more resistant
hypertrophy or NDE goes up a lot here
MRV goes up a lot you become more slow
twitch you have a huge work capacity but
not as much growth ability at all and
that's why we advocate frequent D
loading and low volume V sensitization
phase us to bring you back down to earth
so you can have a nice low MeV again and
then cycle through the process that's it
just
[Music]
cailli B says hella docks I'm hoping
you're well and healthy I would like to
start off by thanking you for the advice
you gave me a few weeks ago I've been
lifting for three years with high volume
first year was an inconsistent bro split
sounds like everyone and I was just
spinning my wheels and the whole time
the whole time without seeing
performance increases I started training
with twenty plus that's for each body
part I just stuck with that for
throughout my lifting career and even
after start B training I would start
somewhere close to fifteen sets and go
up to twenty-five sets my performance
wasn't decreasing so I didn't think it
was an issue after Mike's advice and
after hiring my coach who is advising me
to do the same I lower my volume
dramatically to about half what I do I'm
not making great progress my performance
is increasing a lot more now than what
it did after dealer eight from the high
volume I think one of I think I'm one of
the ones dr. Mike says who have the best
and after responses of a low fatigue
state I'm now doing a four-day upper
lower split with only ten weekly sets
for chest 12 for back nine for shoulder
six provides expertise and twenty four
leg states again for the advice yeah and
a lot of that comes from James's stuff
we got me on to is the James Hoffman
skeptical eyebrows like if you tell us
you're doing 25 sets a week for back all
the time like are you really though and
even if you are doing that maybe you
just essentially like their accounts for
tech is valid here we're over multiple
mezzos you just try to train yourself to
train a lot and you succeeded at that by
converting a fiber types or more
slow-twitch and excellent work capacity
but you're not like kind of the
endurance version of what you're
supposed to be a jack person and that's
not good
so we we always say like
you you have you know you increase from
MEP timer V each cycle that doesn't mean
you have to go up between cycles all the
time and a lot of times here I mean II
is roughly the same when you come back
down to it so it's good to go through it
again so it's one of those things that I
think James and I originally coined the
MOV concept to try to get people to not
train more than the MRV and then the
next best thing happened which is
everyone trying to cluster up to their
MRV their cookie so MRV is the best and
over as bad I got that but I'm just
gonna try to get my MOV as high as
possible really that's not the right
answer you actually want to get your mev
as low as possible and have as much
productive reversion from your mev to
your MRV as you can so there's no and
that's why SFR is the great equalizer in
this case because the goal is not
necessarily to just do more sets the
goal is to reach your MRV with as few
sets as possible as needed to get there
right
hey it's less work for you and b it also
maintains some of your adaptive
resistance over time which is great or
the very least saves you a lot of time
so like people take the MRV idea and
they just say like well and kind of
aircon ericom's lines like yeah it just
makes you good at doing you know 30 sets
per week well it's like what we're not
saying that you should be doing 30 sets
per week you're saying you should you
still should be using high SFR exercises
right if you can do 30 sets per week but
get less of a response than doing 12
sets per week why on earth would you do
30 doesn't make sense we want you to do
as little as possible to still get go
from meb to MRV and that's why that's a
far concept is that kind of a nice link
between some of those ideas all right uh
we have some questions number one read
somewhere that mixing strengthened at
Bertrille fie in the same session is not
good as it sends a mixed adaptive signal
to the body is this true yes if someone
is not really power lifter body builder
wants to focus on both strength and size
for instance starting with heavy
compounds and fiber ops and then moving
on to volume that's in the 10 to 15 reps
would that not be effective so so
actually I first of all I have a video
on strength vs. grad James I'm not
trying to be a dick head right now but
James Holley in Turkey I believe you
have asked us this question roughly six
times in various shapes at four
like this is literally the same question
and you were gonna give you the same
answer that we always give you my
missing something here Khalid YouTube
Renaissance period ization size versus
strength training or whatever strength
versus eyes training it's a video it's
got like fuck it's got like a shitload
of it's kinda like a hundred and forty
thousand views an hour so the fact that
it's super blew up that video is me
answering every single one of those
trade-off questions in depth and I
actually have a docket of future videos
that I will be filming and one of them
which will come months from now is what
does it need to say something as
effective how come this works you say
well Ronnie Coleman never did this how
come he still got big there is a
difference between effective and optimal
a lot of things can be effective like
you go to a restaurant they give you a
dry piece of bread and a fucking can of
tuna you will be fed and you will no
longer be hungry it is the best
restaurant experience you could have had
oh fuck so you know is it are you gonna
be okay doing this of course but if you
want to get optimal results then there
are better ways to do it such as phase
potentiation check out that plus T James
bless you again thank you number two how
big of a role did generics playing
building-sized huge if we assume two
individuals do the same training and
dieting would you say the one with
better genetics would gain double the
amount or so for like 30 to 50% more
pencil on how you measure it because it
is a total wage as a total muscle it
depends on what you mean by good and bad
genetics though I'll say this genetics
is second only to time spent training
and dieting so if someone is really
really great genetics and they never
spend any time training a dieting or
they do it real sporadically they're
gonna get outgrown by a person with
pretty poor genetics that you spent a
year is doing it however if a person has
good genetics and they spend just in
diligence doing something basic like
eating well and enough food and training
well then they're gonna get crazy crazy
results genetics now performs the
details of a program like by an order of
magnitude it's like ten times more
important so when you see a big guy the
gym yeah you can assume two things about
him they're almost certainly true he's
been training and eating awhile and he
has pretty good genetics
one or two of those has to be true in
some fraction sometimes both often both
if you see a big guy in the gym and you
assume the quality of a program has to
be
I that accounts for maybe 10% of his
muscle size difference between what he
would have had it you never trained
which is to say if someone has a hundred
pounds more muscle and they're supposed
to roelly winklaar type motherfucker if
really Winkler weighs 300 vs. 290 that
tempers that ten pounds can be
attributed to the quality of his
training the detail of his training but
it's just time under training and time
under genetics and we file drugs in
those same drawers genetics like drugs
essentially just essentially have the
effect of boosting of genetics so
genetics / drugs in one column time
spent training and eating in another and
then training detail is a tiny tiny
fraction so a wise man once said hard
work beats talent when talent isn't
working hard alright number three would
you needle to quantify and impact of
stress on building size I know it lowers
ones honoree for instance but again the
same scenario let's say two individuals
are firing the same training a diet plan
one of them has high stress and anxiety
the other dozens I believe the answer
this exact question is he you just reap
I'm I swear to God like I've been every
single one of these I'm like this seems
like a repeat maybe he reposted it
that's probably what happened that's why
it seems like that's the same done we've
answered this question before clean so
you'd go back to any other one and
honestly like I think this is just a
repo so if it was a repost sorry for her
busted you balls here is the number four
is anyone it looks me I don't think we
were answer that they do we have I just
answer number four there notice all the
difference in the sign gazes result have
changed secession levels within normal
range for instance I'm twenty five my
test levels are floors five nanograms
per deciliter it's very good she wants
to go they were three to five oh five
but I'm only on a deficit to me those
have been lower if I increase my test
levels naturally to say seven hundred
will there be no sniffing so first of
all you won't be increase your test
nevels nationally which is overnighter
because there's no way to naturally
increase your test levels outside of
doing things like saving more and eating
more about me too much which helps you
much more that you're doing that throw
the pathways than it is in the test
Libya noticeable difference likewise
what if a drop to say four hundred so
within normal range there's very little
effect in weeks or months of time over
the years that will play a role but
again it'll be like thyratrons extra
five or ten extra pounds of muscle that
you gain through your career between 400
and 700
per decilitre if you're more like in the
200-300 range versus linear rage it's
gonna have the effects you can measure
in the course of months this train is
going to be smoother or a little bit
more tricky and so on and so forth but I
just really honestly wouldn't worry at
all about anything north of 300 and
you're totally good to go and if you
really want more testosterone you're
gonna have to go to the dark side for
that shit because none of that working
there's nothing that fucking naturally
boost your chest that doesn't also do
great things like meet you sleep or a
key or carbs yeah agreed
all right Theon o P dear Michael James
the gyms in the UK have yet to open so I
wanted a feedback at a per trophy from a
home back rear side delts mezzo I
designed using a central guide at
virtually hub I am putting special
emphasis on upper back shoulder training
photography send you back slash rear
slash side tells three times per week
sounds good complemented by one chest
front delts bias traps and to exclude
today there Casey you know your chest
doesn't mean that's falling just so you
know that and so are your biceps and
triceps and traps at home I have a lat
pulldown machine pull-up bar and
adjustable dumbbell light ones a program
each that are combined to 160 kilograms
number at a 15 kilogram empty barbell
there goes south nozzle of five sets as
I go increase reps and or sets session
one heavier sets of eight to ten reps
four rows and pull downs made or
arranged for side results movements and
then it's five sets of dumbbells singing
along rows floor zonal pull I chose
single arm dumbbell rows instead of
dumbbell high bent rows that are used in
later sessions a week because I need to
combine the plates yeah make sense to be
heavy enough five sets of lat pull-downs
vertical five sets of dumbbells side
laterals fencers double-faced bulls
session to is lighter and it's lat
pull-downs dumbbell high rose
pull-ups going to failure so here's an
entry in an instant critique are the
fuck are you doing pull doubts before
you do pull-ups if that seems backwards
you can use like one thing that I've
done with my clients for people who
aren't particularly gifted at pull-ups
is you can use pull-ups as a main
movement and then use pull downs as like
down sets more or less yeah but the
pull-ups after the pull downs
I would flip the pull-ups and pull-downs
and you could at least do any through
just holding the weight between your
legs you can put weights on them session
three even lighter than mats a mid range
will pull down okay
dumbbell high Monroe's lat pull-downs
vertical pole Donnell side laterals
tunnel face poles so I would looks good
Mayon lost the connection and pump are
good and recovery is good between
sessions I recover about one day before
the next session is this the best in
terms of paying for a block from actual
a bridge friend about the best but it
seems really good my only to critique so
one those that follow up paid and one is
you have dumbbell side laterals and face
pulls a exactly the same
Amyas different loading it's exactly the
same exercises three sessions in a row I
would say maybe in the last session try
to do some dumbbell like slightly bent
laterals and instead of dumbbell face
Bowls try to do some other kind of
situation to apply rows to get a little
bit of variation go there as far as
exercise yeah
doctor my the only thing I'm conserve
considering is like if you're starting
at 5:00 and then Auto regulating from
there you're immediately going to start
running into the problem of probably
needing to add exercise variations
because you're kind of already flirting
with that like five it's not the it's
not a hard limit but it's definitely
approaching an upper limit of what is
reasonable per exercise granted like you
don't have like maybe the best gym
situation so you naturally have to raise
up the sets to get a good MeV stimulus
but you're you know you're gonna be
flirting with that problem so you might
consider for any movements where you're
going to be going up to like eight nine
ten sets you might consider trying to
find another movement in there early on
different rips on pull ups and stuff
that's a really great idea different
grips on bull downs
yeah alright
James let's do this last one for the
session and then we'll kept the rest at
rapid weird sounds great yeah so
Benjamin K hi beloved friends apologies
for like these questions I wanted to
make sure I was clear no more reasonable
protein sources in recent Q&M so dr.
Mike and mal both said you shouldn't get
most of your protein from protein
powders I think they may have
recommended no more than 25%
what is the reason for this it's just
because of wanting a bag to contain a
variety of micronutrients adequate fiber
which would be harder but not
small recent Q&A episode dr. Mike inhale
Alan I were on a Q&A episode together
just maybe keep in mind this is
backlogged so this might have been like
three or four weeks ago and I think mal
just popped in because we were talking
and she just oh I remember her chiming
in not that long ago yeah that's yeah so
it might have been like them you know
protein powders with a primary source
versus or some actual problem having too
much protein for the powdered sources
for context I'm a vegetarian and have
four meals a day three of them
supplemented by whey isolate protein
powder as a meal itself doesn't have a
decent protein source but I get
sufficient micronutrients of fiber if
you get any special micronutrients and
fiber
I think you're totally fine having
supplemental sources all the time
especially a high quality source like
way I think it's totally fine and you
can have tons and tons of supplements
would you recommend people have mostly
Whole Foods because it's good for
satiation and getting enough all the
nutrients but if you're getting
nutrients everywhere else later on
Association problem I think you should
you could have tons of supplements they
should be very careful how we answer
that question though for most people
because people say what's the most
supplements I can have and and the other
question is if that one is you know you
can have lots of very cheesy whole foods
if you check the boxes but do you
similar question it sounds like the same
question to many people is you know what
should my diet look like by default I
default for a variety of reasons it
should be mostly Whole Foods but if it
if that's not realistic for you doesn't
have to be we just don't want to say
like yeah by default you should be
having mostly shakes because some people
have mostly shakes which people have
done before yeah I think the good thing
on that one is two things actually is
one like Mike already said this at 80
factor like if you're starving all the
fucking time it's you're probably doing
too many shakes at that point and number
two if you're having just really
frequent diarrhea that's a very common
problem if you have a lot of way shakes
you just have diarrhea so if you could
you find yourself having a lot of liquid
poo time for some more solid food
Harlequin periodization in bodybuilding
slash was equal training fiber trophy is
a best practice for volume to increase
over the course of a motorcycle but also
over the course the block with the last
Mesirow and in the higher end of the NMR
vide on the first measure on the block
yes yeah yeah
to complement this would you shift the
towards lighter weights as block
progressed as would be less fatiguing
having more exercise in 2030 rep range
the first measurement having less than 5
to 10 probably wouldn't have less in the
5 to 10 but when you add the volume it
would be more from the 10 of 20 20 to 30
so same amout of the 5 to 10 but when
you add it adds more to the light ones
would you do things differently in our
first free block for powerlifting is
going to be followed by straight block
absolutely you wouldn't run a lot of
that reverse I'm concerned that if the
majority of the work at the end of
hypertrophy block cryptology is in the
higher 8 to 12 range this will still
leave you a less ideal sweet stage
switched 6 reps absolutely you have to
completely correct but increasing
weights across that berkshire block
would make it harder to increase volume
so the thing is like you're in
powerlifting you're not just trying to
increase volume from good goddamn reason
you're not trying to just get
hypertrophy you're trying to get very
very functionally Convertible
hypertrophy which means in powerlifting
you don't you increase probably better
not a regulated way but in the context
of what you have to have for specificity
so you have to increase rates across
that very block and yes it will make it
harder to increase volume but that's ok
because you have to increase weights
across America per block for you to stay
sport specific and make that transition
easy right so you're not trying to be a
bodybuilder to try to be a power lifter
you get as much hypertrophy as you can
get in the context of that powerlifting
and he says what increasing weights
across time fish flock will make it
harder Chris volume and following
professional linearization approach of
increasing weights and decrease in
volume across the block would counter
the growth of virtue of life first we
don't want to increase weeds and
decrease volumes you want to increase
weights and keep them in a 5 to 10 rep
range and if you that requires a volume
increase to give you sufficient stimulus
so be it but you don't want to do was
increase weights and use super high rep
ranges and increase weights just by a
little bit so that you can increase
volume a ton you want to increase rates
substantially and have most at all of
your difficulty of recessions come from
weight addition so here's another one
you can rule right out rep progressions
are probably a poor idea for
powerlifting up virtually phases so you
can say you can add weight or reps and
powerlifting hypertrophy you're add
weight right so you know I can do I did
sets of eight on the hack squall last
week should I do sets of nine this week
or should I do ten more pounds
ten more pounds almost every time
because you want that transition to
strength to occur better and the sets a
member separate question is that's not a
regulated based on how much you need but
you know because power lifter you might
have not very high work capacity you
might not need a whole lot of sets
that's it
and he basically nails that here kind of
at the end of the question the only
solution I can think of us to begin the
strength lock in the age of 10 rep range
and take it
taper it down to five to six as the
measure progresses just for its music
valuable time though oh sorry I read
that well hey you ready that's block
progression if you said blah yeah it's
mezzo in the mess oh you just stay in
the same rep range but you definitely
don't increase reps and block to block
to block I think honestly I like to keep
it simpler I like to say you have
hypertrophy blocks for power lifters do
these just be in the 5 to 10 rep range
and then the last block is in the 5
determine of range just like the first
block was check your fatigue way heavier
weights slightly more volume or slightly
more sets and that you start your
strength block which starts at a sense
of like 6 so what you do been doing 5 to
10 so there's even some overlap so you
get to go I don't think you need to do a
hypertrophy blocks and like sets of 8 to
10 and then another mezzo as such a you
know six to eight and another mezzo of
five to six like or seven eight and five
to six I don't think that it needs to
happen I think you can just do five to
ten five to ten five to ten and doing
three hypertrophy buzzes I close upon
every block I love doing and then after
you're super fucking stronger you're
ready to hit the strain stuff you might
see more of a distinct grunt and then
the downside not the down sets scuse me
in like the lighter work that you're
doing so you might have your heavy day
five to ten and you might you might
consider having some lighter days like
eight to twelve or maybe ten to fifteen
and then as you progress across the
block those lighter days are going to
actually see that kind of more distinct
chopping down as you go and so they you
can tell like your mezzo three of your
mat your mass you might not actually be
having a much lighter days you might
just be doing more as much of the heavy
training as you could tolerate at that
point yep microcycle programming a few
times you see me you suggested that a
heavier slash low rep sessions should
take place earlier in the week and have
your exercise early in a session and
later higher volume sessions later in
the week
I've always program the different heavy
sessions for each lift to be separated
to be dispersed across the week that's
totally fine
we're not recommending in the week we
meant to per muscle group by the way
you're still doing things correctly eg
have you been chilly on the week heavy
squad the middle of the week heavy
double in the other week that's totally
great this means in a single session
wouldn't be all heavy exercises after
squat so I'm likely to be a little much
quality venture a little that votes how
would you mitigate this there's no
mitigation we mention s per muscle group
not total also given that each week runs
into the next we don't just do a single
accumulation week mezzo doesn't really
matter if the heavy session is at the
start out of the weekend because the end
of the week in our model is easier and
takes like one extra rest day before you
restart so basically each week is going
to be slightly asymmetrical there's
going to be a harder beginning and an
easier end but we want you to do your
harder heavier work in the beginning and
then less towards the end so you can
have all your muscles evenly distributed
so so so here's an example of that let's
let's say you do squat bench and
deadlift over this does not hypertrophy
training squat bench and deadlift Monday
Wednesday Friday you can absolutely do
that and then do the lighter versions of
them around different times but this
should be also a distinct time where you
sort of back off and let your body heal
so it might actually be better to do
squat magic deadlift Monday Wednesday
Thursday so that you have Friday
Saturday Sunday to really work come from
all heavy training and have a little bit
of a much easier much lighter thing that
maybe it is too spread out the loading
evenly but to be completely honest all
of our recommendations have been made
for pure hypertrophy training and this
heavy squats heavy bench heavy deadlift
is powerlifting so it's slightly
different context and what we managed a
bit different they would definitely
diverge at some point yeah also given
that each week runs into the Mac so here
we cover that your reasoning is that
it's much easier to do light of all
volume work after heavy work that is too
heavy work after lots volume work but by
the time you're doing your heavy
strength work at the start of week two
you're effectively going to have you
happen to do that no because you took
the extra rest days after that so but
different for powerlifting body all
right next question series concurrent
hybrid approach in the differences
between training for sizeable strength
video hah somebody did watch him yeah
line a concurrent hybrid approach do you
think that there are people who would
benefit more from us
alik training than a psays approach no
you mentioned no I don't goddamn it how
many times that we answer that's yeah
so are there people that would like it
more sure yeah and then that way they
what is it for interested in doing one
or the other
yeah sure a little more variety a little
more spice but can't say it's better
right
you mentioned intermediates can benefit
from the low complexity of it but I'm
guessing it refers to the ability
because of snow here cracked who said
those elements those psychological
benefits aside is anyone who will
benefit more from a basic approach than
or the phasic approach always be more
ideal i've entirely but another physic
approach logically but in practice of
struggle to make our strength increases
over the last couple of years
I keep member trophy phases in the 610
rep range you can always find that I've
lost strength or I switch back to
strength training and low bar squats and
deadlifts rather than having our squats
to block balls uh it might be something
wrong with what you're doing in other
capacities maybe you don't have to pull
out those lifts you can keep doing those
lifts but in a different rep range or
lighter and us practice so when you come
back to them you're not out of practice
but fundamentally phasing structure is
some kind of phasing structure is better
so you need to have more of a mix of the
two
but I'm pure 50/50 mix and true hyper
training is going to vary for their hue
individuals under circumstances I'm not
even aware of what they would be also
keep in mind like this just the
movements you're using for your strength
training are just as much as skill and
contextual as anything else right so
imagine like instead of switching to low
bar squats and your competition style
deadlift you actually just kept the same
exercise as you were doing and train
them now at a heavier rep range do you
think the problem would still be there
probably not it takes a little while to
recalibrate some of those movements if
you haven't done for a while well I can
say well our squats for sure it takes
people a good one to two mezzos of low
bar squatting to get into the groove
just on the technique and and
proprioceptive the feel of it alone
before they can really start expressing
that strength if they've really been
building up over months and months so
what you might be doing is like having a
really productive block of hypertrophy
and then you're getting kind of your
like recalibration period in the first
one or two messes or strengthen your
kind of fuel
and shitty about it but the reality is
it's like yeah that's normal and like
Mike said sometimes it's good if you're
a strength person to keep some of those
movements in your back pocket and
maintain the technique so that you don't
have those really rough transition
periods because it might take you to
messes of Loeb are squatting to really
get back into a good groove and your
perception of that will be like oh this
was a wash I can't believe how how much
I suck and the reality is it's like no
you just needed more time under the bar
to immobilise yeah sorry that I've
actually expected number two would you
approach phasic dieting and using hybrid
approach how would you approach face of
dieting it's obviously not going to be
ideal amassing or cutting because you
will need a percentage biggest
hypertrophic soon as possible the
hopefully still decent it seems it can
be quite wasteful when a maintenance is
you don't need any hypertrophy work I
realized this is no longer purely
concurrent would you perhaps just moving
to a purely strength 306 rep range block
when eating and maintenance over the
high rep slightly higher volume sessions
at the carb our training be good to keep
for something else like core capacity um
you know when you're not trying to
mitigate muscle loss or when you're not
trying to actively gain muscle the best
use of your time is to become
neurologically stronger so if you
answered your question there were no
there's not ideal to train with higher
end boulevards at the same time while
and maintenance because it's just not
clear what that really accomplishes now
the word capacity stuff is thing people
gain muscle in maintenance all the time
all the way through their intermediate
years it's just not much well I think
you're just answering their questions as
like don't do the fucking phase don't do
the hyper hybrid approaching you'll have
very clear understanding of what to do
for what phases
alright number three
sorry go ahead James yeah just if you do
the hybrid approach I would just do
maintenance at that point you'll have
it's like cuz you're already admitting
that you don't want the best of one of
those worlds right and so at that point
you just want to have like good training
and so if you eat it meanest calories
like you'll have really good training
during that time like your your
tolerance to doing a lot of wine will be
up your ability to maintain high
intensity yep and that's that's great
you know but you have to just make peace
with the fact that you're not going to
be probably gaining muscle or gaining as
much strength as you could be had you
just chose one of the other
on a longer term when you need reassess
sensation phase or active Carter phase
we using the current approach she
wouldn't need resuscitation phase as
often because you're all our volume is
low but you would need them less often
absolutely we need active recovery
phases as often because your total
fatigue exposure is the same
yeah and possibly even more because
you're lifting heavier on average
throughout the year not necessarily but
I would that would be something I would
kind of lean towards like okay well if
you're doing a lot of like fives and
sixes like yeah you might have to take a
little bit more less we sensitize ation
more active and before I know these
sorts of questions are very hypothetical
but if you've provided estimates sorry I
lost my train
but you've provided percent estimates
for elements in your training guiding
principles and also serve be absolutely
willing how inferior to the phasic
approach do you think the concurrent
approach is 80% of the strength of a
particular cross training career well I
think it's like 90 percent or more these
situations just not that powerful the
real thing James and I always say is
we're not here to give you advice on
what works ready advice um based on what
we know works the best then you can take
it and sort of shortchange in any degree
you want and say okay I'm not gonna take
all the advice I'm just gonna take
something that's totally cool and
patient education is just not very
powerful and then I would say that it
absolutely I think you can make 90% or
more of your strengths using hyper
training the real thing and this is the
lie like someone like Chad Wesley Smith
doesn't use it Chad mr. Smith coaches
power the first that already eked out
ninety percent and they want to win
worlds and they can either make no gains
or make the first gains they made it
years doing a face potentiate approach
and also even if they haven't hooked out
all their gains to go to Nationals and
they want to take third or second uh
because you know the first in their
class is just a stud they don't want to
take fourth or fifth and they're not
going to do hyper training because
that'll get them fourth or fifth that's
still really really good but five kilos
here or ten kilos there in our total
while in the grand scheme is not even
ten percent of your total it makes a
fucking difference so you don't have to
do any of these things look like James
and I are gonna lie to you if you do
hyper trainee give me biggest fucking
strong shit you're gonna look fucking
great
have a happy life of being a fucking
animal but the question is do you want
to be an animal it takes 30 you want to
take an animal that takes first the
distance between those two is really
really small you look at someone like
you know oh error like let's say here at
little bridge or what the fuck is that
young guy Larry Larry wheels or a bunch
of these guys super top guys at the 242
is or whatever
Andrew Herbert comes to mind Herbie the
lovebug on Instagram Kevin Oak these
guys they're all competing you know
they're slightly different rate classes
but they're all competing to be like the
strongest to 75382 42s do any of them
look it to you like not strong not super
track people though fucking animals
right but like some of those guys and
none of the ones I don't think I
mentioned but some of those guys and the
guys nipping at their heels that are
right there on the mix some of them do
more phasic style training so from do
more hybrid stop trading the guys doing
more hybrid stuff on Theory Limburg are
just given up a little bit so it's one
of those guys li you go to a really
competitive meet and you see like he's
jacked like monsters the huge cramps
huge Baxter it kinda looks amazing like
he's gonna win right Mike actually took
third because the competition is really
really tight here you're like wow but
he's still so cool I would love to be
like him and pull 800 if people tell me
that's weak cuz the guy in my weight
class pulled 880 to win but that's the
thing is if you want to pull 880 maybe
you do phasic
model if you want to pull 830 and take
second place and still have a hot
girlfriend and a cool big truck and huge
pecs then you're the fucking man props
to you just just uh how far are you
willing to go what are you willing to
trade off yeah very similar to the point
we had earlier in the webinar was like
should I train all the way up to MRV you
just hang out at ma b it's like wow it's
opportunity cost like there's trade-offs
of doing both like you could if you want
to be the best then mike I get Mike and
I give you the top and down kind of like
this is what you do tor for best
performance but you can probably have
quite a bit of compromise just doing a
little bit less getting virtually the
same game you know maybe a little bit
less but most of the same games and
probably having fun or a lot less fuss
which is a big trade-off for a lot of
people and it's I can't snap our nose at
it too much
if you don't want to go through all the
rigmarole and you want to do something
like that you're gonna do just fine
folks that's it for this time we have
one more webinar which hopefully James
and I can actually knock out the middle
this week yeah we finish up all the RP
plus stuff forever and then we get
straight to youtube so YouTube chill for
a sec we're gonna answer your questions
in about a week here so yes
friendly reminder we're gonna wrap these
questions up and then we're gonna switch
to the YouTube format so folks always go
to the most recent webinar which will be
on the RP YouTube channel so you can
just subscribe to the RP YouTube channel
and it'll pop up for you go to the most
recent weekly webinar and then you can
either drop your questions in there or
if you see a question that somebody else
has dropped then you really like it
upload it we're gonna pick the top ten
assuming it's not the time stamps or
other silly things like that Milo gets a
special I'll always wins
if Milo I know you're getting uploaded
but none of these are questions they're
just restating other people's questions
exactly so just remember that if you
guys posted on rp+ after June July 7th
we're not going to take those and if you
feel really passionate about the
question that you dropped and it's not
getting answered drop it in YouTube and
hopefully people will upload it as well
and we'll get to it oh thanks for tuning
in folks all right folks see you next
time
[Music]