the sets that we do are time sets we try
to keep his work capacity up whatever
the is happening here is sure shit not
work capacity does Jake Gyllenhaal look
to you like he's pushing as hard as he
can or remotely close no sled work is
really good for getting awesome at
pushing and pulling a sled outside of
that it has very little transfer to much
of anything else something like squats
and shoulder presses would do whatever
job you think sleds do better than what
sleds do if you're going to use sled
work to get better at sled pushing and
pulling you got toing try which means
you got to move those goddamn feet and
push the shit faster it's just like this
thing that Hollywood does a lot would
you like make something look cool and
make it look hard without it actually
doing aing good job at training you the
way you're supposed to be trained and
it's not actually that hard it's like
rif with the shit it's awful I fucking
hate it godamn it calm down Mike okay
Mike