[Music]
welcome to the house of hypertrophy
lactic acid is crucial essential
mandatory for maxing muscle growth the
burn is where pain turns into gains
there's a decent probability you've
heard something along these lines but
what does the scientific literature say
on lactic acid as well as the buildup of
other metabolites generally for muscle
growth let's take a look
before anything else it's worth
debunking common lactic acid mainstream
myths the first myth is the term lactic
acid under normal human physiological
conditions lactic acid largely does not
exist rather it's lactate which is
lactic acid minus a hydrogen ion that's
present in humans the second myth is
lactate causes fatigue this idea comes
from correlational and hypothetical
research conducted before the 1990s
since then a multitude of higher quality
evidence indicates lactate does not
cause fatigue nor is it a poisonous
substance in fact lactate can actually
be a fuel source for muscle and brain
function and contributes to an array of
other positive things the third myth is
lactate solely produces the pain or
Burning Sensations during intense
exercise this elegant 2014 paper from
the USA shows this isn't the case
experimentally infusing lactate to high
levels alone did not induce pain
sensation moreover individually infusing
either ATP or hydrogen two other
metabolites to high levels also did not
produce pain Sensations it was only when
all three of the metabolites so ATP
hydrogen and lactate were concurrently
Infuse the high levels that pain
Sensations occur indicating It's a
combination of metabolites that drive
the sensations of pain individually
elevating a single metabolite does not
do this so humans don't truly produce
lactic acid rather lactate lactate does
not dry fatigue and lactate alone does
not cause pain Sensations during intense
exercise but it does lactate cause
hypertrophy
foreign
this 2022 review paper from the USA
nicely summarizes a multitude of papers
finding lactate may play a role in
muscle hypertrophy through the
activation of satellite cells and their
activation of various proteins involved
in signaling muscle growth yet a major
consideration is all of this research is
either in vitro based I.E done outside
the human body or animal based as an
example this study found in rats
treadmill running for four weeks
consuming lactate and caffeine produced
greater muscle hypertrophy versus not
consuming these things of course the
caffeine consumption does confound
things here aside from in vitro and
animal papers lactate increases from
exercise are associated with temporary
testosterone increases yet a strong
amount of literature indicates temporary
increases in anabolic hormones from
training like testosterone are not
associated with muscle growth it may be
more so related to mobilizing fuel for
muscle contraction in totality I'm sure
many would agree this overviewed
evidence isn't great for inferring
lactate is a powerful driver of
hypertrophy other higher quality data
questions the importance of lactate for
hypertrophy
what if we injected humans with lactate
while working out if lactate powerfully
stimulated hypertrophy we would expect
this to increase the activation of key
proteins involved in muscle hypertrophy
a 2020 Swedish study did this and found
that injecting lactate into subjects
arms throughout leg extension training
successfully increase blood and muscle
lactate levels but it did not increase
activation of key proteins involved in
muscle hypertrophy any more than
injecting saline which is just salt and
water now although injecting lactate did
increase muscle lactic levels as just
noted the increases were not massive it
would have been better to directly
inject lactate into the leg muscles as
opposed to the arm to produce larger
muscle lactate increases nevertheless
other fascinating data still questions
lactate's importance for hypertrophy
sprinting for 400 meters seems to
produce comparable muscle lactate
increases to a lower body training
session involving 5 sets of four
different chord exercises yet we can
certainly say lower body training
session will build more muscle than 400
meter running repeated short cycling
Sprints appear to produce comparable
muscle lactate elevations to three sets
of dumbbell curls to failure and sprint
cycling is certainly not going to be the
most hypertrophic stimulus in the long
run different rep tempos as indicated by
this 2009 Japanese paper produced
different lactate increases even when
reps are performed to exhaustion but the
literature indicates when reps are
performed to failure a wide range of rep
tempos are similar for building muscle
in fact the Japanese paper indicates a
slower lowering Tempo produces the
lowest lactate increases yet some
Research indicates slower lowering
tempos could build more muscle though
this isn't a consistent finding and I
plan to cover this more in future videos
short rests between sets can increase
lactate more but as noted previously at
the house of hypertrophy longer rests
between large muscle mass exercise sets
produce more hypertrophy versus shorter
rests illustrating this concept a 2016
English paper found that when training
their leg press and leg extension with
these variables resting one minute
between sets produced greater lactate
elevations versus five minutes between
sets but myofibular protein synthesis
I.E the creation of the proteins that
make muscles bigger was largely greater
after resting for five minutes between
sets
this 2021 Brazilian study used a novel
method that further questions lactate's
hypertrophic value subjects train the
leg extensions with these variables one
condition rested normally between sets a
second condition blood flow restricted
their leg with a cough during the rest
between sets which ultimately led to
Greater overall lactate elevations
versus the first condition yet
quadriceps growth ended up being similar
between both conditions after eight
weeks of training in my view this
overviewed evidence strongly suggests
lactate is not a potent driver of
hypertrophy
finally for this section it's worth
understanding once lactate is produced
by muscle fibers it doesn't necessarily
stay dormant there it can be converted
to fuel for contraction shuttle to other
muscle fibers of the same or different
muscle and even shuttle to the body's
organs these facts May further blunt the
idea lactate powerfully drives muscle
growth
[Music]
lactate is just one metabolite from
thousands does greater metabolite
buildup overall lead to more hypertrophy
as implicated by a 2019 German review
paper higher reps perform two or close
to failure and we can include Blood Flow
Restriction Training performed with High
Reps here too would likely produce
greater overall metabolite buildup
versus lower ribs yet the literature
indicates Blood Flow Restriction higher
reps and lower reps can all be similar
for building muscle
some may think though hypertrophy is
similar between these the growth stimuli
differ between them namely higher reps
and Blood Flow Restriction cause muscle
growth through metabolite buildup while
lower rep training causes muscle growth
through mechanical tension but as
discussed in a great 2017 review from
the USA this is most likely false
mechanical tension seems to be the most
powerful driver of muscle hypertrophy
and it's very likely Blood Flow
Restriction higher reps and lower reps
all cause similar mechanical tension
thus explaining the similar hypertrophy
you see mechanical tension is the force
experienced by muscle fibers muscle
fibers have mechanosensors that can
detect the force produced by them and
convert this Force into a signaling
event that produces muscle hypertrophy
the process of force is being converted
into signaling events has the cool name
of meccano transduction to maximize
overall mechanical tension we'd want to
recruit as many fibers as possible and
have the fibers produce good Force
levels for a decent duration training
two or close to failure accomplishes
this regardless of whether Blood Flow
Restriction higher or lower reps are
used lower reps with heavier lows will
instantly involve High mechanical
tension and it only increases as you
near failure higher reps and Blood Flow
Restriction initially involve low
mechanical tension but as you continue
repping out and narrowing failure more
muscle fibers are recruited and many
fibers may increase their forced
contribution ultimately overall
mechanical tension ends up being
comparable between these things as
implied in the aforementioned 2017
review the metabolite buildup with
higher reps or Blood Flow Restriction
Training may be a byproduct of the
effort and energy utilization to get to
or close to failure it's not the cause
of muscle growth
two other fascinating papers demonstrate
that metabolite buildup may play a
minimal role in hypertrophy these two
papers had two conditions one condition
involves subjects training normally with
sets of reps to failure the second
condition also involves subjects
training normally with sets of reps to
failure but once completing this the
train to Lim had a Blood Flow
Restriction cough applied to it for
three to five minutes this Blood Flow
Restriction would have trapped the
metabolites in the muscle and if
metabolites could boost muscle growth
this condition should see more muscle
growth yet after eight weeks both
studies found muscle growth was not
enhanced when applying the Blood Flow
Restriction after training one of the
papers actually found it reduced muscle
growth in the women's subjects
[Music]
crystallizing this video humans don't
truly produce lactic acid rather lactate
lactate does not cause fatigue and
lactate alone doesn't drive the pain
Sensations during intense exercise solid
literature indicates lactate as well as
metabolite buildup in general isn't a
powerful driver of hypertrophy they
don't seem to convert additional gains
Beyond what's provoked by mechanical
tension
I don't want to make the mistake of
saying just because more of something
I.E metabolites does not mean more
hypertrophy it means metabolites play a
zero percent role in muscle growth it's
possible there's a threshold Beyond
which metabolites provide no further
hypertrophy the threshold may be very
low and much of the research overviewed
past that threshold explaining why
infusing lactate during training higher
reps Blood Flow Restriction or trapping
metabolites via Blood Flow Restriction
provided no added hypertrophy
alternatively perhaps metabolites are
anabolic at extreme levels levels not
feasible are possible in humans matter
of fact much of the in vitro research
linking lactate to muscle hypertrophy
involved continuous High lactate
exposure for two to six hours with some
even lasting for days more research is
required to pinpoint if either
speculation holds any truth or if
metabolites are completely irrelevant
for hypertrophy what is clear is that
mechanical tension should be your
primary focus if the goal is to build
muscle and this is simply done by just
ensuring you're performing your reps too
or close to failure
if you've made it here I have a free
ebook you might like The Ultimate Guide
to bench pressing for strength and
hypertrophy with more than 100
scientific references from technique to
training variables to comparisons and
other fascinating science we cover it
all grab it through the link in the
description or comments