[Music]
[Music]
all right so what's going on guys I'm
here at the gym with my mom and we're
gonna hit a lower body workout today so
you guys may have seen a couple months
ago I released a video on the science
behind genetics in that video I didn't
really give you guys a good chance to
see what our actual training sort of
looks like now so I wanted to get
together with my mom for a mother/son
leg workout we're just gonna kind of
take you guys through step by step what
it is we're doing what cues my mom uses
and yeah just making it informative leg
workout so we basically just started off
we just did a quick 5 10 minutes on the
Stairmaster
and then we also did some quick mobility
drills for that I just like to do
dynamic stretches for the most part
occasionally I will do some foam rolling
especially that have some tight areas my
mom's been doing a bit more of that
lately I think yeah the main idea with
the warm-up is just to get the blood
flowing lower the risk of injury and
potentially increase performance as well
some kind of machine so just as a
disclaimer I forgot my belt at home
today so I'm not gonna be able to go
quite as heavy as I normally would so
I'll probably increase the reps a little
bit to kind of account for that
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
there's one thing I forgot to mention
you probably would have noticed mom and
I using slightly different techniques
there my mom likes to do them facing
forward which is like the normal way to
do it I like to do it like a bikini sort
of way
so basically I find that if I face the
Machine I get a little bit more of a
stretch on my glutes and I can't
actually feel it more in my glutes and
set on my quads
so I basically like to set my hips back
and you won't see a whole lot of knee
flexion from a lot of hip extensions so
it almost is like a good morning slot
and that is to make it more glue focus
and I also take slightly wider stance my
mom goes a little bit more narrow and I
turn my turn out more and that does like
I said you know turn it's more of a blue
exercise the way that my mom does it is
a little bit more quad dominant but you
know it's mostly a matter of personal
preference because you get a lot of glue
inside of doing it that way you just
that I do a saline and exercises for my
glutes in particular right when I do
those kind of exercises I like to just
to challenge my 5 tomorr yeah exactly
that makes perfect sense like I don't do
glute kickbacks in my train you probably
yeah that's kind of the difference so
you got to make these exercises work in
the context of your whole routine not as
just standalone items so anyway that's
going to conclude that one and I'm gonna
follow up with so you like press packs
and for this one I am gonna make it a
little bit more quad focused as opposed
to that one so I'm gonna narrow my
stance a little bit and keep my feet
slightly lower on the platform I'm so
the higher your feet are on the platform
you're just gonna carve these boots
anyway well we'll get any more
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
this exercise I usually make sure that I
only go a little more than hip distance
apart because I'm still targeting my
quads
close to my clothes so I keep a little
low and I'm always mindful that I make
sure that my knees don't go inwards when
I'm doing this exercise so that I don't
put pressure on those joints up next our
Romanian deadlifts I don't normally do
deadlifts anymore because I find that it
challenges my lower back so I like to do
that through isolated low back
extensions I like to target my
hamstrings more now through lying leg
curls or triple threats but for tonight
I'm going to go with Jeff and we're
gonna do the Romanian deadlift yeah and
I'm not able to go like super heavy
tonight anyway because I don't have my
belt so we're just gonna kind of like
focus on feeling like a stretch and then
a squeeze at the top
if you don't go down too far to the
point where your spine kind of hazzard
around
then you should be kind of okay and then
also not going too heavy is good
especially on the dumbbell variation if
you go too heavy your hamstrings heavier
take it and also speaking of triple
threats we should do those after Ivan
done those and like yeah okay so our
next guys we're gonna do an exercise
called Swiss ball triple threats now og
subscribers on the channel will know
that this is an exercise I used to do
all the time when I was powerlifting
okay this is an exercise I don't do very
often anymore and my mom I guess is a
fan of those yes so there's gonna be our
next hamstring focus movement so I like
to do one hamstring movement that's more
hip extension based so something like a
Romanian deadlift or like you do lower
back extensions I also like to do one
exercise that's knee flexion based so
like a hamstring curl or a Swiss ball
triple threat and I just find that these
really get a burn going on on your
hamstrings so I just I love doing so
with triple threats three parts to it
the first part I try to keep my foam
tight to the stability ball and then
just pushing your heels into the ball
slide your thumb off the ball
1 & 2
I slide it out let my heels rest and as
I roll it in let my feet go flat on the
ball to pray squeezing those glutes and
hamstrings as you roll it in and then
staying straight push your bum up
towards the ceiling and squeezing your
glutes and hamstring as you need
so that will do 15 to 20 reps of each of
those and really engage those hamstrings
60 total reps so after that or after
this we're gonna do walking lunges I do
like to do walking lunges as a finisher
and obviously really good overall lower
body exercise it's just a good exercise
for the boots so okay we'll do 20 pause
a little and then do another tie day
okay weights you're gonna just go and
turn around come back till you got 20
anyway the dumbbells down or just pause
for a second and keep going again yes
I've got 60 pound dumbbells that's gonna
be heavy
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
we're gonna finish with some calf raises
we're gonna do two sets of 50 because
he's probably gonna be crying if I'm not
gonna get pants working for him so
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
thanks guys for watching this was
fantastic great work and I with you guys
again I love pushing you and a couple of
those exercises you dip in cats which
are you we're gonna be doing it again
sometime that's yeah I think we should
do we should do like a full upper body
yes honestly some of the endurance stuff
at the end was the most challenging for
me just because my cardiovascular system
isn't quite as fine-tuned I don't think
at the moment go show my mom some love
on our Instagram I'll put our handle
right here let her know if you like the
video if you found it to be informative
we both really appreciate that also if
you're looking for your own one-on-one
personal trainer
my mom's got a few spots available or
online coaching you can check out her
website I'll have that link down in the
description my mom my dad were like my
first real personal trainers I'm on
training me when I was like 16 17 for a
while so we have like a lot of the same
methodology and everything like that
yeah if you're in the market for that
you can check it out in the description
and I'm gonna check in with you guys
tomorrow and I'll report back with how
sore I am what's going on guys welcome
to the next day is probably the most
sore my legs have been in a while and I
actually think it's because of those
walking lunges but only God ever done a
set of 40 with 60 pound dumbbells also
if you guys want to check out the whole
workout it'll be linked in the
description I also have to thank
Squarespace for sponsoring this video I
want to give a lot of love to
Squarespace they've been showing a lot
of support to this channel and I really
appreciate it they've been sponsoring a
lot of videos and making the continued
production of this sort of content
possible so thank you Squarespace you
guys earn away our Squarespace is an
all-in-one creator website clap
and they allow you to custom create your
own website and I really like
Squarespace because they make the whole
process of making your online presence
in your online store really simple you
don't have to have any knowledge of
coding or anything like that I have
actually used Squarespace for the last
two years to run my own online coaching
business and my own online store and I
continue to use Squarespace today so if
you guys are looking to set up your own
website or create your own online store
you can do so at squarespace.com and if
you use the offer code Nippert you can
save 10% off your first purchase so
thank you Squarespace for sponsoring the
video thank you guys so much for
watching make sure you check out my
mom's Instagram tell her if you liked
the video and I will see you guys next
time