sorry Chris bumpstead the time has come
to ditch the ice bath your friendly
neighborhood soon to be Dr Milo wolf
back today to share some news about cold
ice baths a recent met analysis by
pineer and colleagues has brought to
light of the number one fear of all Cris
bmpad Fanboys chilling in an ice bath
AKA cold water immersion actually
reduces muscle growth compared to just
chilling out after Rec session Instead
This probably has to do with a
combination of reduced blood flow AKA
vasal constriction of blood vessels and
perturbation of the siging and
inflammatory Pathways associated with
muscle growth after you lift some
weights so avoid taking an ice bath
right after a session if you still want
to take an ice bath consider doing it
far away from a lifting session to
mitigate the impact or just keep it for
when you went a little bit too hard with
your gym rows at the
gym