[Music]
hey folks Mike and Charlie here checking
in so our original plan was to do a
super-intense fat loss diet and we got
most of that done and the idea was to
either get super lean and see what
happens or get super lean and
potentially do a show and we're really
really on track but it turns out that
about six weeks before our scheduled
show date cope at 19 straight-up cancel
that shit and it's not just that a
canceled a show
it's a cancel to all shows for the
foreseeable future so we had some
decisions to make and we ended up
deciding to keep cutting a little bit
finish out do a practice peak body water
manipulations carb loading stuff like
that Charlie even put some Tanner on and
practice some posing we got our
videographer to take some cool pictures
of us and it was really neat because you
know peaking is a really intricate
process and it's good to be able to
practice it plenty even if you're not
competing so that later when you do
compete you don't fuck it up like I have
been my entire bodybuilding career at
this time everything and not know what
you're doing and carry tons of body
water and stuff
so the peak actually went super well I
think your Charlie especially hit really
really awesome look and the thing is
like these peaking videos and photos
that you're looking at they're not
really we're not really in peak
condition clearly we're like probably
six weeks out if not a little bit longer
but we sort of did that on purpose
because it was like okay we're pretty
lean time to give the body a little bit
of a break because we're gonna be
competing later because of coke at 19 it
was one of those late we could get in
now but like getting in contest shape or
not competing and I guess I've been
interesting right like yeah it's very
fatiguing super 50 so also another
reason why we decided it was time to
sort of can the diet practice a little
peak and then do you know more stuff
later we'll talk about that just a sec
is that you know gyms are closed right
and we're filming this now in gyms are
just opening up but like we were
training just at my house like
essentially pretty much every session is
just at home with one barbell of a set
of dumbbells on a lat pulldown and
honestly like look for general fitness
and getting in really really great shape
you can train at home with a barbell set
up and a few like one basic machine no
problem at all but like we started
running into some problems for our level
of frequency intensity volume we started
to get some dings yeah what kind of
stuff did you run into Charlie as far as
like cuz it was really good training for
like geez we did it for like eight weeks
but towards the end it started to fall
apart on us a little bit what kind of
stuff did you experience from just the
low variation of just a barbell work
essentially yeah especially for me it
was the shoulders yeah the constant I
guess same repetitive motion of incline
barbell and flat barbell and just pretty
much see it essentially all we moon
widths we had what else do you got last
yeah so my own machines my whole heavy
dumbbells so like the variations Solo
and that's like one of the things you
preach about you know when you alter
your exercises and there's tons of other
videos on this channel about mine to
actually do that but like one of the
times to alter your exercises is when
you know you're having to make some
pains that are just getting a little
worse little wersal or worse speaking
and variation isn't magical but one of
the great things that does is it just
takes the stress off of very specific
structures like the very front of your
shoulder hurts just a little every time
you incline another week in another week
in another week in another month it's
trust to get to be a real problem and
because you are just doing that movement
there's
nowhere to go with it and people say
we'll just do something else will
discuss fuck fucking thing is we didn't
have anything else yeah option at that
point and look like as we get as
creative as we can so your shoulder
started to go a little bit on you yeah
there we start you know burying you know
our load you know started using kind of
like these giant sets slowing trailer
shuts all that stuff but you know that
only takes so much love with fatigue off
but not enough to the point where it
keeps building and building building we
had really no other options and I just
kind of start falling apart that well
yeah I had to actually my a doctor is
just healing on me you see them I'm a
doctor my Sartorius started to get
aggravated and it really hurt my leg
training but I wasn't hurting and doing
light training I was hurting it because
that position of deep stretch that I
take during bent over rows like we
didn't have cable roads we didn't have
machine rows we didn't have an ability
to use heavy dumbbell bench rows so what
we did was we literally at one point
most of the time we were bent wrong I
remember that we were back around three
times a week yeah and we were doing
classic heavy back rows we were doing
rows to the chest superset to roast
would tell me that's all in that bad
position stretching out those structures
and then we were doing flexion rows are
also in that position and it even like
and even noticed it was catching up to
me and then at one point I was like oh
what's up doc and it just hurt all the
time and I'm like a weak and active rest
it's now just starting to really really
heal so it was like stuff like that you
sometimes wonder why like pro
bodybuilders not that we're pro
bodybuilders but like like really jacked
people like sometimes wonder like when I
started out Charlie started out we were
like barbells dumbbells machines are
fucking lame and like it's true a large
extent but when you get really really
big and really strong you're you're just
the supporting of your body under a
barbell yeah it gets to be like you know
what if I could just sit down to do this
and just hit my back and not hit my legs
during rows there's a there's a good
thing there that doesn't mean you know
all machines but like mostly barbell and
my work is great with a sprinkle of
machines all model felt good beautiful
still in Philly I still got a station
like that machines in the gym allowed
just for an overall better stimulus to
fatigue ratio yeah some people say like
yeah you don't need the gym you could
just have a barbell
like for general fitness and getting
really good she would we find Carson for
like you know when you need it you need
it and we fuckin heated so we stopped
the cut because we were falling into
pieces we got it a lot of body fat off
and what are we doing now so Charlie
what's your plan going forward
originally I was kind of playing with
the idea of competing later this year
but ultimately we decided to kind of
mass through the rest of the year
obviously take a big break first and
then mess up until pretty much end of
the year and then start a fat loss phase
where I I'm hoping to compete in spring
of 2021 it's funny because I started we
started this whole thing
thinking that I might be able to make
way for classic okay I gotta tell that
story so we had a little running bet
between my soft charcoal I thought that
Charlie was not gonna lose a ton of
weight I was fat loss diet but he was
gonna like recom pathan and just look
fuckin super big he started his contest
prep diet like 235 fish cod successfully
and Jared originally cuz Charlie has a
super great shape and you guys have seen
it Jared's like Charlie's gonna make
classic in the class that cutoff was to
15 to 12 well okay so basically three
weeks before we ended the diet which is
probably about nine weeks before we
woulda had to compete to meet Charlie
you weighed 234 234 with glutes
tractions coming in and it was like okay
it's physically impossible to get down
at 212 on this point unless we deplete
him out of glycogen lose 10 pounds of
muscle
it would just be insane so like that
went out the window right our plan was
to do heavy weight which is 225 thousand
you would have made heavy weight you had
it then this time but now Charlie's
gonna have basically quiet five or six
months of massing under his belt so he's
done diving right now now he's in and I
wrote an active rest Charlie does a low
volume resuscitation as a cycle and then
starts to mask the
and really ramps things up and then one
more massive one more cut since this is
really Charlie's first run a
bodybuilding bodybuilding
supplementation bodybuilding training
like hard core like all the way in
not like a mix of powerlifting a
bodybuilding like the last his last year
was this first investment bodybuilding
he must have gained like 10 or 15 at
least so he's gonna gain at least
another 10 so like but I don't think
he's gonna make any way anymore I think
he's just a super so that's kind of
sweet and then for me I'm for sure gonna
make heavy weight and I lost a bunch of
fat that was really great and I'm much
leaner than I was and I'm gonna do
active rest for two weeks and then I
moved to Las Vegas Nevada so see you
guys there Jared feathers gonna be there
with me and Charlie and I are we're just
gonna like do a lot of like sexting and
Charlie's gonna come out visit a whole
bunch but Jared and I so when we get to
Vegas I'm like literally the next week
starting to fucking crazy fat long space
that's gonna last like literally you
know how many weeks I'm just gonna go
balls out like eight one of two things
is gonna happen I'm gonna get injured
one of three injured and I have to stop
dead and have to stop or get lean a spot
period okay and I'm starting from a
pretty lean state already so it should
be like really interesting times if we
be super good so yeah basically so it's
gonna be it's gonna be super fun fun fun
for you guys to watch on video it's not
fun for me to do so we started out
things were going super well and then
kovin 19 was like math ham and then we
try to trade through bed but then
accumulating injuries yeah and the
Campbell's shows yes and we successfully
made it like yeah 4 to 15 weeks yeah
that loss which is the full piece both
of us yeah yep you have figured out a
lot of stuff and if you guys have
questions about the peak that's
something we'll probably do a bunch of
videos on later Jarrett's gonna get on
this channel in his own channel and talk
about technical happy how to peak for
natural is how to feed for non naturals
it's a little bit of a different process
yeah just what else we got charlie
who had any life lessons from this shit
try harder and then try harder um we're
not that's cool bodybuilding is just a
hobby folks that's about it
anticlimactic fucking anticlimactic but
here's the deal overarching theme you
get better by putting on muscle over the
long term and you can show how much
better you are by losing fat in the
medium term stuff that happens in the
medium term in a cute term like a phase
didn't go all that well or some crazy
share like over 19 happened it's really
seen a gonna cut off will be like five
o'clock but like really Charlie and I
are healthy we have the most muscle
we've ever had we have like a really
decent level of body fat we collected a
bunch of data experience to use going
forward yeah and it's all about doing
the best with what you have and look
Charlie and I we don't have that much so
if we have on only fans page please we
need to be send us anything money you
have we'll send you pictures that
completely trade away our morality which
we already don't have and maybe it'll
bring you pleasure folks thank you so
much for tuning in and we've got a fun
video coming up for you next time in the
series oldest video series until then
peace
you