in this video I'm going to explain how
to train for Pure muscle growth and I'm
going to lay out five crucial
bodybuilding principles that must be
followed to maximize your muscular
development this video isn't about how
to get stronger it isn't about how to
get both bigger and stronger this video
is about maximizing pure muscle
gain chapter one tension is
King okay so the first non-negotiable
principle is that tension is King at
this point tension is universally
recognized as the primary factor driving
muscle growth tension is the force that
our muscles experience when they stretch
and contract under load if you think of
each muscle fiber as a rope in a tug of
war that stretching and pulling on the
rope is tension that tension then causes
a biochemical signaling Cascade that
ultimately tells the muscle it needs to
grow bigger so how do we maximize
tension on a muscle well answering that
question leads us into the four
remaining
principles chapter 2 use bodybuilding
technique to ensure maximum tension we
need to perform exercises using a
specific type of technique that I'm
calling bodybuilding technique this
technique is different from powerlifting
technique and it's different from how
most people lift I was at an LA Fitness
Gym the other day and I noticed just how
few people actually use bodybuilding
technique almost nobody was taking all
the boxes the first box is lifting tempo
for bodybuilding we generally want a
controlled 2 to 4 second negative if
you're used to just letting the weight
free fall this will feel quite slow at
first but this is important because
research shows that the lower phase or
the Ecentric is very likely more
important for muscle growth in the
positive phase or concentric yet for
whatever reason most people lift as if
the opposite were true most people just
try to get the weight up and then forget
about lowering it back down especially
as they get tired toward the end of a
set but this is a mistake because the
Reps toward the end of a set are the
most hypertrophic and the negative is
the most important part of each rep so
you really want to control and resist
the negative especially on those last
few reps new res search also indicates
that for muscle hypertrophy slower
Ecentric movements should be paired with
faster concentric movements this means
that while you want to go nice and slow
on the negative you should be more
forceful and explosive on the positive
so if I'm doing a hack squat I'm
thinking control control control on the
way down and then speed as I explode on
the way up on lateral raises I'm
resisting the weight on the way down and
then driving the dumbbells up and out
forcefully on the positive the same
tempo should apply to most exercises in
your routine next bodybuilding technique
means using a proper range of motion
usually this means using a full range of
motion so you get to at least parallel
on squat type exercises and ideally a
bit below parallel you bring the
dumbbells all the way down on presses
until you feel a nice deep stretch in
your pecs and on pull-ups you go all the
way up and all the way down however
there is some important Nuance here
because recently a number of Studies
have shown that full range of motion
isn't always better for muscle growth
partial reps are sometimes more
effective but only when they're done in
the stretched aspect of the lift in
other words the stretch stretched part
is more hypertrophic than the squeezed
part so the bottom half of a cable curl
is more important than the top half of a
cable curl the bottom half of a squat is
more important than the top half of a
squat so you may not necessarily always
need to use a full range of motion but
you do need to get the muscle
sufficiently stretched while lifting to
maximize hypertrophy so if you're not
feeling a deep stretch at the bottom of
the range of motion you should try to
find that stretch by going a bit deeper
if going deeper causes you pain or
serious discomfort you can work on any
flexibility or Mobility deficit or you
can find a different exercise that
allows you to reach that deep stretch
because it really is that important
another thing I've been noticing a lot
at the gym is that most people do quite
a lot of cheating on their form probably
too much cheating to maximize muscle
growth that's because you can move the
weight without actually applying much
tension to the Target muscle for example
if I curl the weight up while leaning
back and forth I'm shifting tension away
from the biceps and onto the lower back
so we want to ensure that the target
muscle is receiving most of the tension
which means keeping momentum under
control
chapter three
effort you need to push sets hard and
unfortunately research consistently
shows that most people simply don't push
their sets hard enough to maximize
muscle growth it's very common to see
people hitting the gym year after a year
but making no noticeable progress in
most cases this isn't because they'
maxed out their natural potential
instead it's usually because they simply
aren't pushing their sets close enough
to failure to stimulate new hypertrophy
so how hard is hard enough and how
important is going to failure well since
I published my last video on this topic
there's been a bombshell of a new meta
analysis that is the science-based
lifting Community buzzing and I need to
update a few things first I want to
quickly announce that I just launched my
new pure bodybuilding program for
pre-order over on Jeff
ner.me example here's a sneak peek at
week one day one of the full body
version of the program we start with
three sets of cross body lat pull rounds
which offer an insane stretch on the
lats then we do low incline Smith
machine press for the pecs Which is less
demanding than a freee barbell press
then it's on to machine hip adductions
to get the legs nice and warmed up for
leg press again another low impact
exercise that we can push harder without
generating tons of fatigue and then we
finish with some face PS and cable
crunches so by prioritizing exercises
that are less costly recoverywise we're
able to push them much closer to failure
without feeling completely wrecked
anyway you can pre-order the full 10we
plan at 30% off for the pre-sale and
I'll put a link to that in the
description box down below so this is
the new meta analysis which found that
as you get closer and closer to failure
the more muscle growth you tend to see
and this is their bombshell figure that
you've probably seen floating around
online here on the x-axis we have reps
in reserve so this point here at zero
would be failure where you couldn't do
another rep if you tried this point
would be two rep shy of failure this
would be 10 rep shy of failure all the
way to down to 22 rep shy of failure
which would basically just be the
easiest set imaginable and then here on
the y- axis is muscle growth and as you
can see from the trend line as you get
closer and closer to failure you see
more and more muscle growth in fact as
you go from two reps in the tank to zero
reps in the tank muscle growth really
spikes up so naturally a lot of people
who endorse high-intensity to failure
training have been using this study to
make their case that if you want to
maximize muscle growth you need to push
sets all the way to failure and I do
think they have a pretty good case for
that training approach with this step
however what I haven't seen them showing
is this other brand new meta analysis
from 2022 which pulled 15 studies based
on slightly different inclusion criteria
and came to a different conclusion quote
there is no evidence to support that
resistance training performed to
momentary muscular failure is superior
to non-failure resistance training for
muscle hypertrophy so what's going on
here well it seems that depending on
which specific studies you include and
how you run the statistics you can
either come away from this body of
science thinking that going all the way
to failure really really is a lot better
for muscle growth or that going all the
way to failure doesn't actually offer a
meaningful benefit over stopping a few
reps shy the evidence is conflicting so
what should we do practically speaking
well this is my takeaway do two to three
sets on most exercises and take the last
set all the way to failure for the first
one or two sets leave one or two reps in
the tank if you were to go to failure on
all sets you'd most likely be very
fatigued by the last set which means
you'd get less reps and hit less volume
as a result we know from other research
that volume is also important for muscle
growth up to a point now rather than do
a full deep dive on training volume I'll
just put a text summary up here on
screen that you guys can pause and read
for more detail on that so leave a few
reps in the tank for the earlier sets
and send it to Hell on the last set I
also pretty much always leave a rep or
two in the tank on heavy free weight
compound exercises like squats bench
presses and deadlifts even on the last
set simply because going to failure is
so disproportionately fatiguing that
it's not worth the risk on these
movements but that's also part of the
reason why those exercises aren't
emphasized in my pure bodybuilding
program
chapter four give your muscles a reason
to
grow to build bigger muscles we need to
give them a good reason to grow if we
keep doing the exact same thing week
after week and month after month our
muscle growth will fairly quickly
Plateau so to keep things progressing
you need to apply the progressive
overload principle where you aim to
increase some training variable from
week to week now there are a few main
ways to apply Progressive overload
specifically for bodybuilding first you
can add reps at the same amount of
weight for example on bicep curls you
could do three sets of 10 in week 1
three sets of 11 in week two three sets
of 12 in week three and then in week
four you could either go for 13 reps or
you could add some weight and return
back to 10 reps and then start adding
reps again this type of progression is
usually better for moderate to high rep
zones you can also add weight at a fixed
rep count for example on hack squats you
could do three sets of six reps with
three plates per side in week one and
then add 10 lounds to each side each
week until eventually you build up to
four plates per side for the same three
sets of six reps this type of
progression is usually better for lower
to moderate rep zones eventually you'll
have a week where you're not able to add
weight or reps and in this case you
should focus on improving some aspect of
your Technique you can try to control
the negative better use less momentum on
the positive or improve your range of
motion I still count this as Progressive
overload because it increases tension on
the target muscle as a final option you
can try to improve your mind muscle
Connection by really focusing on feeling
the target muscle working better
research has shown that the Mind muscle
connection can increase hypertrophy in
some cases and while may not be as
effective as adding weight or reps or
improving technique it's still worth
keeping in mind especially on isolation
exercises where traditional overloading
becomes impractical at a certain point
of strength
development chapter five choose high
tension
exercises because tension is King we
need to make sure that we're choosing
exercises that place high levels of
tension on the target muscles and this
is where I may lose some of you so I
want to reiterate that this advice is
directed at pure hypertrophy training
not strength training or hybrid training
and so while it is true that you can
build a great physique by only using
barbell exercises like the squat bench
press and deadlift especially if you
throwing in a pullup in a freee row this
approach is probably too basic to
maximize muscle growth that's for two
reasons for one there will be smaller
muscles that go under stimulated if this
is literally all you do muscles like the
biceps side delts hamstrings and calves
won't be getting enough love and
secondly some of these exercises don't
have the best stimulus to fatigue ratio
this is a term coined by Dr Mike isrel
and it essentially means exactly what it
sounds like the stimulus part mainly
refers to how much tension the exercise
delivers to the Target muscle and the
fatigue part refers to how fatiguing the
exercise is or how hard it is to recover
from so for example the deadlift offers
a high stimulus because it places a lot
of tension on the glutes and the spinal
Erectors which is great but it also
carries a very high fatigue demand it's
really hard to recover from which isn't
as great from a bodybuilding perspective
so for Pure hypertrophy we want to at
least air toward exercises that have
have a high stimulus to fatigue ratio
now this doesn't mean that any exercise
that causes fatigue is bad fatigue is an
inevitable and necessary part of
training but generally speaking if we
can pick an exercise that offers just as
high or higher of a stimulus for Less
fatigue that's going to be a good pick
and machine and cable based exercises
are some of the best options for this
they provide massive tension for Less
fatigue than free weights and also tend
to be safer to take to failure research
also shows that contrary to popular
belief machines are at least as
effective as free weights in stimulating
hypertrophy and some evidence suggests
that they may be superior in some cases
this shouldn't be super surprising
because machines and cables tend to have
fantastic resistance profiles where you
get this smooth even tension throughout
the range of motion for example with the
standard free weight dumbbell curl your
biceps reach their highest level of
tension when the elbow is at 90° and
experience virtually zero tension when
the bicep is fully stretched at the
bottom by contrast the face away basan
cable curl offers much more continuous
tension on the biceps through about the
range of motion including in that
important stretch position at the bottom
now I don't want to overstate the
superiority of machines and cables free
weights have some advantages too they're
more accessible they tend to have better
strength carryover and they may activate
smaller stabilizers better and I'm still
a fan of the barbell I love the squat
bench and deadlift and I think that
strength can fit neatly into a
hypertrophy plan if programmed correctly
but if we're designing a program purely
dedicated to muscle growth that's a
recovery wrinkle we don't need to worry
about plus we already know that having
some exercise variety and Novelty is
good good for muscle growth and doing
the same exercises month after month and
year after year can get stale there are
a few other things that can impact
muscle growth but are relatively less
important your training split is
essentially just a way of organizing
your workouts throughout the week and as
long as it fits your schedule allows you
to push your sets hard do enough volume
and recover between workouts it'll work
just fine full body routines upper lower
splits push P leg splits and even
modified body part splits are all
effective options also rest periods seem
to matter somewhat for muscle growth
resting at least 1 minute between sets
is generally better than resting for
less than 1 minute so be careful not to
rush through your workout as it can
limit your recovery between sets and
then there are specialized hypertrophy
techniques like long length partials
myor reps and drop sets which can all be
helpful for driving continued progress
beyond the beginner stage I'm going to
cover at least five or six of these
techniques in an upcoming miniseries so
make sure you're subscribed and have a
lookout for that within the next month
and again if you're looking for a
program to Kickstart some new growth I'd
recommend checking out my pure
bodybuilding program over on Jeff
ner.me 30% off you'll also get the
hypertrophy handbook sent to you right
away which covers everything you need to
know about training for muscle growth
and you'll get the pure bodybuilding
nutrition booklet right away so you can
get your diet on track as well you'll
also get all three versions of the pure
bodybuilding program when you pre-order
so you'll get the push pull legs full
body and upper lower versions of the
program after the pre-order week is over
you'll just select which one version of
the program you want unless you want to
buy all three separately each version of
the program also includes a weak points
and arm day so you can prioritize
whatever your individual weak point is
and I included the dedicated arm workor
because it's a really fun workout it's a
great pump and arms are super important
for bodybuilding this is definitely not
like any of my other programs and I
filmed over 200 private exercise demos
specifically for this program that each
come with specific coaching cues and
tutorials from me there's a lot of new
exercises in here that I think you guys
are really going to love so you can
click the link over here next to my head
if you want to check that out and as
always thank you guys so much for
watching I really appreciate it don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up if you
enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see see you
guys all here in the next one