if you think you need to train with free
weights to grow muscle please watch this
video let me myth bust right off the bat
no barbells and free weights do not grow
more muscle than machine Zoo says who
says a 2022 meta-analysis looking at all
the studies comparing free weights to
machines for hypertrophy strength power
outcomes and functional outcomes even
for muscle hypertrophy no differences so
if you want to have machines you control
machines if you want to have free
weights you can train free weights both
will lead to substantial hypertrophy
that being said strength adaptations are
specific so if you want to get better at
free weight movements like the bench the
squat the deadlift you probably should
do most of your lifting with free
weights now the absolute barbell lovers
will say well I think Barnard training
is more functional what I say is
probably not when you looked at measures
of strengths that were neutral in this
math analysis there were no differences
in strength improvements whether people
used machines or whether they used free
weights so you can get good functional
or overall strength improvements whether
you're using machines or free weights