before I was taking it my sex drive was
really good felt great but on this stuff
I'm like damn damn I can I can tap it
three times a day every day yo tap that
shit Greg my
man I can't even hate this anymore it's
so over the top I don't even know what
to say it kind of just does itself at
this
[Music]
point hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength I'm a professor of exercise
science and I apparently know things
sometimes about how to get jacked and
how to get lean but the scale of knowing
things is a Stratosphere a stratum and a
spectrum even and I'm like right just
above average in knowing stuff you got
like Eric Helms you got Mano henselman
you got Greg Knuckles somewhere up there
and then you do like fast forward for
light light years of distance fast
forward for forever and you get Greg
o Gallagher aka Mr kinobody himself he
has forgotten just this last second more
than I've ever learned about training
science so right now we are going to
rever Him worship the ground on which he
walks which he's used to because he
deserves it and it gets it all the time
and also try to pick up maybe some
dating tips and some rich guy tips as
you guys know I'm an official
trillionaire um so maybe I can critique
his rich guy lifestyle in any case one
two three boom how the do they get
footage of my house oh wait that's grego
Gallagher's
house so similar I will say whatever
pool SL Lake SL industrial residue
puddle he has in front of it
disappointing also there's a lot of
other houses around and that's lame rich
people are supposed to live in secluded
places because they're too busy and
important for other people to interfere
with their daily life my name is Gregory
OG Gallagher pause all jokes all jokes
and I love everyone every one there are
two types of people that use their full
name when introducing themselves if it
can be
abbreviated if you introduce yourself as
Mike what up if you introduce yourself
as Michael you're one of two things gay
dope I love you come in here give me a
hug or aing
douchebag mutually exclusive because
almost all gay people are fucking
dope gr your Gallagher I think you're
straight which leads me to the
conclusion that if you are Greg Greg
Knuckles great guy
Gregory doui all jokes don't cancel me
my name is Gregory o' Gallagher and I'm
24 years old the weight of that
statement I'm 24 years old people at the
movies like oh my God what's going to
happen next is the Drone going to
continue to zoom in on a obscenely large
house I
hope this kind of music you would hear
in like uh a documentary about how
someone like escaped child sex slavery
and then ended up winning the Oscars or
some shit that's probably what this is
about right something really impactful
it couldn't possibly about be about not
eating for most of the day and then
eating after your workout could
it oh God feet picks yo what his only
fans or some shit Scott we getting this
for free I believe in taking care of
myself that's a girl's body though you
just took care of someone else didn't
you big homie in maintaining a lean
powerful body that ass truth be told not
a lot of ass but upper back looking
pretty good and striving each day for
[Music]
self-improvement God it's so tough to
shower in the morning after you wake up
the The Melancholy music just says it
all like every fucking day man I take a
shower in my 5,000 square foot shower
and all by myself cuz Samantha was over
last night but she likes to sleep in
alono it's just me in the world bro that
everyone can do it even though I've just
woken up I won't eat for8 hours
incredible superpowers check this
increases fat mobilization boost mental
alertness not eating only boost mental
alertness in some folks because they get
a fight ORF flight response from not
eating and that low level fight of
flight that extra cortisol secretion by
the way because when you don't eat your
cortisol is very high that's what gives
you a little bit of a sensation of
mental alertness however in almost every
way that they've tested this eating
actually improves your cognitive
performance more than not eating so you
may feel more alert but on highly
demanding cognitive tasks of which I'm
sure he has very many in his day like
driving his Lambo and working out anding
at one bitch for a while uh it's better
to eat so no these benefits are mostly
ucer and has profound health benefits
also false it turns out that controlling
your calories has pretty much all the
health benefits if you do it by fasting
for a long time and then eating dope if
you do it by eating multiple meals
throughout the day that are a little bit
smaller than normal and that's how you
control your calories you get almost the
same health benefits folks let me tell
you a really interesting story there was
a village in Africa some years back
where their only water supply was
completely contaminated with bacteria
the people were in real Dire Straits and
all of a sudden UNICEF delivered just
one thing to them one versagrip was
simply placed into the water precisely
one day later the water was a crystallin
pure cleanest water ever if 50 species
of fish instantiated Lion King style
animals around the water hole came
around cooperating with all the humans
The Village grew up to be a mega City
with flying cars precisely one day after
that now Versa grips are guaranteed to
do that but they're also guaranteed to
make your grip Ultra strong not the
limiting factor so you can knock out
lateral raises upright rows any kind of
barbell dumbbell machine rows pull-ups
pull Downs you name it and all of a
sudden you're shoulders and your back
are getting jacked and your grip is not
the problem your straps are dope it's
2024 get on that science shit vers grips
are a winner we got a code it's going to
be right here it's going to save you
money get that link in the description
folks vers grips are legit and yes they
do work to purify water in villages in
Africa as
well D that's a big ass kitchen it's got
the video guy how come I don't have a
kitchen that
big your is okay it is okay it's just
fine to blunt my Hunger I'll drink
Sparkling
Water all right 2 to 3 hours later I'll
drink black coffee not sure why it's do
3 hours later could just be right away
but whatever a very powerful appetite
suppressor it's not that powerful unless
you have a lot of it then it's powerful
but it wigs you the out um yeah
generally helpful advice for people who
do intermit fasting obviously insanely
over dramatized
absolutely
oh yeah I generally love to walk outside
almost completely naked when seemingly
you live in Canada and there's no leaves
on trees so it's probably like a
Canadian 10Â° or an American
50 really no one's having fun out there
my friend I do also like to oversee my
grounds when I'm drinking my sparkling
water in the morning having inherited
all of my money for my parents is that a
joke I don't know intermittent fasting
can work for some people if you to at
and prefer long periods of not eating
and uh you love to eat big meals in the
evening uh it's dope and it works it's
not ideal for a muscle growth
perspective or a muscle retention
perspective because probably four daily
high protein feedings spread evenly are
superior to one or two of
those and again Gregor Gallagher is not
exactly that jacked so if you want to
look like a boy maybe it'll work it has
made staying lean and building muscle
effortless effortless a wildly
exaggeration all you have to do is just
not eat most of the day that's easy
right yo Scott what's this is it already
3 hours later cuz she just brought his
black coffee he's like bitch the it's
only been 20 minutes she's like okay
Gregory get that fucking coffee out of
my face look at how he's looking at it
too he's like what the fuck is she
wearing his shirt it looks like she is
it's boosted my work productivity and
it's given me the freedom to eat like a
king every
day
my douchebag ometer is climbing and
starting to do this kind of thing with
the oh my God eat like a king yeah Kings
Don't Count Their calories my friend you
still count that shit I simply feel
fantastic it's nice I think what I've
concluded so far from the subliminal
messaging he said if I do intermittent
fasting a few things will dependably
happen one I'll be good-looking and
handsome and have a nice body like
Gregory o Gallagher two I will somehow
inherit an enormous Preposterous home
and the wealth is associated with it and
also I'll be able to pull grade a
premium USDA puss puss uh that will wear
my clothes after I allegedly do things
to her at night that maybe she likes and
I definitely like if I don't get that
from intermittent fasting I'm looking
for a refund fast and I'm Jewish I'll
call all the Departments to get that
[Music]
shit if it happens to be a workout
day kind of car is that Scott actual
Lambo do you mean by actual what the was
that supposed to mean I'm out here I got
Lambos that ride Lambos to get over to
deliver my Lambos for me think about
that nothing like the hum with that
V2 engine Scott
V12 what do Lambos have in them I don't
know I thought you were a car guy I
don't know what model that is oh wait
you're an American Muscle Car Guy aren't
[Applause]
[Music]
you I believe in honing your training
down to the essential movements that
create the perfect physique I don't know
what a perfect physique is JK that's
undefinable and uh it's good to have
economy of effort so hopefully he'll be
doing compound movements mostly and
compound movements that don't tend to
Target one muscle a lot but actually
Target multiple at the same time so for
example if you're doing a compound
movement like the wide grip bench it
mostly hits your chest and just a little
bit your shoulders and triceps but if
you do more of a close grip bench it
hits your triceps a lot and your
shoulders and your pecs so you can have
a great deal of economy in your training
you don't have to do as many sets and
you still get really really good
benefits for tons of muscles at the same
time that saves you a lot of time so
hopefully he'll be doing that maybe damn
the hundreds yo what fuck is he going to
do with them shits
shoulder press okay so I can
automatically tell you this is dog shit
economy what you get out of the shoulder
press is a robust stimulus for the front
delts a little bit for your upper chest
not a ton and plenty for your triceps if
he did an incline dumbbell press he
could get almost the same stimulus for
his front delts same stimulus for his
triceps and an added full PEC stimulus
so a low incline or moderate incline
Dumbo press would replace this exercise
entirely and so no we starting out with
shoulder presses even if you can lift
the hundreds is just straight up not the
best way to go about it sorry Gregory
Gallagher all in good fun I always
perform the heaviest set first heavy set
first is a good idea now okay assuming
he warmed up heavy set first heavy works
at first is great because if you go
heavy you can get all the faster fiber
stimulus and it's neurologically very
demanding and if you go light after that
you can get just as much high quality
light work if you invert that and you do
light training first that's you know 10
to 20 20 to 30 if you try to go Heavy
after that you're just too tired to go
heavy you can't really get too tired to
do High Reps if you go heavy first but
you can get too tired to go heavy if you
do High Reps first so the ordering of
heavier first is awesome again if a
warm-up is included if warm is not
included this is just like trying to
your rotator cup in the ass followed by
two progressively lighter sets with full
rest periods you'll notice that uh he's
got good ental control he's for some
reason not coming all the way down in
the shoulder press missing the literally
most hypertrophic part of the movement
which is that bottom stretch so what I
would like to see Mr Gregory Gallagher
do is uh get those dumbbells to touch
the top of his actual front dep muscle
maybe pause for a second maybe not just
a gentle touch and then a reversal that
would be ideal this is I would say a
quite good technique since I was 6 years
old I wanted to crack the code to
building an amazing body I think this is
done strictly for the camera cuz his abs
look cool uh ring dip
holds generate very little hypertrophy
and waste a considerable amount of time
so it violates that whole rule of
economy he was talking about earlier
oops it was strong powerful and a
inspiring respect words it's
due that full movement that he's doing
right there is called a Candlestick not
a modified Candlestick because his
shoulders his hips his knees and ankles
are all in one straight line and
Ecentric control all the way down and
and a concentric movement all the way up
keeping completely rigid ising hard it
is hard on your triceps it is hard on
your lats it is hard as a on your abs if
you can do a few of these you're going
to have big juicy muscular abs and
brunettes that end up wearing a shirt
later come with you from the club in
your Lamborghini to go home with you to
sleep so that they can watch you wake up
and have only sparkling water and then
try to bring you the RP hypertrophy app
what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now in the last four decades since
the80s testosterone levels have gone
down about 40% from 1999 they've gone
down 25% so testone levels are on a
rapid decline Greg this is really bad
news sorry Gregory help us figure this
out what are the tips bro I want to hear
them also Sher shit isn't eating oatmeal
and drinking milk is not working for
that guy pathetic low testosterone
Heaven mother your father and your
grandfather had far higher testosterone
levels than you having high levels of
testosterone feel it feels very good it
benefits you massively it depends on how
high they are but generally speaking in
the physiological and high-end
physiological range you're going to feel
better I guess if you like have high
testosterone you'll have friends and
they'll be good-looking and welld
dressed and uh I mean zero hero pussy
anywhere but hopefully he'll show us
some of the uh some of the pickup
potential here soon taking risks feels
better is that a good thing or not I
can't tell uh great shoulder press
technique I will say and an impressive
load so calling me impressed he he's
really good at shoulder pressing I think
he likes to do it a lot again it's a bit
of a waste of a movement economically
because there's kind of no compound
pushing exercise that involves your
chest it doesn't also train your front
delts roughly as hard as any overhead
press so I do have to be a and say that
but good technique effort feels good
your sex drive is higher oh
finally finally it happened to me I'm at
a shady Hotel pool hitting on Hired
Guns Scott rank these bitches quick I
mean they're all tens from the back tens
from the
[Music]
[Applause]
back all right folks if we're having
some fun at learning some stuff we have
an unrated double uncut quadruple X
version of this video In Our member
section cost a little bit of money but
you get a ton of other bonus content and
super deep nerd science stuff uh give a
thought to subscribing to our membership
and well let's continue on with more fun
you have a certain Jun sequa about you
junqua in French means literally I don't
know what and uh he got this bitch
loving it my God look at that full teeth
grin look at how healthy and fertile I
am by subconsciously flashing you my
entire
Grill and having low testosterone levels
can be one of the worst things for males
you're more
depressed you're shy from
competition do you know as an actor that
you being included in the low
testosterone part of the Reel like you
do like a curtain call or whatever and
they're like we need someone pathetic
looking to suck on camera like it's
exactly up my alley also if you wear a
turtleneck you for sure have low
testosterone but I will say that guy's
hair he's getting pussy left and right
anyway having testosterone levels in a
healthy high level is actually very very
there's a lot of dudes
around hard watching you do things shit
movement why because the Dumber limits
or range of motion at the very most deep
stretch so I'd say a better way to do
this movement is to angle the chair up
significantly higher and reach back
behind your shoulders uh so it's fine
movement but not ideal Scott when's the
last time that when I was doing weighted
dips I had a female is clapping for
me never I haven't accomplished shit the
first most important thing you can
possibly do to get your testost levels
to where they should be is getting lean
uh not wrong it will help unless you get
too lean below 15% body fat H yeah
that's probably not true anywhere
between 10 and 20% generally uh is the
highest level of
testosterone um but uh you can
experiment with getting lean and the
benefit of getting lean is actually just
that you get lean and then who gives a
shit what testosterone you have after
that cuz you're the man but uh I would
say 15% dishes a good range to kind of
optimize some people will experience
their highest testosterone levels and
best look and best feel 10 to 15% some
people at 15 to 20 so you never really
can tell as far as the best foods to
really build your diet on I've even been
experimenting with doing a little
teaspoon of raw honey when I have my
chocolate at night I'll do a little
teaspoon of raw honey Scott uh did you
get last night I I remember texting you
a little bit did you make sure to eat
your chocolate no but I did get my thank
God okay it's got to be raw processed
honey it's just the bees is something
missing and that's a little bit of
calories but raw honey can actually help
increase your lutenizing hormone which
is the precursor to testosterone yeah
wow I wonder how much peer reviewed
literature exists on that dependably in
young males folks don't buy into of this
dog shit specific foods to increase your
test testosterone are almost always
almost everywhere total bullshit if
you're healthy if you're relatively lean
but not too lean if you eat a very
well-rounded mixture of proteins
carbohydrates and fats by the way
lowering any one of those too much
reduces your testosterone predictably if
you train but don't overtrain and you
sleep really well and a lot at night you
have healthy relationships and an
involved life your testosterone will be
just about as high as it can ever get
naturally every other specific food this
and that bullshit is almost certainly a
China waste your time you can eat honey
till you're blue in the face it's not
going to raise your chest levels to any
measurable or meaningful extent period
we can solve this in 95% of men make
belief statistic but yes lifestyle
modification can improve testosterone on
the margins usually doesn't do a lot and
if your testesterone is very very low
none of the stuff he's saying is going
to help you much and then trt is
probably a good thing to use male may
maybe higher with these natural steps
and this is the supplement that we
created
[Music]
um natural
steps
supplement what before I was taking it
my sex drive was really good felt great
but on this stuff I'm like damn damn I
can I can tap it three times a day every
day yo tap that shit Greg my
man I can't even hate this anymore it's
so over the top I don't even know what
to say it kind of just does itself at
this point easy easy that's that's
rookie numbers okay rookie numbers Scott
how many times a day would you say you
tap
it exactly shut up and be pathetic
somewhere else you don't have a gold
watch you don't have a Mojo pill
container and you don't have a girl you
paid to be in your video that's wearing
high-waisted jeans you have nothing and
no one all right that was all the fun I
could medically handle in a 20-minute
period however kinobody has way more
videos and way more claims and even has
dating advice do you guys want to see me
get a shot at that title in another
video let us know in the comments and uh
go buy some Keno body stuff he seems
like a great guy see you guys next time
got going to rate them or oh shit I got
to rate these people kinobody gets a
hires excellent looking girls to be in
his ads out of 10 I've been Dr Mike
peace all right that was something all
jokes all fun all for the laughs no
disrespect meant uh even though
sometimes it may sound like that all
comedy in any case right there that
little link that is going to take you to
more fun YouTube stuff and so that I can
get paid and crash my Lamborghinis into
a lake see you next time time