turns out lying about these
things not such a good idea oh guys he's
coming to grips with the fact that he
lied he's apologizing and he's going to
do a clean slate let me tell you guys
something about well borderline
sociopaths like liver
[Music]
King folks I'm Dr Mike for RP
strength I've been a professor of sport
and exercise science for a long time I'm
a competitive bodybuilder and Brazilian
J Grappler and I have a bit of a history
Hobby and I've been familiar with the
old
Kings of
antiquity Kings like
Nebuchadnezzar Kings like King Louie the
one through however many of the Lou
there were and a few of my favorite
kings are actually anatomical Kings
confusing I know there's toenail King uh
you should check out his only fans as
soon as you
can um spleen King strange flex but I'm
in for it pancreas King is really dope
brain King a lot of good advice but no
one ever defeats the one true king the
liver King and for the first time ever
we are reviewing the liver King's diet
and training and ancestral tenants or
whatever sociopath make belief bullshit
that he lies to you about while taking
copious amounts of
steroids let's get into it
I failed as a young man I can believe
that I failed as an evolutionary hunter
that doesn't mean anything but very well
I think everyone fails at that Scott I
prefer a non-evolutionary hunter what
are you the predator or some shit an
entrepreneur I couldn't even make
payroll that's true a lot of us have
been there but you bounce back by lying
to people I love it classic success
story and cestal living saved my life
and weird you can monetize on it my boy
lives that kid looks like he's having no
fun my wife and my marriage it uncake
The evolutionary hunter that I was born
to be damn I didn't know Evolution had
cattle bells and backpacks and backwards
hats in
it learn something new every day hey
Darwin yeah yeah wake up Evolution's
wrong as you described it the liver King
will take over now Scott the video guy
can you do me a real quick favor can you
Google a picture of Charles Darwin a few
moments later can you assess in your
Scott the video guy uh Magic who's got
the more baller beard I think Darwin's
got a beat by a couple inches and it's
pure white yeah sorry liver King there's
levels to this shit the OG stays the
champ the frame Remains The ancestral
tenants whoever does his uh captioning
that up tenants are people that live in
a house that you rent out to them
tenants are basically principles or
postulates good job fire your Tik Tock
guy so the non-ancestral tenants are
these forces that have nourished us and
and shaped us to epigenetically
express epigenetically my man it used to
be intellectually impressive for people
to just say genetics or heredity but
that's so
1982 now it's epigenetics anytime
actually you go online you make a claim
that genetics has a factor of this this
and that someone's like good but like
doesn't epigenetics kind of disprove
that no you have no idea what
epigenetics is and liver King you also
have no idea what it is but it is a cool
uh intellectually sounding word to use
to make your bullshit seem palatable
let's see what more bullshit you have to
tell us it's enabled us to become the
baddest mamillion predators that ever
lived holy shit is that backwards guys
I'll tell you exactly what allowed us to
become the badest Maman predators that
ever lived it is the opposite of Primal
it is modernity if I send you out on
Hunt to get food for your family do you
want a cited in AR with a infrared scope
or do you want a rock the up out of my
face humans got so good at hunting they
started farming and stopped hunting
modernity is what made us the baddest
motherfuckers of all time ouring brains
not Primal dog shit reverse do you know
who's way more Primal than you'll ever
be that coyote that comes around your
backyard every now and again it looks
like he's starving and one of his legs
is clearly broken he's way more Primal
than you'll ever be the more Primal you
try to get the worse you get at
everything I assure you modernity is
undefeated you liver King God damn it
Scott I have high blood pressure so
these are the nine ancestral tenants all
right at least they Spell tenants right
this time nine ancestral tenants let's
evaluate each one move is perhaps the
easiest of them all we're doing it here
moving is is really more about making
sure that you stay
[Music]
moving is that a redundancy or a
tautology I can't even tell at this
point it's we just go walk around the
block and we walk around the block again
hey l king will I get to looking like
you by walking around the block thanks
we walk around the block again and we
take a backpack with us and we carry
something heavy did you guys know what
they didn't have in Primal ancestral
times
backpacks crazy we carry it on the back
or we carry it in the front or we carry
it on the side you're not carrying it on
top of your head how dare you 70 lb CLE
Bel 70 lb in a backpack 120 lb on top of
a SL 20 lb ankle weights 1 mile of Hell
train the Barbarian test your Barbarian
uncage you mothering Barbarian I'm glad
the barbarians had uh wrist wraps
carrying kettle bells for long distances
stupid anding pointless and you can
spend way less time getting into much
better shape if you do compound barbell
dumbbell and machine basics you may
notice a
problem by design your forearms are
almost never going to be a strong and be
able to lift the weight that your
well-developed shoulders can your
well-developed back and your
well-developed legs if you're doing
stiff-legged deadlifts bent rows of any
kind pull-ups pull Downs any kind of
upright rowing and any kind of dumbbell
lateral raising you may notice that your
grip gives out first to that we have the
ultimate solution we are trying to get
you guys to buy something that unlike Mr
liver King's products actually help you
and guess what you don't have to buy it
and there's no compelling reason to do
so but if you want the option of having
much better training the Versa grip is
where that it's basically a strap that
you tie around any barbell dumble or
machine and it is so wellmade with some
kind of mystery material that I think
they got out of a nuclear reactor in the
Soviet Union in 1986 I think that's
where it came from it's soing sticky no
matter what that as soon as you wrap
your hand over it there is no more
limiting factor from your grip so you
can push your back your leg training
your shoulder training to the moon and
train your grip in other ways in your
own free time versal grips are awesome
and this is a genuine of aor as you're
ever going to get because I use them all
the time and training and so does
everyone I know that knows shit uh liver
King doesn't have them he's the am I
allowed to say that I just did you liver
King Versa grips are Sweet Link in
description so eat in the big city is
also an extension of what we normally do
back home does he mean on his Mega Ranch
that costs hundreds of thousands of
dollars where he lives in Texas or some
imagined primitive ancestral home never
can tell I guess in his mind that's the
same thing the the biggest things are
making sure that you cut out all the
crap all the processed foods this is a
man that injects hormones into his body
you don't get much more processed than
pharmaceutical grade growth hormone but
I
digress here comes the food I want to
kill myself yes This Ss a good one M oh
God his fingers oh God he's putting his
hands on it please don't eat it like
that please don't eat it off theing
wooden table with your Dirty Fingers
guys by the way I don't think he uses
soap cuz soap hormonally disrupts you or
whatever oh God oh God Scott this really
going to
happen all right all right all right
this gross ring and his stupid fat
fingers going to go have a little baby
duck oh hey Filipinos do that it's
called ballute that depends on uh really
good a good test of how Asian you really
are if you can eat ballute uh you're
really Asian if you can't doesn't matter
what you look like or language you speak
you're kind of white um all right we eat
the baby duck very Primal hit it for
[Music]
dessert if You' eat a duck you'd eat a
duck that I have delicious
patties oh that's good are those patties
cooked that's not
Primal broin oxtails plate B King liver
king bar oh a liver king bar and
supplements Li k for dinner today
grossing shit on his beard I've never
seen a more punchable person in my life
good God don't give a what liver King is
having for dinner Hey liver King eat a
cock for dinner and not in the fun way
motherfucker God damn it that was awful
how do we maintain nose to tail horns to
Hooves and Bones to blood well I'll tell
you what you got to do nose to tail
horns to Hooves bones to blood is Peak
white people nonsense white people just
run out of problems in their lives and
they are quite anxious so they make
belief problems into existence like hey
Karen yeah Lucy what's up like do you
think we're like not eating like the
whole animal you mean like the native's
dead like yeah it's like so good for you
like oh my God we should totally do that
and we can open up like a restaurant
that's like fair trade and does like
nose to face or Hooves to asshole or
whatever like oh my god let's do it h
then it that's how that idea came to be
Shield is one of my favorite tenants and
what we're trying to shield from are
other dangers that are slowly and
insidiously killing us and so what I
would say is start by turning off the
Wi-Fi at night why stop wearing
perfumes why stop wearing prochemical
clothing also known as polyester or
non-native clothes start with those
three things
why look up the Empirical research on
the negatives of all these and you'll
largely fine diddly dick or plenty of
studies that say none of this matters
guys Wi-Fi is not bad for your health
believe it or not the incentive
structure around companies that build
Wi-Fi architecture for them to make sure
it's not bad for you is soing insane so
high stakes that they did their due
diligence they really did they even did
more due diligence than the liver King
himself or as I like to call him Brian
Brian Johnson that's your fucking
government name that's what I'm calling
you to uh to quote Edie Murphy from uh
Coming to America Mama gave him that
name I'm going to use that name we're
using shielding material to make sure
that it's shielding us so we use like a
fair material over a router okay this is
officially tin foil hat bullshit in the
in the hotel room you bring faay
material with you toing cancel out radio
waves you wrap it around routers you
can't unplug the router and turn it off
or does the hotel staff think that's
fing
weird I mean I guess if you're really
want the Wi-Fi to stay the away from you
you just sleep in a faraday cage the
whole time which if he was in a faraday
cage all the time that would be dope it
also does he know that the cameras he's
being filmed on are emitting all sorts
of electromagnetic radiation also does
he know that the sun is a thermonuclear
bomb that emits so much toxic
shit nothing scales up to it in our
actual world but he earlier recommended
to get a bunch of sunlight which is
shooting literal radiation at your body
it gives you a bunch of stuff like skin
cancer which if I was liver King I'd be
watching out for just kidding I don't
think he's actually red from a sunburn
that's just the abuse of trend balone
acetate that's what we in the industry
call a trend tan what do you recommend
to get cold Scott is cold one of the
principles yes the tenants yes
huh if you look around everyone's
wearing a jacket it's not that
complicated take off a jacket take off a
shirt what but it's cold outside you
dumb
asshole not all of us are on 400
micrograms of T4 youing liar drug using
piece of shit and look I used the most
effective muscle growth training app
ever
made get yours
now but everyone knows and I'm not
trying to lie to you motherfuckers about
it liver King was caught up in that
whole bullshit and I think he's still
digging his way out will help him dig in
reverse and then when you get really
cold and you're shivering you've done it
you've created the stimulus to create a
response to create an adaptation to be
stronger to be better because you did it
no motherucker you just get cold and
then if you're used to being cold a lot
you handle being cold better the result
of that is what exactly don't say stress
if you need more stress in your life
you're not working hard enough at your
job working hard enough in your
relationships and sure shit not working
hard enough in the gym all you got to do
is train really hard in the gym get
plenty steps eat generally healthy food
get plenty of sleep and rest have lots
of fun in your life and balance and
recovery and relaxation and human
relationships and you're fing golden
you're 99.999% of the way there to being
your best
self just taking off your clothes and
getting uncomfortably cold which he's
not by the way because he's talking at a
normal Pace he's not shivering also he
has visible veins which will disappear
when you're actually getting cold is
just just peaking bullshit it's just
make belief I can't believe we're doing
this on the channel
Scott sacrifice my body after this but
do it primally please with liver or
something all right folks if you're
having a good time in learning something
you could have an even better time in
quote unquote learn some more stuff if
you join our member section where you
get the full extended unrated edition of
liver King where probably I'll just say
more things involving ethnicity usually
at my own expense so if you like that
join our member section and you get tons
of other awesome informative videos
along from for that ride oh look all of
their clothes are manufactured and not
ancestral interesting do we normally go
on this date every Sunday to get cold
going on dates to get cold interesting
shrivel up the cock I love it time sech
now she looks like she's not having so
much fun calling me crazy you want
neurocognitive Health
neurocognitive someone's like hey do you
want cognitive Health you're like no
what the by itself what are you crazy
it's like just like a PL of mashed
potatoes with no meat like do you want
Neural Health like what are you nuts
next you're going to give me a hot dog
with no bun like what do you hold up
neurocognitive like oh well that's just
the kind of word salad that convinces me
to buy your stupid ancestral supplements
sir well G wiiz Mister I'll take five oh
boy get cold now we're dating in an icy
lake getting better growing expanding to
proportion of our love well technically
the most pertinent portion of your love
is getting contracted at this point I'm
sure you'll appreciate that joke but um
yeah I don't know whose idea this
was also this isn't a date this is a
photo shoot where you're doing this
vertical for Tik Tok so that you can get
likes and clicks and people buy
supplements and you get
rich what am I saying here's to the next
20 hey Queen hey
Scott this woman needs rescuing holy
shit she's like hi oh my God fucking
kill me
please I love you all
folks this is
wild I guess she's not in as much T3 as
he
is he's eating ice you
guys liver King is the definition of
like a bombastic charlatan scammer she's
just going to do anything crazy and
cookie to get your attention so you
click and like and send links to your
friends and go look at this guy he's
soing weird and one of your friends is a
dupe Mark and they're be like oh make
some good points I'll buy a supplements
and make him Rich so he can buy tens of
thousands of dollars of steroids every
month check out those emails that shit
is real by the way to make him look like
this so it's not all ancestral is it
turns out lying about these
things not such a good idea oh guys uh
he's coming to grips with the fact that
he lied he's apologizing and is's going
to do a clean slate let me tell you guys
something about well borderline
sociopaths like King they have no
problem lying after they've lied and
been exposed they do the same kind of
apology you'd expect from any decent
person and then they go on to do the
same general category of lying there is
no limit to that it's like a cheat mode
and a shooter video game where you just
don't run out of ammo people like liver
King can apologize 1,000 times and lie
1,000 and one times anyone of any remote
intelligence and enough of an incisive
ability to people over can do that I can
do that mostly because I'm Russian we
all can but at least I'm telling you
that's how it works liver King won't
tell you that's how it works cuz it his
business model liver King looks like
this still means he hasn't come off of
fucking shit those vials probably empty
ones that he just threw away he's got
more vials in the fridge and in the
fucking back compartment and that's just
going to be how it is tough Lessons
Learned didn't learn any fucking lessons
he learned zeroing lessons he's still
oning steroids look at his red vein
packs godamn it I had to step away from
two businesses I started from scratch
that just plain sucked as a family we
visited with the Mongolian Eagle Hunters
that wasn't just something he said and
I'm losing it I'm having a stroke right
Mongolian Eagle Hunters aren't Eagles
protected I guess not in Mongolia and
the modernday toltech tribe this brought
us closer together and bonded
spiritually Scott look at her
face do you see her eyes kind of mve Mo
side to side a little bit
there she needs help 19 years with my
queen we celebrated this year dude her
eyes bro holy shit this is intense I
wasn't ready for this kind of shit blink
twice I love you my
[Music]
queen holy
forced every time it seemingly all came
crumbling down was because I was a liar
and scamming people weird something
brighter has always been born in its
place closing out the year I got the
wind at my back the love in my heart and
the fireing energy in my soul to crush
every day to learn to grow to be better
wishing you and yours haters and all the
most dominant 2024 ever if you wish me
the most dominant 2024 ever it includes
you going out of business sarily walking
off to nowhere never being seen again
you don't want to wish me all the goals
that I want in a dominant 2024 I promise
you liver King
guys the liver king is not a real person
there is a borderline sociopath named
Brian Johnson I inclined to believe he
lives on a mega Ranch from his millions
and millions in Texas where he uses
steroids to look like he does and he
lifts weights to look like he does then
he makes tons of Tik Tok content to
convince Young Minds not like you you
guys are smart to buy his bullshit
supplements whatever the else he sells
so that he can make money and have
actual nice things like high-end
liquor and uh that's the reality of
social media today no worse than it ever
was but shit just bees like it is so I
wish you guys the skepticism and peace
of mind to be able to judge propositions
that he makes
accurately deflecting those that are
incorrect accepting those atively that
are correct and just beinging smart not
becoming a mark ass bitch to quote
Tupac I rate the liver King a scumbag
cocksucker out of 10 I've been Dr Mike
I'll see you guys next time all right
that was fun I
guess that video right there YouTube
thinks you should click on it and I
agree because it's probably one of our
videos and it'll make us more money
isn't money great especially when I
have't see you guys next time