watery problems this is a big deal
sometimes you're losing a ton of tissue
using tons of fat but the scale weight
isn't going down day after day sometimes
even week after week or it's barely
going down and you're suffering and
you're tired and hungry like how the
hell did I only lose 0.3 pounds this
last two weeks this is bullshit it is
bullshit but I actually lost a whole lot
more tissue in all likelihood what
happened is you're storing more and more
body water as time goes on a lot of
times this body water is stored just
under your skin mostly in the places
your fat used to be stored the same
problem areas in which you store fat so
for me it's like my love handles if I
have a lot a big water bloat going on
they look like I never lost any fat to
begin with this can be so devastating
psychologically it's easy to just quit
your diet and tons of people go through
this