okay what is going on everyone so in
this video what I want to do is go
through a bunch of topics that were
covered in last month's issue of mass
where I'd normally just pick one of
those topics and do a complete deep dive
on it in just one video on this video I
want to do something a little bit
different we're gonna go through the
whole issue over here together I'm gonna
share my thoughts on it and let you guys
know some of what would be covered in a
typical issue of mass so because I'm
gonna be covering a bunch of different
topics I'll have all the timestamps down
below I'm just gonna go at my own pace
here we're gonna work through this issue
together so I don't want to start with
over here is this our PE and RI are
complete guide our PE is something I've
talked about a lot here on the channel
and it's something that I use in my
training programs but I don't think I've
ever done it full justice in a video
really describing exactly what it means
and how you sure to apply it and the
same thing goes for our IR I still get
asked what these concepts are all about
I'm so very briefly just so everybody is
on the same page here our PE stands for
rating of perceived exertion so it's
basically a subjective measure of how
hard it feels like you're working and
our IR stands for reps in reserve so
it's kind of like the inverse of our PE
if you took a set completely to failure
you hit that tenth rep and you can't get
another one that would be zero reps in
reserve if instead you stopped at rep
nine that would mean you had one rep in
reserve or one rep left in the tank so
in this article doctors or dos goes
through all the different applications
of our PE and you'll see that it's not
quite as simple as a lot of people might
think now the most common use of our PE
is for simple load prescription so it
basically allows you to figure out what
weight you should use so if I told you
to do 3 sets of 10 on a bicep curl at an
RPE of 8 that would give you some idea
of how heavy the weight needs to be in
order to have you in that right effort
or exertion zone and that's how most
people use it but that's far from the
only way it can be used now before we
dig into the application I do want to do
a really brief history here because I
think it's actually really interesting
so the RPE scale has actually been
around since the 1970s and
it originated in endurance sports with
aerobic exercise applications and
originally it was set up on a our PE
score that ranked from 6 to 20 now that
might seem totally random but the reason
it was set up like that is because a
rating of 6 would correspond to a heart
rate of 60 beats per minute and a rating
of 20 would respond to a heart rate of
200 beats per minute so that would be
like the hardest cardio you could
imagine down here and this would be like
very very light aerobic exercise up here
in the time between then and now a lot
of people have helped develop it for
resistance training but I think that the
way most people use it today in the
fitness community can probably be
credited to Mike Teixeira who is a
powerlifting coach and he was kind of
the first guy to use reps in reserve
descriptors to set up our PE so just
looking at table 3 down here this is how
it would in fact be set up so in our PE
of 10 like we said that would be maximal
effort so couldn't have gotten another
rep rp9 would mean you've got one rep in
the tank now our p 9.5 is kind of
interesting though sometimes hear people
say this and it doesn't mean that excuse
me it doesn't mean that you could have
gotten an extra half a rep what it
really means is you wouldn't have any
reps in reserve but you probably could
have done a little bit more weight so
the same reps with a little more weight
and then when you get down in like this
eight seven six
zone it's a little bit more of a gray
area generally meaning like you've got a
couple reps left in the tank maybe two
or three reps and left in the tank
something like that so I want to dig
into a few different ways that you can
implement RPE the main point of our PE
to begin with is to be used as a form of
autoregulation
so basically what this means is rather
than you know a coach telling you you
need to go in and do three sets of eight
on the bench press with 225 pounds
instead he would say you know do three
sets of eight on the bench press - and
RPE of eight and then you would choose
the weight based on how you're feeling
that day so with RPE on days that you
feel good you have that freedom to go
heavier and on days that you don't feel
good you can go a little bit lighter and
this has been shown in the literature to
increase strength gains over time when
compared to a more fixed approach let's
actually just go back to this table real
quick for context because I know a lot
of people in my effective reps video and
in some other videos are under the
impression that you should just always
go to failure like you need to train as
hard as possible all the time and then
in that case RPE would kind of be
obsolete because you would just always
train at an RP 10 but we know for many
reasons and I've covered this on a
channel a lot that because you can get
similar hypertrophy as long as you're in
this zone of let's say RP 7 2 RP 10 it
makes sense in most contexts to be
leaving some reps in the tank if you're
going all the way to failure you're not
getting much more hypertrophy but you're
creating a lot more fatigue and then
that imposes more limitations on your
ability to recover so that's kind of the
conceptual basis behind it apart from
the auto regulation part let's look at
this table here table number 4 and this
is an example of what a about a four
month training program would look like
using RPE
so over here you'd be training three
days per week so this would only be for
say one exercise so let's say you're
really trying to get your bench press up
you'd hit the bench press on say Monday
Wednesday and Friday and then this would
be the first month or so this would be
the second month third month and fourth
month so you can see here in the first
month we're doing quite a lot of volume
work so three sets of ten forced it to
eight even on the strength day it's
still a really high volume day five sets
of six but the RPE is quite low so only
a five to seven RPE for this month then
in the next month you can see the volume
is a bit lower so we've slashed about
two reps from every set on each training
day but now the RPE is a bit higher so
you're exerting yourself a little bit
harder but the volume has dropped down a
bit in the third month kind of the same
thing volume is lower again rep count is
lower means the weights are heavier and
you're also pushing yourself a little
bit closer to failure so working out
about a seven to nine RPE here and then
in the fourth month this is what I would
call something like a powerlifting
peaking block basically you can see even
on the highest volume day you're still
pretty much doing pure strength work and
then some triples on the second day and
then you're doing heavy singles at an
RPE of 9.5
so a very high exertion level on the
third day in this block which is going
to get you very acclimated to lifting
very heavy loads and so this would be an
example of using an auto regulated model
to prescribe load over an entire macro
cycle and it uses basically a simple
linear progression or a linear
periodization scheme where volume is
coming down as the intensity and the
load is going up another interesting
thing that they talk about here is how
to adjust a load if you miss that RPE so
this is something I get asked a lot from
my programs let's say you go in you're
gonna do three sets of eight at an RPE
of six to eight right so you're leaving
two three maybe four reps in the tank on
every set so you load some weight up
that you expect what have you in that
RPE zone but as it turns out it's
actually way too light well in that case
for your next set you would want to
increase the load based on this table
over here so if your actual RPE was like
a four you'd want to increase the load
by eight percent
now obviously you don't need to monitor
it to that level of specificity unless
maybe you're like a competitive power
lifter or something the general idea is
that if the RPE was too low increased
the weight for the next set if it was
too high you decrease the weight for the
next set according to these metrics over
here and if you were in the right target
zone so if it actually was in the right
zone RPE six to eight say then it would
be the lifters choice so if it was
towards say the lower end of that range
you might want to add a little bit of
weight if it was a little bit high you
might want to drop it back a bit or just
keep the weight the same and see what
happens so that's an interesting table
and that came from a paper from Eric
Helms okay so I'm not gonna go into a
lot of detail on this part basically
Auto regulating volume so a lot of
people think of RPE as a way to auto
regulate the load you can also use it to
auto regulate volume and a couple
interesting ways the first way is to
determine the number of reps that you do
in a set that's one that I've used a bit
myself and we'll talk about that and the
other way is the number of sets in a
session for a specific exercise so we'll
look at this really quickly in this
table six here so yeah the first one is
auto regulating the number of reps in a
set so for this you would basically
choose how many sets you're going to do
for a specific exercise so let's say
four sets on squats
you would go with 70% of your one rep
max so let's say that comes out to be
three 315 pounds you wouldn't have a
target rep count you would simply stop
each set once you've hit an RPE of six
to eight so you know the load you're
using you know the exercise you're using
you know the number of sets you're gonna
do and you just leave the reps to be
auto regulated by the RPE this is
actually how Eric Helms trained when I
trained with him in Australia I'll link
that video down below for all of his
exercises as far as I can remember he
didn't actually have a set rep count so
he would never say oh I'm gonna do three
sets of ten on this he would say I'm
gonna do three sets at an RPE eight
which means whether he got to ten reps
or he got to six reps or he got to 14
reps whatever it may be he would just
stop once he hit that RPE and this is
really nice because a lot of the times
people will just hit their target rep
count and then stop and they might not
be anywhere near close to failure or
they might be killing themselves just to
reach that rep count when most often in
training programs the rep count is kind
of arbitrary like it's meant to just get
you in the general ballpark to start
working on any given adaptation
so using RPE to regulate it makes
perfect sense the other way that you can
use this is auto right regulating the
total number of sets in this case you
would choose the exercise you choose the
amount of weight and you would know the
number of reps and then you would just
keep doing sets until you reached your
target RPE for that day so for example
let's say you do your first set of
squats and you hit an rp7 you're like
yeah I could have got like three more
reps on that set you do another set
maybe on this set you reach RPE seven
and a half or something next set RPE
eight you would cap it once you reach
that RPE of eight assuming that was
where you wanted to stop now for some
people especially women who can just
tolerate a ton of volume this could
probably get carried away so you could I
don't know put some weight on the bar do
12 13 14 sets and still feel like your
RPE hasn't hit that upper threshold so
it's probably a good idea to put some
kind of cap on the number of sets so
that your volume doesn't get out of
and I'm so generally speaking you'll
probably want a volume cap of like five
or six sets for a given exercise but
this is a cool way to auto regulate
volume and it's something I feel like a
lot of people haven't considered in
terms of applications of our PE there's
a bunch of other stuff here in the
article if you guys would like to check
it out if you're subscribed I'm not
going to go into a lot of detail on the
rest pause stuff here there's also ways
to track progress and predict your one
rep max different progression schemes
you can use with RPE you can set up a
flexible template based off of your
warm-ups using RPE that's fairly
straightforward and one thing that
actually wasn't mentioned in the article
that I use in my programs is having the
training track last set RPE this was an
idea I got from Bryce Lewis years ago
from an interview we did and basically
the idea is after you finish your last
set write down what the RPE in fact was
for that set and then the next week you
can refer back to it and say okay this
wait for this much for this many reps
gave me a nine-hour PE last week you
might do that again the next week but
the last set felt easier it was only an
8 RPE so that's an indication that your
strength has improved and maybe now next
week it's time to increase the weight
and that can give you all kinds of
useful feedback as a coach and as an
athlete so tracking that last set RPE I
think is a good tool as well alright so
that is the RPE article it's so much
information in there I thought it was
fantastic up next I want to talk about
this piece from Greg knuckles on multi
joint versus single joint exercises for
the biceps this was a study from Munro
and colleagues and it was another one of
those studies that compared multi joint
compound exercises to single joint
isolation exercises now this type of
research in general I think is trying to
figure out if we need to do isolation
work or if we just stick to the basic
compound stuff will that be enough to
maximize hypertrophy of all the
musculature so I can see this having
application for people who say don't
have a lot of time to spend in the gym
and they want to find the most efficient
training program that's going to give
them their best bang for their buck when
it comes to size and strength it would
be good to know if you could you know
your biceps well with just doing rows
just doing pull-ups or pull downs or
what have you or if you actually need to
bother going through the effort of doing
curls as well so that was exactly what
this study looked at they compared doing
just dumbbell rows to doing just bicep
curls I'm so the study design I'm gonna
just briefly go through this it was
actually really interesting so they did
eight weeks of either biceps curl on its
own or a dumbbell row on its own however
it used a within-subject unilateral
design so what this means is each
subject acted as their own control by
doing only dumbbell curls on one arm and
doing only dumbbell rows on the other
arm and then they would just measure the
differences in biceps hypertrophy
between the two arms this is a really
good study design and exercise science
literature because let's say you were to
split these ten subjects up into two
different groups there could be some
muscular freak of nature in one of the
groups that really drags the group
average up for that condition and it
could really skew the results especially
with the low sample size like this so
the within subject design is a stronger
way to put a study like this together so
they also actually measured strength
here so let's take a quick look at that
here in figure 1 & 2 so figure 1 this
was looking at dumbbell row strength
nothing too surprising here doing the
multi joint compound movements of the
row led to more strength increase on the
row doing a bicep curl didn't really
increase strength on the row as you
pretty much expect similarly doing bicep
curls made you stronger at bicep curls
doing bicep curls didn't make you
stronger at doing rows that's what you'd
expect strength is generally very
specific so if you want to get better at
the benchpress you need to benchpress if
you want to get a stronger curl you need
to curl that's that's the way it tends
to work it's like any skill you want to
get better at it you should practice it
more often provided you're practicing it
with with good technique one interesting
thing though about the the strength
findings is that there wasn't much of an
observed cross education effect so this
refers to something that's been seen
quite a bit in the literature where if
you only train one arm or one limb the
other limb will still see a strength
benef
up to 40% as large as the trained limb
so maybe in this case doing dumbbell
rows you'd expect to see about maybe 40%
of an increase on the arm that didn't do
rows simply due to the Cross Education
effect I don't know why that would be
not observed in this study but I thought
it was an interesting point here okay so
the the size results in figure 3 pretty
clear that doing single joint movements
led to more biceps hypertrophy than just
doing the multi joint movement so
clearly just doing dumbbell rows wasn't
enough to grow the biceps on its own and
I think that this does add to the idea
that if you want to maximize biceps
hypertrophy it really is important to
isolate the biceps especially past the
beginner level now I think it's worth
saying that there was this study from
gentle and colleagues that found that
pull-downs so doing lat pull-downs did
result in similar biceps hypertrophy to
doing biceps curls so it could be the
case that for beginners the study was
that beginners hold-downs are better at
building the biceps than dumbbell rows
are and there could be a few reasons for
this so just in general when you're
looking at whether or not a compound
lift is going to carry over well to an
assistance muscle I think that there are
a few things you want to consider the
first is well the first is range of
motion but we're gonna look at whether
or not it's likely to limit performance
on that exercise so with the pulldown it
seems more likely to me that the biceps
could be the limiting factor especially
in beginners people have a tendency to
want to pull with their arms more than
with their lats so it could be the case
that people were fatiguing on these pull
downs because their biceps were giving
out and then obviously you'd expect to
see similar biceps hypertrophy to a
group doing biceps curls whereas with
the dumbbell row the way the lift is set
up by mechanically it's much more likely
that the lats will be the limiting
factor so your lats are almost always
going to fatigue before your biceps will
on a row so that could be why the nun
Bell Row isn't as good of a biceps
builder as a pulldown would be for
beginners
another consideration is the range of
motion for the exercise just looking at
another example with the benchpress be a
good enough exercise to maximize triceps
development maybe but I would say it
probably at least depends on your grip
width so if you're gonna go with a very
wide grip the amount of elbow extension
range of motion is going to be very
small whereas if you go with a closer
grip obviously you're taking your elbow
through a much larger range of motion
the triceps are going to be targeted to
a greater degree another interesting
thing about the triceps is that there
are an example of a bi articular muscle
at least the long head of the triceps is
and when it comes to by articular
muscles they act on two joints so in the
piece Greg kind of mentions that when it
comes to these bi articular muscles it's
a good idea to use isolation or
isolation type exercises that target
both functions of that muscle so just
going with the triceps for example it
trains both elbow extension and shoulder
extension so doing some kind of pullover
based movement with also tricep
extension included would make sense and
this is why if you've seen my technique
Tuesday video I recommend doing skull
crushers with the arms more back
overhead because you can get that slight
bit of pull over shoulder extension
action and get the the long head of the
triceps more involved that way and the
same thing goes for the hamstrings they
cross both the hip joint and the knee
joint so just doing let's say squats for
example would be terrible for the
hamstrings for reasons I've talked about
in other videos you want a directly
trained hip extension and knee flexion
which means you want to include a leg
curl and some kind of hip hinge hip
extension based movement like a Romanian
deadlift so those are all the
considerations there as far as the
original question for the this paper do
multi joint exercises cause as much
hypertrophy as single joint exercise
like Greg says here it may not be that
much of a useful question in practice
you'd probably want to combine exercises
especially in these instances but if you
are looking to set up the most efficient
routine possible there are some can
iterations when it comes to you know how
much of a range of motion is involved
how likely is that exercise to limit
performance on that muscle and is the
muscle by articular muscle for the
record the main by articular muscles
that you'd be concerned with from a
physique perspective would be the long
head of the triceps the hamstrings and
the rectus femoris of the quadriceps and
that's something I'm going to talk about
in my next technique Tuesday video on
training the quads so you guys can stay
tuned for that all right what do we got
next all right so next I want to go
through this piece from Eric Helms
called the pop chart problem processed
foods and overeating so this was a
summary of a really cool paper from
Kevin halls group looking at the
difference between processed foods and
non processed foods or minimally
processed foods so I'm not gonna go
through this whole thing in that much
detail there's so much to this study I
would need at least one full video so
I'm just gonna go through the main
takeaways here basically in a metabolic
Ward which makes the study very
controlled 20 adults were presented with
diets consisting of either unprocessed
or ultra pop processed foods and those
foods were matched for calories sugar
fat macro nutrients and fiber for two
weeks and the participants were told
they can they could consume as much as
they wanted of each diet so basically
the diets were very similar except for
the fact that one was processed and one
wasn't and if the subjects just so chose
to eat everything that was put in front
of them they would have eaten about 3900
or about 4000 calories in both groups so
the subjects were basically told they
could just stop eating whenever they
felt like stopping eating basically but
if they all if they all the subjects eat
everything they would have eaten about
4000 calories so basically what the
study found was that the subjects eating
the processed food diet ended up eating
about 500 calories more per day which is
really significant and the reason for
this pretty straightforward processed
foods are consumed in excess because
they're eaten faster they suppress
appetite less and they require more
energy beak
assumed to achieve a similar amount of
protein intake as compared to
unprocessed foods so the protein intake
thing is probably a really big factor of
this later in the article Eric talks
about protein leverage theory which is
pretty much the idea that in order to
feel fully satiated or to sufficiently
blunt your hunger after a given meal you
need to reach a certain threshold of
protein and because very highly
processed foods tend to be lower in
protein per calorie you have to eat more
calories of them in order to reach that
protein threshold now I think that this
study has its most of its application in
the discussion between people who are
flexible dieters who really you know
track their macros and argue that as
long as you hit the macros it doesn't
really matter where the macros are
coming from or what foods you eat
whereas on the other side you have
people saying well you have to eat clean
in order to lose weight and I think that
the truth isn't really found on either
extreme in this case and I think that
where it's useful is in the reality that
tracking should be a temporary thing
like unless you have a specific goal
that you're shooting for whether that
being a competition or a photo shoot
vacation fat loss for summer whatever
the case may be most people won't be
tracking forever he says in the piece
and 99% of people aren't gonna track
macros for the rest of their lives
so knowing that a unprocessed diet makes
fat loss so much easier as it allows you
to eat fewer calories can be a good
guiding tool for people who aren't
tracking obviously now where that advice
that as long as you hit the macros
you'll achieve good fat loss could have
merit would be if you're talking to
someone who is actually afraid of
processed foods in that case you know
you could let that person know if they
have a Snickers bar occasionally it's
not going to derail their process
they're still going to be healthy
everything will be perfectly fine
but outside of that context it's not
really all that useful especially if you
plan to get away from tracking every
macro very specifically so kind
to conclude Eric said the good news is
that unprocessed diets Rock they result
in effortless fat loss eating a whole
food diet for the average person is
gonna result in higher levels of satiety
less hunger and a lower energy intake
leading to more fat loss and if you
aren't sure what that kind of diet looks
like I just want to thank lots of fruits
vegetables lean proteins and in general
a diet dominated by single ingredient
foods so this is a cool paper I thought
that was that was really interesting
after that we're gonna quickly go
through this piece on alcohol from air
Trexler so Eric was recently is not Eric
Helms as a different Eric he was
recently added to the mast panel and
I've been enjoying his write-ups as well
he had this beautiful quote here the
thought of choosing between gains and
alcohol is a troubling dilemma so he
sought to answer that question in this
piece so basically I did another video
on alcohol consumption and how it
affects gains and everything related to
it
so I'll link that down below gonna go
through this really quickly what I found
surprising here was that there wasn't
you know in this study which was a
meta-analysis numatic review they found
no meaningful effect on pretty heavy
alcohol consumption so about eight
standard drinks for an 80 kilogram
person when it comes to recovery from
resistance exercise but when I looked
into this deeper it seemed like the
recovery measures to me were not
necessarily how we might always think of
recovery from a training perspective
like they measured isokinetic strength
levels they looked at creatine kinase
levels which is a marker of muscle
damage and counter-movement
jump performance kind of these athletic
measures that may not necessarily
translate to the way bodybuilders would
train I can speak from my personal and
coaching experience that if I have a
heavy drinking episode like eight
standard drinks I'm dehydrated the next
day I'm lethargic my sleep was terrible
and my performance is inevitably worse
to the point that I usually recommend
just taking the day off
rehydrating filling glycogen back up and
then getting back to training the next
day so I think the context matters and I
believe it was found
that the impact on recovery did depend
on how much you actually drank which
you'd expect and there was also a sex
specific effect so heavy drinking seems
to affect men much worse than it does
women and that's true both of recovery
and of its effect on muscle protein
synthesis I'm so I covered in that other
video that alcohol consumption does
blunt muscle protein synthesis and it
does so to the point that even consuming
extra protein isn't able to fully rescue
that decrease in muscle protein
synthesis so even if you eat protein
along with the alcohol it's not able to
rescue that decrease in MPs however that
effect is much more prominent in men
than in women and that's probably
because estrogen seems to have some kind
of protective effect on those mechanisms
and on recovery so that is an
interesting caveat there women can
probably get wasted and perform better
and not have their muscle gains
inhibited as much as men would but all
in all despite that interesting finding
on recovery heavy alcohol intake is
still really bad for pretty much
everything we care about as people
concerned with physique and strength it
has unfavorable effects on protein
synthesis it really negatively impacts
sleep quality I think this is a really
big one because a lot of people will
notice that they may fall asleep faster
when they're drunk but this the actual
quality and the duration of the sleep is
significantly worse and so that's
actually really bad for recovery it's
also been shown to at least in one study
increased testosterone acutely or over a
very short timeframe but over a longer
time scale and add heavier doses it
really decreases testosterone which is
probably bad for an app ilysm so in
general consistent intake of high doses
of alcohol is a bad move for those who
want to optimize health body composition
or performance so I definitely recommend
using alcohol in moderation now by the
same token having the occasional
drink glass of wine bottle of beer isn't
going to derail your progress in any way
I think that that's fine and if you are
someone who tracks
crows you can fit it into your macros
the thing is is the more inebriated you
get the more your inhibitions tend to be
lowered and so you're more likely to go
on some kind of binge and then other
research has found that that usually
isn't compensated for later so when you
drink go out and have a binge you
usually don't make up for it by eating
less the next day so that's just usually
ends up being stored as fat or glycogen
in the best case so alcohol alcohol is
bad when it comes to body composition
for the most part and you should
definitely use it in moderation all
right if you guys have stuck around this
long I'm impressed
it's the first time I've done a video
like this so let me know what you think
I could have easily split this up into
like six different videos but I thought
it would be cool to kind of just like go
through one issue with you guys okay
next piece has to do with the whole
muscle confusion phenomenon so a lot of
people especially bodybuilders seem to
be under the impression that you need to
constantly be switching things up in the
gym in order to make continued progress
Arnold really talked about this and a
lot of body builders over the years have
made a big deal out of muscle confusion
like you need to keep your muscle always
guessing in order to force it to respond
and adapt and grow and it does make
intuitive sense but there's just no
backing for it whatsoever in the
literature at least on a short-term
timescale so what this study did
basically they use the same unilateral
design the within-subject unilateral
design as the second piece that we
discussed so one leg did unilateral leg
extensions and unilateral leg press and
just kept everything the same so they
did the exact same training program over
the course of the duration of the study
over the course of eight weeks so
basically one leg did the exact same
workout for eight weeks the other leg
switched a bunch of variables up so they
would have adjusted the load they just
did the rest periods even adjusted the
number of sets and what they found was
the exact same leg growth between both
legs so it didn't make any difference if
you switch things up a lot or if you
kept it exactly the same and that isn't
really surprising to me we don't know
we what it is that causes a muscle to
grow but we do know that progressive
tension is really important so you can
keep everything the same as long as
there's a progressive overloading
stimulus in place then the muscle will
grow and it doesn't really seem to
matter if you're switching all these
variables up now by the same token it
also doesn't matter if you do prefer to
vary things more frequently for example
I find training gets boring if I just
keep all the exercises and all the reps
and everything the same all the time
even though it might be good for
progressive overload this study shows
that it also doesn't matter if you
switch things up more frequently as long
as you can have some kind of progressive
tension stimulus in place it's okay to
switch things in and out if that makes
training more enjoyable for your
specific personality type one caveat
here I would say is that if you have
been training with a simp like a very
similar training style for a really long
time like with the exact same approach
introducing something novel is likely to
elicit new hypertrophy this was found in
other research from a group of power
lifters who basically were doing like a
lot of really heavy low rep work for a
long period of time once they started
throwing like 20-plus reps at them they
started to grow much better so I think
this lends some support to the idea that
you can block out your training over a
longer time scale to focus on a specific
adaptation in each block or doing
something slightly different from block
to block so that your attention is
focused on the short-term you're not
just constantly switching everything up
but over the long term you start to vary
things to continue driving progress
forward and I think that ultimately a
lot of the research on periodization
does come down to periodic alteration in
training variables so I would vary
things over a longer time scale so say
from training block to training block
rather than from workout to workout so
hopefully that makes sense I think that
that data was was pretty cool I think
this is the last thing we're going to
touch so okay sodium bicarbonate
supplementation don't know if you guys
have heard much about it at
might have some legitimacy so sodium
bicarb is just baking soda and the basic
idea is that if you supplement it
because it's so chemically basic it'll
help buffer the acid buildup that you
see in muscle as it starts to fatigue
and accumulate metabolic byproducts so
in this study here which was a
systematic review of 35 studies found
that 66 percent of the studies which is
pretty good showed some performance
improvement from sodium bicarbonate
however it's mostly been used in
endurance contexts so only one of those
studies was on resistance training in
the piece doctors or dose concludes that
to benefit from baking soda
supplementation it seems that high
volume training sessions with short
intervals are necessary so if you have a
really high volume block of training
with really high rep stuff for example
or even a single workout it might not be
a bad idea to supplement with baking
soda that might improve your time to
fatigue and maybe the the volume for
that session however a big caveat here
is that it does tend to cause a lot of
gastrointestinal distress as you'd
imagine especially at the recommended
dose so down here at the bottom he
recommends a 0.3 milligram per kilogram
dose so if you are gonna try it he
suggests splitting that up into three
separate doses and even if you do that
it might not be a bad idea to do it on a
non training day first just to see how
you respond to it definitely wouldn't
put it in the same category as creatine
or caffeine or even whey protein in my
opinion but it could have some merit
take in 60 minutes prior to training in
terms of buffering those protons from
that muscle fatigue so there's that oh
and there's this piece on intermittent
fasting so I'm not gonna go into any
detail about this I thought it was
really great though I've done another
video on intermittent fasting personally
I'm not a big fan of intermittent
fasting as a way to maximize the
anabolic response to feeding over a
24-hour period I think there is enough
mechanistic research to suggest that
splitting your protein intake out more
evenly is probably a more optimal way to
split it up but still there are so many
examples now
people in the real world who practice
intermittent fasting and who are really
jacked like it doesn't seem to be
holding them back in any way but what I
would say is if you are gonna use
intermittent fasting I would try to keep
that eating window from getting too
confined
so here Eric suggests feeding with an 8
hour eating window is a suitable
strategy for lifters and he says there's
no adverse effects as long as total
daily protein intake is high enough and
training occurs in the fed state if
you're gonna do intermittent fasting
since it can be a useful tool for
adherence you can reduce hunger and
people find it's just a way for them to
eat that's more convenient it seems to
be ok but I would try to keep that
feeding window a little bit more open
try to train in the fed state pay a
little bit more attention to your parry
workout nutrition and definitely make
sure that your total daily protein
intake is high enough ok and then the
last article I told you guys there's a
lot of information for issue so this
last article was one that I covered in
my effective reps video very briefly on
growing more by avoiding failure so this
was another study that kind of lends
credence to the idea of using RPE to
manage your fatigue as going to failure
all the time does actually seem to
inhibit growth at least according to
this study so if you guys want to have a
read through that I'll have the link to
mass down below if you guys would like
to subscribe and I think I'm gonna leave
it there for this one mass is running a
2-day sale today and tomorrow so they do
this for the first two days of every
month if you guys would like to check it
out I'll have that link down below and
if you guys decide that you're gonna
subscribe later in the month or next
month or what-have-you
make sure you go through Jeff nipper
calm go over to the affiliate tab and
then click the mass link over there that
way you can support me in the work I'm
doing here on the channel while taking
your knowledge game a couple of notches
so that's it for this one guys thank you
so much for watching if you made it this
far don't forget to leave me a thumbs up
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one