bad news for you today what can you do
about
this hey folks Dr Mike here with
Renaissance periodization and today's
video is telling you something a little
bit depressing but for a good reason so
it could be more of a realistic approach
for you and actually make you happier in
the end it is to try to get you to plan
to gain less and less muscle with each
progressive muscle gain phase that you
do through your hypertrophy career what
why would we try to gain less muscle
sounds defeatist sounds pessimistic aha
but I think it's realistic here's the
deal when you first start to gain muscle
when you first start training muscle
gains are rapid for almost everyone Noob
gains we've got videos about that as
well if you uh want to peruse the
internet if you just do sort of your own
thing for like a year or two and then
you start to maybe tune into to our
Channel many others like it and you
learn some Sport Science you can
actually keep those noobs gain basically
going for like another one or two years
for a few years you can make essentially
linear gains and that spoils you because
then you kind of assume based on
seemingly good evidence from your own
experience thus far that you're just
going to keep making linear gains
forever
but gains must slow down in the end
gains are asymptotic they approach
a not very easy to Define but
understandable theoretically line and
get ever closer to it without coming all
the way up to
it why why lifting Gods you may rage
during a thunderstorm don't do it
outside in a mountain or you will get
struck with lightning also random
Insight if you guys are on the Netflix
there is a television show from Norway
called
Ragnarok they say it differently it's
like ROK or some shit like that they say
it better than us they're the Elven
peoples and it's fucking sweet and then
that guy standing on uh he's like I'm
not going to spoil it but the gods are
involved anyway go watch that show but
before you do tune in real quick here we
go why do gains slow down over time why
inevitably after at least a few years of
training we start to gain a little bit
slower and a little bit slower and a
little bit slower over time here's the
deal
first you are trying to fix repair after
training damage and
feed with ever bigger
muscles but an Ever roughly the same
capacity with which to do it which means
what your gastrointestinal tract and
your general power of your circulatory
system is roughly the same but your
muscles are getting bigger and bigger
and bigger that's like trying to haul a
heavier and heavier load with the same
engine or more accurately trying to
clean an ever expanding house with the
same cleaner person you got a cleaner
girl that comes to your house and cleans
your house three bedrooms you us to do a
tech startup and you get $110 million as
a buyout and you add two more bedrooms
it's going to take her longer to clean
the house then you're like you know what
I'm not really living up to my new tech
money you get an indoor pool and a
tennis court also indoors and um flight
hanger for your vertical takeoff
modified SR71 Blackbird because you've
seen the you know X-Men a few too many
times you know I don't know if that
cleaning lady is qualified to clean a
blackbird but if she is hey that's going
to take her a whole lot more so there as
your muscles get bigger the rest of your
body systems designed to fix them and
feed them do scale up somewhat but
probably not as fast probably not as
fast as they otherwise would that
results in slower
gains
next next reason that you don't gain as
fast after a
while your muscle fibers are
cells and as they
grow their volume increases right how
much literal geometrical volume they
have goes up that's all the muscle
fibers in there and all the stuff that
the nutrients have to fix and everything
like that
but the way you absorb nutrients and
hormones and a variety of other things
and the way you expel
wastes only happens through dedicated
often gated channels and receptors that
lie on the cell
surface and the surface of a muscle cell
increases at a certain
rate that is lower than the volume
it's the same reason why elephants can't
jump around and move like
ants the volume of any given system like
a sphere increases when that sphere
grows much
faster than the surface area and so if
you're trying to get a lot of nutrients
to a muscle as it grows its volume goes
up a ton but its surface area relatively
only a little and that means the
delivery systems that are on that cell
surface that take the food and from
outside the muscle and put it into the
muscle they can't keep up and they slow
down relative to how much volume you
really need think about it this
way this is going to be a shit analogy
but here we go you have three
bridges into an Island
City the island city has a million
people living in it but the economy is
good relatively free markets with a
liberal
government and the city starts to expand
vertically CU it's an island usually the
buildings are one or two stories but
after a couple decades there are three
or four stories five or six stories and
then a bunch of
skyscrapers you got three Bridges going
in fucking hell every building is 10
stories you could have 10 times the
number of people 10 times the number of
goods and services to bring in 10 times
the number of commuters man those three
Bridges aren't real deep shit traffic
jams shortages you name it you can
absolutely build more bridges but the
place to build Bridges there may be 10
more points to build
Bridges but if the average skyscraper
height is you know some Singapore type
shit 100 stories you've multiplied your
population by 100 but your Bridge
transport throughput by 10 oh 10's way
better than fucking three used to be but
multiplying by 100 you just can't keep
up that absolutely happens in every kind
of cell in the body specifically muscle
cells
problem number
three there is a term related to this
called The myonuclear Domain
ceiling if you think about a cell as
having a nucleus and a few other organel
that help operate and upkeep every part
of the cell including its cell
surface as the cell grows in size that
cell surface gets really really far away
and all of a sudden the nucleus and all
the structures designed to maintain and
upkeep and grow and repair the cell are
trying to they're reaching really far to
do their tasks and at some point they
can't reach anymore and your body kind
of knows this through Evolution so it
will stop making your cells bigger past
a certain size or at the very least
really slow down their expansion which
is bullshit because you don't get as
jacked as you could have but it's great
because it keeps all of your muscles
functional and actually attached to
other your cells are attached to each
other everything is going great they're
healthy cells they work really well
because that nucleus can't get
overpowered probably a very good analogy
to this is if you have a city that has
one fire department one Sheriff's
Department One hospital in the city
center little
town and it grows out and out and out
great economic conditions it used to be
a city with like five square miles and
now it's a City with 25 square miles but
one fire department One hospital one
Sheriff's
Department here's the thing how the fuck
does one Sheriff's Department service a
city that's five times bigger and even
if you had a situation where you the
sheriff's department got a new building
new headquarters they hired five times
the number of deputies or whoever in the
sheriff people shoot people they're bad
criminals if you call the police
from way on the outskirts of the city
back when the city's small yeah 2
minutes later they're there shooting
criminals on
site turns out your cat was up a tree
and they just shoot you they like hey
you bam and you're dead but at least
they got there fast if the city's 10
times the size you could have a guy
pointing a gun at your face and you're
like yes yes Sheriff's Department I'll
hold yes there's a man threatening to
kill me 30 minutes yeah I can wait okay
see you guys when you get here go ahead
and just shoot me motherfucker they
ain't never getting here cuz not only
are their shit 30 minutes away but
there's 25 other people making the same
call at the same time cell signaling
cell messaging works in a very similar
way and your nucleus and all the
addended structures they just don't have
infinite reach there is not really too
many circumstances of functional body
cells that are still one cell that are
like the size of a whole fucking organ I
mean your muscles compos composed of
tons of cells millions and millions and
millions it's not just one cell now
there's the thing is like one cell in a
muscle one fiber absolutely has
basically the same contractile
properties as a whole muscle but why
don't your cell just grows because cells
have a myonuclear domain the domain that
the nucleus can control in a muscle cell
myonuclear domain has a ceiling it has a
top end the city that just gets 10 miles
big and you're like
look uh the city of isra telberg this as
big as it's going to get we need to have
different
municipalities the adjoining City people
who live over there far enough you live
in Scot the video guysville A deric
Place full of degenerates just projects
shootings in any case it just has to be
a different place with its own Police
Department whatever they probably
wouldn't even have one uh just
everyone's a gun owner cuz Scot the
video guy's a gun nut now you know that
and that's just what it's going to be
because it's just too far away to deal
with right
right that's the case which means that
any one given muscle cell that you have
will only grow so big when it grows to
its maximum size any further growth
stimulus causes these dormant mini
pathetic half-born weird baby cells next
to your cells called satellite cells the
scientist hits the fucking button and
it's like awake child muscle and it's
like you know like a little baby
Velociraptor like and he can already
bite your finger they get to Mega normal
size and then they reach their
bionuclear domain ceiling after some
number of months or years of growth and
then if they run out another satellite
cell is called in but that process has
limits too you can't just make new
satellite cells all the time that
process has its own ASM toote so not
only do you run out of room in your city
to get treat people with Medical Care
Etc but you run out of city building
resources and you just don't there's
just not that many people anymore right
if we all get so rich that we e each
have 400 mil square of land to ourselves
and the human population on Earth
stabilizes you know beyond some kind of
wacky insane technology it's almost
certainly going to be
coming nobody's coming to help you if
you get sick is you have to drive 20
fucking miles in the next hospital just
because you're so far away and the body
has those limits so not only does the
myonuclear domain ceiling become a
problem the satellite cell solution also
has limits as well that means your body
resists muscle growth more and more and
more or you can stimulate muscle growth
you get sore and everything and that
stimulus hits the nucleus and the
nucleus is
like nope can't grow anymore fuck you
you get sore you heal you get sore you
heal you get sore you heal you're eating
that whole time and dick all is
happening you just stay the same size
tragic pretty much exactly the position
that I'm in now at my career at age 38
but very
predictable Point number four there is a
ratio problem with receptors and
hormones
as your muscles get really big
potentially they get lots more receptors
for Androgen hormones the
myonuclear uh satellite cells that kind
of come from newborn status and evolve
into real cells themselves their nuclei
turn on those nuclei have Androgen
receptors for like
testosterone and there's now tons of
them but small problem your balls
testies to be
specific they only produce a certain
amount of
testosterone if you get twice your size
of muscle your muscles are now on
average exposed to half of the
testosterone that they normally would be
that fucking blows that means that all
the things being equal now your body has
a variety of compensatory mechanisms
testosterone is actually you know can
hit up uh more than enough of it to grow
a ton of muscle in there but it is
nonetheless a small reason why you can't
keep getting as big as you wanted
forever because your balls are the same
size and your muscles are twice as big
that's a small amount of ball to service
a bigger amount of
muscle one of the reasons why people
sometimes choose to take anabolic
steroids is because well shit we just
produce more hormone that way produce I
mean inject directly and then voila your
muscles are right as rain again you're a
newb all over again that process also
has limits of its own but another thing
just as a side tangent if you start
using anabolic drugs in your first
couple of years of training you're
fucking special kind of idiot because
your own balls would have hooked you up
with all that growth anyway if you wait
until you were an adult over the age of
25 in a country which is legal not
competing in a sport organization which
bans the use of these substances and
while doing it under medical supervision
if you already pretty fucking Jack
naturally your body's so fucking ready
for that shit that then it'll make much
more sense to do stuff like that so just
as a side
tangent this doesn't only apply to your
testies your pituitary doesn't fucking
grow growth hormon still the same tons
of other molecules that help you grow
including even estrogen roughly get
produced in the same amounts as your
muscles grow they need more but there's
not more around a very good analogy here
is like you have a town that's growing
but the fire department is just four
Dudes and one of them is always drunk
that's what you're going to get two
fires a day the boys will handle it
seven fires a
day somebody gonna
die number five very real world type
shit another limited to muscle growth is
that systemic fatigue from your training
starts to
grow if you want bigger legs and you're
small squatting up to 225 pounds for
reps and 225 pounds of load through your
spine and load for the rest of your
system to recover from over multiple
days will do the
trick if you are much more jacked that's
five plates on the bar 495 lounds of
spinal load and load through the whole
system because you're still made of the
same stuff like if you got twice as
strong and the
Very character of your bones the
composition of your bones went from like
regular bones to like Triceratops bones
or adamantium or some shit hey that
would be a level up like as our society
has grown for example we went from dirt
roads when it's not a long distance to
travel to like really well paved super
highways the very thing that makes the
road is different when you go from
squatting 225 to
495 this still fucking you're still a
fucking human being as much as it pains
me to say this now your bone density
absolutely goes up but the fatigue is
asymmetrically higher it's
asymptotically higher sorry good God uh
exponentially higher and it's just still
going to hit you harder the way you know
that in the real world is used to do 225
for reps and afterwards oh I'm tired
let's go to the buffet you eat you relax
you sleep two three days maybe not
straight and then you're like oh I'm
Healed this is great you squat 495 for
reps you're going to be fucking done
exhausted you may not be able to come
back Monday Wednesday Friday to do the
same you may only be able to hit up the
same workout sets and Reps wise not load
Monday Thursday you lost an entire
frequency of training for through a week
and if you're like well I still want
frequency you have to reduce the number
of sets and Reps or total
volume no surprise that you're growing
less you just can't recover as well
because there's more to recover from and
you are still as much as it pains me to
admit this a human so you have a few
choices one remain human two um get
upgraded slowly over the next 20 years
to Android status which is my uh ideal
or three wander into one of those like
basement Raves where there's clearly
vampire AC ity going on if you need an
exact visual reference Blade 2 which is
I considered a classic in cinema you
know that Vampire scene with this weird
techno music playing and the vampires
are like sexually eating each other or
whatever and just pick like the first
goth ho vampire and be like bitch bite
me up I'm trying to get jacked and then
it turns that the vampire string she
gives you doesn't make you jacked it
makes you immoral uh Immortal and just
pale as fucking skinny like Twilight
jokes on you bitch ah but you could be a
jack vampire that's another way to go
all right Point number
six your muscle cells your DNA has
internal
Governors limiters on how big you can
get one of them is the chemical pathway
known as myostatin myo means muscle
Statin means stop or block myo Statin
stops and blocks muscle growth in a dose
dependent matter the bigger you get the
more M Statin you produce why what a
fucking tragedy can't we just get bigger
forever ah we could turn off or turn
down Mouse Sten that would be cool
however your body has these mechanisms
for a reason if you want to Google
Belgian Blue Cow Scott the video guy if
you can throw up a picture of that that
would be
great um is this unbelievably jacked cow
you've never seen anything like it
unless you've seen it before it's got
It's the only cow with visible triceps
stried and hanging off the fucking boat
those cows the Belgian Blues have a
deformity in the myostatin Gene and it
makes the myostatin come out broken so
it doesn't do anything the cow is jacked
out of its fucking mind however those
cows are known to be not as strong as
regular cows even of a smaller size and
their muscles have all sort of um
deformities for lack of term the
contractile properties is weird they
cramp more it's just that if your
muscles get past a certain point cell by
cell by cell they start to malfunction
more your body designed you in the real
evolutionary landscape of functional
muscle it doesn't want you to just be
jacked for no reason even though that's
what we're doing now with our time
entire existence of this channel is
predicated upon it so your body is going
to turn down muscle growth if you get
too big by ramping up myostatin
production that's a real
thing and absolutely explains one of the
big reasons it is a huge part of what is
known as your genetic ceiling natural or
not myostatin and fost Statin and a
bunch of other chemicals like it make
sure to keep your muscle growth hand in
so that you don't just like grow muscle
until you pop or more realistically grow
muscle until you're a giant useless
musclebound piece of shit that can't do
anything in the real
world she was seems like it describes a
lot of us in any case that's one reason
why you sto growing so much lastly and
this is a bit of a minor point but
nonetheless annoying and very real
world your range of motion starts to
reduce as you get bigger and range of
motion especially at the Deep stretch
position is a very big potentiator of
muscle growth so for example for myself
I can't physically extend my triceps
more than what I'm showing you now if
you're watching this and if you're
listening just pretend I'm trying to do
a tricep extension because my bicep is
physically in the way everyone has this
problem to some extent but if you think
about someone like Nick Walker and you
look at him lifting and you're like
that's partial range and then you think
about it you're like no that's full
range for him he can't go any higher
there's physically something in the way
so if he wants some stretch mediated
tricep growth he's kind of shit out of
luck and to some extent much smaller
extent because my arms are way smaller
so my and the rest of you as you get
bigger your range of motion in some
exercises not all gets smaller it's
annoying it's definitely a thing it's a
minor thing but I figured I'd mention it
as well all right so that all kind of
blows dicks sorry bad news for you today
what can you do about
this what do you you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
[Music]
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now what can you
do with whatever you have to try to
address these things first keep learning
Sport Science to learn better tools and
tips and techniques for adding size for
example the systemic fatigue of
squatting 495 gets to be too much you
can use the pre-exhaust method and do
some leg presses first and then squat
only 315 paying a smaller fraction of
the systemic fatigue cost but getting
almost as much or as much muscle growth
as before we can use clever things we
learn in sport Science to keep the train
rolling at least faster than it would
otherwise roll it doesn't fight the ASM
toote directly but it definitely gives
you a boost second you don't necessarily
want to try to gain the same amount of
weight you do all the time
or if you do gain the same amount of
weight that's okay don't gain the same
amount of percent so for example if you
say I'm weigh 150 pounds I'm going to
gain 10% of my body weight that's going
to be 15 pounds I'm going to see you at
165 cool when you're at 165 and you want
to do another Mass gaining phase if you
do another 10% that's actually more
total weight but now you can gain less
muscle so a higher proportion of that
will be fat you have two choices at this
point one is to set a smaller goal it's
okay I got from 150 to 165 now I'm just
going to go from 165 to 170 then
eventually I'm going to go from 170 to
like 177 and then 177 to 185 and then
185 to 190 it slow it gets a little bit
lower every time your alternative method
is to do the same amount of weight gain
or even the same percentage you just
have to understand that you have to
sloth off more and more and more body
fat every time your gains will be more
disappointing you'll be more looking
more like Michelin man at the end of
your uh M muscle gain phases than uh
Chris Hemsworth from the recent CGI out
ofit mind Thor movie so that blows but
at the very least you have a realistic
understanding of look I'm not getting as
much muscle every time so at the very
least I can do is to set a slightly
smaller gain goal still set a goal still
have a surplus still gain weight but not
as much weight as before that's
something pretty reasonable next try to
add reps and load to your abilities
every week and the abilities to add will
ruce over time so you'll have to be more
conservative luckily the ratios take
care of this pretty well so here's how
this works when you're starting to go
from 100 pound in the deadlift to 150
you can add 5 pounds every week that's a
big fraction of 100 pound 5 pounds is
what 12th of 100 right when you're going
from 300 lb to 350 pounds much later in
your deadlift don't add 7 and a half or
10 PBS or whatever just well fuck man
I'm three times stronger shit I'm going
to add 15 lbs every time no no no no no
because your ability to adapt is less so
now the really cool thing here is you
just add five pounds to the here's a
really the cool kicker guys that are
squatting six s 800 lb should be and
usually are only adding five pounds to
the bar every week and you think fuck
really like you see a guy with seven
planes on the fucking squat bar and next
week it's seven plates and a two and a
half on each side you're like what if
what you just slap on another plate uh
uhuh motherfucker that's not how it
works another plate for him is so much
more than his capacity to become
stronger it's just a recipe for injury
probability or just crazy fatigue
escalation or just not being able to
catch up like well did eight reps last
week three reps this week thanks a lot
idiot now I can do eight plates I guess
but why so you have to just keep adding
the same amount of weight even a lower
weight go from 5 pounds to two and a
half whatever your body is capable of to
get you a multiple week progression if
you know that adding 15 pounds each time
gets you progress from one and a half
weeks and you fall off don't do do it
and and a lot of times people do this
and they become frustrated they're like
man the fuck bro I used to be able to
add 15b shut up right away get the fuck
out of my face what the fuck is used to
them times is gone motherfucker that
shit's just not it's not real reality
anymore you know I used to be able to
you know I used to be a a top pianist
maybe people don't know this about me um
and I used to be able to play any any
Sonata that I wanted uh just off memory
and uh
wow this is tough after the
crash I never could play
again but I don't ever think about that
stuff because it's in the past you see
I'm really psychologically with it right
so the shit you used to gain the gains
you used to make make the gains that are
realistic and if they're offensively
small go back to the first point in the
slide and do better Sport Science
they'll get a little bit better but then
they'll become offensively small it's
just you streaming to the top of your
abilities it is inevitable that gains
will slow down accept that reality and
realistically programmed for smaller
games you used to add a repetition every
time in the squad every week now you add
a rep every other week it's just a fact
of life if you ignore it your fatigue
will Skyrocket your probability of
injury will go up you're just slamming
yourself into a wall if you take it in
into heart into mind put it in your
programming you're just going to have
smooth programming and people are going
to be like why are you only lifting like
5 pounds the last week aren't you huge
be like yes but because I'm huge my body
is more resistant to growth and 5 pounds
is the only thing I can gain over time
and they're go oh that's really smart
are they're going to be like what are
you like what that's like a lot of
Science and you just walk away from them
don't even say anything
folks know your
limits and then knowing that don't get
depressed push the limits intelligently
with proper Sport Science and a shitload
of dedication and you're not going to
get the game you ideally want because
ideally we want to be just giant balloon
animal siiz people I think you are going
to get all the gains that you
realistically have got coming to you
that's the ticket and that's the whole
point of this channel folks thank you so
much for tuning in and we'll see you
next
time