all right in today's video we're going
to clear up some important supplement
misinformation to help you save time
money and effort so that you can get the
very most bang for your buck from your
supplement plan and just from your
overall fitness plan in general
supplements can be a really tricky
subject for most people because while
there are a select few ingredients that
can be beneficial in terms of optimizing
training performance body composition
and overall health the vast majority
probably at least 90 or more they really
are just straight up they use
unproven ingredients that aren't backed
by solid research even when legit
ingredients are used they tend to be
underdosed and used in lower quality
forms they're overhyped overpriced a lot
of times the labels aren't even accurate
and in some cases they can even be
straight up sketchy in terms of their
safety profile so this is an area where
you really need to do the proper
research first okay don't just take all
the flashy hyped up marketing at face
value because believe it or not most of
the companies selling these products do
not have your best interests at heart
it's really just about making money more
than anything else so let's go over
today's list of five overrated
supplements and this is definitely not a
complete list but i don't want this
video to drag on for three hours so
these are five of the major ones that
stand out all right in no specific order
here the first overrated supplement on
the list is beta alanine now some people
might be surprised by this one because
beta alanine is usually thought of as a
legit supplement and it is one of the
few compounds available that does have a
pretty solid amount of research behind
it showing measurable effects but for
most people who are doing standard
hypertrophy based weight training
workouts where gaining muscle is the
primary goal beta alanine probably isn't
going to do anything particularly
noticeable for you and that's because it
only has performance benefits on sets
that last at least 60 seconds it's more
of an endurance focused ingredient and
if you go ahead and time your sets
unless you're someone who regularly
trains in really high rep ranges chances
are that most if not all of your sets
are not going to be lasting that long
and then even if they do last that long
the actual benefit is going to be very
minor on top of that you also have to
deal with the beta alanine itch which is
that sort of pins and needles feeling
that you get on the surface of your skin
after you consume it which some people
enjoy
but i'd say most probably don't
personally i find it pretty annoying why
the does pre-workout make you so
 itchy bro bottom line here guys
if you do center your training around
very high rep ranges or you want to use
it for cardio sessions or you just enjoy
the feeling of a tingling scrotum during
your workouts then supplementing with
beta alanine could make sense but for
the vast majority of people you know the
typical gym bro who wants to gain muscle
and lose fat and is following a typical
hypertrophy style program beta alanine
probably just isn't worth it and one
other thing to keep in mind if you are
using it is that beta alanine doesn't
have any acute effects on workout
performance just like with creatine it's
something that you supplement with every
day and it gradually saturates your
muscles over time so if you're using a
typical pre-workout that has say two or
three grams of beta-alanine in it and
you're taking that maybe three to four
days per week then you're ultimately
going to be under dosing to get the full
benefits you're going to need to buy
pure beta alanine separately and take
that on your off days otherwise you're
just going to be paying for an extra
ingredient in your pre-workout that
really isn't going to be doing much for
you in the bigger picture all right
supplement number two is going to be any
form of creatine that is not creatine
monohydrate so one really common tactic
that's used in the supplement industry
and just fitness marketing in general
and even just marketing in general is to
create an imaginary problem in order to
sell you a solution to that imaginary
problem and the creatine space is a
prime example of this where companies
have taken creatine monohydrate which is
a high quality thoroughly
research-backed ingredient that is safe
and effective and affordable and then
just made up a bunch of lies about it so
that they can sell you their new and
improved form of creatine for multiple
times the cost uh you've got creatine
hydrochloride creatine nitrate buffered
creatine creatine ethyl ester
effervescent creatine creatine serum and
i'm sure there's going to be plenty more
to come in future years so you'll hear
claims like creatine monohydrate causes
bloating or cramping or that it isn't
fully absorbed or that it's dangerous
because it converts to the waste product
creatinine and that this advanced form
of creatine somehow solves all of that
in reality this is just a bunch of
horseshit monohydrate is extremely
bioavailable your body will absorb
nearly 100 of it it will fully saturate
your muscles with creatine and it's
never been shown to be unsafe or have
unwanted side effects in otherwise
healthy people so there really isn't
anything more you can ask for than that
and this is shown in the research as
well for example buffered creatine was
found to be no more effective than
creatine monohydrate creatine ethyl
ester is actually less absorbable and
converts to creatinine at a higher rate
creatine serum is also less effective
probably because the creatine breaks
down over time when it's put into liquid
form creatine hydrochloride is the only
one that's ever been shown to have any
specific benefit in the sense that it
does saturate your muscles with creatine
at a slightly lower dose compared to
creatine monohydrate but even when you
equate for the dose it still works out
to be more expensive anyway so at the
end of the day creatine monohydrate is
still king and there's just no good
reason to use any other form because
they're all going to be way more
expensive while being equally or less
effective just take three to five grams
of creatine monohydrate once per day at
any time mixed with whatever you want
and after two to three weeks of doing
that consistently you'll have all the
benefits that creatine supplementation
has to offer for as long as you continue
using it which is increased
intramuscular water volume and a slight
boost in lifting strength which can then
help to improve muscle growth over the
long term assuming you're on a properly
structured routine overrated supplement
number three on the list is going to be
any product that claims to increase
testosterone levels or growth hormone
levels now yes there are certain
compounds that technically can increase
testosterone or increase growth hormone
but you have to keep in mind that that
doesn't really mean anything on its own
what you have to ask is what kind of
increase are you getting and over what
time period is it actually high enough
and sustained for long enough to
measurably improve muscle growth or fat
loss the reality is that outside of
actual testosterone supplementation or
actual growth hormone supplementation
none of these over-the-counter
ingredients are going to do that for you
tribulus maca root d-aspartic acid long
jack at best you might get a small
libido increase from these sorts of
compounds but in terms of building
muscle it's just going to be a complete
waste of money and also keep in mind
that this whole concept applies to
training and nutrition as well not just
supplementation in other words you know
maybe you've heard that intermittent
fasting increases growth hormone and
that makes it superior for fat loss well
yeah you might get a small temporary
boost from that but it's not going to be
significant enough to directly influence
body composition or maybe you've heard
that squats and deadlifts increase
testosterone and so you'll build bigger
biceps by doing that but same deal there
you know it's a transient spike but it's
not powerful enough to where it's going
to increase total body muscle growth so
always remember that just because
someone tells you that technique x is
going to increase hormone y and
therefore you should do it it's really
not that simple
the only area where supplementation
could improve testosterone levels in a
meaningful way is if you're lacking in
certain micronutrients that play a role
in testosterone production so vitamin d
zinc magnesium those would be the
primary ones a pretty high percentage of
people don't get enough vitamin d in
general and then intense training can
deplete zinc and magnesium especially if
you're sweating a lot so depending on
how much direct sunlight you're getting
per day and what your diet is like that
could be something to pay attention to
and that's also why we included those
three as primary ingredients in our real
science athletics micro core product
which is essentially a bodybuilding and
fitness tailored micronutrient blend
that's actually our top selling product
at the moment and i'll link it up here
as well as down below in the description
box but again just keep in mind that
these ingredients are not testosterone
boosters that are going to send you up
into some kind of super physiological
range it's just about helping to
optimize your existing levels and keep
you in a healthy range when done in
combination with proper lifestyle
choices stress reduction sleep exercise
good nutrition etc if you're finding
this video helpful don't forget to
subscribe to the channel to stay in the
loop on future uploads and item number
four on the list is going to be weight
gain powders now these products might
seem appealing if you're naturally thin
and you're wanting to pack on overall
mass but keep in mind that number one
you don't even need a huge calorie
surplus to maximize muscle growth to
begin with a couple hundred calories
above maintenance is usually enough to
optimize your gains and dirty bulking
beyond that point is just going to
result in excessive fat gain trust me
i've been there and as you can very
clearly see that is not a road you want
to go down and then number two most of
these weight gain powders are really
just a basic mix of whey protein and
simple sugar usually maltodextrin so if
you have a smaller appetite and you're
having a harder time getting in all the
calories you need instead of running out
and buying a massive bag of mass gainer
5000 a much better tasting and healthier
choice is to just buy a high quality
protein powder on its own and then blend
in your own sources of carbohydrates and
fats back in my younger bodybuilding
obsessed days this was my standard
approach i remember making these massive
homemade weight gainers every day and
just drinking them straight from the
blender a good option is to use milk as
a base or coconut milk if you want to
boost the calories even further and then
you can mix in things like fruit oats
yogurt nut butters
seeds oils like flaxseed or olive oil
and if you still want to increase the
calories further you could toss in some
dark chocolate some avocado or even some
ice cream it's actually very easy to
condense a really high number of
calories down into a small volume if you
just choose the right ingredients and
that'll give you all the calories and
macronutrients you need to support
muscle growth plus the added vitamins
minerals
fiber and healthy fats that most weight
gainer supplements don't have now if
you're on the go and you just like the
convenience of a weight gain powder and
you're just using it to make up a
smaller percentage of your overall
calories for an easy extra boost then
ultimately that's fine but if possible
making your own homemade weight gainer
shake is gonna be the better choice all
right and lastly overrated supplement
number five is gonna be fat burners now
there are a limited number of compounds
out there that can have a minor effect
in helping you burn additional calories
but when it all comes down to it the
effects are going to be pretty modest
and i would say that most fat burners
are usually just way over hyped for what
they actually are which is typically
just an over glorified mix of various
stimulant compounds and really that's
what the primary benefit of most of
these fat burners is going to be if
there is going to be any benefit at all
it's not that you're literally burning
more fat as a direct result of these
ingredients it's more so just that when
you take in all of these different
stimulants you're going to feel more
upbeat and more energetic which can be
helpful during periods of calorie
restriction and it's also going to give
you an appetite suppressing effect as
well which can make maintaining a
calorie deficit a bit easier and there
are certain non-stimulant appetite
suppressants available as well which can
have a modest effect so rather than
calling them fat burners a more accurate
name would be something like calorie
deficit support agent or fat loss eight
you know to call it a fat burner it's
definitely a bit misleading and i really
don't think that ingesting and relying
on a stimulant cocktail every single day
over a long-term period i don't think
that's going to be a good idea so for
these types of products you know i
wouldn't rule them out completely but i
would say that they should only be used
by a smaller percentage of people who
can tolerate them well who understand
how they fit into the bigger picture and
who are only using them for temporary
phases and no matter what if you want to
achieve an impressively lean physique
the vast vast majority of it is going to
come down to a properly structured
nutrition plan and a consistent training
routine okay please don't be one of
these people who goes out and buys a fat
burner and thinks that popping back
these pills every day is gonna have some
significant effect all on its own
because it most definitely will not if
anything it's just a tiny little boost
once every other aspect of your cutting
plan is already optimized all right and
lastly here just as a quick addition to
the list overrated supplement number six
i've gone over this a million and one
times on the channel so i don't want to
sound like a broken record here but just
very quickly the list wouldn't be
complete without also mentioning bcaas
and eas okay as long as you're eating
enough total protein for the day you're
already getting in all the amino acids
that you need to maximize muscle
recovery and growth and just dumping a
bunch of extra aminos on top of that is
not going to benefit you further branch
chain amino acids and essential amino
acid blends are completely unnecessary
in the vast vast majority of cases and
by the way if you're tired of all the
hype and bs out there in the supplement
industry in general and you just want to
cut through all the gimmicks and check
out some honest legitimate formulas that
use research-backed ingredients in their
highest quality forms and proper dosages
in order to optimize body composition
training performance and overall health
then you can visit
realscienceathletics.com by clicking up
here or in the description box these
supplements were all formulated by me
from scratch to help you get the very
best results possible and you can use
code youtube15 to take 15 off your first
order here are two more videos you can
check out now you can also sign up for a
free training and nutrition plan for me
over at shawnell.com custom by filling
out the short form on that page i'll
also link that up here and down below
thanks for watching the video guys and i
will see you in the next one