welcome to the house of hypertrophy how
often you should train a muscle and for
how many sets is forever debated in the
industry this highly fascinating recent
study compared training your muscle two
times to three times a week for muscle
hypoy with different set numbers in this
video we're going to dissect this study
and then fit it into the rest of the
overall scientific research on training
frequency and sets for building muscle
so that by the end you'll have a clearer
understanding of what you need to know
now a cool thing about this recent study
is they divided subjects into those with
more slow twit or fast twitch fibers why
was this cool slow twitch fibers are low
Force producing but highly fatigue
resistant while fast twitch fibers are
high Force producing but very fatigable
previous Research indicates people with
more fast twitch muscle fibers tend to
experience greater fatigue and may be
more susceptible to overreaching thus
perhaps they benefit from training less
while those more slow twitch benefit
from training more let's dive into the
[Music]
study 21 pre previously untrained
individuals were divided into those with
more slow twitch or fast twitch fibers
the fiber type measurements were just
done on the lower body muscles but the
authors note lower body fiber type can
correlate with upper body fiber type all
subjects train the unilateral leg
extension leg Hur dumbbell coal and
skull crusher for three to four sets of
reps the failure with one side of their
body they perform this two times a week
with at least 72 hours of rest between
sessions thereby totaling six to eight
sets per muscle in a week with the other
side of their body they perform this
three times a week with at least 48
Hours of rest between sessions thereby
totaling 9 to 12 sets per muscle in a
week therefore both training frequency
and set numbers were different between
the conditions interestingly the slow
twitch group ended up performing more
repetitions compared to the fast switch
Group which might be logical as we know
slow switch fibers are more fatigue
resistant versus Fast switch fibers
however not all previous research has
established strong correlations between
fiber type and the number of reps
performed with a given loading
nonetheless quadriceps hamstrings biceps
and triceps H perv was measured and all
four of these muscles tended to grow
more with a three times per week
training this held true for both the
slow twitch and fast twitch fiber groups
therefore opposing the notion
individuals with more fast twitch fibers
benefit from Trading less there are some
additional crucial points from these
results but before revealing these it is
interesting to see that the slow twitch
fiber group grew just as well as the
fast twitch fiber group on average in
other words having proport tionately
more fast twitch fibers did not lead to
Greater gains versus having
proportionately more slow twitch fibers
how could this be after all in isolation
fast switch fibers appear to grow more
than slow switch fibers but fiber type
is just one of the many factors that may
determine how much muscle growth you
experience this may indicate that when
we compare a fast twitch fiber group to
a slow twitch fiber group these other
factors in the mix essentially mean
people with more fast touch fibers do
not always grow more than those with
more slow touch fibers returning to to
the findings as each subject trained
both two times and three times a week we
can see the individual responses and it
indicates the large majority of
individuals from both the slow and
fasted fiber groups grew better training
three times per week there were only a
few cases of gains being better with a
two times per week training for a person
however and this is a key Point despite
the average and the majority of the
individual's responses indicating better
gains with the three times per week
training the benefit was certainly not
large we're only talking about an extra
1 to 3% growth with the quads hamstrings
and biceps the triceps did see a greater
4 to 5% extra average growth from the
three times per week training which may
Point towards the fascinating idea of
some muscles selectively responding
better to more training regardless this
data still suggests a large bulk of
gains can be attained with lower amounts
of training now the subjects were
previously untrained so the benefit of
training more may increase with training
experience but as we'll dissect in some
upcoming videos various well well
trained individuals can still see
reasonable hypertrophy from lower
amounts of training switching up the
discussion remember that both training
frequency and set numbers differed
between conditions but which was it that
led to the more hypertrophy with a three
times per week condition to answer this
we need to briefly decipher the current
research on training frequency and sets
for muscle hypertrophy before this
however we need to touch on some
important considerations with this study
in this study the slow twitch group of
course had proportionately more slow
twitch fibers versus the fast twitch
group however not every subject in the
slow twitch group could be described as
slow twitch dominant as the numbers in
the study indicates some of the subjects
likely had a near 50/50 split of slow
and fastwitch fibers conversely the fast
twitch group had an average 61 39 split
of faster slow twitch fibers therefore
the results of this study could be
different if we compared more slow
twitch dominant to more fastwitch
dominant individuals another
consideration is that as already
mentioned there's evidence people with
more f switch fibers experience greater
fatigue and are more susceptible to
overreaching since the fast switch group
grew well training three times per week
with 9 to 12 weekly sets per muscle this
magnitude of training wasn't excessive
for them in fact feelings of soreness
and fatigue were actually similar
between the slow and fast switch groups
in this study but it remains possible if
reasonably higher set numbers or
frequencies were used the fast switch
group would struggle to
[Music]
recover so was it the training frequency
set numbers are both that contributed to
the greater gains with the three times
per week condition as established in
this 2019 meta analysis when the total
number of sets performed per week was
kept the same there was no difference in
muscle growth between dividing these
sets into higher or lower frequencies
however when we go ahead and graph the
muscle growth of the various frequencies
we can see that the three times per week
frequency led to slightly better gains
this was not statistically significant
statistical significance isn't
everything but in this specific context
there are quite notable differences
behind the studies comprising this data
nonetheless it's still evident
substantial average hypertrophy is
achieved across a wide range of
frequencies fortunately an important
study by Nez released last October
revealed something highly interesting
they had trained men perform nine sets
for the quadriceps in a week one leg
performed all nine sets in one session
while the other leg distributed the nine
sets across three non-consecutive days
per week some subjects saw similar quad
growth between the one times and three
times frequency While others saw greater
growth with the three times frequency
accordingly the greater growth for some
subjects in the previous study could
possibly be due to the three times per
week frequency itself however it is
likely that for many if not all of them
the higher sets were contributing to as
identified in this meta analysis
performing nine or more weekly sets for
a muscle group produced more muscle
horty than fewer than nine weekly sets I
do want to point out that the this data
still reinforces the notion that a large
bulk of gains can still be achieved with
lower set numbers some of you may be
wondering about how even higher set
numbers per week compared to moderate
values as well as the role of training
status stay tuned as in the next few
weeks we'll have some updated videos
related to this some of you may also be
curious about efficiently creating
tracking and evolving your hypertrophy
or strength training most fitness apps
are basic and virtually the same but the
alpha progression app provides unique
and Advanced features without being
overwhelming the app can help you
generate an evidence-based program
customized to your desires in just a few
minutes with Advanced options to
periodize sets and Reps in reserve and
Implement scheduled D loads with a touch
of a few buttons you can personalize
things further the app saves you Time by
automatically generating graphs that
display your long-term progression which
may allow you to spot Trends in your
training scrolling through their massive
exercise database you may discover
exercises you never knew existed during
workouts the app analyzes your past
performance to provide Progressive
overload recommendations the link in the
comments and description allows you to
try out the app's premium features free
for 2 weeks and if you like it and
decide to go beyond the link provides
20% off a subscription the app is truly
exceptional with the review speaking to
[Music]
this in summary this paper found
training three times per week with more
sets led to Greater muscle ey purch Fe
compared to training two times per week
with fewer sets in both a slow twitch
and fast twitch fiber group we've
previously seen that when total set
numbers per week are equated some
individuals do grow more with a three
times per week frequency so it's
possible the three times per week
frequency may have contributed to the
greater growth for some subjects however
the highest set numbers were likely
contributing to the greater gains for
many too as meta analytic data finds
performing nine or more sets for a
muscle group in a week produced more
growth and Performing fewer than nine
sets having said all this it's it is
still worth emphasizing appreciable
musai perch fee is still attained with
lower amounts of training so is an
option on the table depending on your
personal goals thank you for watching
feel free to check out the alpha
progression app or our recent deep dive
into building the lats