[Music]
you're serious about your goals and the
rpi app is here to help it creates a
diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI is you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
world fun
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today
boys fucked your mom worked around me
all right we're back it's so funny when
I have the Google Doc open I don't know
if people have like privacy settings or
if they're using like incognito mode but
anyone who's looking at it it gets an
anonymous like avatar and it will select
right now I'm looking at and it's like
there is an anonymous camel looking at
your Google Doc today it has like a
little camel picture it's kind of cute I
wonder if people pick it or if it's
default like that's just a sign Joe
Camel yeah I have no idea what's kind of
funny folks welcome to rp+ on YouTube
and you know our people awesome self
market plus webinar this will be the
second recording that goes to YouTube
the first one is getting posted well we
need guys see this it'll happen posted
already obviously when she's getting
posted as of this recording and I just
talked to our stop the video guys got
the sound guy and he's asking me what
what took quote like in the leaks it's
not like that for most other ones so it
should get posted and then these will be
posted every week so the first two will
get posted kind of like a couple of days
of each other and then once a week we're
gonna take RP questions first
RP plus first if you like having your
questions answered for sure you should
link in the link in the description join
RP plus 10 bucks a month but if you want
to get your question possibly icer from
youtube then we're gonna add take
questions from the YouTube comments on
out again because we have made of
efficient less than YouTube I'll be
scrolling through my Instagram I always
have a couple of questions to do that I
know he's just just wait YouTube
questions might are going to be worse in
this room no that's true well we might
not even get YouTube questions I didn't
realize they had posted some of the
older rp+ videos to YouTube and Mel
started reading off some of the comments
on yes I was in and they were so bad in
sell stuff yes and I was just like keep
that away from me I don't want to know I
don't even want to know I don't like
guys who no one talks to that like that
like that just makes you their opinions
no one cares about Lilly dr. James
sounds a little bit
the doctor might be more like a pirate
it's like do you have no friends that
somebody I don't know if they were
joking or not but somebody literally was
like they're basically the same person
they even look alike I was like we don't
look anything alike
that's wrong
yeah totally wrong whatever sells love
you as much as your stepparents dude
keep it away from me I didn't eat so
because people were messaging me like oh
I saw your YouTube video I'm like I
haven't posted a YouTube video and yeah
alright well alright let's get to it
yeah that's good
starting with besime Ahmadi who I now
follow on Instagram I look through all
of his many 0 posts seen how about this
post picture if your God to himself at
the very least an Instagram post some
training videos post some kind of cereal
like you're a human being a long time
god I assume or your perverted machine
Wasim says hey a gentle box so a
gentleman but gentle doctors yeah I
guess thanks for answering my questions
two weeks ago hope your days have been
going great - James I feel the conflict
of - James Hoffman that's existing in
the same timeline - it'll be resolved
one specific way how one might ask well
of course you to simply have
rock-paper-scissors wait
winning whoever loses gets the duty tow
along with the daily toy rep swap
program and a 60% calorie deficit three
hours sleep until you simply die and
that's a rough way to go holy Sh just
for losing rock-paper-scissors come on
oh man my weeks questions are as follows
number one nutrition question regarding
Anslinger protein from carbs with NASA
sort of God that Mike has mention this a
long time ago but I feel of God cannot
find where it was so I apologize for
being badass Gotham eat you answer
something you've already said a million
times since I'm massing I have to eat
proteins or portions of carbs that even
the cleanest carb sources I can find
creatively advice etc has about seven
grams of protein for 100 grams dry
weight whatever ever serves me right
only about 1/4 to 1/2 gluten protein
actually digested
not to mention these sources pdcaas so
if say my protein portion of rice is
over grams only those proteins 30 grams
do I do pretty much 27 X grams of
protein for my main protein source well
like how many through diversity for my
rice how does this work with carb
sources that are more heavily protein
heavy such as pasta which usually has
around 13 to 14 grams per 100 grams of
carbs as me eating like 50 grams of
protein per meal so here let me address
couple issues um if you look at um
through research on protein needs not
for athletes for regular people for sure
only a relatively small quantities of
protein needs to be put away
not all other protein needs to be
complete sources for it to maximize
everything you need for protein so the
worst case scenario is if you were to
count grain proteins exactly like you
come to dragging the proteins unless
you're eating a fuck psyllium amount of
grains you just got all of approaching
from ancillary is it probably wouldn't
be a concern if you met your daily
proteins but you can do better than that
slightly better than that I think
probably the best way is to count them
for roughly half of what they are that's
what I usually do so if something has 10
grams are shady protein in it like a
little wheat bagel it's fortified it's
10 grams of wheat protein I counted as 5
grams of protein I think that's a real
good approaching it's fine
you just don't overthink it count in
half yes there will be a calorie and
protein calorie and mac OS a lineman if
that kind of thing bothers you you need
therapy so just count your macros count
half the protein don't worry about the
calories out up Tunes macros meal
calories enter lastly what you can do is
just that car not count isolated
proteins at all it's totally possible
and for example in many of the ways that
we drive calculations from the RP diet
app we don't count ants or proteins
because it really doesn't fucking matter
if you get too much protein you know
because if you're eating enough protein
anyway from lean meats you're checking
all the boxes getting a little bit extra
or quite a bit extra from grains there's
no problem and if you say but dr. Mike
that means I won't be losing weight well
guess what just lower your calories
motherfucker and why how do you do that
usually a little fatty Lokar
soozee low-carb dress a proteins go down
to it's a cell solving problem right if
you want everything the magically line
and everything to make perfect sense you
have do a whole lot of calculation Zac
pdcaas exact ratios nobody's ever gonna
do that's quite insane right so that's
the gist of it if he goes on to say my
other issues that I have 30 grams or
less protein for your meal I feel very
comfortable getting less than 20 grams
from high PDCA foods using chicken for
example I don't raid that muscle protein
synthesis muscle my lab knows and won't
be stimulated the same extent from half
often have chicken protein as it would
from just chicken totally yeah would be
a little bit of a downside because the
fact that you usually need 20 plus grams
protein from that source to get the flu
scene setter what's your thoughts now
you know my thoughts James you know I
agree with you completely I think it's
one of those things in the short term
it's easy to kind of to get caught in
the details and get into the math but
the part of the thing is as Mike already
said in the long term it really doesn't
matter it's a wash because if your body
weight is not going up on mass what do
you do the add calories anyway right and
do you need to be like really pumping
the protein at that point problem now
you're gonna be adding carbs and fats
and you can get more indirect protein
anyway same thing uncut like if you're
not losing weight cut some of your carbs
from your fats itself solves itself so I
would say like you'd have to be doing
something really shitty like
unfathomably shitty if you were doing a
mass phase and you were gaining weight
and not gaining like a good decent
proportion of muscle because of the
dietary choices that you're making you'd
really have to be fucking it up pretty
bad at that point so I don't think it's
worth sweating too much yeah
and also by the way if you if you really
feel a client to meet your calories and
proteins match what you can do is like
let's say the pasta has 10 grams of
protein top 5 towards protein comes
flying towards carbs because the way
that low quality proteins get treated at
many wavers on those cards and they
actually bump carbs out they spare carbs
to some extent because they're digested
you know involves would be relevant so
if you're really really crazy on
calories just count half the proceeds to
count as carbs having proteins as fats
are sorry having produced carbs have as
proteins themselves but I would just
would not that's not a rabbit hole this
worth going down and frankly it's like
if you eat relatively the same foods for
the most part like on a weekly basis you
just aim foods and you just do it you
measure it the same way over time it's
all wash it's all wash even if it's not
the same foods you
see a variety of different kinds of
grains and all washes out what are we
run into issues you see only shrimp and
fruit and then you switch to these kinds
of pasta and chicken like you have to be
some problems but then again if you do
that every other week anyway like the
fluctuations are for two weeks ute
themselves and you don't make dietary
adjustments you know you make maybe once
a week dietary adjustments and then the
other week sort of doesn't make sense
you make them another week later it over
the course of weeks and weeks all the
ships clean washes away totally now what
you're trained questions regarding posts
sometimes when I trained I feel of a
start I feel I start getting a pump
after a few cents but is it do more of a
muscle kind of goes nothing well now
most as best explained about lack of
feeling of muscles when I fight flexing
it I most conserve of my chest
I have very hard time feeling my chest
when flex it after doing about seven
sets of Justin one session despite
having had a deep pump or I felt really
well for some sets before was this being
a dude tween sense it might might I
can't tell if the pump disappears or not
as the whole muscle kind of doesn't flex
as hard as it can and it feels like I
don't have much feeling you know laughs
where you should be able to visually
perceive a pump and you should be able
to feel how tight your skin is so give
that's I have to note that my Saurus is
stronger and lasts a little longer after
the days I train in the way that makes
my muscle numb then if I train only to
the point of getting a pump and feeling
also really well yeah that almost
certainly tells me you're causing too
much damage I've done that before and it
does not result in much muscle growth
that's probably all that you should
curve of mev it feels somewhat
unintuitive to Train past pumps notion
should as my hypotheses are correct but
if access gives you mouth soreness and
why sense gives you moderate soreness
why is more stimulation disruptive
despite excavating my chest a better
mind muscle connection and pump no I'm
sorry your hypothesis body backwards
whatever gives you the best pump that's
my muscle connection and gets you a
little bit sore is probably best it if
you be going I would say this actually I
think the front of following until other
research proves me wrong anytime you get
a pump and go beyond the pump to get
less of a pump by doing more work I will
stake a claim that you'll probably do
more harm than good
James yeah so I kind of
feel like it's hard to put a solid yes
or no on this one it's one of those
things where you're probably if we're at
a guesstimate like Mike already said you
might be going a little too much like
you might be beyond the point of where
you need to go you also might be in that
sweet spot where you're maybe you're a
closer to your nav and you cut it off
right at the point of where you get that
numb feeling like you had good pump good
pump and then all of a sudden you got
nothing going on that might be a good
spot it's probably maybe just a little
too aggressive I would guesstimate but
again it's hard to say we don't really
know so I would say maybe back off one
set from wherever you'd notice that you
got that numbness see where you end up
on that and see if you're still making
progress week to week and if you are
then you know okay maybe that my MA V is
maybe closer to success and not seven
seven like that yep and then he says
that's all folks thanks for your
subsequent answer is also one last
question if you guys feel like it how
would you recommend people here to ask
questions feel like I'm building a
service whatever I asked you for some
questions about contacts but I also feel
like I'm wasting everyone's time back
for a unnecessary information or really
like some feedback well actually you
just gave yourself great feedback
provide all the information that is
necessary for context any less we can't
answer your question any more and you're
just flailing about to provide a little
more you know I'm saying we're buddies
fuck we'll read it but if you were like
if an entire swath of your paragraph of
stick to do with the question you could
spare everyone but if your question is
not comprehensible until it unless you
include some backgrounds and you need
more yeah I think the trouble we run
into is when somebody's like I've been
doing this what do you think I should do
next and then we're like well we have no
fucking clue right like oh you are what
you're doing
so like training related questions like
some kind of training age something
relating to your goal something relating
to maybe you're where your body comp is
at those are things that are all really
useful but like what kind of food your
mom makes you on Thursdays I don't give
a shit bro you can leave that out you
know like that kind of stuff so just
like Mike said just enough to get the
context of the question because if you
ask a super vague question and we don't
have any understanding of what you're
doing it's very hard to answer yeah yeah
but that was great yeah was yeah
then he says PS Mike you pronounce my
name correctly in the first try but then
you mess it up again ha ha ha
say bass in the same way you say brass
and then short in like rim massive
massive mmm I don't know that's how
American eyes man it sounds westernized
and alright Brandon oh yeah
in Russian your neighbor boy seemed like
that would be bar scene so I would call
you that but Bassam I met you see him
Bassam ain't name is him so basically
Hillbillies pronounce your name
completely correctly everything but here
my Arabic origin to the fuck out of here
man
Silas I know you're fine how could it
not be but seem that's what I would have
thought too
Vic Ulis Assam I see Bassam
I was not bossing as you thought anyway
and you know Arabic had the bass sound
Batson that's II know it's crazy I hope
your Arabic sorry for pharisees fucking
with us
fuck you Bassam and he's just trying to
get us to do this pronunciation game
he's laughing at us right now let us
know if we're fucking it up still
alright
Magnus Magnus a man with two exact
equivalent names OT Micah James the best
long-term muscle growth by 19 have been
training for about two to three years if
that's important see that is helpful
that's what we're taught America would
it be better to do alternating
specialist ages specialization cycles or
just training everything with reasonable
high volume that's going above either
muscular systemic every week and if one
did a specialization cycle three runs
focusing on children's and arms and did
a specialization cycle
focusing on chest and back after that
would that be necessary to have a main
in space between the two yes for
systemic fatigue that's an easy answer I
would think it is but I would like to
hear your opinion so that that wasn't
any question the so they said there's an
actual correct answer of whether or not
to do specialization cycles here is you
have to of all the muscles are you're
choosing training you have to find their
individual memories and then you have to
add them all together in a program and
see if individual in our B's exceed
systemic MRV it's not that hard to do
just start training your muscles at MeV
and just keep ramping up sets on all of
them and see if your system a
systemically or
and for some mussels you might play
locally first and then the system might
pay but maybe you can you know if you if
you systemically never overreach any
local overreach with all mussels then by
definition you can train to maximize
gains and all of your muscles locally
you probably don't need a special as
they should leave it still benefit from
one because of a systemic easing but you
clearly just don't need much of it on
the other hand this happens with most
people if your systemic MRV is reached
before all local muscle memories are
reached individually then you definitely
need a specialization circle of some
kind at some point to hit some muscles
all the way to them are being in some
hustles captain and means volume and so
give that a shot I'll give you an
example the kind of person whose
systemic MRV is essentially out of reach
well well well trade for murder exactly
it's like if they can locally get to em
RVs but systemically they don't have an
MRV that's relevant because they're just
God's the fucking endurance Nathan
recover so goddamn fast hilariously a
lot of times and their legs also have no
Emer feet of anywhere in sight but you
know they'll hit the legs local in
review a trading week for the seminary
and for upper bodies for sure the Kings
like endurance athlete trying to Train
biceps and you know after 20 sets of
biceps will be the 30 or 40
they'll be smashed to them biceps don't
work but systemically they're like a
golden as they ever been because it's
nothing to them handling systemic loads
that are crazy people come in from uni
CrossFit a lot of times for systemic
enemies this is amazing but people who
are relatively untrained people have a
larger stronger which is why
specialization pieces are better for
advanced athletes they start to have a
systemic MRV that's way lower than the
sum of all Oakland where these and then
that's relevant to try to split off the
body yeah that was really good mine's
gonna be kind of a summary of what Mike
said so kind of the idea being you can
always do a specialization phase you
could it's always like a not a terrible
idea the thing with the like kind of the
full body is you probably want to do
that as much as you can until you
literally can't anymore and Mike already
explained what that means
so one kind of good way of thinking
about it is do the full body mass phases
until you start to notice that you're
really not making like tangible gains
anymore
when you start to see like you're not
hitting pr's across the board like maybe
you hit PR on one exercise but not like
the dozens of other ones you were doing
you don't see really big spectacular
changes occurring anymore at least not
like a tangible change and if you even
if you're doing like a body composition
assessment you can use that to though
just be kind of wary of some of those
things and what you'll find is that
after several years of doing full body
mass routines you'll start to notice
like a plateauing effect where you're
like yeah I got a little bit better but
I'm not seeing those gains anymore and
that's when you'll start to know like
okay specialization has actually become
more necessary rather than option in
another like sort of get away of
estimating this is when you get up to
your systemic MRV you'll notice the
systemic effects as systemic fatigue
which feels different so for example
you're about to go trading biceps is
you're worried that you won't be able to
measure reps from last week because your
biceps feel just fried and clogged up or
if you're worried that you don't even
wanna trade biceps cuz you know a lot of
trades you don't want to wait to get you
wants to eat and just go die somewhere
yes if it's the latter
you're probably hitting systemic I might
be your biceps like I've actually had
sessions before one say it's painful to
admit but it's the real deal where I
look at how many sets I should be doing
for biceps and I don't do as many I do
half as many because I'm so systemically
fucked up I'm just not gonna be doing
six sets of curls I'm just gonna do
three I'm gonna sort of try just what
I'm gonna know that the log and you're
like nah fuck that there's nothing to do
with your bicep army-like biceps don't
influence your brain somehow like you
hit your bicep of Harvey when you're
motivated psyched pumped you hit a set
of curls and you just shit the bed you
just underperform your guys feel great
but myself so goddamn fucking work
that's local MRV right and systemic in
reviews you just don't want to live
anymore if you're getting into that
situation before you get to the local
muscle memories and you know you're
leaving reps in the tape and he would
just not wanted to train even though
you're quite like hey jerkwad sore no
you go train yeah do you want to shrink
quads no okay systemic it's like the um
you know the farnsworth me more it's
like I don't want to live on this planet
anymore that I don't want lift on this
planet back way I'd like to lift on the
moon or something where it's like all
right from the galaxy's who actually
have known
from the empty dark husks of former
galaxies are older than destroyed oh my
comes on Schumann Radhakrishna says hey
Doc's what we both did well my question
is about the utility of using the raw
stainless magnitude index this
motherfucker got big insight inside
scoop
it seems to me than any trainee that is
always going to be limited by one of two
variables time or fatigue may be
motivation as well but I just count that
under fatigue because of that doesn't
measure in just the stimulus of any
exercise or prioritizing exercises based
on the stainless magnitude without
conceding fatigue your time
not really offer you anything where I'm
coming from
was there always constrained by some or
multiple factors so it doesn't really
benefit your outside of perhaps an
electro masturbation which is the very
reason to even think about which
exercises have greatest raw stimulus I
just think that dropping that and mix
all together leaves explanatory power of
the SFR STR and SMT are intact
that is the statistic fatigue ratio
stimulus the time right here how much
work how much stimulus can you impose
and how little time at SF TRS how much
stimulus can you impose and smallest
amounts of fatigue and time cost or is
there some scenario where we'd actually
be interested in ranking exercises based
purely on awe stimulus even for a
training with large amount time and high
MRV they're still limited by either time
or fatigue even though they might have
more room to cram worse SF r SF t a
ratio exercises no training gives
additional sets of high as a farce of
geography says would actually be lower
teeth at NSF artists of T other than
just switching to slightly worse on
average exercises and giving some fresh
sets in
I still them throughout all has a farce
of TR in favor of raw stimulus may be an
arguing against non-existent version of
your views but I guess I just wanted to
clarify for myself that loss to miss Mac
to you all definitely useful theoretical
concept is limited practical capability
so you're enter your lessons actually
meals it does have a limited practical
active minute does not mean that
existence
it had to be derived theoretically
because otherwise the other agencies
just make no goddamn sense because you
have to understand what law stating this
magnitude is before you can put it in
the numerator put fatigue in the
denominator I will saying James should
test my logic here
if you can my candidate that I was
thinking of frosting in this magnitude
is college student with shitload of free
time and dorm food that says I can't
gain any back size and you're like you
will deadlift until you fucking bleed
and a my fuck you got the time you you
you weigh 130 pounds yeah no word about
no fatigue you just got a pic and and
they're only they just really just
concerned with how much damage can you
fuckin do to them and how much raw
stimulus can you through but if you look
at stimulus 215 ratios and and here's
here's really where the problem comes in
if you look at stimulus to fatigue
ratios which you end up having is let's
say you populate a list of stimulus to
fatigue ratio and stimulus to time ratio
if you look a stimulus of fatigue ratio
you say I'm just gonna have them do them
the best exercises from here
that's biased by the lower fatiguing
exercises so something like barbell
barrows with an underhand grip could be
really high on that list for that person
but it's just he'd have to be in the gym
really forever forever for it you know
to make any goddamn sense because the
raw stimulus is not so it's great but
it's not costing a lot of fatigue but
it's kind of like who gives a shit about
the fatigue right see a deadlift might
be really low in that list but since he
doesn't care about fatigue much they
need to be higher right on the other
hand let's say okay well so we'll see
this time ratio what about that well for
that some of the exercise instead listen
time rates you are gonna be exercise is
just very economical to do like if they
can be done in a fast time deadlifts
again suck because they definitely take
a long time or open launch and set up
and cleans or something like that like
mid thigh poles with lighter weights can
have it actually really good soon as to
time ratio you don't get an incredible
shape with them because you know they
don't have a huge stimulus but if you're
rushed for time they're really great to
squeeze and a bunch of singles a short
time or like lunges yes I feel like that
yeah for sure
so basically we have the rusty miss
magic index mostly theoretical purposes
but also for that individual there's
very very open timewise very open 14
wives and you just want the best power
moves
because for all intents and purposes
he's never gonna run into time
constraints and he's never gonna run
into fatigue constraints so instead of a
filtering looking through the SFR list
of an STR lists and think okay but what
I'm really looking for is the highest
raw stimulus just make a list of roster
those magnitude and then you'll have it
too good to go which is why like when
people write into body books and say how
my back doesn't grow body builders
almost say look look look here's the
deal barbell bent rows fucking heavy
deadlifts weighted pull-ups there's many
of those you can if you never get sore
and you don't feel like you're getting
her like or if you never feel like
you're getting disrupted you do a bunch
of those and if you don't roads because
you're not recovering enough it's not
because you're training hard enough so
that's where the roster goes my attitude
I think comes in because it doesn't it's
not needlessly modeled by the irrelevant
fatigue scale in the irrelevant
efficiency scale which is to say time
economical exercises of wish something
like the deadlift is neither but is the
best being fir if you want a bang to
build your back if you could afford it
so yeah and so on Suman I think this is
a really excellent question by the way
so kudos so I agree with Mike I think
the the main point is not using that
index by itself it does have limited
practical application as a standalone
item but it's used to derive the SFR and
the STR and that's where it's most
useful right so if you're looking at SFR
and you're looking at the raw stimulus
index within that right you might see
that that actually biases more towards
low fatiguing type exercises so those
that provide a decent we're all stimulus
but generally are very low fatiguing
right that's a good bang for your buck
so you're gonna see those being favored
by SFR or as if you're looking at the
STR like the more of the efficiency
index you're gonna see those are going
to be more favored by high raw stimulus
exercises so if you don't have a lot of
time you don't have a lot of effort to
be fussing around you're gonna pick
those big high raw stimulus ones just
because it's gonna give you a lot of
bang for the amount of effort that you
put in so I do agree I do think that the
practical application of that by itself
is limited
God doesn't have fucking fatigue in time
constraints it's not that medieval and
that's the point he was making in his
question which is a very good point so
at that point what you the utility is so
that you can generate the SF RS and STRs
and that's probably the most
appropriate way to use that index yeah
I'm basically like one bro at the gym
where would I forget where you go to
school here wasn't shit like that not
abroad couldn't ask you like dude I need
to fucking how I build my back like I
don't know if you're gonna be you know
he's there anyway a bunch I don't know
if he can be he spends a lot of time
talking to his friends between sets
anyway so clearly he's tied efficiencies
just not his concern and you know he he
like fatigues just not his concern
because he sleeps 12 hours a day so
hopes meet the rest of the day sometimes
he goes to class and needs a bunch of
dorm food
he barely trains anything else so he's
really the same man you all chuckle
you're speaking like an barbell bent
rows off a deficit or to pause like nah
you're gonna be like deadlift rows
pull-ups get the fuck out of my face
yeah and you're gonna hate him like only
on Chaumont radhakrishnan has I mean he
hit him in the sense that you him so
hard that the time-space continuum
collapses around him and the restarts
the universe or like you know likes is a
good example cuz it's like okay this guy
trains his legs once per week maybe
right yeah like reluctantly so what are
you gonna have them do you're gonna say
like okay I'm gonna have you do you know
four sets of 15 lunges on each leg then
I'm gonna have you six sets of ten of
the knee extension and then we're gonna
do some like hamstring crap no just pick
one this is the only time he's gonna
train legs this week he's probably gonna
do a half-ass job anyway cuz he has to
give a shit that's like a good example
of that right whereas if you have
somebody who's like most of the
listeners on this program people are
gonna be a little bit more mindful
because they're training for something
and they have very specific and clear
training goals in mind and then they're
gonna be a little bit more conscious of
the s fr-s of the exercise they choose
because they have constraints whereas if
you have somebody who doesn't have a lot
of constraints you use the raw stimulus
magnitude or the STR as a proxy for that
and that's probably good enough yeah
another little interesting thing is
potential use of it is people who are
very very hard gainers in a specific
body part if some believe if you've
tried a lot of stuff you you may be you
may realize that even just by increasing
volume and high SFR exercises there's
just a certain amount of disruption
that's not happening like there's
certain number of cable flyes that's
just perfect for your chest after a
while so there might be a situation
where somebody's a really hard gainer
but they've avoided the common heavy
basics with just another game another
way to say the biggest raw stingless
exercises that's not what you just got
to get out
and be like okay like like it's a
grenade launcher the grades are super
expensive so it's not cheap it's super
fucking inaccurate so there goes that
that's like the SFR that's an STR
collateral damages math that's it
totally but when you need to blow shit
up now nothing's worked
like there's this gorilla mutants thing
coming at you
fuck accuracy you know saying fuck cost
we need to survive that guy needs to die
my interest and all right
it's a silly example yeah there you go
Jeff he hi dr. Kern watching dr. mice
video advanced hypertrophy concepts and
tools lecture too and they get it done
fast and he got me thinking about my
current training setup and the classic
Jersey competitor I don't even know what
the fuck electric shoe is about you have
to remind me somebody's are old right it
looks like we've done usually yeah for
sure this one's brand new thank God but
ok I think Cyrus got no spot um actually
I can look up real quick hypertrophy
concepts and to lecture to is on
training modality compatibility ok oh
this is a James Hoffman question
basically I have a classic busy
competitor at currently my offseason I
play hockey once a week it's roller
hockey and we play naked
oh it's don't don't have any rubber it's
roller hockey and the games are about 50
minutes long 5-0 and I'm pretty gassed
afterwards though and I currently train
six times per week in this current NASA
go cycle high volume high frequency
I've been wondering how much do you
think hockey affects my hypertrophy
program I go back and forth and if I
want to continue playing but I was find
myself going back since I enjoy it I
tell myself it's good for cardio health
aspects and there has to be some
benefits of moving different Corrections
like that right thank you guys
James hit um so it's definitely
impacting your hypertrophy training
let's not just glaze over and say yeah
it's probably fine so the immediate
answer is yes and it's obvious right
because you're doing something else
that's not hypertrophy training right
then we can look into like the hockey
activity itself so I think it's pretty
fair to say that like if you are trying
to really grow your hips and legs as a
very specific focal point yes that will
be more impactful than other things the
thing
that I'm actually more curious than if
you're--if doesn't look like you're on
but maybe next time you can clarify is
how much contact do you guys play in
your roller hockey league because if
it's like normal level hockey contact
you bet your ass that's going to be
impeding your ability to do all yeah I
purchase be training serious yeah if
it's more like recreational and you
maybe just get a little shoulder bumps
but you're not really checking each
other really hard or there's no like
there's no boards that you're checking
up against a lot of stuff like that
it's prop that that components probably
not really huge and then it would mostly
just be like how much legs and systemic
because of the cardio the intermittent
cardio stuff how much your legs take a
hit and how much the systemic takes a
hit from the intermittent exercise in
the grand scheme of things I think if
it's rec league roller hockey I don't
think you're missing out on much I think
if you are doing like a specialization
leg phase then you would have kind of a
conflict of interest but for the most
part I don't really think it's a big
deal if there is a lot of contact you
might consider pushing your mass phases
back a little bit too when you're not
doing as much hockey stuff but I'm just
doing it for health and for recreation
so I don't think it's a big deal I don't
well hooking I watch a lot of gay porn
and recreational roller hockey has 18
editions when you started the question I
liked as soon as you said naked roller
hockey that was the only thing I was
imagining from that point I was trying
to like get my mind off of naked hockey
oh god there's no it's no competition
it's really a cooperative sport yeah we
did there was an event a rugby event in
Illinois called horse vestis and it's
where people would just you just go and
sign up as individuals and they just put
a hodgepodge of people together to make
teams and then you would play let you
play with like other random people and
one of the things they did was naked
baby yeah and I thought it was gonna be
like kind of kinky and sexy like ooh
this is cool right it was awful it was
fucking terrible it was the worst like
they would they would do it at night and
they would get all the cars and turn
their headlights on the field so it
would be lit and it was all fun and
games until we got to the line out which
is the out-of-bounds thing where they
pick each other
and there would be just like a dick and
nuts like in your face it was just it
was you did it
I did not personally do it because it
was too gross but I was watching it
thinking like thank God I didn't do this
because this was is it fun and kinky or
is it competitive like you the guys are
they trying to win yeah and it's co-ed
so like you think it's gonna be fun and
kinky and then you realize like the type
of people who play rugby games
voluntarily yeah and like it's hard not
to be competitive because it's a contact
sport like you can't just like yeah yeah
you know what I mean it'd be like oh
yeah like I don't give a shit that you
know dammit
and it's cold it's just like a disaster
it's a fucking disaster of a thing cuz
like you know it's like it's it's like
when you're playing co-ed stuff and it's
contact like there's always the hard
it's a hard line to cross because like
the women generally will feel free to
hit the men as hard as they want to and
then the men are always reserved because
they look I don't know if I should be
hitting this person as hard as I should
be hitting other you know it's just like
an awkward thing not to say that there's
a right or wrong answer there but it's
just a weird disastrous thing but
anyways naked rugby terrible awful don't
do it I'm a really great libertarian
thought contacts for a sign that waiver
sign that you get a shot at the champ
you feel yeah that's not a serious note
there's not even go there yeah alright
get in trouble baby in dis lair there's
a uniquely almost certainly German name
says Thiago feel free to spooky stuff
for multiple q and A's hope it's okay I
just um dumped all of them here thanks
man you were doing a great job don't
tilt Iago he's doing a great job yeah I
would have analyzed that out 20 RP so we
tell me there's a bad job I thought it
was nice that he gave Thiago a shout out
so I left it in their face channel goes
great but he's Portuguese which means
he's couldn't be better men ho-hum he
says so feelings as he knocks my back
more big thanks there's always questions
there Mac for more big thanks as always
oh I'm back I am back from Archie Sunday
look if I'm making fun of him I can't
read no no it was it was written like
kind of strangely maybe it was maybe it
was a copy-paste oh yeah where's
oh I was thinking the same thing like
that can't be right wait a minute I'll
try to get ready hey Doc thanks as
always
[Music]
[Laughter]
that's like Sean Connery on SNL the
rapists for 500 europeís he's like
that's why I said the rebus he's like
penis my tía yesterday
number one regarding the rating system
in the male physique templates I have
trouble with rating of zero sure if I am
not sore it's a one or two if sore make
it up when I get up to you but how to
measure exertion shall I just check the
reps from last week still go in line
with prescribed RER of this week let's
say I just did ten nine eight with fifty
kilograms last week to rir if this week
I am NOT so or not I do ten nine eight
with 50 kilogram or more and it falls
into the week's rage RER can I rate it
as easy what are the scenarios for zero
rating well thus unfortunately
limitation of MDT which doesn't have the
performance ratings gauged exactly the
soreness rating it so it's really one
rating but what we what we really like
to do is as far as performance is
concerned if you meet your target reps
at the RIR
you think you should have had then you
rate it a zero if you meet your target
reps and an R er that's a little higher
which means like you're supposed to do
one hour but really you've met all your
reps up to or you've got higher reps at
one rir then you rate it as a plus one
right and if you just blew the shit out
of the water it was a fucking joke you
rate it as a plus two right on the other
hand what do you rate as a minus one is
you know if you like you hit all your
reps but it was tough to I mean I
haven't said the same area are thank you
for sure rated as -1 and -2 should also
come with some sort of stuff but -2 is
when you feel like whoa like not - 2
goes a little bit beyond what the
numbers are
it goes into how did the whole session
make me feel because remember it's all
the whole session is if the session was
like oh my god I barely walked out of
here there's no way I'm doing a matching
my performance next week it's just way
too much work that's a - that's
significantly yeah that's the big
limitation of the system that's on there
and that's when having a coach or just
doing it yourself can be handy but the
way I kind of think of is very similar
to Mike whereas like zero is like oh
that was a good workout that was like
what I expected nothing was nothing
seemed off but I you know I was huffing
I'm a little messed up but I'm gonna
bounce back plus one is where you're
like dude that was me nothing I could
have done that twice over right plus one
that it minus one is when you're like
man that fucked me up I'm gonna need a
little while to shrug this off that's
like that's really what it boils down to
it you can think about it more deeply
but at the same time it is kind of like
a +10 system you don't really have to
think about it much more than that
yeah it just one easy trick for you
since you're an advanced user just think
of how many sets you want to do next
week and think if it's gonna be enough
to stimulate adaptations optimally or if
you could do more if you could benefit
from less and then rate accordingly zero
does not increase or decrease your sense
so if you want a little bit more volume
rate at a plus but a little bit less -
yeah you're probably gonna know where
you're supposed to end up you know
unless it's do every time running
through the template so you know you
could also check your ego or check your
lack of desire as well where you say
like oh maybe I'll just rate it to zero
and you're like well I actually have to
get like five more sets in over the
course of the next several weeks I
should probably yeah and it that's a
perfect example actually so like let's
say you have two more weeks left of
training and your workout just like beat
you up pretty bad so you want to
increase now and shit to bed a week
early maybe not let's just keep it have
another really good workout and then in
the last week we're gonna have another
volume Edition versus if you have two
weeks left when this current workout was
like pretty doable and you know that
even if you had two sets or four sets
you're going to be able to do just fine
in the next two weeks it's definitely
time for an addition
[Music]
you
[Music]
number two let's talk exercise selection
for quads you know I am a 1 meter 92
centimeters and I tried to become a
decent squatter for 3 years now um just
I don't want to get too deep into this
but I figure just want to be as real as
fuck with you or not I'm not trying to
pick on you all you can do is do your
best to get better there's no such thing
as a decent squad or even know what that
means just try to get better just see
you're trying to get better
sorry I don't know but yeah but your
point is very valid because it's like
are you trying to get more jacked or are
you trying to be a strong squatter you
know what I mean it's like those are
people they overlap for a while but then
they also diverge at some point best
ever got was about 1.1 times body weight
as my 5rm just below pair a little high
bar squat after cleaning up my form an
increasing Rob to almost master grass
with coach Jared feather tena run is now
about 50 kilograms of 80 kilograms
bodyweight lol I search without a squats
part for me since there in my weakest
compound yes we can remember body lifts
but by the way how weak something is for
you has nothing no relation to how much
it makes you have very few people with
really good deadlift or lever just get
very little out of it doubles because
it's almost unreachable okay let's put
your money on it progress after the
first measure I'm beating for was plus 5
kilograms and 2 reps so decent I guess
Jesus Christ that's pretty awesome
yeah what's wrong with you that's great
like pressed generators of these body
weeds it depends on the song but
exercise selection so the question there
is there's no question I think the
question yeah he didn't let should I to
do my squats yes yeah yes this great
progress dude I don't know progress like
that anymore 5 kilos and 2 reps told a
lot of mesocyclone is amazing believe me
you could make a case yeah you know your
progress is great it might not be the
strongest lift for you but it still
might be a really good SFR exercise for
you so that's really big kind of that
root of the question is is squatting a
strong SFR exercise for me well the
absolute you could go you could look at
raw stimulus magnitude and you'd say
like well the raw stimulus isn't that
great comparatively to some of the other
things that I'm doing but the range of
motion may be so big that the Ross
Dunamis is actually massive even with a
small external loader and like you don't
have all the external loading so the
fatigue is a little bit
Yeah right and you're making progress on
your performance so that's actually a
huge win it might not feel like it
because it's not your strong lift but it
still might be good SFR exercise now
that being said you also might find that
maybe doing the leg press or something
else is even better who knows that it is
a little bit of trial and error but for
the time being don't give up on squats
it seems to be working the better
question is D feel it in your quads yes
what if the answer is you ask them
fucking to keep doing all right three
not sure if I read that on the forums
shall one increase flesh decreased
calories to maintenance during the week
no matter if cutting amassing yes but
that usually happens automatically
because you just adjust your calories to
your work level and if you are cutting
for example your work rate and reduces
but you want to adjust to maintenance so
you would increase the calories but
because your work level has reduced you
decrease so the net results as you
basically just keep your calories the
same yep yep number four are currently
reading the recovery book great job I
love him I got a question regarding
actual fatigue and perceived fatigue as
there seems to be a difference between
them eg some interventions like heat
therapy may decrease Dom's and pristine
fatigue without actual fatigue how can
these two types of fifty different why
James yeah it's a really simple answer
and it's a good question it's because
it's the perception of fatigue and the
perception of soreness and readiness
right and unfortunately our mind often
plays tricks on us all the time I can't
tell you how many times my minds play
tricks on me like hey you should go
sleep with that person it seems like a
good idea turned out to be a terrible
idea but the answer that the issue is
that some things can make you feel
better some things have analgesic
effects and things have like just
general psychological recovery effects
like social support and being with your
friends and even compassionate touch to
some extent the problem is is that they
often don't actually affect the tissues
that are fatigued right whether it's
connective tissues or muscles and stuff
like that so you can do something like
get a massage is a great example where
you might have trained really really
hard and you're like man I feel fucked
up I want to look at this massage the
massage will make you feel better and if
you were to take like a likert survey
like do you feel fatigued anymore right
you would probably answer I feel less
fatigued than when I started
right
the problem is is that all the training
has not healed all the damage that
you've done is still there you just
don't feel like it's there so it's a
weekly it's not there yeah I should
train hard again right so just keep in
mind like perception is always flawed
that's just an inherent like human
intrinsic quality right you're the way
that you view the world is often riddled
with errors and the same thing goes for
yourself you can rank how you feel
incorrectly or you can be getting a
wrong reading for about how you feel so
just keep in mind a lot of times you can
do performance testing it and try this
out for yourself you might feel like
you're ready to go and then you try to
unwrap the bar and you get squished down
you get crushed you get pinned it
happens it happens to Mike and I every
now and again where we think we know
this shit inside and out and you go to
the gym and you're like wow I was way
under prepare today I had no idea this
was gonna go so badly it happens so
perceive fatigue is just how you feel
about it real fatigue is the actual
performance decrements that you're
experiencing from the training wonderful
oops I didn't finish this question I had
asking since during the first two weeks
my perfect mezzos for time MBT I feel
super trash in megasaur then command
increased sets up to eight and feel more
fatigued but it just not feels so bad
anymore I hope that description makes
sense well soreness is perception of
soreness is only part of the fatigue
equation and you can get the repeated
bad effect of soreness can actually
ameliorate but the cumulative fatigue
still continues to escalate so what
there is a difference between cumulative
of T and acute and also in like the
soreness example you also get adapted to
the stimulus that you're presenting
right so like you do squats for the
first time and week one it's like fog
that was that made me feel super awful
but by weeks two and three you're like
uh it doesn't really make me feel that
bad anymore
yeah number five another one regarding
fatigue in your willingness in your
writings fatigue is most often looked at
in the realms of training performance
recovery I wonder if he also has a good
Metro senators that are training in his
fatigue in other areas of life for
example in week four plus we measure own
performance is still golden sets reps we
can go up but at work during social
activities I feel super act and tired
bitch who gives a shit fuck work fuck
social activities if your sensor drops a
waiter going up you're a fucking man
yeah I find this gets overlooked it's us
our games
no no let's keep it going I find this
often gets overlooked I'm talking about
fatigue management if fatigue shows
itself and it works like social event
before manifesting and training how do
we deal with that when the obvious
options are either accept that one is
not professional athlete does not take
the burden or just to grind through it
for two or three weeks every month so
any other solutions so it's it I can I
can see why you think that it's
overlooked but that is actually
something that is included even in the
recovery book and in some of the
assessments that we make is there are
perceptive measures there are
psychological variables that we can look
at like mood disturbances sleep
disturbances anxiety just even like mood
and effects stuff like that that is part
of the equation and if you are training
very hard training up to your systemic
MRV you will absolutely be feeling it in
all walks of life not just in the gym
you're gonna be feeling it at work and
your social engagements everything so on
the one hand if you have lofty goals
that are very important to your life in
terms of diet and training stuff that is
kind of a necessary evil a consequence
that you will accept as part of your
life at some times throughout the year
all right you just say like I'm training
really hard
I have lofty body comp goals or I want
to be really fucking strong or really
good at sport there's gonna be times
when I'm fucked up and it's gonna make
me less social less fun to be around all
those things if the social part of your
life is equally as important or maybe
even more important than your fitness
goals that is not something that is
necessary you can train well below that
systemic MRV point and have very very
little disruption into your work and
social life and I think that's a
completely reasonable trade-off Mike and
I usually come at the perspective of
people who are trying to achieve their
physical best performance and whatever
it is that they're doing that's kind of
the assumption that we generally make
but that's not most people most people
are kind of somewhere down on the
spectrum where they have other goals
they have a spectrum of of lifestyle and
fitness related goals right and there's
no right or wrong answer it's totally up
to you so it is part of it is something
that we can assess and only you can
decide what is like an appropriate level
disruption for those things
the TLDR genes as viewers shut up and
train brother I mean that is our view
more often than not I would say like mmm
and I'm more in a more eloquent way but
it doesn't have to be right if you like
I'd rather go out and hang out with my
friends like that's fine do it
who cares for sure number six
let's see one trains with a four-day
upper/lower split in weeks with high
energy levels and more time will train
up to five or even six times by adding
just a little bit before they split
think ABCD a week after that b c d a B
etc obviously this will lead to
fluctuations following across weeks I
was wondering how much would the amount
of fluctuations would hurt progressive
overload principle would think of one
week twelve sets next week sixteen to
eighteen next week 12 etc providing
progressions with rough sorry our load
increase hopefully makes sense where
well be better off if we just stick to
4x a week split and go for the bonus
days into the weeks yes I think is
potentially two answers what I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna strive steal and the
variation and James I can ask you to
steal man the consistency one and I
think we'll both get away with a pretty
good perspective so they've got benefit
of variation is sometimes you can't
train that hard during the week would
you do what you can maybe you trained
three days and then another pay your
week frees up the boss is yelling at you
anymore we've got lots of food in your
fridge and lots of time to sleep and you
fucking hit it super hard as long as per
session your volumes are incrementally
going up slowly and as long as you
understand that there's variation so
you're not super quick to decide Oh a
hitman RV or oh and underperforming here
who I've got increase weights you
understand that there's going to be
fluctuations I think within a certain
boundary it's totally okay to do wall
and you can and less what you can but on
the other hand I think there are some
unique benefits to consistency in
structure James yeah and just a real
quick a lot of people adopt like DUP or
Auto regulated styles of training which
is very similar to what your describe
even Kyle Pierce this weightlifting
program was very similar to what you
just described on the other hand I think
there is a good case for consistency and
the reasons are generally pretty obvious
right the first and most obvious one is
just tracking
if you do the same thing in the same
conditions all the time it's very clear
when the numbers are changing if
something is going well or if something
is unchanging or if it's going poorly
right and you can adjust things
accordingly one of the other may be less
some talked-about reasons for doing
things consistently aside from tracking
is actually just maintaining the same
circadian rhythms throughout the day so
that your performances your sleep your
recovery are all very consistent because
this is a problem we had when I was
coaching rugby at ETSU sometimes we
would have to have practice from like
8:00 to 10:00 at night and then the
times that we were allowed to go to the
gym would be like 6:00 to 7:00 in the
morning and then other times throughout
the week it was not like that and they
would they would be wearing it so
fucking hard on those occasions because
most of the time they didn't have to do
that but when they had to practice and
or train at unusual times their
performance would be all over the place
because they'd be training under
different fatigue conditions maybe
different sleep conditions they never
you know all those things so aside from
the actual just consistency in tracking
perspective which is a big benefit
you're also maintaining the same
conditions of sleep performance and
circadian rhythm which i think is
probably just as important yeah good
call games I think that fundamentally
what I do is so someone's advance knows
their body really well and I know that
they get a full heart of effort but they
just have a really variable schedule I
have no problem with them to ease the
variable split well sometimes they train
harder sometimes easier but if someone's
prone to fuckery and prone to laziness
and prone to just disappearing I'm like
look you do this four times a
variability some deep earn so that's
exactly what I was gonna say I think
let's you stick to a rigid program until
the person proves that they can handle
otherwise all right so games I would
like to tell you quickly about a very
advanced scientific experiment did it
once oh really
they took a particle accelerator except
if they put a Japanese man like with the
fuckin sign off and then they had a
neighboring particle accelerator was at
the door right next to it to open it up
and put a Jewish man in there and he was
like and they accelerated them to like a
point nine nine times the speed of light
this
- the two of them together and out of
that experiment emerged supervillain
Shawn that sounds like they achieved
joopa knees fusion that was fucking good
man that's what you called him for the
three femtoseconds think they were still
alive because he immediately incinerated
the entire galaxy Oh humanity you ended
fool John says fools are such a sweet I
know one human fools like this is all I
just want to say that for real once it
catches people off guard - when you say
it like when you call somewhere they're
like what just like Skeletor me what the
fuck I was thinking of my default
character for that is perfect Sal oh
yeah that's noise human number one not
sure if this is an area you guys may be
familiar or not - but just thought to
see if you have any thoughts well of
commonly prescribed medications in Katy
depressants anxiety medications etc
often have one of those side effects a
squeaking do you think I specifically do
subconscious change there's things like
either an appetite or other actual
mechanistic waves wishes medications
cause weight gain um I can almost
certainly tell you that outside of
really really severe antipsychotics and
most of those drugs affect meat and
appetite there's no mechanistic stuff
but that's that's my understanding as
well is that it can definitely affluence
like your hunger levels and your
physical activity levels and that's
that's mainly what it comes down to some
of these drugs they have no idea things
it's really trippy like a drug approval
process I'm not saying this man thinks
this is great but you did know effective
but like if you read up on some of the
ways of drugs work like some some drugs
can effectively suppress symptoms of
schizophrenia which is really credible
because I'm a schizophrenic slight
functional individuals in modern society
but they're like this drug works by
making this protein and then this you
have absolutely no idea how it works
beyond that if some of the some of it
like side effects are like unbelievable
like a reduction in work capacity by
like half okay yeah it's like it like
how and it's like we don't know but it
should help keeps you not schizophrenic
wanting to take it and I guess it's
worth the try
some of them have not only trade-offs I
remember in high school we had a teacher
in our business class and he heads I
don't I don't want to get this wrong but
I think it was like a rare form of
cancer at the time it was a he got a
terminal diagnosis they're like homie
you're gonna die and they were like
there's this weird experimental
treatment that has a very low success
rate but we can give it a go
we're not really sure he got the
experimental treatment it worked he
lived but it gave him elephantitis so he
was this big I mean the guy was so fuck
outta here he was a huge swollen mess I
mean he looked he looks he looked like a
savagely obese person and the reality
was is that he had a medical condition
right but he you could tell people
looked down on him like you fat fuck
right Wow
but it was like it was like that or die
you know what I mean like a weird
trade-off I just watched the movie
predators plural for the 20th time
Laurence Fishburne right yes yes it is
an Adrian Brody and they asked like they
asking like he's like are you a good
person he's like I'm alive it is like
like hey you're four that I'm alive fuck
you yeah Laurence Fishburne us so many
great lines in that movie they're like
what's your name he's like the one that
got away oh my god favorite character he
was like explicitly like cameoed into
that movie like there was no that
character was not involved it's not in
the movie at all and then they're like
Oh Laurence Fishburne okay we got
something we got ate up on set halfway
through and they're like get in here
buddy yeah
what again we're like fuckin oh one of
my favorite scenes ever is when Adrien
Brody comes back to save what's her name
and the psycho killer guy is like in
psycho killer mode and he's got at the
blade if boys let me stand behind Adrien
Brody he's like right turns out you're
really a good guy and as he turns around
super quick and stabs himself with his
own needle or whatever like his own way
right into his the bottom of his job he
goes I'm not a good guy man did you did
you see John wick 3 yes
Laurence Fishburne's
after like was it like game over I was
just like what why are you in this movie
I can't wait 404 when him and John wick
and the other guy like fight against the
oh yeah that's gonna be sweet
I thought Laurence Fishburne was dead
for sure in that photo I was like I got
a ninja he's done he comes back like I'm
back baby come on get out of here and
the Bowery alright number two
Mike has mentioned his liking of Smith
machine for spotted it if I recall he
has even once but a graduate we
mentioned it might even better in some
ways than the standard squad fire or
trophy with regard to a so far yes for
the quads potential do you think there
are any other exercises which made
similarly you're actually better for
hypertrophy just to call that one
perform a smith machine maybe barbell
rows bench presses etc I can't make Lake
Stevens for everyone but experiments
with various exercises and you may find
they have better NASA farce for you for
me incline presses feel great on a smith
machine flat presses feel confusing
what's it called close Kirk Custis feel
pretty good Mike represses feel better
already Lamar and Albright Rose
sometimes feel good in a specific
machine sometimes not a lot of times it
depends on if the bar is too thick or
whatever and I think that there's a
bunch of other exercises you could
experiment with to see if maybe they're
better for this myth like all the old a
fight with my arms weren't so goddamn
big because Sue's my arms got really bad
I couldn't be sure what presses anymore
so we'd all the way down on my face but
before my arm got my arms got super
retarded I could the barbell press free
was fifty times better than any machine
because there's no machine it does the
arc length not that much so Smith
machine was sort of garbage for me but
you know some for some people that might
be better or so on and so forth
I have tried for years to get the
overhead press seated seated overhead
press on the Smith machine to work
because I grew up watching bodybuilders
doing that shit and I was always like
there's something here how can I not
figure this out why is this not a good
movement for me it turns out it's just a
terrible movement form
I can't do it bent rose and stuff yeah I
don't really get much out of it I think
incline pressing like Mike said seems to
be pretty good it might just be one of
those anthropometry things where if
you're lanky like me it might not be a
great movement for you but I think when
you're lanky have more of an arc to your
movements and that means a spent machine
kind of blows itself off yeah you can do
everything linear' little pumps um I've
done some like deadlift variants like
regular kind of styled Ed's or like
three-quarter dads are kind of like SL d
LS and the Smith and that sometimes is
okay I don't know it Smith for me has
not been successful outside of squatting
number three I recently watched the
optimal rep ranges video Mike mentions
how about ten to fifteen rep Rene just
like the ideal for hitting the
intermediate fibers also are you guys
mentioned how resting for shorter times
in linear ups subsequent fall isn't
necessarily a huge deal since you're
still getting the same effective reps
for the faster twitch fibers and just
missing out on the earlier shows slow
twitch fibers but if the reason they're
doing he sent in the 10 to 15 rep range
in the first place was to hit the
intermediate twitch fibers then would
defeat the purpose tool at subsequent
sets drops below 10 reps so for the
purpose of targeting your media fibers
for the same example of a framing of
smaller fibers in the 20 or 30 rep range
she then rest longer to keep the reps in
the appropriate range yeah there's
definitely good argument there's a lot
of thinking to go on I would say 15
immediate or fibrous then get hit really
well in the 20 or 30 rep range I think
if you want to hit the slower fibers a
lot then you really are just walking and
moving your body around at that point so
anything a lighter than a 20 30 rep
range just doesn't make a whole lot of
sense but if you want to rest a bit more
to accumulate a bit more volume I think
then I think you have somewhat of an
argument absolutely so if you get times
so remember we're saying it's not a huge
deal to rest only enough to get 5 reps
but there might be some small
differences so sometimes maybe it is a
good idea to rest a little longer so you
get a little more than just 5 reps
sometimes that autocorrects actually
because if you rest long enough until
your cardiovascular system is a limiting
factor anymore and now your muscle is
your living factor again the muscle and
that that point might have been resting
ten times long with it needed for its
home five wraps to be met so now you're
good for another 20 rounds like that I
could totally happen think so so
basically like you can do a set of
squats like you do a set of 15 in the
squad by the time you're breathing if
return to normal
your quads your lower back in your
central fatigue is like none right think
everything is fine it should be took
that long once everything is relatively
normal that means it's the longer
limiting factor and I use applause
relief factor again you didn't actually
get a set of 12 left for that and then a
set of 11 so I think a lot of times when
people get this huge drop-off of like 10
by 5 3 3 3 they're actually not letting
all four factors of recovery run their
course
totally totally so just keep in mind -
like it's we use those rep ranges
because they are useful but they are
proxies right so what's more important
here is the actual weight that you're
using that gets you into that range and
that's why it's probably not a huge deal
if the reps fall off because it's more
about the load that you're using not
necessarily like did my set and at 8
wraps right it's more that you were
using a load that puts you in that
initial zone in the fur on the first set
and now you're good to go
now there is something to be said about
not resting enough and then really
severely constricting your volumes that
you can get unnecessarily but within
like some very reasonable constraints
and stuff that mike has talked about a
thousand times already it's perfectly
okay to let those drop off kind of
outside of the initial range that you
set so long as you got there on the
first set you're at the right loading
zone and that's probably more important
than the actual number of reps that you
got within a few minor constraints James
to her that one time when there was this
research lab and they were trying to
save this person who had been at a
terrible industrial accidents and oh let
me get it let me guess he then became
metal Paul yeah yes yes go finish it go
ahead we the main scientist was like how
was he doing it have you be able to save
him like yes doctor but unfortunately
he's now all and then the tube turns
around to expose him metal he's like
shiny man please like humanities days
are
he becomes like metallo like in DC's
famous fucking supervillain
yeah I don't really understand what his
purpose is and he's like a robot with a
fucking dildo in his heart made of
Superman's bullshit what is that shit
called oh the Kryptonite yeah it was
like a dude with a purple that dildo his
ass yeah speaking of dildo sorry it's a
side bar have you seen oh you were gonna
say kryptonite big mouth season three
you been watching so crystal I started
watching it I gotta say man I can't
believe I'm gonna side a little bit with
our friend all God this just oh my I
wish not immune to this I know I like it
and I have to we just watched two
episodes it they're good it's la man
there's some like really cringey moments
we were just like oh like you feels the
eggs eggs I and yeah they're trying to
smash a lot of controversial stuff and
it just as they're very short the jokes
like okay yeah a heating process what
that was funny yet because it's been one
like controversial thing after another
like it's awesome but it's just like
woohoo I need a break from it yeah it
gets like I don't want to give any
spoilers I just finished it like the
other day it's like when you get deep
into the season there are some moments
where like I was feeling legit panic for
some of the characters or I was like if
this goes the direction that I think
it's going it's gonna be like
devastating for me to watch all right
and they do a good job of what really
building it up we're just like oh I
can't stand watching it and then they
just let it kind of diffuse and you
never feel like the soul crushing defeat
of what you think is gonna happen let's
um yeah they there was like there was at
least three or four moments where I was
like if this happens on the show
I I might have to turn it off because
it's like too much oh man and then but
then like it just kind of fizzles right
and like they fizzle it out and you
never really feel it and you're like
okay I'm good I'm good we can keep going
but but the seasons good it's worth
watching there's a the world war come
episode is like so funny yeah stick with
it
I know it's it's it is a lot it's
intense but it's it's worth
metal Paul says hey Doc's training is
going great thanks for all the advice
number one if someone always gets up in
the middle of the night to take a piss
would it be a good idea to allocate some
protein for that time you can allocate
say 10 grams of protein and chug down a
small casein shake to stay in an epoxy
for longer the jury's still out on that
there might be some benefits of just not
digesting anything for a while later
you've got clear may be benefit in
generating a bit of a refraction or a
bit of a refractory period for not
eating Bronto Java seems to think there
might be small benefits so it's good to
eat most of the day but at night maybe
it's better not to eat but then again it
might not be the case that I can't stay
one way or the other so maybe try and
make more I think - like for the amount
of potential benefit you might get it's
an awful lot of fuss I mean like you
have to have that ready to go has to
become the part of your routine I mean
it's a bit of fuss yeah and then he says
I think I'm like they seem to be getting
cramps in the evening in my quads it's
freaking horrible can't get up off the
couch sometimes lol is this a good thing
or a bad thing
secondly any idea what might be causing
it as I never had this before the only
thing I've changed besides being in a
deficit is that I'm not doing some 20 to
30 rep leg extensions where I go before
I have all these burns I'm dying but I
don't fucking care give me the gains
squeezing out those last drops water
intake sodium etcetera all change so you
basically like reaching other that
you're a short term functional over
reaching you can train hard enough to
disrupt
excitation contraction coupling
I so long is if you do this for several
weeks and your performance is increasing
for stable I wouldn't worry about it but
this could be a sign that you're going
way too hard in performance when I
started to climb and then I will be
careful and sort of how much all you do
like this this is like not unusual when
you introduce metabolite training to any
given muscle group especially the legs
this is one of those things like in
weeks one and two you might get like
fasciculations and some cramping and
then weeks three andand they just it
just goes away by itself but what Mike
said is spot-on
you're probably acutely overreaching on
that particular exercise so maybe just
back off of one set for now see how it
goes but I can just tell you from
experience like this this happens it's
not great it doesn't feel good but it
it's not like the most it's not unusual
is all I'm saying
so don't don't don't read too deeply
into it outside of maybe just consider
that you did a few too many sets other
than that probably no big deal yeah all
right and over the green hills from
Ireland comes Cap'n Farley that's where
we're gonna know if he's from Ireland
where we're going to Ireland in a couple
peas Kevin parley sure as hell seems
like his last name comes from Ireland
mm-hmm he says hey docks hope all is
well really been enjoying content lately
as well as the app and its updates and
migratory chocolate supercool questions
number one can get you educated if it's
a natural bodybuilding competitors use
who are cycling legal over-the-counter
tests boost your skin they're
Federation's does this stuff really work
I imagine that their adherence to the
conscious prep guide training cardio and
more do with the peeled appearance than
their cycle even for cotton supplements
if your feathers better to ask what this
but I know the guys used to use for
hormones
now don't and they can be naturally all
the illegal over-the-counter Tuscaloosa
jurors either don't do anything that are
actually just steroids so the ones they
get tested regularly don't use them but
there's a lot of ways to beat natural
autumn only tests so I'm sure it happens
I think almost all natural bodybuilders
the very top are actually drug-free but
there are certainly guys that use this
stuff and it works and it makes for
pretty big difference not sleep at night
because yours come back he's a shit that
should be competing against Ronan years
yeah I think it's more often than not
just like like Mike said actual drugs
put into a bottle just straight up lying
so number two would either if you
recommend massing after any cut would
even under a mess after you get down to
a specific body fat level currently in
Amenas face oh I see after my cut for
summer or a month time to turn nine
pounds and I'm up to 212 currently I've
no idea what about a fair percentages
but should I go back and do a cut again
to lower body weight before mass um if
you like super fucking fat there's stuff
hanging off just maintain for a while
and cut again but if there's nothing
hanging off and you're good to mass and
if you have seen any semblance of abs or
bangs you shoot down a mess yeah I think
that's like the good litmus test like if
you have at like not just like I have a
little bit of ABS poking out and maybe
some obliques going like if you have abs
you're good to go and if you don't maybe
consider cutting until you do
but you don't have to it's a good let's
test number three what do you know your
body is ready to go back into another
cutting phase actually pretty easy so
you envision the depravity of another
cutting phase of what it would entail
and you try to psychologically very
honestly because you know there's no one
watching just to you see if that's
something you can serve a hybrid
something then you can get a lot out of
without shading the BET basically like
puts you to scream let's say you're a
week out after a hard cut and you're
with your friends you're at all eating
sushi and like before the sushi comes
out you're like sort of murder me not
only I was gonna get here and as soon as
it comes out he's trying to eat or go
ravenous from that so good so fucking
good and then the waitress comes finds
like you guys want to order more like
yes oh my god awesome
and then you have that thought to
yourself like am I ready for another
cutting phase in a week and then you
think about the no more all you came
sushi you're like fuck no no I don't
ever want to see another cop I don't get
fuck cutting right then there's
something in a medium where you're like
can I cut for another three months and
you're like feeling pretty good I'm not
super hungry but I know ligands often my
food and still beat up from last phase
I'm still a bit food focused and my
energy is not amazing yet my training is
great I know I could probably last a
couple weeks but then I need you sick
fucking no I'm just gonna go stage
you're crazy to starve again that's not
still not good to go when it's first
good to go is well you're like you know
what I think I could do another kind of
problem like super honest to myself like
I'm over this food business and I'm
gonna care one way or the other I want
to be fucking leaner I know it's gonna
be a little tough but I don't give a
shit like I want to get fucking me and
then the best scenario were for sure
ready to come is when someone's like hey
do you want to go to I can you shoot at
me well no food I well fuck I can't do
it I can't
York I was eating I'm massing right now
I wasn't even filled with blood in it
after my workout and I was like I took
one spoonful I put him in mouth and I
was like how the fuck am I gonna get the
other ten spoonfuls in like it was just
difficult to eat the whole meal was only
a hundred grams of carbs true he's not a
lot was it fuck fuck like if I had to
cut if you said tomorrow you start
cutting I'm like thank you thank God
right to basically figure out what else
a brutal oatmeal's brutal
for cutting but you know James I'll tell
you this man I mean that's weird
conundrum I'm sure you've been in before
I'm using a little peer variation
because the thought of eating rice
literally gave me like dry heaves oh
yeah no worries that's it oh well with
Splenda is great too yeah yeah or you
get there like sugar-free syrup and just
take out like 5 grams of carbs from
oatmeal and there you go
no I'm totally but like it's if you have
so many food for most meals ahead you
don't you know I'll just kill myself
like every now and again it's just
better the rice because it's not rice do
you get like a sick full body pump from
eating oatmeal you mean like right after
with no training yes no damn games
you're on to some other shit then I
don't know what it is when I eat oatmeal
like an hour later I'll be like oh just
like swelling up I feel it it's so
strange I have no idea what it is it's
like I think the probably lurk Jovie
yeah probably about to go into
anaphylaxis okay
don't fucking inject me with that shit I
need a fucking pop you out all right
and then he says sorry Nepal up again
forgot to ask this one as well if you're
staying within a certain rep range 10 to
20 for instance is it not good if the
later sets three and four creep into the
6 to 10 rep range basin are totally fine
actually
if you want to scroll back in the
recording and when we answered Sean
Burroughs question number three
generally speaking is totally fine
unless the reps get below 505 and then
also just wanted to backtrack to the
first part of that question another good
thing to consider too and I know you
asked more about when your body is ready
to get back to cutting but I also
consider like when your lifestyle is get
is ready to go back to cutting like you
have stuff going on do you have plans do
you have weddings do you have vacation
do you have travel coming up all of
those things are also worth noting
yeah ok if I had to do a biopic about
any games that would be called worth
noting the James Hoffman story mm-hmm
James Hoffman story be awful alright
let's see we got a few live questions
here I'm going to take this
yeah
questions you got to open the chat space
ah okay great all right so take it I
might start James go for it um Ariana's
iPhone is that PI leader it says Mariana
SPO and now you're Kyle come on Jesus
Christ what is the difference between
acute soreness that presents almost a
needed it versus the bands that arrives
two days later she the informa train
differently some exercises give me
almost no keep so honest lots of times
and other exercises because the reverse
does this even matter
um dimes is you've probably caused by
immune system infiltration after and
it's usually due considerably more
damage than any acute damage doesn't
cometh downs so the stuff that causes
Don was leads you're probably going
pretty hard but if it's a ton of Dom's
you might want to consider backing off
because you might be able to train with
a higher frequency or higher volume or
higher intensity over the week if your
downs per session he is not completely
insane it causes you seven days of
misery so that's a lot of the like times
you get acute soreness like that is
because the novelty or the awkwardness
of the movement is so massive you get a
lot of like co-contraction a lot of
stabilization type tasks and you just
activate a lot of the muscle fibers and
it's just foreign right so your
efficiency is very low some are just
gnarly like lunges I'll get an instant
soreness I don't know about you Mike but
if I do like dumbbell lunge like an hour
later my butt's already sore done done
deal
I start getting fasciculations and crabs
right yeah yeah and a lot of that could
be like I said so a lot of it's like
stabilization and inefficiency of the
movement like if you haven't done it for
a while it's kind of a single leg
movement it's two legs but you kind of
our favor and one over the other and
could be that could be all sorts of
stuff but not a really I don't think it
really influences your training to any
large degree outside of what Mike said
about getting too much Dom's and then
Sega says what up what up yeah exactly
something he confirmed our suspicions on
the lunges oh yes right lunges were
exactly what I had in mind all right
well it looks like that's it for this
week it's not because we have to answer
three questions from YouTube oh I forgot
let's do it
it's all just going through my hands
don't function as a one-time proxy for
YouTube so interesting question that I
wanted to expand on the Instagram but
not because Instagram is bucketing
they're going to take on McCormick
Brandon James asks what's the difference
between what a metric you know eccentric
loading and stretching under tension so
my answer was stretching under tension
is when you're at a very long muscle
Lake and you apply tension during that
time eccentric loading is simply when a
muscle is lengthening potentially not
remotely being stretched but you are
controlling the lengthening Cyr applying
tension so for example if you have a leg
curl and you're literally like as close
like here's oh the knee open here is any
closed if you do let curls like this
okay your hamstrings are getting
stretched for shit but if you slow this
part and then go fast slow this part
you're doing eccentric loading stretch
under tension doesn't even have to be
eccentric it be concentric boom boom
like that then all of a sudden you're
doing a lot of stretch under tension
them both of them independently likely
promote different pathways to
hypertrophy so it's worth controlling
the eccentric on those movements and
making sure the variety of exercises for
a variety of muscle groups provide
stretch under tension yeah so you could
think of it like really simply like as
if you had like a pneumatic press that
was pushing down on you if you were to
just mostly hold your arm limp and
something pushed down right that would
be stretch under tension eccentric
loading is where you are actually doing
a muscle contraction and allowing the
muscle to lengthen at the same time so
coach Tim did this shit to me once we
were in the fucking lab and he was like
hey coach Jim catch he threw one of the
blue the blue plates at me where I just
swatted away right so if it just hadn't
hit me and stretched me out that would
have been stretched under tension if I
catch it and bring it down
that's eccentric loading
asper Gaines says there are so many
confounding this is in response to a
post I made about delayed onset muscle
soreness or soreness advantage I'm sorry
damaging and hypertrophy there are so
many could finally variables but it
seems like all we can do is scale for
optimality by trying to improve
everything bit by bit on the off chance
that that's the biggest variable
affecting growth which I'm not the
moaning it just seems to be the way of
things in the surrounding creating the
right conditions for growth seem almost
more important like there's a general
climate of conditions for all the
variables above that produce optimal
games perhaps using multiple modalities
with pathways to stimulate enhance
performance or size the perfect storm so
to speak so the variables that I listed
was using a novel exercised increasing
load increasing relative intensity
increasing volume eccentric loading
metabolite summation stretch our
attention and targeting the right muscle
by changing technique all of these cost
soreness and they all caused growth
so basically posted the slide off from a
future rp+ lecture to get people who
immediately wipe away the idea that
soreness could happen any any
relationship to growth as we don't want
to dismiss that flippantly do you know
what I mean James like I got lost in
what you were saying sorry could you say
so I listed basically eight correlates
of soreness and growth using a novel
exercise increasing load increasing
relative intensity increasing volume I
got that in part loading yeah all that
stuff correlates with soreness so when
people say soreness has nothing to do
with growth oh I seem to think that
through yeah right because gee you know
there's a whole awful lot of correlation
for us to say there's no way that can be
causation right in this this individual
says that we basically might have to
piecemeal these strategies goodbye bit
and see which one is best what I would
say is I think it's worth diving in and
investigating whether or not damage at
some mechanistic level causes
hypertrophy to a point at all because
here's the deal if damaged in some sense
maybe it's a huge aid curve right and
it's a some point damage has been
it's negative we for sure it's negative
past a certain point that's for sure
already been resolved the question is is
any damage actually positive to a point
of growth right if there is a point of
damage which is positive that's awesome
because then we can use damage as a
proxy for fucking hypertrophy and find
out that ends point and train to there
if we find out it's not at all and then
zero damage is optimal for hypertrophy
somebody people people actually put
their cool if we find out that damage is
always indirectly in the inventory like
competitive with either if you feel like
recovery adaptations this bag and any
amount of damage we take off to recovery
we get give us weight adaptation then we
can optimize our programs essentially to
try to maximize tension and stimulus and
all these other things while trying to
reduce damage as much as possible so I
think I'll I had a lot of comments on
this supposed to be simply just fucking
matter just train hard yeah but what is
hard and how hard if damage truly has no
relationship diaper traffic at all then
who cares we can stop looking at it
if damage costs hypertrophy then we have
to minimize it if it's some benefit and
at some point at a cost we need to know
what those lines are do you know what I
mean James do have anything to just I
just don't think it's an open-and-shut
case would be probably who cares it's
like yeah gee we might need to care I
think you're totally spot-on and I think
it's also one of those things like it's
it's probably probably won't know the
answers to those questions for decades
it's just a very difficult thing to
piecemeal together but I think it also
might be the true that it's it might be
a necessary evil
like as a byproduct of the things that
you need to do to stimulate growth
damage just happens and it just is
something that you have to manage right
rather than saying like is it
detrimental or is it beneficial it's it
might be one of those things that just
is and there's a point where it is too
much and that's pretty clear but there's
a huge gray area where it's just like a
byproduct of the other things you need
to do like generating tension and
metabolites and stuff like that I don't
know I don't think we're gonna know for
awhile because it's such a nitpicky
thing and it's so hard to measure I
don't know how they could possibly
measure that but it is worth try to find
out because they change traditions very
much and I mean like we usually talk
about it in terms of hyper
but you could also that has major
implications for sport training as well
all times yeah most people don't think
twice about saying like three by five or
five by five during a sport like a
strength phase for any given sport but
you might actually find that like okay
two by five causes so much disruption
that the actual cost benefit of the
strength you gained relative to how much
damage you took I'd be terrible might
actually be better just like one set who
knows I don't know I'm just speculating
but any because like the full range of
motion damages you are the partial age
of motion on average he might prescribe
partial range of motion exercises in
season yeah it shows out the damage is
really that competitive of adaptation
that could cost it a fatigue versus if
it's part of the adaptive process and
the process of what conserves games and
it's like look you gotta do full squats
because keeping shape and Achon a lot of
partials foster's can't do yeah
especially when you factor in like a
multivariable training program where you
have somebody who's not just doing
weight training maybe they're doing
cardio maybe they're doing naked hockey
like who knows maybe they're doing all
sorts of stuff I think it becomes
increasingly interesting and then you
could look at like okay what about
soreness from contact is that the same
what is that has the same level of
impact on hypertrophy training as
soreness from tray like those are really
interesting weird questions that we just
it's hard to answer yeah yeah last
question from YouTube is by gentleman
actually been to real-life Lloyd Supreme
I talked to him okay there you go he
he's like a high or some shit
that's right he says so I said in this
post that the chest is one of the most
straightforward muscles to train you
just use full Rahman presses and flies
and just go all the way up and down and
you're just gonna get bigger if he is
stronger he asked her she questioned
what muscles would you classify it as
difficult to train I had at least two
ideas
possibly three that I listed here rear
doubts why the difficulty that I want to
hear your thoughts James on what you
think are small muscles that are
difficult to train I don't mean hard
purse like perceptively
well they can take a lot of effort I
just mean like if someone's like hey I
can't hit my XYZ you've got oh that's
easy
they gonna have to do some work but I
can tell you how versus if they say oh I
can't hit this other box really ROG you
know
stuff so for me rear delts like I don't
know when they're on I don't know when
they're off 50 exercises sort of
activate there but nothing really
isolates them perhaps if you go heavy
enough for the shrug to really get your
traps you have no idea what you're doing
anymore you go light enough nothing
fucking works and it's your study Ronnie
Coleman said once there's so many
muscles on the way to the traps they
keep you're holding a dumbbell here it's
the forearms it's the biceps as the
shoulders and by the time you get to
your traps like no one is limiting this
motion I don't know if it's my traps or
not and then I've solved these problems
with hamstrings for myself but for many
people hamstrings because like if you
don't know how to do a proper SL deal
which takes at least two probably three
points of control the arching of the
chest are arching the spine posterior
anterior pelvic tilt and making sure to
control knee flexion extension if you
miss any one of those especially the
hips enemies the movement turns
completely ineffective like you really
who be doing stuff like battles for
years or just can nothing out of them so
I think for me those movements those
muscles have been much more challenged
to be a week someone's like I can't
train my quads really can't get on this
leg press go all the way up and down now
die like that's it there's no quads are
so easy to smash what do you think James
what are some muscles that you've
experienced talk to him I think those
are really good examples I was we were
on the same wavelength I was gonna say
rhomboids because the way you have to
lower your rhomboids yeah you have to go
against gravity right so unless you're
in like a seated position and you have
to be willing to allow the scapular
protraction to even occur most people
will get in a good posture and then lock
up with their scapula's retracted and
and they're not really training there
are scapula's as much anymore they're
just doing isometric so it's really hard
to actually get the movement it's hard
to get into a good position so I always
found those and sometimes people will
like flare their elbows out and get a
lot of lat
kind of Co activation and stuff like
that so that was always one that was
tough I had another one Oh targeting the
the lower part of the abdominals can be
very difficult for a lot of people and
this I think is especially like with
female clients a lot of times like the
top like one to four ABS will be really
prominent when they get really neat and
then the bottom part will just kind of
wash out and it's difficult there's a
lot there's only a few movements that
can really get in there and even then
it's like it might be emphasizing the
the top half way more than the bottom
half it's a tough one yeah that's it man
that's those were terrible for Instagram
questions I selectively alright so
little housekeeping so we're gonna be
leaving for Ireland on Thursday when are
you coming back Monday you're gonna be
back Monday Mel and I might still be in
Ireland until now do you know what they
would get back you know what day that is
is it all I got Monday Tuesday Wednesday
[Music]
Wednesday so we might have to do a
modified schedule for this upcoming week
schedule it for next Thursday on the
okay so RP Plus and YouTube we're gonna
do a modified schedule next week because
of the seminar that we're doing in
Dublin so let's plan for the same time
which is a 7:30 eastern US time 4:30
California time on Thursday this week
not the usual Tuesday because we're
gonna be traveling so one more time
Thursday this week normal time instead
of Tuesday next week next week sorry
excuse me yeah okay cool I think we're
all set
alright bye Internet later thank you