hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization video number 10 in the how
to build and execute your hypertrophy
mesocycle video series there's 12 videos
total so getting to the end of things
here today we're going to talk about
individualizing volume I'm going to tell
you all about how that works
and I'm going to try to show you how it
works with the new RP hypertrophy app
which is for sale the link is right in
the description below it's the top link
and by the way if you like it for a
month think about getting it for the
year for two good reasons one it
actually saves you 30 money which is
like a lot of savings definitely
consider that the other is it gets me a
lot of money and I like money don't you
like money it wouldn't be nice if I got
wealthy you could look from your not so
wealthy home up to my home on the hill
and you can see my unicorns practicing
for synchronized unicorn dancing which
is what I'm gonna get into when I'm a
trillionaire in any case
volume adjustment here we go
in the hypertrophy app and without it if
you want to do the stuff in your head
and be a proper scientist so to speak
the algorithm that determines your
volume that it recommends and by
recommends I mean it just physically
gives you fewer or more sets every
single time that you train
is complicated because at least three
factors go into it
the first factor is how pumped you're
getting if you're getting really crappy
pumps that are barely there it'll
probably want to raise your volume if
you're getting amazing pumps it probably
doesn't want to give you any more volume
because you're checking the green box
you're winning
the next one is soreness if you don't
get sore at all that's probably okay as
long as you're getting good pumps and
good progression
but if you're not getting great pumps
and everything else is mad if you're not
getting sore at all trying to do more
volume is probably a good direction
towards more growth but if you're
getting really sore especially super
ultra sore you don't want to do any more
volume and maybe even a little bit less
because there's too much damage and it's
Overkill but there's a third Factor
there
what your own perception is of your
fatigue and Recovery status
for sustainability purposes and
sustainably is the only way we grow
muscle enough of it in the long term you
got to keep coming back week on week
if you are doing an amount of volume
let's say 10 by 10 in the squat if
you're really having thought things
through
if you're doing an amount of volume that
overwhelms you
you feel psychologically and physically
under recovered yeah the pumps or
whatever the soreness is whatever you're
just drained you can't keep doing that
to yourself the point at which you
should feel completely drained and
overwhelmed is the last week of every
single mesocycle before the deload all
the weeks up to that should be much more
manageable so you shouldn't have a
volume that is overwhelming to you it is
not ideal or sustainable physiologically
and very importantly psychologically
like you guys ever looked at your plan
and you're like I have six sets of
upright rows
I'm gonna kill myself or just leave the
gym and never do an upright row ever
again
and if you do a lot of sets if you have
a ton of sets like way too many for how
much your volume tolerance is from what
your workload tolerances
you can get through them but you you
sort of there's a fatal conceit there
is that you are just getting through
them
right 15 16 17 rack fuck God I hear two
minutes later right here yeah
maybe if you had three or four sets of
upright rows and not six
you could focus like a fucking Cyborg on
those three or four sets and just
fucking grind them out perfect decentral
control everything because you're not
overwhelmed by the amount of volume you
have to do and then you could really do
a high quality job with those three or
four sets and get your best combination
of growth and fatigue because you could
get a little bit more growth from doing
six cents not so well then four sets
really well but the fatigue that comes
along for the ride is so high it's just
going to burn you out in a few weeks
anyway and you're not going to get a lot
of long-term gains
so
pump and soreness we already asked about
those
and talked about them in video number
eight perhaps handling all that already
but there is another question for
workload that the Apple asks you
independently let's look at this in the
hypertrophy mesocycle that we made
earlier so we're going to check this in
and it's going to say it's going to ask
about joint pain and chest soreness
let's say we got low pain and got a
little sore okay great and then just so
happens that at the end of the workload
for a specific muscle group every
exercise that goes in that muscle Group
which this bench press camera bar down
set is the last in this example
what we're going to have here is once we
check in and do as many reps it's going
to ask us joint pain again because it's
a different load so if you switch the
load sometimes heavier loads cause more
joint pains and lighter loads the app
will keep track of that which is really
neat say well I didn't get a joint pain
here the chest pump was actually really
good moderate and not amazing now the
chest workload question comes up I will
put a fine point on this this is where
honesty to yourself is the only only
only thing that matters let's take a
look at how and why so it says chest
workload
how would you rate the difficulty of the
work you did for your chest all of the
sets combined how do you feel was it
easy because look to be honest our
program currently is two sets of chests
you'd be like boom boom done right this
is the easiest thing in the world of
course you'd click easy that's obvious
next one is pretty good and this one I
would say like
it's something you can keep doing week
after week after week
in week one ideally everything should be
easy in weeks two three four Etc except
for that last week
you should probably be clicking pretty
good if you're not click easy or click
push my limits and the app will help
raise or lower your volume to get you
it's kind of trying to get you into a
pretty good State most of the time
if pushed your limits is what you select
here's how you feel about it right push
your limits means this and it means
exactly this let's say you had
seven total sets for chest
after set seven when you rack the shit
if your buddy turns to you who does not
have the RPI purchase app you scan man
I'm feeling it you want to do another
set you're like bro
that last set dot dot dot pushed my
limits
I don't think any more is a good idea it
really really the next set is going to
be junk volume for me the next set I'm
just gonna be like I'm still here I
think
pushed your limits means it was great
stimulus it wasn't too much but damn
it's getting close to that fine line
it's the same thing could be true with
like eating you know you like have like
a huge burrito at like the great Mexican
place down the street and someone's like
Are You full you're like bro I'm not too
full I'm not hurting
but if I have another
chip another corn chip and throw it in
my mouth another tortilla chip that'll
be that I'll be way overboard so push my
limits is I don't want to do any more
and here's a little Insider trick if you
click push my limits on any of your
muscle groups in the app in any given
session
the next time that session comes up
again next week it won't increase your
sets no matter what your rate for pump
or soreness or anything else it won't
increase them anymore Push by limits is
a hard stop to know more
seven sets that's it next week also
seven even if you the pump and soreness
and all this other stuff said hey like
you could do eight sets it won't go to
eight so if the app is overdoing the
volume for you that means you are not
being honest enough with your workload
rating so the workload rating is your
chance it's your second to last chance
to really decide do I want to do less
volume the same amount of volume or more
volume and if you're like look I don't
want to do any more volume I feel like
it won't be sustainable for me just say
push my limits you are not admitting
that your ego is weak we don't expect
you to be able to do more it's nonsense
let all that stuff just float right the
fuck out of your head again that I want
to push I want to press push my limits
but it was only four sets of leg press
like okay okay let me do the logic for
you that means you're a bad person they
mean someone who's better than you in
every single way who should be married
to the wife you're married to instead
she just found your dumb ass he could do
five sets of leg press is that what you
think the world has come to no if it
pushed your limits so push your limits
that's it now if you're like I'm just
being a wuss fucking don't push my
limits do you really think like I can do
more
I should do more hell yeah say pretty
good or easy but if it really is pushing
your limits don't do any more because
quality always comes before quantity
so be honest and of course if it's too
much because sometimes you like nine
sets of legs you really can't walk after
set six set six was officially your push
to limit set and you did three more
and I'm like look you got too ahead of
yourself you got excited you programmed
all these sets
put in too much if it's accurate then
the app will reduce how much work you do
next week I said earlier a second to
last chance I'll show you what the last
chance looks like and last chance is
repeating for always so let's say pretty
good we say okay great
if we want let's see if we go down to
Barb about Metro and it's programmed two
sets for us and we know like yeah last
week I did choose what I chose and it is
I understand it has capped me at two
sets because of what I chose but like I
was stressed I felt like what was too
much it was because my girlfriend was
breaking up with me and she physically
used my dog's body to hit me with it was
real nasty argument I can do more this
week you just go right up here and you
add a set no problem or if you have
three sets and you're like man I know I
rated what I rated but two sets is gonna
cook my ass you go over here and you
remove a set and you can do it anytime
you want so as a recap
soreness and pump stuff the app handles
for you be honest with that
the workload stuff be really honest with
that because it's the second to last
time really as a programmatic feed
forward thing it's the last chance you
get to tell the app hey uh I do want
more sets if you think it's good on
other grounds or no I definitely don't
want any more sets
the push my limits thing is a huge thing
to use for time saving
if you've used our templates before and
you rate accurately and you can
hypothetically do more they'll just keep
giving you more volume and you're like
fucking God why this is crazy I don't
want this and then people were saying
dude look I like you guys RP is great
but I'm doing two hour workouts I don't
have time for two hour workouts I want
an hour and that's it with this app you
build your workout you get to choose
when you build it exactly how many sets
you're going to do first week you can
edit all the sets yourself
condense it down to something that takes
you 45 minutes with a little bit of room
for adding a few sets here and there but
when you don't want any more sets you're
like my workout takes me an hour next
week it's going to also take me an hour
I don't want to take any more because I
only have an hour great just great push
your limits on everything it's not
judging you under the hood it's not
calling you a little bitch don't worry
about any of that stuff it's just gonna
say hey this is the most this person
wants to do set wise it still progresses
you unload it still progresses you on
reps you will still get phenomenal
results if you just say push my limits
it'll never add another set to that
muscle group or that exercise ever again
for the entire rest of the mesocycle as
long as you keep hitting push my limits
if you are strapped for time and if you
want a workout that's quick make a quick
workout right everything is push limits
rate all the soreness and pump and stuff
accurately and it will not increase your
sets any more than you wanted to and
last chance is like if you want another
set here and there you can always add it
manually and then next week it'll go
okay you do two sets the week before
this week you did three next week I'm
gonna assume you want to do three again
unless you want to delete it and go from
there so the app here is really just
infinitely customizable to exactly what
you want but it also thinks under the
hood it's like an expert system that
says hey like uh this is what I came up
for you is probably the best idea based
on your rating it has better ideas but
at the end of the day you are the
Arbiter you can always choose the Reps
load wait you can always modify them the
app is value free it doesn't judge you
but secretly this algorithm that judges
you morally and actually the app
collects your data stream off of your
apps like YouTube and judges the shit
out of what videos you're watching
hentai it'll judge you on that in any
case
judge you positively of course a man of
culture
I've said enough possibly too much Link
in the description to buy the thing buy
it I get more Lamborghinis we'll see you
guys next time next Tuesday for the next
video in the series peace homies