spending too much time lifting weights
can kill you early some research
suggests that might be the case now hold
on going from not lifting at all to
spending around an hour lifting per week
does actually improve your health it
essentially lowers risk of dying your
risk of getting cancer your risk of
diabetes and your risk of CI vascular
disease by around 20% however once you
go past about an hour of lifting a week
your risk for many of these things
actually starts increasing again and by
the time you spend more than about 2
hours a week lifting your risk might
actually be above what it would be if
you didn't lift at all and this is
consistent across multiple metanalyses
now I don't think spending too much time
lifting is going to kill you earlier
just because we don't have a clear
mechanism in mind yet there are also a
lot of confounders like potentially P
usage that could explain this
relationship we see in these hundreds of
thousands of people however what we can
be pretty confident about is that if you
want the health benefits of lifting you
don't need to spend a ton of time in the
gym just around an hour in the week May
actually maximize your benefits do you
think