what's the single best tricep exercise
out there I think it's the cable
overhead extension and here's why first
it lengthens the long head of the
triceps more by putting your arm in an
overhead position lengthening it at the
shoulder second by directly grabbing the
cable you're able to have no issues
getting a full stretch as opposed to
when you use a dumbbell you may find
that the sheer size of dumbbell might
get in the way of getting a full stretch
on your triceps if for some reason you
can't do cable overhead extensions feel
free to dumbbell overhead extensions or
barbell overhead extensions in if you
can't do overhead extensions consider
doing Skull Crushers the skull crusher
does have your shoulder at about 90Â° of
flexion still somewhat lengthening the
long head finally when it comes to the
medial and the lateral head of the
triceps the position of your shoulder
doesn't really matter the main thing is
going to be getting a full stretch
getting your elbow fully flexed in order
to fully lengthen the medial and lateral
head so you can use any tricep extension
variation or even any compound exercise
for the triceps when it comes to the
medial and lateral head give overhead
extensions a shot and let me know what
you think