[Music]
[Music]
all right what's going on guys so I'm
here at American barbell I'm here with
the mountain dog himself John Meadows
we're gonna be hitting a leg workout
today I'm gonna let John take it over
and share all of his wonderful wisdom
with us
you're not gonna kill me too too much
today no no I'm just old man cranking so
guys if you're not aware John is in my
opinion one of the best coaches in the
whole industry we did a full interview
together through Skype I said I'm coming
down to the Arnold Classic let's go
ahead and work out together so that's
what we're doing out today and so what
are we gonna kick it off with we're
gonna kick it off with some leg curls
maybe a little bit of leg extensions the
plan is to do some squatting today so
one of the things I've found through the
years actually just by accident was
doing a leg curl seems to make a squat
feel better the movement pattern it just
feels better it's one of those things if
you just try it you'll know what I mean
and we'll probably do a little bit of
leg extensions - just getting warmed up
and then we want to hammer some safety
bar squats and we're gonna load some
chains up on it but but we're gonna get
everything kicked off with some really
hard leg girls the goal being to just
get those hamstrings firing a ton of
blood in there kind of cushion our squat
so that's what we want to start today
all right let's get it I'm gonna
actually get into some gym clothes and
get started with some hamstring curls so
what's the idea here with the electro
are we what are we doing over here
well we're gonna work our way up the
stack so we're just gonna take our time
again the idea is get a lot of blood in
our am generally I'm just trying to
control the weight on the way down and
I'm trying to squeeze on the way up a
lot of times people see my tempo because
I'm I really like to train explosively
yeah they'll think okay he looks like
he's they're not really supposedly so it
looks like he's just thrown away though
but I'm actually not I'm actually just
contracting the muscle all right so it's
just controlled and then the aggressive
control be aggressive so
that's kind of the general temporal or I
don't really do the number thing gotcha
yeah me either in terms of like sets and
reps is there a target you're going for
we just kind of warm it up and going by
field what we want to do is we're going
to work our way up slowly so that we'll
have some volume but there's only gonna
be one set that's really really
difficult
okay so we'll have a set that will take
beyond failure we'll also add some by
intensity techniques but only one of
those because that's man when you do
that that's all we don't need yeah so
we'll just work up to that so you get a
little bit more blood he said a little
bit more blood nothing really to failure
but then once we get to that way where
it's we're gonna be shooting for around
eight reps okay and then once we get up
to where it's a really tough a that's
when we kick in that really really hard
set and now one set is it's enough man
alright
[Music]
that's it for the warm-up pyramid sets
now we're going to jump into our main
killer set so John was just saying we're
gonna start here with the cam on one
so this basically loads it evenly kind
of throughout the whole range of motion
so we're gonna go pretty much the
failure here right then we're gonna drop
it up to - this is gonna load the top
half yeah so it'll make it a little bit
easier load the top half more then we're
gonna drop the weight back go to failure
again and then we're gonna do partials
and then I so hold okay okay here we go
okay let's go eight reps one more they
stay in there come on two more come on
go go go one more time one more time
yeah okay stay in there stay in there
okay here we go come on there we go
three oh me halfway three more two more
okay now little partial partial 1 2 3 6
so ok now hold it now hold it 10 9 8 7 6
5 4 3 2 a good job good job
that was fun uh-huh
see why we get once out of that I see
that good work brother
good work that's harder than it looks
yeah it just goes to show how much more
you have in you than you you think you
do like if I was by myself I probably
would have stopped that 6 on the first
set honestly yeah there was an ancient
samurai maxim only one man stands on the
brink of destruction does he truly
realize its potential you can handle a
lot more than what you really think
you're capable yeah yeah
so Jon real quick what uh what are we
doing here the same sort of thing is
over put the hamstring curler
we're under the exact same thing okay
that's it
all right actually okay simple
one thing I actually just took away from
that is normally I'll kind of just like
passively sit back against the seat yeah
but by actively coming forward you can
feel those hip flexors turn on right so
you feel them engaged so much more I've
literally I've never ever tried that
before yeah that's it we just finished
pyramiding up so we did I think four
sets of like seven or eight reps just
get the blood into the quads a little
bit more now we're gonna hit our main
crazy set we're gonna do the same thing
as we did on the leg curl I'm gonna
describe that other one so the one thing
we're gonna do different on this on the
leg curl remember we use the middle
setting which is kind of even
distribution now we're gonna go to three
which is gonna make the beginning of the
rep really hard so the very initial part
you really have to fight to get the
weight moving and then it Wiis up a
little bit and then we're gonna move it
back to two so that the beginning is
easier and we have some strength we're
gonna load the top end of it it is
really difficult on three because we're
your weakest you have to fight fight
fight to get through the reps and then
we'll do one drop and we'll do some
partials a nice low hold just for people
because these machines are hard to come
by these prime equipment is there
anything you'd recommend people do like
maybe have a spotter kind of help at the
top end or is there a way people could
set it up or just kind of do the regular
drop well ideally you have a partner
they can kind of help you they can give
you a little bit of resistance at the
bottom and then kind of let up if you
wanted to switch it to make it easier at
the bottom they can kind of help you at
the bottom but basically you just have
to have a wait let me partner the knows
when to help and when to make it yeah
make it harder one of the things we do
sometimes we didn't do it today but we
do manually centric loading so what I
would do is I would lower the weight
real slow you know what the heck with it
let's do one of those okay so my first
date routes I want you to actually push
down and I'm gonna lower it under
control okay okay now you want to talk
about contractile tension yeah yeah I
mean this is how you eccentrically
destroy them us okay so the first date
push down and then I'll take over from
there okay I guess
I know yeah
[Music]
let's go John
nope
two more let's go who's resistant let's
go
[Music]
yes
they're eight three four come on five
six let's go two more
oh one more
[Applause]
finish it strong go three four come on
say huh two more one more anymore
[Music]
since
okay hold
mas
[Music]
the first day you don't want to push
down and I want you to resist you don't
have to resist with full strength just
keep it coming down slow here we go
there we go right there
break there bit more resistance that's
it actually right there two more one
more
okay okay any more now just crank out
eight come on
okay here we go come on hey here we go
come on let's go okay okay stand up for
a second just for one second shake your
legs kick some back in there now give me
eight partials great
one two three six seven one one more
thing I got a whole week I got a whole
eight seven six five four three two one
good yeah nice boy
you should have pump insanity right now
yeah it's crazy it really starts to burn
towards those like six or seven threats
is when it really like you doing like 30
rows yeah it's like I hit the wall right
there next to squats yeah
[Music]
they're not is actually my first time
ever doing squats with a safety bar just
feel like they're just not really that
available in most gym I just did my
first rep with with just the bar and it
felt really smooth more or less mimics
at front squat because you have the bar
the weight and load a little bit more
out in front of you allows you to keep a
little bit more of an upright position
good basic heavy movement just crush our
quads and I like it too just because of
the back factor like I just feel more
comfortable with my spine over this way
yeah instead of getting yeah yeah so
what are we doing here first that's
arrest so we're gonna do sets of eight
again we're gonna keep 1 heavier and
heavier and heavier and then our last
sets gonna be something like only 6 or 7
wraps this isn't meant to do a death set
okay so it's just used heavy weight what
I want you to do is control it and then
explode up okay okay so we're just doing
explosive heavy reps all right
[Music]
one thing that'll help you train a
little bit more explosively is and
you're coming down with the bar if you
when you're coming up push the handles
forward yeah so instead of coming out
like this this they'll put you a little
better mechanical position you have this
yeah as opposed to this gotcha just that
little subtle change yeah will feel
better so you've done the four sets now
just kind of permitting up that last one
was pretty tough just a couple things I
noticed with this so I don't normally
use chains in my training but one thing
I really noticed with the squat is that
it allows for more consistent resistance
throughout the whole range of motion
normally the squat feels tough somewhere
just rolling around here but this feels
pretty tough the whole way through it's
more consistent but it's also very
smooth so I don't really know how to
describe it cuz I don't normally do them
but all I can say is that it feels like
very smooth very consistent it's a very
nice feel what John said was using the
chains for whatever reason does engage
the glutes more and I definitely feel
that I'm gonna sit down
[Music]
yeah it's crazy see that there so like
it looked like the hardest part of that
whole thing was like the top part of the
last rep you almost never see that on a
normal set of squats you're gonna fail
it's gonna be somewhere close to the
bottom of the rap right
so it's a totally different house
awesome good job I have to remind myself
to keep the bar yeah go to three
quarters - yeah it's easier to Heisley
take that power reset yeah that's tough
what do we got next a little bit you
will pick we can do a one-legged
Bulgarian squat in the Smith machine
with our foot up on a squat or we
could do the vertical leg press it's up
to you who let you pick yeah
what do you want to see Bulgarian split
squat or vertical leg press I'm gonna go
with the harder one let's do this split
squat I think I've got something over
here you're gonna like then the people
want to see the split ball they want to
see what drop side of death drop Center
death the only thing about using like a
flat bench is it doesn't roll and you
can really you can hurt you're not
careful but this this roll so I hope
it's helpful professor
now we've already went real heavy we did
those heavy heavy squats over there and
I know a lot of people like to say dodgy
still heavy and everything you do but
we've done the heavy work we're not
going to do that on this what we're
gonna do is we're going for good
controlled reps and without like a
medium weight so how many reps are we
doing here let's stay at eight but eight
on this will pick you like 20 yeah cuz
you got both legs alright let's go
[Music]
this finished four sets working our way
up and now we're gonna do our last set
here we've done eight reps each side
feels a lot harder than it looks I think
here you're saying to drive through your
heel
yeah not drive to your heel you know
this for further girls watching this it
can be a great glute exercise too if you
want more glutes start the lift by
flexing your glutes so that's how you
initiate the movement you can't get away
from the quad pain there's no escape but
you can even if you really focus you can
hit your glutes let's do one more
what we're gonna do when this one is
really neat you one leg let's go I'll do
my left or right leg okay then you do
your left right leg and then we'll
switch okay because you know how did you
notice on the last set the second leg
kind of gets or changed out harder yeah
so now we're at a point where we just do
one leg at a time
okay sound good alright so we're gonna
go to eight do one hold and then one
drop set in that order
yeah yeah the quarter on I'll do eight
I'm gonna do an eight second whole strip
the weight off okay here we go John
there we go
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
five four three to eight reps six second
or a second hold drop the weight another
eight reps another eight second hold and
where do you hold it are you holding
this like kind of no keep it right here
okay be right here okay so we're at the
top
yeah okay we're on finish strong six
come on settle my oh okay hold eight
seven six five four three two one all
right
one two three
almost everybody almost everybody to the
last SATA coal is the worst it's just
awful man thank you
all right guys that's a wrap on the
workout go get some sushi
I guess hey yeah so John is actually a
big believer in post-workout nutrient
timing he's just explaining to me that
when you do this style of training it is
that it's not another level then the
typical training even that's sort of
like routines you tend to see in those
studies so in his eyes it's important to
get those nutrients and within you know
some reasonable window the time I get
actually interaction why you turn yeah I
get you dress everything actually
watering makes a huge difference I think
it's one of those things that you you
literally you have nothing to lose by
doing it and you have something
potentially to gain so why not do it
almost especially if you're you know
someone like yourself on the elite level
trying to get every bit of progress you
can I guess that little extra 5% has a
big difference for me yeah I think so I
think it's more so for the people who
are just like casual gym goers who think
that unless they do it they're not gonna
get anything which is that's like we
don't need to worry about so we really
have some food and we'll check in with
you guys over at the restaurant all
right yeah yeah let me know okay if you
guys want to see every body part so we
can do like back chest chest the
shoulders arms yeah well we'll hit
everything just just comment below what
you want to see next we're both gonna be
in Toronto in June I think so we're
gonna try to hit another workout so if
you want to see back comment back in an
upvote the comments
let's say the body part you want to see
and be creative like we'll train our
freakin tibialis anterior if you want to
if you want to see that you IDO I like
it yes that's the new nickname you know
what I used to always talk about Kiwi
like seven or eight years ago just tell
people about the vitamin C and how was
underrated really did we just become
best friends yeah so here we go guys
from California role here I've got some
salmon to Giri some shrimp tempura spicy
tuna and this is the specialty roll
what's this one that's the pink lady
ring pink pink lady roll so I think
we've got some crab shrimp tempura maybe
spicy salmon in there too yeah and it
looks like some spicy mayo on top looks
delicious so we're gonna dig right in
alright
that's crazy
Oh so guys we're gonna have a quick
round the poker John his kids in his
wife so what are the stakes here what do
we plan for it well I like to think of
myself as the best poker playing body
builder so Jeff has a an opportunity I
take that title away from me will you
feel good oh it's about to go down
we're gonna do this so we've got a two
right two of clubs okay I'm gonna get
you to make a thumb with that and go
like that so you're gonna hold the two
clubs right there what card did I just
give you two clubs okay put it back down
so we got the five right here I'm gonna
take the five and put it right on top
there make sure you hold it down I
thought your thumb up a little bit just
a little bit hold it down like that so
I'm gonna take give me the two you hold
the five I'm just gonna go like this
right here okay
hold it to hold it down so what card do
you have right here is it don't look
what is it - or the pot do you remember
you can help him up - okay I'm gonna put
the five right back in here so you got
the two here the five here right for you
guys to be impressed if the five was now
here and the two was now here that'd be
cool they swish I turn them all inside
what you got nice that's my best chair
people are always people in the comments
will know I tried to do a trick on the
channel before and they were like weak
triggers can you Jonathan
all right what do you think of fire I'm
dealer yeah yeah that was impressive
alright guys so we just finished up
playing a few rounds of poker at John's
house I just want to give a huge shout
out to John thank him for taking me
through that workout that was the best
leg workout I've had in forever he
really opened my eyes to a lot of new
stuff and I hope that you guys really
keep an open mind as well if you haven't
yet checked out my interview with John
I'll link that up here somewhere in the
cards over my head make sure you go over
and check out his channel and subscribe
and if you do let him know that you came
from me that would mean a lot now again
if you want to see another video with
John and I in Toronto let me know what
body part you want to see us train and
we absolutely will do it thank you guys
so much for watching don't forget to
subscribe you haven't already see you
guys in the next video