hey folks it's me dr mike check this out
we have a
membership component now to youtube
isn't that crazy what will the future
bring that's even more exciting what am
i talking about what is the membership
part well youtube has this cool new
function you actually just click the
join button
click and you get to join we have two
tiers of membership so first of all
don't freak out the regular youtube is
still going to be the same we are going
to put out four or five high quality
videos the same stuff you've come to
expect from us will continue i promise
we're not changing that at all however
there are two tiers of memberships that
you can pay us money for because
remember lamborghinis though i have
always said they should be free or not
and i have to buy a whole bunch of them
two tiers of membership the first here
is much cheaper and it gets you early
access to a few videos just kind of neat
you can see them before everyone else
and also you get priority comments reply
so when jared feather and i go on there
and talk smack to you in the comments
we'll talk smack more to you than anyone
else and or answer your questions now if
that's not good enough
you can go
and subscribe to tier 2.
what's tier two tier two is everything
that tier one gets you so it gets you
early access to videos and priority
reply to comments and gets you a bunch
of other stuff it gets you a train with
dr mike video
once a month you get a video exclusive
of my training
it's like a vlog style so it's a long
time i blab a whole lot if you're really
deep into nerd crap and learning
sign up for that which you also get is
another advanced lecture video for
myself or somebody else on rp that's
like one of those like really like
beating the dead horse nerd stuff for
super advanced stuff you guys will love
that if you're into that show up it's a
great thing and then of course we have a
dr mike and dr james answer your
questions video where the vast majority
of the people's questions answered are
in tier two regular members will still
get a few questions answered but
most of the questions are going to be
for those folks paying for the
membership and another q a with myself
and jared feather ifbb pro where we do
the same thing so more opportunities to
see more in-depth videos more training
videos more of your questions answered
you even get a very cool badge so you
can feel accurately better than
everybody else and that's the deal so
folks click that join button and we'll
see you there
[Music]