[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of the science of Playa de series in
this video we're hitting a chest and
back focused upper body day and this is
gonna be the second upper body workout
for the week so day four of our new
upper lower split based on my new upper
lower size and strength training program
and as we'll see at the end when we
tally up the total training volume for
both sessions I think you can easily run
these workouts as a four-day upper lower
split and still have enough weekly
volume to make progress especially if
you're further from that more advanced
end of the training experience spectrum
so after completing the full warm-up
routine which will be the topic of my
next science supplied video we're gonna
jump into our first exercise for the day
which is the bench press where we're
doing three sets of six reps in week one
and then adding one rep each week until
we get to eat reps in week three before
going back to six reps again in week
four but with more weight now we're
starting with the bench press because I
think if I had to pick just one overall
mass builder for the pecs it would be
the basic barbell bench press according
to the strength and conditioning
research comm database long term studies
show that a strength training program
made up of the benchpress
on its own is able to produce
considerable hypertrophy of the chest in
this 2012 study showed that benchpress
one rep max in PEC muscle thickness
increased perfectly in tandem across 24
weeks so a stronger bench and bigger
pecs go perfectly hand-in-hand
and since on the first upper-body day we
used a closer grip bench press with
slightly less arch to target the upper
pecs and triceps more here we're using a
bigger arch in a wider grip to target
more of the sternal head of the mid pecs
even though the entire PEC will be
highly active in both variations it's
just a matter of regional emphasis and
one thing I wanted to focus on here is
using explosive power off the chest to
move the weight up with max speed and
then lowering the weight back down under
control according to a stronger by
science write-up of a 2014 paper which
I'll link down below subject saw about
double the strength gains by lifting the
bar with maximum speed on each rep as
opposed to a slower cadence even when ik
weighting training volume and intensity
now the catch is that if you're pushing
these sets close to failure anyway
now the rep speed isn't going to matter
much slow speeds and explosive speeds
both work but if you're training sub
maximally as we usually do on these
heavy compound lifts anyway and it makes
much more sense to drive the bar off
your chest with as much explosive power
as possible so as you lower the bar you
want to bring it down to the highest
contact point on your chest pause
briefly for half a second or so and then
explode off your chest as if you had a 1
rep max on there pressing the bar back
and up you think about pushing the floor
away from you at the same time and the
goal here is to maximize the weight we
can use while still using a full range
of motion and maintaining proper
position okay up next we're doing three
sets of eight reps on a weighted wide
grip pull up with two forced negatives
on every set so we're doing the first
eight reps as usual with a full stretch
at the bottom and a full contraction at
the top where we're aiming to get our
chin up over the bar on every rep and
then after your eighth rep you're gonna
use a box to jump up over the bar and
then take the weight back down nice and
slow for two forced B Centrex
or you can use a training partner to
help lift you up on the positive and
then take the negative yourself and
according to one paper from dr. Brad
Schoenfeld because a muscle isn't fully
fatigued during concentric training
heavy negatives may elicit greater motor
unit fatigue and thus provide an
additional hypertrophic stimulus now
these sets should feel pretty intense so
I'd recommend starting with just
bodyweight if you're not able to
complete the first each reps with good
form and if that's still too challenging
for you and you can always use the
assisted pull-up machine to knock out
the first eight reps and then use the
jump method without assistance to knock
out the to force negatives regardless on
every rep including the forced reps you
want to feel a strong stretch and a
strong mind muscle connection with your
lats on each and every eccentric
contraction after that we're doing two
sets of eight to ten reps on the barbell
floor press which i think is actually
one of the most underrated exercises for
hypertrophy of the pushing muscles
that's really common to see power
lifters use this variation to help
develop lockout strength on the bench
now that I think bodybuilders can also
benefit from it since it's really going
to hammer your triceps in a way that
most pressing movements can't while
still having a lot of carryover to pure
benchpress
strength so you can think of the floor
press more like a close grip bench press
where the elbows are more tucked in by
the sides you can still use that
standard 1.5 times shoulder-width grip
or so also since this variation
eliminates leg Drive you won't be able
to move as much weight here so you want
to start light and then progressively
overload as the week's go by all right
up next we're doing three sets of twelve
reps on a unilateral cable row and one
thing that I find a lot of people
neglect with their back training is
unilateral work which i think is part of
the reason why it's so common for
trainees to have left to right strength
and size and balances so by isolating
each side one at a time starting with
your weaker side and then matching the
reps with the same weight with your
dominant side you're going to ensure
that both sides are contributing equally
and we're using the row here as a more
dominant movement so we're thinking
about driving the elbows down and in
against the sides rather than straight
back which would target more of the
traps and rear delts okay after that
we're hitting two sets of twelve reps on
the Arnold press which is a great
assistance vertical press to compliment
the standard barbell OHP on day one
because you actually initiate the press
here with horizontal shoulder abduction
so you get the rear delts more involved
right away and then it transitions into
a more standard dumbbell shoulder press
also doing the standing is going to
force you to check your ego because you
won't be able to go as heavy due to
increased stabilization demands however
for the same reason the side delts are
gonna get more involved as well so this
is such a solid overall shoulder builder
front to back and you can include it in
your routine if you're not already
alright up next we've got two sets of
ten and ten reps on the reverse PEC deck
now here we're doing a sort of
mechanical drop set where for the first
ten reps we're gonna slouch the upper
body forward into full scapular
protraction this is really gonna take
the traps out of the movement and
isolate the rear delts and then for the
next ten reps without resting or
dropping the weight we're gonna
straighten the back out and
intentionally allow the shoulder blades
to protract and retract on every rep so
squeeze your shoulder blades together on
every rep for the next ten reps and
that's going to allow you to extend the
set further as the traps get more
involved and help the rear delts crank
out those extra effective reps and
similar to the pull-up you should be
reaching near failure on the first 10
reps before moving on to the second lot
ten reps okay just about finishing out
the workout here we're gonna finish with
some tricep and bicep isolation work so
first we're doing three sets of rope
tricep pushdown 20 ones we're doing
seven reps in the bottom half of the
range first focusing on really squeezing
the triceps at the bottom of each rep
and then seven reps in the top half
you know we're focusing on stretching
the triceps at the top and then we're
gonna do the final seven reps through a
full range of motion to really finish
the triceps off and while we've been
avoiding failure on most of the compound
pressing movements so far leaving a rep
or two in the tank here we're gonna take
the triceps pretty much all the way to
failure since there's a much lower risk
of accumulating systemic fatigue on a
single joint isolation movement like
this and to finish off the workout you
can optionally add in two sets of 15 to
20 reps on a constant tension preach or
curl since growing my biceps is a goal
of mine and I want to hit them directly
with a higher frequency and even though
they will be highly active in the pull
ups and rows we've hit already I think
including some isolation work is smart
to maximize their development so we've
done all the heavy compound stuff now
we're really trying to isolate the
biceps not resting in between reps and
keeping the hands and firms as loose as
possible while thinking about only
moving the bar by flexing and squeezing
your biceps not your forearms and you
can even let your wrists go into a bit
of extension here we're just going to
put the elbow flexors of the forearm in
a weaker position leaving the biceps to
do more of the work okay so guys I'm
going to tally up the volume here for
each body part for both upper body
workouts and put it up here on the
screen if you'd like to pause and read
for more on volume and I think this is
plenty of volume for beginners and most
intermediate level trainees just running
this as a four day per week split but if
you are more advanced I think you can
add in a third workout each week
focusing on whatever your specific weak
point is and my upper lower size and
strength program is geared more toward
intermediate to advanced level lifters
so it uses a six day per week split with
every body part being hit three days per
week and if you'd like to have all of
this information condensed down into a
nine week training program with a full
progression scheme and tracking sheet
built in you can grab it at Jeff nipper
comm so I'll put a button to the program
over here next to my head if you'd like
to check it out and the next science
applied video is going to cover the full
warm
routine I'm so don't forget to hit the
thumbs up button if you enjoyed the
video subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one