hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today I'm going to
talk to you about how to train when you
have no equipment at all no gym
no friends no family no one to love you
no one to whisper sweet nothings in your
ears you fall asleep that got creepy so
if you don't have anywhere or with
anything to trade no dumbbells no
barbell no stretchy bands definitely no
gym what can you do
what should you do to put together a
decent approach to training that can get
you some kind of results a few things
before we get into the numbered tips
cardio is obviously still possible so if
you don't have anywhere to train you can
still jog
you can do all kinds of Parkour if you
want cardio is you can definitely take
walks you could hike so cardio is
absolutely on the table no problem at
all
but what about resistance training what
are you supposed to do if you have zero
weights how do you train with resistance
training well
turns out that there are tons of
exercises that you can do that require
no equipment at all or something that
you don't think typically of as
equipment but you will still use as
equipment
for example you can do with no equipment
at all just really a floor you can do
push-ups you can do push-ups which are
closer and grip and your hands stay
closer to your head and you end up doing
them called tricep push-ups they're like
Skull Crushers except for the push-up
variation
you can get two chairs together and do
dips in between them with your feet out
on the front on the floor the chair dips
are very popular
crunches body weight squats you can do
lunges with your body weight you can do
 squats where you squat staying on
your tippy toes and you touch your knees
all the way down to the ground and then
come back up you can do split squats you
can do single leg squats if you're
really Advanced and very strong
you can do calf races on any staircase
that you have around or even some kind
of ledge or curb with a stick for
balance it's that easy so that takes
care of a ton of leg exercises and a ton
of pushing exercises
but what about anything for the back of
the body what about the pulling stuff
well all you need is a tree with quite a
few large branches relatively low to the
ground look round for trees you're sure
to find one of them somewhere
and then you can do all sorts of pulling
you can do pull-ups you can
ratchet your feet down lower and do face
pulls pulling the bar to your face to
hit your delts and your biceps and your
traps you can do inverted rows on the
lower branches to hit the rest of your
back you can even do inverted curls you
position yourself just under a tree
branch you grab it underhand and
depending on where you put your feet
it's going to allow you to leverage you
could do almost no gravity at all and
you'll be able to curl your body into
the branch thus doing an inverted curl
that takes care of a large fraction of
your body
pretty damn well
not ideally not optimally but way better
than you thought well I don't have any
equipment that means I can do zero
exercises or you can do a ton
now what you may be thinking at this
point is saying okay great
that you've listed all the exercises and
certainly there are a few more
but what if I run through all these I
mean I got like one month or two of
training a mesocycle i deload ideally I
want to switch some exercises out but
there's nowhere to go like you don't
have any equipment you just push up as a
push-up
but that's not true so that's Point
number three
by modifying your foot and hand
positions you can create new exercise
variations that you can feed into your
program so that you don't have to get
super bored training with no equipment
squats can be narrow stance medium
stance or wide stance push-ups can be
narrow medium or wide you can put your
feet up on a chair for push-ups and all
of a sudden do decline push-ups which
are really really hard
and hit your front delts and triceps a
little bit more than they hit your chest
there's a ton of ways in which to put
your feet and hands into different
places including with pulls pull-ups
wide medium grip narrow underhand
all kinds of options for you even if you
have the Bare Essentials of the ground
and a tree if you cannot get access to a
tree
I'm sorry but a tree is required for
part of this or at least something you
can hang on to that's a chest to eye
level and then if that's good enough you
can do rows off of it you can do
pull-ups off
Etc the way you do the variations is
this
you pick a variation at a time you say
okay I'm going to do push-ups
chair dips
I'm going to do bodyweight squats lunges
some rows and some pull-ups and that'll
be a good exercise for me a good
exercise routine
stick to one kind of grip for all those
those are wide grip push-ups let's say
those are wide stance squats
wide pull-ups there's just the theme is
wide randomly
after those exercises a few months later
get a little stale and you want to
switch it up switch over to medium grip
for a lot of the stuff or narrow grip or
underhand or whatever it is
so continue to use the variations as
long as they feel good and you're making
progress on them
and as soon as they sort of sputter to a
stop you can then switch that way if you
have three variations wide narrow medium
even if you use one of them per month it
means you don't see the next one until
three months later which is usually long
enough time for your body to feel real
fresh about it but typically it takes
two or three months for you to really
run out of steam out of variation
which means when you come back to wide
stance squats it could be six months or
longer after you last did them and
they're really going to feel different
they're going to feel new they're going
to feel fresh and you're not going to
feel encumbered by this total lack of
variation in your program which which
sucks right that's what you solve with a
gym you have tons of toys to play with
in the just a tree and the ground
there's just not a lot of stuff to do
not a lot of variation
next question number four what do we do
about progression because this is a
tough one in in the gym with weights
progression is almost implied you just
lift more weight but in a situation
where you're lifting your own body
weight mostly outside or in a enclosed
room with a tree in it that's
interesting perspective on that
how exactly are you supposed to progress
well got a couple of hints for you first
of all you can add reps let's say you're
getting really close to failure for sets
of 12 in the push-up over time seeks to
go to 13 14 15 16. if you can do sets of
16 in the push-ups everything being
equal after you were able to do sets of
12 at most you got more muscular and
stronger and healthier
typically we say don't go over 30
repetitions because anything much
lighter than that isn't optimal
but with workouts at home or workouts on
the go with zero equipment optimal is
pushed aside a little bit and possible
is fronted as the variable that is best
and if it grows some decent amount of
muscle for us or it makes us healthier
in some other way we'll take it so what
I would say if you're training at home
try to make your lifts challenging
Enough by leveraging your body against
yourself in such a way that you can do
less than 30 reps of them percent but
potentially you'll have to go up to 50
repetitions per set and that's totally
fine because it still has muscle growth
potential and for those of you folks in
your first two or three years of
training it has a lot of muscle growth
potential so adding reps is great and
now we know you can add up to as many
reps this would make 50 Reps for an
exercise the thing is 50 strict good
high quality push-ups is something
almost nobody can do and almost everyone
that says they can do it you actually
watch them try to do it and you're like
that is the worst technique I've ever
seen that's all half reps you're
bouncing off the ground you're not
locking out your elbows do real push-ups
and they're like oh I got 27 like
exactly so even if you're in really
great shape just adding sets and Reps to
push-ups to pull-ups to bodyweight
squats adding repetitions can go up for
a long time and if you can really do 50
reps of those movements a lot of times
you're an unbelievable shape and it's
kind of like mission accomplished
another way to take what I just said is
this if you think you're in too good of
shape to get some beneficial effect from
working out with no equipment you're
probably wrong you probably can
challenge yourself even with no
equipment at all
here's another way to challenge yourself
reduce the rest time typically you would
do a bunch of push-ups and you would
stop and rest for two or three minutes
but now because you can't put weight on
your back for push-ups or you can't do
the bench press it just has to be
push-ups at home or push-ups on a at an
outdoor setting where it's just the
ground you might rest for one minute or
even 30 seconds or even as soon as you
get your breathing back relatively to
normal then you go again that repeated
challenge to the muscles greatly sums up
how much metabolites are in the muscles
the byproducts of their efforts and
those byproducts have been linked to
hypertrophy improvements to muscle
growth so if you can challenge yourself
with rest times shrinking them on the
margins a little bit every time you come
in for let's say a month or two that's
going to take a workout where you do
seemingly the same number of reps and
make it way way way harder giving you
more of a muscle growth stimulus which
is really really good another thing to
try is Maya wraps instead of resting two
to three minutes between sets have some
exercises in which you do 20 reps of
body weight squats close to failure it
was really challenging you rest for
another five or ten seconds and you go
again maybe hitting five to seven reps a
few times over and over with minimal
rest that can fry you up in the best way
possible causing a lot of growth
stimulus
at the gym when you go train you may
only need two to four sets of heavy
resistance barbells and dumbbells and
machines in order to drive home a muscle
growth stimulus that's cool that's
really good that's why we go lift
weights because they make a challenge
for us in a small amount of time
however when you're training by yourself
with no gym at all you may have to do
more sets you might have to do four or
five or six sets eventually at the end
of your program potentially in a short
rest time scenario because each set
isn't heavy enough
to drive the best adaptations for you to
get as much muscle as you can but we add
more sets constrain the time we end up
working just as hard except we do more
sets and Reps and less weight it takes
the same amount of time as we do at the
gym but you cram more work into that and
thus you are able to get a very similar
comparable response in muscle growth
training so someone can train at home
and say well hey I did six sets of
bodyweight squats and it really got my
legs sore somebody training at the gym
could have done three sets and got their
legs just a sword get them to grow just
as much so there's not really a solution
with this added sets uh recommendation
it is a solution in some sense but it's
going to require you to do more work you
guys can kind of see where this is going
through adding reps through decreasing
rest time through introducing things
like Maya reps through adding sets we're
making the stimulus harder because
making it hard on your body is how you
make progress another really quick
question you could ask yourself
theoretically before you start trying to
put together a program
that has no equipment to access you can
really ask yourself the question of how
do I make the lack of equipment hard on
my muscles because that's what's going
to get them to grow and it's going to
get you to lose body fat and get
stronger and all those great things
another thing you can do is to decrease
the mechanical advantage that you're
experiencing if you're really strong in
your squats from uh completely flat foot
you're using your glutes your adductors
your quads then you're doing more than
sets of 50 that's not really doing
anything for you anymore what you can do
is try some squats
 squats a luncheon essentially push
your hips forward and your knees have to
touch down gently on the ground all the
time that creates a crap load of
mechanical disadvantage for your quads
takes your glutes mostly out of the
equation and all of a sudden as far as
quads that's concerned that's a
mechanically disadvantageous lift it's
harder for the quads that's a good thing
because as the quads try really hard
they struggle and that's when they grow
so a lot of times you want to ask
yourself the question of how can I make
this exercise more difficult on myself
put myself in a position which I can't
lift as much weight so that I have to
try harder to lift the weight that I
have because the weight is your body
weight it's constant another one is
single leg squats
does take some balance to do and you
can't hold on to a chair to do them but
if you figure out that balance you get
something to hold on to it's a really
tough exercise all of a sudden you're
very challenged in the mechanical
disadvantage there is you took one
entire leg out of the equation stuff
like that can really really help you
Point number five and the last point for
this video the critical factors to
making gains
inside the gym or out
are as follows
and these are mostly tuned for outside
the gym with no equipment
you want to make sure you check a couple
boxes
one
you want to get close to failure often
in the same workout
with heavy weights getting close to
failure for one set of hack squats in
the machine in the gym that might be a
really good stimulus but with your body
weight you might have to do three four
five or six
attempts at something sets in succession
in which each one of those gets you
close to failure then you're going to
have a hell of a pump in your quads a
hell of a burn and you're going to know
you did something we have to repeat the
stimulus more often because we have less
load easy fact to understand next one is
to take limited rest time if your lungs
are good to go if you're not breathing
heavy anymore you're ready to do your
next step that'll save you time in your
workouts it'll also hit the muscles in a
fatigue State making things more
challenging for them thus driving up
their metabolites that they produce and
probably driving up muscle growth as
well
if you're in a position where you're
doing two or three sets of something and
you're like man I wish I had a gym I
could really hit my back better try
three four five or six sets slowly
working up over time in that manner for
your back training and you may find that
well you know with just body weight
inverted rows and pull-ups two three
sets like I do with the machines that
heavy weight at the gym they don't do
much but four or five sets man they
really do light me up and that's
providing great growth so don't be
afraid to add some volume you can
recover from it because the loading
isn't that insane you'll be totally good
to go
lastly just to think about this try to
go in there and make things tough for
your muscles make your muscles try
really hard make them have to slow down
during their movement you know that last
set of bench press or last rep where
you're really slowing down to push it
you should take your push-ups and your
tricep extensions and your pull-ups so
far in your training that they start to
grind and if you can get your muscles to
grind you can probably get them to grow
folks if I can be of any more help
please check out the comments below ask
a few questions I'll try to answer them
I'll see you next time
training for muscle growth
is never going to be the same