okay so guys welcome to the long-awaited
episode number two of the fundamental
series before we get right back into
things here I've got two very important
things that I want to announce which I
think will also help explain why this
series was put on the back burner for
those few months so I'm sorry about that
but here we are in any case the first
thing is that my new website
Jeff nipper comm is officially live so
you can go to the link in the
description and go check that out as of
now I think the best thing that you can
do there is just sign up for my mailing
list which I'm going to be sending out
new updates about my fundamentals book
and the new beginner intermediate and
advanced training programs that I have
coming out in the next month or so and
I'm also going to be eventually firing
up my blog over there again and so
you'll be notified if you get on my
mailing list when they go out and that's
just because I find social media and
YouTube just aren't reliable to kind of
get the information out there anymore at
all which brings me to my second most
important update which is the
fundamentals book itself it's not ready
just yet and that's actually the reason
why this series was so delayed in the
first place I was spending so much time
writing this fundamentals book which I
want to capture everything and then I
realized that I decided that I wanted it
to be a full-blown published printed
actual book so needless to say it's
taking quite a lot more time than I had
initially anticipated for but anyway the
best way to again keep up to date with
that is just to get on my mailing list
and once that goes up for pre-order I'll
be sure to let you guys all know here
right away but it's looking like that's
going to come probably after I release
my beginners program which I plan to
launch next month alongside episode
three of this series and then I plan to
launch a push/pull legs program for more
intermediate level lifters that'll
complement my science applied series and
then I'm also going to eventually launch
a power building program as well which
will be based off of my current training
and how that's all going so anyways
without further ado guys I hope you guys
all enjoy episode number two of the
fundamental series all right what is
going on everyone I want to welcome you
all to episode
number two of the fundamental series
since it's been a little while since
episode number one I figured it'd be a
good idea to first do a quick review of
everything that we talked about in the
first episode to do with training if you
guys maybe just watch the first one or
you feel like you don't need that primer
I'll put a timestamp up right here where
you can skip to where I dig into the new
stuff but I think that it is important
to have a fundamental grasp of all of
these rungs of the ladder before we
start getting into the more complicated
stuff up here so very quickly here on
the bottom rung is sort of the most
fundamental thing we have sustainability
and the reason I rank this so highly or
I guess so low on the ladder is because
this is something that we want to be
doing across really a lifetime it's a
little bit cliche but I think there's a
lot of truth to the fact that we want to
think of this sort of fitness journey as
more of a marathon than a sprint in
order for that to be successful it has
to be a sustainable approach so one that
you can stick to over the long term and
in order for a proach to be sustainable
it has to be safe and it has to be
enjoyable and those sort of form the
uprights are the two main legs of the
rest of the ladder and I think it's
important to highlight here the
principles of what is optimal and what
is practical so what is perhaps most
optimal on paper isn't always what is
most practical actually in the field and
this is an important thing to keep in
mind just because something is
theoretically more optimal doesn't
necessarily mean it's gonna be what will
work best for you so you have to be
looking for what is actually going to be
practical and allow you to follow
through and to execute over the long
term so if we go up one rung from
sustainability we have F effort this
basically means that no matter how
optimal and how scientifically grounded
the rest of your program is if you're
not applying appropriate effort then
you're not going to get the results that
you're looking for and this isn't
clearly defined in the scientific
literature but it's probably something
around leaving no more than say three or
four reps in a tank for most of your
work
we've got keopi which stands for
progressive overload and prioritization
so progressive overload basically just
refers to adding something over time so
usually that comes in the form of adding
more weight to the bar or to the machine
that you're using or adding reps
those are both ways to progressively
overload and if I were to say one of
these factors is the most important
thing for driving muscle hypertrophy it
probably is progressive overload and
then prioritization basically just
refers to keeping the goal the goal so
you want to prioritize the things that
you're trying to improve the most the
things that are most important to you so
if you have weak arms then you want you
will want to prioritize your arms in
your training if you want to improve
your benchpress you'll want to
prioritize that such as by say putting
it early in the training week when
you're fresh or putting it early in the
workout when you're stronger um and then
after all of that stuff we get up here
to the acute training variables which is
what we're gonna cover in this video
specifically we're gonna get into volume
so how much work should you do how many
sets and reps and so on we're going to
talk about frequency so how frequently
should you train each body part how many
times per week and we're also going to
cover some example splits that can allow
you to hit that volume and frequency in
a sort of optimal way then in part three
I realize it's just gonna be too much
information to do in just two episodes
so in part three we're gonna cover
intensity so how heavy should you train
we're gonna cover rest periods exercise
selection or some exercises better than
others and then also lifting tempo so
how fast should you be lifting the
weights that that's it for the review
now we're gonna get into the first part
of this which is going to be volume next
alright so the first variable we're
gonna dive into is training volume and
in the literature this has been cited as
being the main driver of hypertrophy
I think this is a little bit of a
controversial statement still I would
say personally if anything is probably
you know really driving hypertrophy as
the main factor it's probably progress
of overload but as we'll see progressive
overload really does tie in as a concept
with the idea of volume and training
volume and they're kind of inextricably
linked in a way so I think that that's a
pretty fair statement to make so volume
is something that ranks very very highly
in terms of optimizing your growth
potential in the literature it's been
described as having a dose-response
relationship so basically as you
increase training volume there's a
straightforward increase in muscle
hypertrophy that you see as a result
before we get into that first I think
it's important to define what exactly it
is that volume is and basically we're
just using it to refer to the total
amount of work that you do in your
training so in the literature this is
sometimes approximated as the number of
sets times the number of reps times the
load which is basically just the weight
that you're using so as you can see from
the formula
there are basically three main ways that
you can increase the volume that you're
doing on so you can increase the number
of sets you can increase the number of
reps and you can increase the weight now
you'll remember from the progressive
overload section or the progressive
overload rung that's when we're aiming
for progressive overload we're already
trying to increase the load from workout
to workout or I should say and/or
increase the number of reps that you're
doing you're trying to add a rep add
some weight and that's how you achieve
progressive overload so assuming that
you're already trying to incrementally
increase these I think the real thing
that we need to look at when we're
looking at volume is how many sets
you're doing this is really going to be
a major determinant of what your total
volume ends up being for you so from a
practical perspective I think it makes
most sense to track your number of
working sets and so people who've
written about this more than I have
called this tough sets so your number of
tough sets is a pretty good proxy for
your training volume
so this would basically exclude any
warm-up sets that you're doing and it
would require that your sets are taken
to something around you know something
around leaving no more than three or
four reps in the tank that would
classify as a tough set and that would
count towards at your training volume so
the question is how many sets do we want
to be doing per body part
there isn't one clear answer on this and
it's gonna be highly individual but I
also think it also very much depends on
your own training goals if you're just
someone who is say looking to you know
improve their overall shape get stronger
build some muscle mass but maybe not do
so on a competitive level then the
amount of volume that you're probably
going to want to do is gonna be
different than someone who you know
wants to do this on a highly elite
competitive level and so this brings me
to this graph over here so very quickly
I'll just introduce the main concept
here so on the x-axis you have a
training volume and then on the y-axis
you have gains so this is gains in
hypertrophy and as you can see initially
the steepness or the slope of the curve
here is pretty high so you can get quite
a bit of gains initially without having
to do two too much volume but then there
comes a point somewhere around here that
the amount of gains that you get starts
to really level off so you start to get
diminishing returns for doing extra
volume and then there seems to be a
point where doing even more volume will
actually result in a loss of gains so
this is what you call over training or
overreaching you're doing more volume
than your body can recover from and so
you start to lose some of those
adaptations that you had initially
gained so I'm gonna switch over here
this point right here we tend to call
minimum effective dose or minimum
effective volume and it's a bit of a
hairy concept it's not easy to pin it
down just to one point because you could
say well the minimum effective volume is
technically somewhere way down here
where you get some gains for a little
bit of volume
but I like to think of this as the
minimum amount of volume to get to get
you the gains that you want and more
practically I think it's you want to
think about it as that point where the
gains start to become diminishing so as
you start to do more volume you don't
actually see much more of an increase in
hypertrophy and I think that as a
beginner this is where most people want
to be now I'll introduce another concept
so this point right here where you
actually begin to see it go the other
direction is what we'll call MRV so
maximum recoverable volume so this is
the amount of volume that you can or
this is the maximum amount of volume
that you can do and still recover from
so it's sort of somewhere just before
you start to get to that overtraining
area over here for people who are more
you know looking to do this on the elite
level you may want to flirt with this
MRV boundary a little bit more and it
might simply just be worth it to you to
do all of this extra volume to get those
extra little bit of gains for you know
people who maybe aren't wanting what
we're wanting to do it quite on that
level
I think minimum effective dose is fine
and I think that you could make the
argument that over an entire training
career perhaps just accumulating these
minimum effective volume workouts over
enough time will lead you to reach your
sort of natural genetic limit anyway and
so this could be potentially a good
approach really for anyone however
that's something that I think experts in
the field will argue about and I think
it's best to just kind of leave it up to
you to decide what sort of volume makes
most sense for you and your goals to
make this a little bit more tangible
we're gonna put some numbers on this so
usually for most people especially
beginners 10 sets tends to be somewhere
around this point here pass which you
start to see diminishing returns and
then this point here is somewhere around
20 sets and that sets per body part per
week quick example let's take the chest
if you do 10 sets per week for the chest
you'll be doing pretty well you know
maxing
most of your hypertrophic potential if
you were to bump that up to 20 sets per
week for the chest you would pretty much
be maxing it out fully then once you
start to get up here and maybe the 30
sets per week zone you're definitely
flirting with overtraining territory at
that point then it may actually be
detrimental to your progress of course
that's gonna be highly individual I know
some people who are freaks and can
handle a ton of volume but generally for
the most part most people are gonna want
to be somewhere in this range so again
depending on your goals and you know
your athletic backgrounds and your level
of advancement you're gonna want to be
somewhere in between 10 sets per body
part per week and 20 sets per body part
per week when I say 10 sets per body
part I'm referring to these big body
parts over here I'm so for the chest the
back quads in the glutes there will be
some crossover between the quads and the
glutes so if you're doing say squats for
example you probably want to count that
as a set for both but still you want to
be somewhere in that ballpark and then
for hymns and also for the ABS and the
calves you can probably get away with a
little less here but they are weak
points for a lot of people so I figured
I'd be generous and give them the same
10 set requirement and then for these
smaller muscle groups so say the triceps
biceps rear delts and side delts they're
gonna get a lot of crossover work from
these bigger muscles over here so let's
say you're doing bench press for the
chest the triceps are going to be
getting a lot of indirect work but yet
still probably not quite enough to
really optimize their growth just from
those compound lifts alone and the same
thing goes for biceps you will get a lot
of biceps work by doing you know lap
pull-downs and rows so your standard
back movements but still I think that to
optimize these muscle groups you will
want to do some isolation work so over
here I would say that you don't need to
do you know 10 sets for triceps and 10
sets for biceps on top of the 10 sets
that you're doing over here I would say
an extra for an extra 4 to 8 isolation
sets for these
we'll be sufficient and then four front
delts you actually don't need any extra
work because anything that you're doing
over here for the chest and the
shoulders will hit the front delts just
fine and so there's no real need I think
in any case to add things like front
raises I'm so at the end of all this and
in terms of assessing your own program
which we will get to when we talk about
training frequency and training splits
the question you want to be asking
yourself is are you getting stronger if
you are getting stronger that's a sign
that you're progressing you're building
new muscle and everything is good
there's no real need to switch things up
or to add you know more work if it's
working keep going with it until it
stops working if it stops working and
you notice that your you know your
strength isn't increasing you don't seem
to be adding any new muscle mass
visually that may be a sign that you
need to add more work and so you may
want to start increasing the number of
sets that you're doing so you can start
to get some more of these incremental or
I should say marginal gains but still I
think that most people for say their
first year at least of training
shouldn't really need to do that too
much as long as you're just focusing on
general progressive overload you should
be able to progress just fine without
having to worry about increasing your
sets from that sort of standard ten sets
per week for a while but again that's
going to be a very highly individual and
then also I'd like to just remind you
guys that all of this is within or said
within the context of applying
appropriate effort so again it doesn't
really matter what you're doing up here
if you're not applying the appropriate
effort from the outset hopefully that
makes some sense that's pretty much
everything I think you need to know as a
beginner about volume and training
volume and kind of where you need to be
in terms of how many sets you should be
doing per week and I think that this is
going to make a little bit more sense
once we start to dig into training
frequency which is what we're going to
talk about next okay so we've
established that ten sets per week is a
pretty good general ballpark figure of
where we want to be in terms of training
volume so now
the question is how do we split that up
and turn it into an actual training
program so I think that in the end
ultimately what the literature boils
down to on this is that two times a week
frequencies so that's two times per week
per body part tend to be better than
hitting every body part only one time
per week and whether or not frequencies
of three times per week or more than
that or better I think remains to be
seen and this is assuming that volume is
matched so even when we're doing the
same volume so just for example say
we're doing 10 sets per week here per
body part and 10 sets per week here we
still tend to see better hypertrophy in
the two times per week group and there
are a couple proposed mechanisms for
this the main one I think is that you
tend to get or you do get an extra spike
in muscle protein synthesis so when you
resistance train you sort of sensitize
the muscle to amino acid uptake which
over enough time sort of compounds into
more hypertrophy I'm gonna did a whole
interview with an actual muscle protein
synthesis researcher on this topic so
link that up there in the cards if you'd
like a little more detail on that but
that's ultimately what it boils down to
and then you can also make the practical
case that if you're training each body
part twice a week it's actually a little
easier to get your weekly volume in and
maybe to push a slightly higher weekly
training volume so if you're trying to
cram all your chest volume let's say
just in one session per week that
session will either get long to the
point where it's tough to get all the
sets in or it'll give you a reduced
ability to exert yourself on those later
sets in the workout so by the time you
get to the say your tenth set or if
you're more advanced your 20th set of
chests in a single workout there's
almost no way that you can exert
yourself in the same way so from a
practical perspective volumes tend not
to be matched between these two and it
tends to be easier to use higher volumes
with the two times per week frequency
which i think is a pretty good argument
in its favor but we're gonna get to that
once we get to some
actual examples so I think it's a little
bit confusing for some people in my
experience to hear ok I have to do 10
sets per week and you try to think of
how to conceptualize that in a training
program so what I've done is I've laid
out five different examples of ways that
you can set it up and we'll just go
through these using the back as an
example ok so we're going to use the
back as an example and we're going to
try to squeeze in 10 sets per week in
each one of these splits and kind of
compare them in turn
so in split number one we've got the
standard upper lower split which is
actually what I recommend most for
beginners and maybe even you know early
intermediates and this is actually the
split that I'm doing myself right now
so I think that this is a very good one
and if any of them are going to take the
cake in my eyes it will probably be this
one and so if we just you know go
through quickly with an example I'm
gonna get rid of that circle I just drew
so with the back you do it on both of
your upper body days you'd hit your back
here and you hit your back here along
with obviously the rest of your upper
body is you'd want to be doing 10 sets
per week so you'd split it up to do 5
sets here and 5 sets here and the way
I'd actually recommend doing this in
practice is through a little bit of
exercise variation so of these 5 sets
you would do let's say three sets of a
pull-up
so three sets of say a wide grip pull up
and then you do two sets let's say a
dumbbell row so you've got a vertical
movement and then you've got a
horizontal movement three two gives you
here five sets for that day and then
down here you'd switch them around so
you do say three sets of let's say a
barbell row so you'd start with your
horizontal pull and then you do two sets
of your vertical pull and let's say we
switch it up and we go with oops
so we switch it up and we go with a lat
pulldown here then you add all these
numbers up and you get your ten sets per
week and it's distributed across two
workouts and of course you do the same
thing for your lower body ten sets for
every body part split up something like
that and that would be your program and
part of the reason why I like this so
much for beginners is that it has you in
the gym 40s per week which i think is
pretty manageable for most people and
you have plenty of rest between sessions
so you have three rest days to allow you
to sort of recover not only the muscle
groups that you're training directly in
that session but just your body more
global even I guess the sample split
number two is a simple full body split
so you just hit full body twice per week
with plenty of rest in between and I do
like this split not quite as much as the
upper lower one though because in order
to cram ten sets of every body part of
your whole body these workouts are gonna
have to be fairly long they're at least
gonna have to be quite a bit longer than
these workouts these upper and lower
workouts over here but the advantage is
that you only have to be in the gym
twice per week and you will get this I
mean if not the same very similar
results between these two programs and
if you're someone who doesn't maybe like
to go to the gym quite as frequently
this is probably the one to go with I
also like it for beginners because you
do have a ton of rest in between
workouts so I wouldn't say you're too
likely to run into any recovery issues
here the only potential issue is that I
think the workouts will get quite a
quite a bit long now but again you'd
split it up so you do just running with
the back as an example you do five sets
on this first full body workout and then
another five on your second full body
workout so a variation on this that I
actually like better is number three
here so with this one you're also doing
full body everyday you're in the gym but
you've split it up into three workouts
so now instead of having a two times per
week frequency per body part you have a
three times
per week frequency for each body part
and we don't know if that's necessarily
better but what it does allow is it
allows these workouts to be a little bit
shorter so instead of doing you know
five cents for every muscle group each
workout you might want to only do four
here and then three here and three here
and so that would still be a total of
ten so using the back as an example you
may want to do four sets of pull-ups do
a row here so let's say three sets of a
barbell row and then here you may want
to do a row again so three sets of a
cable row or maybe a face pole and that
would basically be how you'd set it up
the only potential downside that I would
see with this one is that it may not
feel like you're getting much of a
workout so for example if you just go in
and do just three sets of barbell row
and that's your whole back workout for
that day it may not feel like you know
you're getting much of a pump or you may
take you a while to kind of get into
your groove but with that said I still
think that this is a very good program
for beginners especially as you're you
know you don't quite have the same
recovery capacity and so only having
smaller volume workouts maybe actually
to your advantage here and similar to
here you have you know tons of rest in
between these workouts okay so the
fourth split is the classic bro split
and this is what in my experience most
people in the gym are doing this is what
I started doing and it's why I think
most bodybuilders do even today and
you'll start basically day one with
chest day two you do back they three
legs shoulders and then arms and abs and
then you rest on the weekends and there
are a bunch of different ways you can
set that up but that's just one common
way that I've seen it done and the bro
split gets a lot of hate online for
being you know suboptimal from a muscle
protein synthesis
dad I don't think it's the best and I
don't think it's probably as good as
these however if it is a program that
you know allows you to get in the gym
and you enjoy it and it allows you to
follow through then I see really no
major problem with and you can certainly
you know match volume doing this program
and see very similar results to what you
would see over here provided all this
other stuff that we've talked about is
in place with that said I do see a few
drawbacks with the bro split first of
all you're only getting a one time per
week frequency for every body part
technically speaking and we do know that
two times per week is marginally better
from a hypertrophic perspective and from
a strength perspective however I think
that you could make the case that well
if you're hitting chest here and you're
hitting shoulders here I mean since
there's gonna be a lot of crossover
you're technically getting a little bit
of a shoulder workout and probably on
your chest day and let's say on your arm
day you're doing biceps where your
biceps are also getting quite a bit of
indirect work on your back day so you
could make the case that you know this
actually is a I guess in reality higher
training frequency than it looks like on
paper and that's a point that I've made
in the past and I think it is fairly
valid but there are still a couple of
other problems with the bro split the
first is that I think you know you're
just taking a little bit too long
between training stimuli of course this
isn't as big of a deal if you buy the
sort of overlapping theory but still I
think that there is a case to be made
for having more frequent blips and
muscle protein synthesis and with this
you've just got so long from one workout
to the next so let's just take the legs
as one example you've got six days that
are gonna go by before you hit your legs
again and I don't think anyone really
needs quite that much recovery unless
you're absolutely blasting your legs
which just isn't really necessary you
don't need to cram that much volume in
one workout and so I think that this is
sort of like a waste of recovery in a
way you'd probably be better off
splitting this volume up into two
workouts and only having a couple days
of recovery in between then you can take
advantage of that muscle protein
synthesis or spread out your volume a
little bit better and this leads me to
the point of wasted sets
there's a pretty well-established idea
that just like you can only do so much
volume in a training week and you start
to see a drop-off or you start to see at
least a very solid plateau that can also
apply to a single workout where if you
start to do you know upwards of we don't
know what the exact number is but let's
just say 20 sets in a single workout
everything that you do above that is
wasted so I would say for a beginner or
I should say more or less wasted so for
a beginner maybe doing something you
know over this ten sets or maybe even
over six or seven sets in a single
workout those later sets aren't
contributing to the hypertrophic process
in the same way that the earlier sets
are so I think that's a pretty good case
for splitting it up a little bit better
but with that said I think we're again
teasing out those differences between
optimal and practical and if this is a
practical routine that you enjoy and
you'll follow through on and you're
continuing to get stronger and you're
progressing and you're consistent with
it then I absolutely think that this is
a feasible routine to give a go finally
it brings me to the push-pull leg split
which is another favorite of mine
however I do see this as more of an
intermediate to advanced program just
because you are in the gym six days a
week which i think is quite a lot for a
beginner and we need to consider not
only rest between each body part but
also just rest in general for your body
and I like to have more rest days for a
hardcore beginner than just one per week
but still this is a very effective
program and like the rest of them you do
have each muscle being hit twice per
week which i think is is the best way to
set it up so out of these five you can
probably get a decently clear idea of
how to fit ten sets per week per body
part into your overall training program
and for this one I think I'm gonna wrap
it up there I hope you guys found it to
be helpful in the next episode we're
gonna cover
intensity so how heavy should you go
should you use high reps or low reps
we're going to cover rest periods
whoa and also exercises what exercises
should you be selecting in your program
but for now I'm gonna wrap that one up
here thank you guys so much for watching
please share this with your friends
leave me a like if you liked it and I'll
see you guys in the next episode
[Music]