[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
Fairs Asian and today I'm going to demo
a recipe from my very first cookbook the
Renaissance kitchen this is slow cooker
chicken tikka and I know a lot of you
with the cookbooks really like this
recipe it's always nice to have just
tons of flavor and all of these Indian
spices that we're gonna put in here are
super super flavorful and it's a slow
cooker recipe so I know you guys if
you're like me you love those where you
just throw everything in a pot and walk
away for a few hours and you come back
and you have really tender and flavorful
protein so that's what we're gonna do
today we're gonna make the sauce right
here in the slow cooker pot so you're
not gonna have to dirty up you know
another mixing bowl or do anything too
involved we're just gonna add tomatoes
into here and a chopped onion some
tomato paste tomato paste is like a
staple for me I make just marinara sauce
I'll spread it on if I'm making like a
tortilla pizza or something I love that
concentrated flavor of tomato paste
chopped garlic and all of our Indian
flavorings and spices then you just give
this a stir right in the pot
[Music]
and then kind of spread that out so that
it covers the bottom I'm gonna put your
chicken breasts right on the top this is
just boneless skinless chicken breast
and just kind of set it right on the top
[Music]
and then we're just gonna cover this and
heat this on low for six hours all right
let's finish the slow cooker chicken
tikka so we're open it up here it looks
amazing smells really good I'm gonna
take out the chicken
it's barely holding together which is
what we want and then we're going to add
some yogurt in to kind of cream up this
sauce but you don't want to just dump
cold yogurt into a steaming hot pot
it'll curdle and get kind of gross and
weird so I'm going to just take a little
bit of the hot sauce and add it in we're
gonna slowly bring up the temperature of
the yogurt so it's not quite so cold so
I don't want it to do anything weird
when we add it in and that's good enough
you just don't want to shock a really
cold item okay so we've got that yogurt
in there we're just gonna stir it around
just to cream up the sauce a little bit
add some salt and pepper I'll set this
off to the side while we shred the
chicken and this should go really
quickly and it's all you need to do two
forks super tender bring our sauce back
over
[Music]
[Applause]
this is gonna be amazing by itself or
over a whole jasmine rice brown rice
just an interesting way with some unique
flavors to work with plain old skinless
boneless chicken breasts
[Music]