hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization welcome back last week we
talked about my bodybuilding
transformation the actual diet and
training i did to get altra lean and
superdrive for the first time in my life
yay this time we're going to talk about
peak week and what it took to actually
take a very lean physique and make it a
lean dry and full physique on the stage
good news there's just one chart to look
at the entire time but
we're not going to rush into it we're
going to talk about it one thing at a
time so first of all calories
my maintenance during this time was
right around 37.50 to 4 000 calories
let's just call it 4 000 calories so
sunday monday tuesday wednesday remember
the show is saturday okay
sunday monday tuesday is
3
000 calories roughly
that's a deficit that encourages fat
loss
the last bits of fat loss that we're
doing
on wednesday and thursday the calories
go up to 8 500 and 6 900 respectively
what
that is part of the carbohydrate load
which will become apparent in just a
quick second
and then friday we have to do two things
one is dry out a ton and another one is
get the waste as small as possible so
that you eat very little food that day
in order to have the
essentially gi tract be bereft of
contents and then you look nice and
tight
so just
over 2 000 calories on friday good news
is you don't actually get hungry on
friday because after eating 8 500 and
then 6 900 calories the two days before
you're kind of done eating for a little
while so it's a good thing now next
column is protein
protein is 350 grams
why because we're keeping carbs
artificially low on those days proteins
and fats have to come up uh to make the
difference okay so
sunday monday and tuesday it's 350 grams
of protein and then on wednesday and
thursday it's only 300 grams of protein
because we're carbohydrate loading we're
not protein loading we keep the protein
relatively normal on friday the protein
is 200 grams just because we cut off
eating like at 6 pm friday or whatever
so it's only so much protein get in
until you have to stop eating
carbs
sunday monday tuesday we're doing lots
of physical activity and doing the last
bits of training and it's 80 grams of
carbs yes that is incredibly low carb
yes that leads to the muscles being very
very deflated it is a purposeful
depletion you will notice and we'll talk
about them at the same time the fats are
150 grams a day that's a lot of fats
which means that we're not ultra super
hungry those days we're not accumulating
a ton of fatigue that would be a mistake
that late in the game and we're just low
carbing high level of fat so that we can
have a little bit of glycogen depletion
to make us sensitive for the reload that
begins on wednesday
on wednesday it is 1600 grams of carbs
that's right you read that correctly and
then on thursday 1200 with 100 grams of
fats on both dates that's how those
calories jump up
calculation-wise that's what mr jared
feather told me i should be eating in
order to fill out i got pretty full i
probably could have gotten even fuller
so jared jared's numbers were the
highest i had ever seen and even they
weren't enough so to speak so it was
great great college earned part i would
have eaten way fewer and not gotten as
much muscle fullness
eating the 600 grams of carbs i'll say
that it came mostly so i didn't have to
reduce my salt at this point so plenty
of pasta some some great french breads
some white rice protein from shakes and
lean meats and chicken and stuff like
that i even had some frozen yogurt it
was a really good time uh
so eating that many carbs is really fun
when you're starving to death some gi
just stress but nothing nothing too
crazy and then of course on friday
you're trying to get as dry as possible
seek at the carbs again so it's 50 grams
of carbs friday's not the most fun thing
in the world but you get to see your
midsection shrink down and you become
very dry so it's a good time anyway
all right and then
sorry uh the fats uh so again on friday
one thing i forgot to mention was yes 50
grams of carbs are very low but it's 150
grams of fat why because we don't want
to be insanely catabolic and
fatigue-inducing so we have plenty of
fats through that half day of eating so
that you're never really hungry on
friday and that's very good
you never really have a ton of fatigue
it doesn't interfere with your sleep etc
now
what's going on with water
six liters i normally drink
four to five liters of water per day
maybe like five on average
six liters of water sunday monday
tuesday a little bit more than normal so
that your body essentially almost all of
its pathways are sort of like they get
into a diuretic position they're like
yeah like we can give away all this
all of our internal water they don't
store water much because there's so much
coming in
on wednesday you take the water down i
took the water down to five liters a
little bit less still plenty because you
need lots of water to get those
carbohydrates under the muscle and store
and then on thursday three liters much
less water and then on friday as close
to zero liters as possible so i fill up
a tiny fraction of a shaker with a
little bit of sippy water and i use that
throughout the day and i you i don't
even use most of it just enough to get
the food down so the water is nice and
high and then it goes bloop just like
that over the course of several days
meanwhile the carbohydrates are being
loaded so less water coming in under the
skin more water being sucked out from
under the skin and from everywhere else
into the muscles makes for a very
muscular look but a very dry look
and at the same time sodium is operating
on very similar parameters it's just
pushed a little bit after water so once
you make the water changes a few hours
later make the sodium change sodium is 6
000 milligrams which is for me a pretty
typical amount of sodium remember sodium
is safe in a huge range especially if
you're not salt sensitive to blood
pressure which i'm not
six thousand milligrams all the way up
and including wednesday which makes
wednesday easy i can eat mostly normal
foods makes the carb up easy reduces the
diet fatigue reduces stress on thursday
i continue the carbs but salt is
significantly reduced as is water so
it's 2 000 milligrams that day which
isn't crazy but i got to choose my foods
wisely a bit more plain white rice a bit
more rice cakes not as much of the fun
foods and then friday as close to zero
milligrams of sodium is possible which
is actually possible to achieve
if you were very close if you have i had
an unflavored whey protein which was god
awful but it had almost no sodium in it
i had rice cakes with zero sodium and i
had natural nut butter natural peanut
butter with no sodium not not exactly
the most fun eating day but i will say
through especially thursday and
definitely friday and then the rest of
saturday is a bit more complicated that
show day i'll talk about that another
time during that time
after i would eat i would get incredibly
thirsty but then 30 minutes to an hour
later i actually felt completely normal
and it would go through cycles like that
the entire time i thought fuck i have to
pull a cord on this i'm too thirsty i'm
dying i'm dehydrated and then i would
like go to the bathroom and just pee
plenty of clear fluid and i was like
okay i'm not that dehydrated it's not
even yellow yet so i'm good to go and
then i sort of quote unquote suffered
through it wasn't terribly difficult and
then saturday morning i woke up and i
was like oh shit okay now we're rolling
now we're dry and then saturday night i
get even drier etc that's another story
for another time but for now
i don't want you guys to take this and
i'm sure you won't um
as a how-to manual of exactly the things
to do what i want you guys to do is see
this in patterns
the pattern is the calories take a bump
during carb load and go back down to let
the gi tract shrink down the pattern is
protein is kept roughly the same the
pattern as carbohydrates go through a
depletion and loading phase and then
through a slightly lower phase at the
end to make everything dry once again
fats are kept very very stable almost
the entire time a little fewer fats on
the carb load to get more carbs in per
any given unit of hunger water starts
out really high stays high and then
drops towards the end sodium starts high
stays high a little bit longer than
water and then drops off towards the end
that
is one of the ways
to do a peak there are many other ways
that work i'll probably do a slightly
different one for my next show but this
fundamentally is something that worked
first of all which is good and will work
in the future if you try to replicate it
with similar ideas got questions got
comments put them in the comments below
and we'll try to get to them like
subscribe
share tell your grandma about me say
grandma there's this channel that talks
about technical bodybuilding you have to
subscribe grandma you have to subscribe
grandma you gotta a lot of times talk
louder because grandma might not hear
well in any case see you next time
hey guys did you miss
the video before this where i actually
talk about the dietary changes i made
for the 17 weeks that i lost fat for
this bodybuilding show click on it right
here check it out