all right what's up everyone um so I
just wanted to make a quick announcement
uh something I've been wanting to say
for a while now uh but we couldn't
because it wasn't made official or
whatever uh but uh my girlfriend Robin
has been chosen as one of the I think
six or seven official alphalite
sponsored athletes uh which is pretty
cool um it's something that uh I know
she is really excited about and um I
think it's a huge opportunity um for her
and uh I'm just super super proud of her
and and uh basically we've been you know
the last couple of weeks just taking
shots uh of her um in one case in a
snowstorm and uh I'm not the most
skilled person with photography um but
uh I think I managed to get a couple
decent shots of her and so that was a
bit of fun so now I'm here at the gym
I'm going to be hitting a back workout
uh I've actually written a new misoc
cycle for myself uh so it's running with
the same basic setup and split as I've
beening doing uh with back chest and
shoulders legs and arms as four separate
days and then I'll either take an
optional rest or just repeat the cycle
but what I've been doing or what I've
written for myself in this cycle is a
little bit more of a powerlifting Focus
uh so even though the rep ranges are
still for the most part um moderate to
high uh especially speaking in
powerlifting terms um I've upped the
frequency uh so I will be squatting
twice a week now or twice within that
for day micro cycle I should say and
bench pressing twice within that micro
cycle and also deadlifting once or twice
within that cycle depending on the week
and I'm also doing uh quite a bit of
technique specific work for the power
lifts uh so things like slow deadlifts
uh deadlifts with a slow concentric um
squats with three pauses on the uh way
down uh paused squats and um I guess I
would say competition style bench press
uh since I feel as though that's the
lift that needs the least amount of work
in terms of technique and the deadlift I
think right now is probably the one that
I could use the most work on uh so I'm
incorporating some variations on those
lifts to address those specific issues
um within my uh bodybuilding split that
I've been uh running with for the last
couple of months so that's the basic
update for me on training uh I'm going
to take you guys through this full back
workout and uh try to um capture as much
of it as I can all right guys see you in
the
gym hey so I am back with a voice over
uh I'm going to be taking you guys
through uh this full back workout um so
I kick things off here with uh just a
little bit of light cardio I'll usually
start every workout with um 5 or 10
minutes on the elliptical or stepper or
bike or whatever um just to get things
uh just get the blood the blood moving
basically
um and then after that I jumped into my
typical prehab routine uh which is
really just a a bunch of dynamic
stretches for the most part and just
bringing uh the joints through their uh
range of motion uh so where I was
deadlifting on this day I did the full
uh lower body prehab
routine um so I started this workout off
with uh slow concentric deadlifts which
I'll admit is a bit of a strange
exercise usually you see powerlifters
training for max speed and uh slowing
down the concentric intentionally sounds
like a little bit of a um
counterintuitive thing to do uh but I've
actually found this to be a pretty
useful exercise uh in terms of
correcting bar path and really forcing
the lift to happen in synchronicity so
what I mean by that is um I think with
the Sumo deadlift it's important that
the knees lock and then the hips lock um
just very shortly after it uh but
forcing the slowed concentric really um
ensures that you're paying attention to
what you're doing with your body at each
point in the pull um and so while paused
deadlifts have you know a similar uh
effect or a similar purpose um this is a
variation that um I've enjoyed myself
and uh I found to be quite a useful tool
in terms of improving uh technique on
the concentric and also uh improving
grip strength um my hands were
absolutely Fried by the end of this
believe it or not even though it was
only 365 uh but mind you I'm not used to
deadlifting off the floor lately um and
I don't really have my my calluses built
up as much as they used to be um but
yeah this is a great exercise and it's
one I'm excited to uh keep in for the
next month or so just keep in mind
you're obviously going to have to go
light uh here I was going with something
like 70% of my estimated one rep max uh
for six sets of three uh so after the
slow concentric deadlifts I moved on to
lat Pullins uh this is typically an
exercise that I'll do to sort of
activate the lats and get them firing
before I jump into my other movements um
so typically I would do this on a LP
Pullin machine uh but the gym I was
training at today didn't have that
machine uh so what I did was just set up
a vertical bench in between two cables
here and for me I had to set up the
cables at their highest setting and uh
you're just going to have to play around
with this you don't want it to be so
restricted that you you get a limited
range of motion so you want the cables
to be fairly High overhead uh when you
um adduct the shoulder and sort of pull
your elbows in towards your side
but that's a great lat activation
exercise so I usually start off with
four or five sets of 15 to 20 reps of
those um and then I moved on to a row uh
so in this case it was the chest
supported T Bar row um I'll typically do
a Smith machine row or uh some other
form of row like a tar row uh or
whatever but where I was doing the heavy
deadlifts I wanted to make sure my
Erectors weren't taking too much of a
hit and weren't going to be a limiting
factor for me uh so this is why I was
doing the chest supported version um and
I ended up going up to a couple plates
plus a 25 did that for eight reps a
little bit too easily so I added another
10 and then banged that out for three
sets of eight
reps so after the rows it was onto lat
pull Downs uh so what I did here was
three sets of 12 to 15 reps um but what
I did from set to set was alter my grip
uh so I started out wide um and then as
the sets went on I narrowed my grip to
more of like a in between grip and then
for the final Set uh I brought my grip
in quite close um so the closer you go
the the greater the range of motion that
you're going to get I also find you get
more bicep activation uh so it actually
becomes a little bit easier for me um as
the the sets go on which makes sense
because uh you're going to be a little
more fatigued and you might be able to
move the same weight for the same number
of reps and also hit the muscle from
slightly different angles which I I do
think is important for overall and
proportional
development so after the lap pull Downs
it was on to uh these machine high rows
uh and I did those for three sets
of uh 15 to 20 actually and then after
those it was on to uh cable pullovers
another three sets of 15 to 20 um if you
have a pullover machine be thankful for
that those are great machines I wish
that I had one um but they're very rare
at gyms so I found uh these to be the
best substitute uh for the
machine um another great lat exercise of
course and then I finished off this
workout with uh these machine shrugs so
I went really light on these and just
tried to get that mind muscle connection
uh with a slight forward lean and I did
three sets of these for 20 to 25 reps
and that was it all right guys so that
is it that is going to conclude this
training Vlog um hope that you enjoyed
the
workout and I've got my protein shake on
deck and uh I will see you guys in the
next
one