consuming too much sugar kind of takes
your mitochondria offline like I
couldn't make up more insane dog shit
that's wrong than that that takes the
cake
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I am an exercise and
sports science professor at Lehman
College in the Bronx the co-creator of
the RPI pertrophy app and I will be
appraising some Women's Health magazines
today to see what kind of nutrition
lifestyle and
training advice they are giving to our
finest ladies and seeing if it's great
if it's meh or if it's uh
let's read some magazines
I like to First Look at the cover and
see what's on the cover uh that's
exciting Muscle Maker this two-in-one
core move works wonders fascinating how
Hayden Panettiere learned to put Health
First
compelling page 41 our protein bar
obsessions
and power up the many ways to score off
the charts energy bold claim and lastly
a Health Report are you cortisol
conscious don't be no wait you should be
uh I think let's find out
so we've got the move of the month move
of the month is the muscle maker thank
God filed Under full body strength level
five versus Advanced shit combine two
classic exercises a plank and a row
for a core crushing stability challenge
okay let's cut right into the criticism
here so it's very standard this is a a
very traditional move in the female
Workout World where you're in a push-up
position with some dumbbells in your
hands and then you roll one dumbbell you
put it back down you roll another
dumbbell you put it back down
um it is a gigantic poor use of your
time as far as an exercise is concerned
because instead of getting a great back
workout with a much heavier dumbbell and
a much more stable position where your
core isn't required to do most of the
lifting you are doing a really crappy
low weight low Focus very not impressive
back work well at the same time just
isometrically Contracting your abs which
does not much anything for them for fat
loss or muscle growth or anything like
that it's a move I would say is
challenging in a way that is not
stimulative it's like if you wanted to
train to become the best boxer you would
hit the bag a bunch and that makes you
good at boxing also hard but if every
five punches you hit the bag someone
need you in the nuts it would absolutely
make it more difficult but would it make
you better at boxing no it could make
you marginally better getting need in
the nuts nobody cares about that sort of
thing I don't think the ladies that read
these magazines they want to be leaner
and more muscular and potentially
healthier this move is not an efficient
move to get them there I'm sorry the
muscle maker not something we're using
this sucks next
all right we are to the protein bar
article where they recommend Best Buys
these finds one over testers with taste
and substance in rank 5 is the total
treasure mosh blueberry almond Crunch
bar the bar serves fruity blueberry
flavor that's the number one reason I
hate bars along with lion's mane
mushrooms and 100 oh my God there's an
exclamation mark there if your daily
dose of vitamin B12 both important for
brain function body and mind officially
boosted there is a big problem with this
is that they don't mention calories or
protein at all which are the two most
important things I need to know about my
protein bars here's how to pick a good
protein bar if for how many calories it
has it has a lot of protein you're
winning this mosh brand has 12 grams of
protein it's keto it has a lot of
vitamins lion's mane ashwagandha omega-3
this is just like a a cacophony of
things you would put into what whoa no
offense what white women buy because
they think it's like Health oh my God
ashwagandha that's like good right like
the Earth has that or whatever it's that
it's got the video guy can we get a
total calories for the mosh brain brand
blueberry almond crunch protein bar
eight that 19 carb full protein 160
calories 160 calories 12 grams of
protein for 180 calories I can get 20
grams of protein out of a pure protein
bar this ain't it not the worst bar in
the world but not the best let's go to
the next morning maker perfect bar
coconut peanut butter bar perfect
snacks.com am workout Warrior it's high
in vitamin E
okay and a host of other minerals by the
way it's nominally easy to put extra
vitamins and minerals into a bar it's on
a fucking powder I don't know why they
brag about this like copper or niacin oh
my God which are important for
sustaining energy levels throughout the
day that's all nonsense vitamins don't
do that you just get enough of them and
everything feels fine if you don't get
enough of them you don't really feel
anything and uh Scott's a video guy do
we know how many calories it has protein
27 fat 22.
calories 350s
folks 350 calories for only 16 grams of
protein that's 20 plus grams of fat this
is a fucking candy bar post workout it's
not even ideal because it is so much fat
and not enough carbs for the fat that
doesn't even do a good job of
replenishing your muscle glycogen stores
it's not enough protein this just Falls
right into the line of one of those
things that's really a candy bar again
sorry to get racial for white women in
the 40s and 50s to go like oh my God I'm
getting like so much protein I'm like a
Wonder Woman
you're not Wonder Woman Karen all right
next fresh baked field 88 acres banana
bread protein bar 88acres.com now I've
had 88 acres bars before but they
weren't protein bars they were just
regular tasty bars that I had for more
calories and they are really tasty but
they're not exactly Ultra healthy this
six ingredients select which reminded
tasters of homemade banana bread is
powered by pumpkin seeds you didn't know
pumpkin seeds were a power source but
somebody notified the nuclear power
development industry which provide the
protein and offer crunch I don't think
pumpkin seeds are actually high in
protein
Scott can we get an 88 acres banana
bread protein bar 12 protein in 19 fat
let me give you guys another rule if
there's more fat in the bar than protein
it's not a fitness bar it's a fucking
candy bar I guarantee you the banana
bread pumpkin seed protein bar from 80
acres tastes amazing but it's not a
mystery because it has a crapload of fat
and not so much protein you get a lot of
protein in something with a limited
amount of fat it's challenging to make
it taste good but then it's actually a
fitness bar next up
chocolate Choice core Foods dark
chocolate sea salt plant-based keto bar
good God that's a lot of stuff this Rich
decadent option again white women want
only one of two things things that are
decadent and things that are nourishing
look at these magazines long enough
nourishing and decadent the only two
things that are interesting this Rich
decadent option tastes like a candy bar
I bet you it's got macros like a candy
bar too but has no added sugars
thank God because you know added sugars
are so much worse somehow than natural
sugars no wait they're just the same
instead it's sweetened with all natural
alts oh my God I love alt
like allulose dates and hmong fruit
anything natural and exotic I think is
like good because I love nature and it's
like good and like Exotics like other
parts of the world are like different
people and like I love diversity so I
love it anytime I look at an ALT
category it's in the adult film search
folks if you like that video and you
want to see the extended cut then please
consider becoming a member there's going
to be a button right there
either
six protein and 11 fat folks I tell you
why it's rich and decadent
it's got a shitload of fat in it and not
a lot of protein higher protein usually
makes things flaky and dry because
that's what protein is like and higher
fat usually makes them rich and amazing
and delicious and then so in the protein
Mark when a quote has six grams of
protein that's kind of uh rip off that's
what it is a Sprinkle of flaky sea salt
oops I put the sea in myself I was I was
just being racist at that point thinking
of course white women want some sea salt
a Sprinkle of flaky salt sets it apart I
bet it's delicious but it is not a
health bar or a bar that helps you get
fit it's just a bar with almost no
protein and a crapload of fat again a
candy bar is competitive at this point
lastly and firstly rank one is a wild
card win epic bison bacon Cranberry bar
from epicprovisions.com I've actually
had this bar before myself while it's
lower in fiber than the other options
only two grams it's made of animal meat
where the fuck would the Fiber come from
this is ideal if you're craving
something Savory this is really what
this is all about it's what you're
craving grass-fed bison and bacon pack
and Smoky flavor while cranberries add a
tart pop notice it mentions nothing
about health or macros at this point it
actually only detracts that it doesn't
have fiber Scott how bad is this I know
it only has seven grams of protein which
is terrible eight carbate fat so we have
more carbs and fats than proteins this
is not a protein bar it's not health
food this is terrible let's move on to
the next section
ooh food protocol
most eats are Energy dealers but
specific kinds impact brain chemistry
you know the bullshit's coming soon in a
way that gives you a more immediate and
most important sustainable boost
immediate and sustainable two for the
price of one here's what you want to
fill up on and go easy on fill up on
nuts specifically peanuts and almonds
okay that's total bullshit all nuts work
super super well for this regard so the
specifically is pointless that's just
filler like chat gbt wrote this or
something
the Crunchies are an amazing snack
choice for saying an afternoon slump
they're not nuts digest incredibly
slowly you won't feel the calories
helping you until like hours later when
you don't need them anymore amazing fine
work folks they toss in a hint of
dopamine to your brain thanks to the
amino acid tyrosine not a limiting
factor in dopamine production for the
love of God your brain does not have
dopamine problem as long as you're
eating any kind of food at all
throughout the day and you know what
else boost dopamine that's right fasting
not a food you eat the food makes more
dopamine
good God which according to Dr Shaw will
help you feel more motivated and
energized
good old almonds motivating energizing
me oh and peanuts but not Brazil nuts
those things are fucking terrible for
you and if you eat a walnut you're gonna
die what else is good fill up on chai
tea chai tea is like this earthy thing
really somehow connected to the peoples
of Singapore which is exotic and it like
nourishes your body but it's also
decadent
I could write a lot of copies for white
women in their 40s did you know chai is
an aerobedic tonic made thousands of
years ago
so you know it worked because shit
thousands of years ago did such a great
job
to be healing energizing and tasty says
Dr Shaw The Not So secret energy
ingredients are spices like cardamom I
mean like white bitches love shit like
cardamom anything that sounds fancy and
Herb it's like oh my God that's gonna
nourish me right and the daughter's like
well hold on it's pretty decadent like
oh my God you fuck about me oh they go
on with the spices Ginger I love it
black pepper ooh and Nutmeg which I
thought is like a candy bar ingredient
but I know
she suggests swapping regular sugar from
monk fruit
or Stevia oh we got a video on that and
regular milk for coconut or almond if
you're sensitive to Dairy being that you
read this magazine you probably find
yourself sensitive to everything
fatality chai tea there you go that's
you want to fill up on chai tea for that
energy I know where it comes from
because there's not even any calories in
chai tea okey-doke so terrible advice on
fill upon let's see what they say to go
easy on refined sugar
if you eat a lot of sugar you can make
energy without really involving your
mitochondria
nope that's bullshit I really try to
give it the benefit of the dog but
that's nonsense unless you're somehow
just using fast glycolysis from
carbohydrates to make the kind of energy
you need for regular tasks which is
exclusively or almost entirely energy
from oxidative phosphorylation which
actually really does occur in your
mitochondria
uh says pick hard I got a lot of people
on this article but as we now know
exercising those parts of your cells is
exactly what helps you feel more
energized
don't you exercise yourselves with
exercise and not like feeding them shit
I don't know consuming too much sugar
kind of takes your mitochondria offline
like I couldn't make up more insane dog
shit that's wrong than that that takes
the cake says Picard let them do their
jobs naturally
newsflash if you eat a lot of natural
sugar
it's sugar and by the time it gets to
your cells it would have the same effect
so I guess fruit turns off your
mitochondria which is somehow bad
because they need more practice or
something good God who makes the shit up
let me tell you guys about the RP
hypertrophy app with over 28 preset
programs already in the app you could
choose to make your own you could modify
an existing program or you could just
run the programs exactly as they were
written by me personal this app programs
everything for you exercises weights
sets reps frequency the whole thing
after every single workout on every
single week the app adjusts to your
unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
Ultra processed foods
they're proven to increase risk for
fatigue depression and cardiovascular
disease those are mostly correlations
but some of them are not so healthy so I
feel that notes Dr Shaw who defines an
ultra processed food as anything you
couldn't make in a kitchen watch this
you guys ready we go back up to chai tea
and we find out which of these
ingredients we can make in a kitchen
cardamom nope Ginger nope you guys ever
make your own black pepper nope me
neither and Nutmeg pretty sure those are
bait inside of plants or factories or
something but don't worry you can make
monk fruit and Stevia in coconut milk in
your kitchen nope looks like those are
all processed foods and our own
definition just just in the ass
Weird Science is so fun
shut up Scott the video guy I'm trying
to be serious
let's see here anything you couldn't
make in a kitchen I'm if a packaged
granola bar has nuts seeds and honey you
could theoretically make oh my God yeah
you could theoretically have a mass
spectrometer in the kitchen that you
don't but if you look at the ingredients
on a certain bag of orange chips and
we're going to guess that's not the case
you pry my Cheetos out of my cold dead
hands and they'll be cold and dead quite
soon because Cheetos aren't that great
for eating all the time anything you
make at home is going to be healthier
because it's not Ultra processed you're
using real ingredients as Dr Shaw Dr
Shaw
you need to go back to school there's no
other way for me to say that because in
school you will learn that processing is
not an inherently Health promoting or
health attracting process if you process
milk fractions and you create casein
protein out of it or whey protein
they're incredibly processed I assure
you their powder is made in a factory
but they're phenomenally healthy for you
you know what else is processed yogurt
Greek yogurts processed to shit and holy
fuck it's really really good for you but
Cheetos and candy bars and all this
other stuff because they have a lot of
preservatives and they really hide
calories and they're really palatable
see too many of them uh they're not
ideal for your health so yeah Ultra
processed foods are often not ideal for
your health but it really does matter
what the processing does and what the
end result is so refined sugar again
it's if it's in the context of you're
meeting your calorie needs and your
meeting mostly nutritious Foods refined
sugar is totally fine it's good to keep
a cap on it because it can get so high
in calories and because refined sugars
often don't come with all the added
nutrients so this isn't terrible advice
it's just Justified with wrong things
that are wrong next Women's Health
exclusive see it says recover faster
with America's first post-workout pain
relief solution first problem pain
relief and Recovery to completely
distinct Concepts riboflam reduce
inflammation with clinically proven
ingredients and ultravio available
phytosome technology
sounds like bullshit to me but what do I
know these statements have not been
evaluated by the FDA this product is not
intended to diagnose treat cure or
prevent any disease I don't know what's
in here 63 dollars 63 bucks two dollars
a day got it riboflam is a prepare a
proprietary phytosome complex
excellent which is turmeric extract
Indian frankincense
quercetin narrow Leaf cone flower
extract
zinc just a bunch of herbs and shit
quercetin does have some
anti-inflammatory properties but uh
taking it especially in high doses after
your workout actually interferes with
the mechanics the molecular
processes of the workout that make you
better so taking it post workout would
be the wrongest possible time to take
this so if you take the supplement in
the morning or you take it in the
evening you see some good stuff in it
that you know may help you be a little
bit less inflamed uh and and give you
some good nutrition micronutrients and
stuff it's like a like a vitamin
supplement post-workout would be the
wrongest time to use it and if you have
chronic pain post workout that's an
issue for your doctor that's not
something you're going to take a pill
for uh herbs yes so Women's Health
Magazine uh I would say generally quite
bad advice mostly of like there's stuff
in there they say to do that you just
don't need to do not very good advice
but very well meant and so well written
so there's some gems you can pick up if
you already know things but I gotta be
honest man if you don't really know
Fitness nutrition and health you pick up
one of these and you start trying to
learn stuff you're going to be slogging
through a lot of Randomness until you
get to actual good stuff
typical
[Music]
it sucks alright you guys want to see me
read another woman's health mag parse
the claims say something in the comments
see you guys next time
[Music]