hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
puration I'm here to deliver something
to you and the delivery includes a let's
see what's in the thing oh five rules of
forearm training to get jacked forearms
yeah needy forearms just like all the
girls love maybe the
guys old folks maybe like them I don't
know who likes big farms I'm sure as
hell on that list we got five rules as
to how you train your forums they're
helpful hints for your success ESS rule
number one is generally speaking higher
reps sets of 15 to 20 to 25 to 30 tend
to work better than lower reps on
forearm exercises why because it just
doesn't take you a long time to do a
wrist curl your muscles respond to a
certain amount of stimulus with a
certain amount of time your muscles
can't count they don't know how to count
reps but they do have sensors for how
much metabolite is secreted how much
tension uh mole Machinery is pulled on
and the longer it's pulled on the more
signaling it does so they do have a sort
of way to sense time and so if you do
sets of 10 with squats that could take
you a minute if you do sets of 10 with
forearm curls that could take you like
10 seconds and your body's like oh oh
was there a growth stimulus there just
tur the Machinery on I don't really know
what happened so maybe if you do sets of
15 20 25 30 you can get a growth
stimulus that lasts 30 45 seconds or
something like that and then you're in
the money and every set is high quality
rule number two short rests your
forearms do not require 3 minutes to get
back their recovery if you just wait
long enough until you don't have any
pain from lactic acid in your forarms
after L set and you're feeling pretty
strong go that could be as little as
five or 10 seconds between sets
especially if you do dumbbell curls and
you alternate you can just alternate
alternate alternate alternate and you
say but hold on Dr Mike won't I gas out
and the systemic fatigue will be bad if
you gas out from doing one arm dumbbell
forarm curls go see a doctor holy shit
number
three relative to other muscles tons of
sets and tons of frequency your fors can
recover like crazy start with very
little start with one set twice a week
and if you couldn't recover go to two
sets twice a week and after six weeks of
working up to six sets every every time
twice a week that's 12 total next Messa
cycle try three of those actual sessions
and then you get end up to something
like 18 sets and eventually four
sessions a week 24 sets total you say
but hold on how can my body recover from
that well your foreign muscle is not the
biggest muscle in the body or the
biggest muscle group and it just doesn't
take a long time to recover it's also
insanely well vascularized so it has an
easier time recovering still it is
slower twitch because you use your forms
all day every day your back isn't used
as often it's more fast twitch it's uh
going to take more damage from exercise
require more time to recover your forums
can recover just fine now here's the
thing when you're not actively trying to
make them bigger when they need a break
you can go down to just once or twice a
week training for forums in just a few
sets or even if you do lots of grip work
and back work and stuff like that
deadlifting you can do zero Forum work
at all and most of the time they'll stay
roughly the same size so you're not
supposed to train your forums four or
five days a week with six sets each time
all the time but some of the time in
clusters and waves of higher volume
that's how you can make a big difference
to how big your forearms
are rule number four try if you really
care about your forarms being bigger to
train them first on leg days and push
days because they don't interfere with
what's happening next if you have a big
forearm pump doesn't change your leg day
doesn't change your push day much you
can't do that before bicep days or back
days because it absolutely will take a
huge chunk out of your bicep workout and
your back workout in most circumstances
so don't do that but the thing is
because we think of forums as related to
biceps and back which they kind of are
they're part of the pulling complex we
end up usually saving Forum training for
after we've done back and biceps and
they're so tired your training is good
but it's not great it's just a little
too much going through the motions and
not enough really high intensity to keep
the intensity High try training them
first before legs and and or before your
your pushing workouts chest and triceps
and stuff so then you can get some high
quality weeks of progression with
forarms first with high energy with a
huge stimulus and they'll grow more
lastly do not fall for the BS that is
Hey listen if you want bigger bigger
forarms just do your back work without
straps and if you're fucking using
straps brother you just it's a crush for
a weak link that is nonsense it's ego
bro
bullshit if you need to for your delts
and for your back to use straps so that
your delts and your back are the
respective limiting factors in delt and
back work use straps use chalk use
especially Versa grips I use the
versagrip pro I'm still not sponsored by
vers grips please sponsor me vers grip
tired of paying 20 bucks for one of your
products every four years because they
work so good I barely need to replace
them suppose nobody really needs a
versagrip sponsorship go out and get you
some vers grips and then use them when
you need them and then people will say
what about your forearms aren't they
going to get stronger yes when you do
forearm curls and other forarm
techniques to make them bigger in their
own time we don't take the lunge
movement or the hip thrust until someone
hey you better put your knees into it
more because you'll you otherwise your
quads will get small what but we have
other movements for quads the back work
and the shoulder work that you're doing
that you need straps on is for back and
shoulders so use those Versa grips to
make sure that the back and shoulders
get hit the most as they are the
limiting factor because your grip is
tight and solid will that let you train
your grip as much no but these exercises
aren't supposed to train your grip to
begin with you're supposed to be doing
grip exercises for that godd damn it so
work diligently on those and use straps
when you need them for the other muscle
groups and you'll get the best of all
worlds and if you want even better of
all worlds give our give your thought
rather we already have our thought here
but subscribing to the member section
it's more money but you get more videos
and it's only a little bit of money and
you get a lot more videos and they're
nerdy and super sciency and stuff so if
you train other people if you happen to
be a personal trainer yourself or an
online coach maybe something to think
about and if you want to take your
results to the next next level the team
full ROM Forum through RP is a really
really big deal we've got video review
on there where myself and Jared feather
and a bunch of other folks review your
videos we can review your physique
there's tons of programs included for
the price there's tons of diets included
for the price we have a ton of fun in
the Forum every Wednesday we compare
dicks like it's just pictures of dicks
and you just get to rate them and it's
not even Anonymous it's just right
through your profile I'm kidding about
that last part or am I see you guys in
the Forum and I'll see you next time for
another
video