[Music]
okay welcome everyone to episode two of
the full body science applied series so
in this video we're gonna go through the
second full body workout of the week on
our new five day per week high frequency
split and as before if the split just
seems totally crazy to you make sure you
check out my science explained video on
high frequency training to put it in
context so in this video we're hitting a
chest focused workout so even though
we're still hitting our full body we're
prioritizing the chest by placing it
earlier in the workout which has been
shown in a scientific literature to
increase strength and performance so
we're kicking things off with three sets
of three reps on the bench press with
85% of our 1 rep max and even though
they're not max effort sets they're
still quite heavy which begs the
question do rep counts as low as 3 along
in a hypertrophy focused program at all
well I think it depends I personally
like to include some pure strength work
because first of all I'm not only
concerned about building muscle I also
care about getting stronger and strength
is specific so if you want a stronger
bench you've got a lift heavy but
secondly I think a lot of people under
play the fact that low rep strength work
does actually contribute to hypertrophy
both directly and indirectly indirectly
getting stronger and lower rep ranges is
going to allow you to overload more
heavily in more moderate rep ranges
leading to more cumulative tension over
time and in my opinion as you get more
advanced continuing to get stronger is
important for continued progress also as
long as volume is matched
research shows that low rep sets cause
similar hypertrophy as high rep sets in
2014 Schoenfeld and colleagues split
subjects into a group doing 3 sets of 10
reps and 7 sets of 3 reps and found that
after eight weeks of full body training
both groups gained to the same amount of
muscle however it's worth noting that
the heavy workouts took over four times
as long to complete and had a higher
dropout rate so it probably wouldn't be
sustainable over the long term but
contrary to what we used to think low
rep heavy training canned build muscle
it just isn't always the most practical
way to train so when it comes to the
benchpress we generally want to use
external cues rather than internal cues
meaning you want to focus more on moving
the weight with good technique rather
than worrying about the mind muscle
connection in fact despite the fact that
recent evidence
shown value in using the mind muscle
connection on some isolation exercises
over 15 years of research has
consistently found that an external
focus on the movement itself improves
motor performance including strength so
with this in mind I'm just gonna run
through a sequence of a few cues I've
picked up on over the years first you
want to squeeze the bar as hard as you
can before lowering it next think about
bending the bar forward which is going
to cue your elbows to tuck in a bit and
help maintain upper back tightness on
the bench as you near the bottom
actively puff your chest up and then
push the floor away from you as you
press the weight up and back so in terms
of progression here we're alternating
heavier sets of three with relatively
lighter sets of five from week to week
and the ideas for those heavy 3s to have
strength carry over to the fives which
will then have strength carry over to
eight later down the road so building up
this raw pressing strength can help you
continue to make progress as you get
more advanced even if your main goal is
hypertrophy all right up next we're
hitting low to high cable flyes for
three sets of fifteen at an RPE of nine
so because this is an isolation exercise
we can push these sets a little closer
to failure without having to worry as
much about fatigue and here I like to
queue for all three biomechanical
actions of the PEC by thinking about
hugging a big tall tree so you're not
only hugging you're also lifting your
arms up because say the tree is really
tall and I like to have my palms facing
up at the bottom and then down at the
top to take the pecs from a fully
stretched to a fully contracted position
and this cueing is going to allow us to
Train horizontal shoulder adduction
shoulder flexion and internal rotation
all at the same time okay after that
we're hitting three sets of twelve reps
on the Romanian deadlift now because our
tiel's cost so much muscle damage by
loading the hamstrings in a highly
stretched position we want to be mindful
to stay about 2 to 3 reps shy of failure
as sore hamstrings can really
deteriorate future training performance
at least until the repeated bout effect
starts to kick in around week 2 or 3 but
regardless I usually try to bracket any
workout I do already ELLs with
low-impact hamstring work so you'll
remember from day one that we hit lying
leg curls and then on day three you
won't actually do any direct hamstrings
work at all to allow for adequate
recovery from these rdls also we're not
doing any direct quad work on day two
because those squats from day one tend
to be pretty disruptive and I'd usually
try to have
day of recovery after hitting those so
we'll give the quads one day of rest
before jumping into the leg press that
we'll be hitting on day three I'm so it
isn't the point that you need to hit
every muscle every single day you want
to think of it just like taking your
weekly volume that you need to make
progress on any split and just spacing
it out evenly across the week in a way
that makes sense for performance and
recovery and I prefer to use our deals
as a lighter mind-muscle connection type
movement I find that if I load them too
heavily my lower back simply takes over
and remember from technique Tuesday that
you should simply focus on setting your
hips straight back and for most people
the end point should be just below the
knees and going deeper than that will
often just result in lower back rounding
all right up next we're hitting a chest
supported row for three sets of 15 reps
and you can do these on a t-bar machine
the key is just that they're actually
chest supported remember from day one
that for the most part we're alternating
between a vertical pole and a horizontal
pole so today it's time for a row and
we're opting for a chest supported
variation just because it spares the
lower back with high frequency training
it's really important that we not
overtax the spinal erectors
since they play a stabilization rule in
most free-weight compound exercises so
by bracing your chest you relieve the
lower back of that stabilization rule
allowing for more recovery there while
still smashing the mid traps and lats
and one thing I've been doing on these
lately is really exaggerating the
scapular protraction and retraction
allowing the way to sort of pull my mid
back apart at the bottom and then really
retracting all the way at the top okay
next we're hitting the standing Arnold
press for three sets of 12 reps now the
main reason I like doing these standing
is that there is a bit more of a
stabilization role to be played which
means there might be more involvement
from the lateral delt and I really try
to emphasize my lateral delts in my
programming because in my experience
they can tolerate quite a lot of volume
and they're just so important for
developing that x-frame broad-shouldered
appearance another thing I'm focusing on
here is initiating the press by sweeping
the dumbbells out almost like doing a
reverse PEC deck and then pressing them
up this way you can get the rear delts
involved at the beginning and then as
you press the side and front delts will
contribute more all right after that
we're moving on to three sets of 15 on
the tricep press down and on this split
I'm alternating between bicep and tricep
isolation work from day to day so on
days we do tricep work we won't do any
direct bicep work and vice versa now
both of these muscles get a lot of
indirect work
from all the compound exercises in the
program so I think they only need about
six to ten sets of isolation work per
week especially when the effort is very
high for them as it is in this routine
also I'm doing these one arm at a time
starting with my weaker side and I'm
allowing my elbow to come forward a bit
to stretch the triceps at the top and
then I'm hyper extending my shoulder at
the bottom
turning the movement into a sort of push
down kickback combo which absolutely
smashes the long head of the triceps at
least for me anyway and we're gonna
finish out the work out with some smith
machine shrugs again similar to the
chest support on the row the smith
machine is gonna help spare your lower
back since it won't have as much of a
stabilization demand now of course if
you don't have a smith machine free
weights will still work fine but as an
extra recovery precaution especially
since i've had lower back issues in the
past
I really like the smith machine for
these and we're gonna go with the usual
cues here we're gonna use a wider grip
to emphasize scapular upward rotation as
the upper traps don't only elevate the
scapula
they also rotate them upward so think
about shrugging both up and in like
you're trying to lift your shoulders to
your ears and remember the shrug isn't a
contest to see who can hold the most
weight so I'll choose shrugs certainly
can have their place in the context of a
high frequency plan I think it's much
smarter to emphasize more controlled
movements using a lighter load and a
stronger mind muscle connection okay and
that's gonna be it for this workout guys
I'll put a link to the first leg focused
full body workout over here if you'd
like to check it out and I'll put a link
to the next back focused full body
workout over here once that actually
goes live if you're interested in having
all this information put into a complete
10-week training program you can check
out my new high frequency full-body
program designed for intermediate to
advanced level lifters over on Jeff
pepper calm don't forget to leave me a
like if you enjoy the video subscribe if
you haven't already and I'll see you
guys all here and the next one