The Descent of the bicep curl if it is
controlled supplies an eccentric
contraction to the biceps which grows
them a ton if you curl as hard as you
can on the way up but then drop the
weight you can do more reps but there's
no magic rep counter in the sky that's
saying oh you're amazing if you did 10
reps or whatever it's all about making
sure you milk everything out of each rep
which means control and tons of force on
the concentric and control The Eccentric
as well Jared show us what the mistake
looks like pretty decent curl and then
bloop it drops down in pretty decent
curl and bloop it's really tempting to
do this because you can do more reps and
it's really tough to do an eccentric
control contraction does The Eccentric
have to be like three or five seconds
long no that's definitely an option if
you want to try it as a variation but in
general just make sure you're actively
Contracting the muscles and slowing the
bar down Against Gravity