too many people are suffering and
struggling with modern-day chronic
conditions that make their life suck the
number one reason why people have
modern-day chronic conditions is that
people typically live to ages much older
than they used to your body is actually
just not designed by Evolution to live
much past the age of 30 and if you make
it past the age of 30 it gets kind of
fragile and frail over time and usually
in the natural Primal world you would
croak of some kind of disease or you
just run faster than everyone in your
tribe I'm sorry slower and the jaguar
eats your dumb old ass we have tons of
old people and that's the number one
reason why we have chronic conditions
almost none of this has anything to do
with majority specifically but just the
fact that it keeps you alive for a long
time which is dope the other thing
majority does is it gives you an
unbelievably tasty unbelievably cheap
food all the time super conveniently
with minimal effort that makes you obese
which gives you most of the other
chronic conditions so if you're older
you're going to get some chronic
conditions until genomics and AI powered
cures can can save us all from that
guess well that won't come from the
Primal lifestyle it'll come from
machines and factories like all good
things come from outside of sunlight and
mermaids I guess