all right what's going on everyone so it
is it is Wednesday September the 7th and
right now I'm going to get this beard
trimmed uh at the barber um it's gotten
really like strangly and just like a
little bit longer than I'd like and also
I know I have some Irish jeans in me
somewhere uh just because my facial hair
is like kind of red and the rest of my
hair is like dirty blonde so uh this is
the before and uh yeah I'll check in
with you guys after
post beard trim the issue with my beard
was that like it took forever for it to
grow in up here so for a while it was
kind of just like a chin strap and I
didn't really like that um so I had to
grow it out longer down here in order to
get this to grow up um to grow up here
so anyway it was a bit of a process
going back to the apartment and I guess
deciding with Robin who gets to keep L
stuff this is something that I know I
haven't talked about on the channel
really at all um and I kind of want to
keep it that way it should go without
saying that uh there are certain aspects
of my life that I just choose not to
include in the Vlog and uh I do see this
Vlog as really just an
informative Channel documenting my own
fitness journey and me sharing with you
guys some of the things that I've
learned um and then I also decide to put
some of my personal life in there um and
I also choose to to leave a lot of it
out um and the breakup is one of those
things that I'm just choosing to leave
out uh but because I have had a number
of people ask me about it I figured I
would just mention it in the Vlog uh let
you guys know and yeah that's really all
that I'm going to say about that I think
that I'm not the type of person who
likes creating drama over this sort of
thing so uh not to mention I don't think
any of my listeners or at least a very
small portion of my listeners would
actually be interested in hearing a full
breakup story and that sort of thing so
yeah that's that I'm going to go back to
the apartment now and uh then going to
hit a push workout later so I'll check
in with you guys in a bit just finished
up uh at the place uh I've always found
basketball to be like the best
de-stressor for me basketball and music
um even more than lifting so I figured I
would go shoot some
[Music]
hoops
[Music]
so I'm here at uh the gym or in the
parking lot at least today I I have a
push workout planned based on the
parking lot it's looking like it's
really really busy uh it's raining here
and it's like 2 days after the long
weekend so I'm anticipating it being
very busy um in those cases sometimes it
is difficult to film but I'm going to do
my absolute best uh to capture
everything and yeah I'll catch you guys
in the
[Music]
gym hey what's going on everyone I'm
back with another voice over for this
push workout so let's just jump right
into it the first exercise that I did on
this day was an incline dumbbell press
and this was actually the only chest
movement that I did the basic idea is
that I don't need to do a ton of chest
volume because it's not an area that I'm
trying to specialize in developing right
now I do think that bodybuilding is
really all about specialization and you
should dedicate most of your recovery
capacity to exercises that train muscles
that you want to develop relative to
other muscles um so basically weak point
prioritization chest is definitely not a
weak point for me and so I allocate the
majority of my volume on push days to
shoulder work in any case I do like to
kick it off with an incline press I
think that pretty much everyone can
always do with a little bit more upper
chest just to make sure everyone's on
the same page the PEC major muscle has
two heads so a clavicular head and a
sternal head the clavicular head is that
part of the chest that has the fibers
descending and it attaches at the
clavicle hence the name and I want to
focus on two resources here uh so the
first first is to my knowledge a German
book that I definitely didn't get my
hands on but I was pointed towards it by
subers and is uh where I've actually
pulled a number of the studies for these
videos from a book by bohek be hens and
busies published in 2000 as referenced
in which it was found that surprisingly
the decline press was best at activating
the upper PEC fibers however it wasn't
controlled for load when you normalize
the findings to control load you find
that a 45째 incline had a 69% increase in
Upper PEC activation relative to PEC
activation overall and so it can
probably be fairly confidently concluded
that some sort of incline is probably
better for stimulating the upper PEC
which makes sense based on what we know
about biomechanics and how the fibers
run and then the other paper in support
of this is trebal 2010 and as you can
see from the graph there's not a whole
lot of difference between 0 and 56째 uh
but there does seem to be something of a
sweet spot around 44째 in case anyone was
wondering uh load was matched in this
paper but even with that said guys
there's not a whole lot of difference
here we're talking about pretty small
differences in EMG activity so
ultimately I think you should find an
angle that you can feel best you can
establish a mind muscle connection with
your upper pecs on and then roll with
that after the incline dumbbell press I
moved on to a machine shoulder press and
the main reason why I'm using the
machine machine here is in part because
I'm not able to do overhead pressing
right now because my lower back is still
giving me some trouble uh so the machine
is just a little bit more comfortable
for me but also I do really like using
machines here especially if I'm using
free weights for my main chest movement
because I can take the sets closer to
failure I'm planning on doing a podcast
on this topic in the coming month or two
but I'll just keep it brief here and say
that I I do think or at least I'm under
the opinion that the research does
indicate and advantage to training uh to
failure and just as two quick examples
of this you have dcing 2016 in which
train subjects were found to have an
increased hypertrophic response as a
result of training to failure versus not
training to failure using a high load
and then batal 2012 also found support
for increased muscle protein synthesis
in the post-workout period when the
subjects were training to failure um so
I think that it does have some Merit and
if you are going to be training to
failure you should probably do it on
more Miss machine based exercises or
isolation movements after that I did a
Smith machine one arm press this was
kind of just a fun movement for me I
actually found this one from Dexter
Jackson this is just a way for me to get
in a little bit of extra vertical
pressing in a different plane so with
the arm in front of you rather than to
the side so training a little bit more
shoulder flexion and hitting the front
delt quite a bit after that I moved on
to Cable laterals uh so I've explained
in other videos why I do these leaning
away uh but the long story short of it
is that you get more side delt
activation and less rotator cuff
involvement when you lean away because
the supraspinatus contributes quite
significantly to the first 30째 of
shoulder abduction uh so by leaning away
you get more side delt involvement and
I'll do a few of these to the front and
a few of them behind uh I'd recommend
playing with those seeing if you feel
one in your side delts more than the
other and just go with that after that I
moved on to machine lateral raises and I
know that some people are probably
thinking that this is an absurd amount
of volume however uh I think that that
is a very blanket statement to make and
volume and frequency recommendations I
think are very specific to the
individual in my case as someone who's
been training for 11 years now uh I do
require quite a lot of volume uh to make
progress so um I do try to sort of cram
it in in any case I like the machine
laterals because with these I do a
double drop set so I'll reduce the
weight by 50% after reaching failure the
first time go to failure again then I'll
reduce the weight 50% again go to
failure again uh the reason I like to do
these on the machine is because the seat
in the chest brace ensures that I'm not
getting too sloppy and uh allows me to
focus more on actually using my side
delts and in terms of drop sets uh
there's not a lot of literature on this
however it makes intuitive sense in that
uh you still get to go heavy and then
you get to add a little bit of volume
after uh so I think that they can be
effective from a programming perspective
and then they do have some empirical
support in terms of increasing total
workload as seen in vy's 2012 so then I
finished off all of the shoulder stuff
uh with a cable upright row this of
course does hit the traps to a degree
but primarily the side delts through
shoulder abduction and I do a little bit
of a different spin on these so I'll
externally rotate slightly at the top
and for a workout like this I will
typically do um banded external
rotations
randomly throughout the workout between
exercises while I'm resting that sort of
thing and then finally I finished off
this workout with reverse Cable
Crossovers and I do this just because I
think it is a good idea to at least have
a one: one ratio of pushing to pulling
when it comes to postural support I
think that having well strengthened
posterior chain including rear delts is
very important I always try to include
some kind of rear delt movement at the
end of my push days so I did three sets
of 12 to 15 uh on these I think that a
lot of people are under the impression
that if they just do some face pulls or
reverse flies then it's going to fix
their posture um I don't think that's
the case unless you have a specific
imbalance however it certainly isn't
going to hurt to train them directly and
when it comes to fixing posture I think
you do have to do a little bit more than
this and that could be as much
behavioral and having to undergo
specific postural retraining as much as
strengthening a muscle that uh might not
be uh strong strong enough for you to
keep yourself upright that's going to
conclude this workout commentary guys I
hope that you liked it I plan on doing a
more in-depth one in the future as this
is just my current routine not
necessarily what I would recommend to
everyone else uh so for those of you who
have been requesting a chest workout or
a scientific chest workout uh I do plan
to do that in the near future so stay
tuned for that and I hope that you enjoy
the rest of this Vlog all right what's
up everyone uh so I just finished up
with the workout um honestly that was
the the busiest gym I've trained in in a
long long time and that was what I
expected just based on how busy the
parking lot was um but in any case I got
everything done more or less how I
wanted to I had to sub in and out a
couple of exercises so yeah I'm going to
go home now and get a post-workout meal
and uh I'll make sure I show you guys
that um so I'll check in with you in a
minute so I had my post-workout meal uh
it was just chicken rice salsa sour
cream the same thing I always have so I
didn't bother recording it um that's
just like my go-to meal um always and I
desperately need to get groceries
tomorrow there's like no food in this
place um which is why I've been getting
Sushi more often than usual because I
find myself behind on calories um and uh
that's an easy way for me to get caught
up um but I need to stop eating sushi so
often uh so anyway tomorrow I'm going to
get groceries I'll probably Vlog that uh
maybe um in any case uh right now it is
almost 11:00 p.m. uh so I'm getting
ready to go to bed uh but I am going to
rent a movie uh so I actually will often
watch watch uh movies on iTunes I'll
just rent them uh so tonight I'm going
to watch this movie Saving Private Ryan
I think I saw it when I was a kid and I
was just thinking I hadn't watched this
in a long time and I am a big Spielberg
fan thank you for all the great feedback
on the last video um if you guys haven't
seen that one yet click the link right
here and watch it um and yeah thank you
guys so much for watching like the video
if you liked it uh don't forget to
subscribe to my channel uh if you
haven't already as I will be posting
more videos uh so you can be notified of
those um and uh I guess I'll see you
guys in a couple
[Music]
days