felt pretty good today for legs got
through a good workout hey Chris what's
a workout oh that's right you're
Canadian I've never met a single
Canadian who's a bad person no wait Greg
duet exists all right guys I'm here with
Greg
[Music]
duet hey folks Dr Mike here from
Renaissance pation I'm a professor of
exercise and Sport Science the
co-creator of RP I pery app link in the
description if you want to download buy
the app I need Lamborghinis and my
Butlers refuse to buy them with their
own money I know it's rude today I'm
going to be trying to increase my
Lamborghini fund by critiquing very
gingerly very gently and with all the
best positive intentions Mr C bum's leg
workout let's see what his leg workout
looks a few weeks leading up to his Mr
Olympia debut debut Jesus Christ his
fifth debut at the Mr Olympia where he
is crowned a champion for the fifth time
huge congratulations to seum let's look
at his leg training let's see if we can
science living crap out of it and learn
a few things huh do you guys want to go
on a magical journey with me I'm not the
kind that you get into my unmarked van
just where you sit and you watch your
television screen and we all get to
judge seum together um as he lives his
life in a state of perfection and we're
all
envious yeah let's do it going to start
off with quad extensions as always I'm
not trying to rewrite anything new not
trying to hit any records that's for Dam
sure right now it's a really good idea
not to try a lot of weird new stuff
especially hit any crazy PRS when you're
prepping for a show you just kind of
want to keep your strength roughly
stable I would also say in my personal
opinion especially with some of the
pharmaceutical preparations that folks
like this take into a show you find
yourself considerably stronger and more
capable all the way up to even several
weeks before the show so I think it's
okay to hit PRS but they have to be
really really tiny ones and ideally PRS
on reps and not on load if you train
really hard you will conserve all of
your muscle and step on stage really
well if you train extra extra hard you
might build 1% more muscle than you
usually would in that phase or even 5%
more muscle which in the grand scheme is
like less than 1% % total muscle added
to your body but your probability of
injury and excessively High fatigue that
leads to a poor look at the show or not
making the show at all multiplies
considerably so on the trade-offs it's
just not worth it so it's one of those
things that's like is it a good idea to
talk to girls try to get to know them
and go on dates yes if you are at an
international airport and you're trying
to run onto a flight while Godzilla is
destroying the city behind you is that a
good time to slow down and talk to the
girl next to you probably not it's all
about
tradeoffs Godzilla what a fun time I've
dropped some weight so I'm officially
under 250 lbs now which made me I lost
like a pound in it I could feel it in my
body I was tired and I'm getting drier
so I time to start protecting my joints
a little bit more and not hurt myself
but oo what's up Prime leg curl a great
machine and he's using it properly
because he has most of the weight at the
top which as far as my understanding of
Leverage is concerned means that he's
going to be experiencing a lot less
Force at the top of the movement than at
the bottom Force bias towards the Deep
stretch is now well see seemingly
scientifically proven to be superior so
this is
great well actually I take that back I
just saw that he had more weight on the
bottom hook and maybe that's not the
case I'd have to see a zoomed out
version to be sure but looks like he's
choosing either an even Force curve or a
force curve that even Peaks at the very
top which I'm not a big fan
of yeah JK I take that all back it looks
like he has most of the load in the
middle Peg which as you can see the
middle Peg creates the biggest lever arm
in respect to gravity at the very top of
the movement close to lockout and then
all the way at the bottom it actually
sags down to where it's roughly in
parallel with the connector Junction the
the original point of rotation and
there's there's almost no load being
imposed at that maybe just a little bit
on that other 45 but as you get closer
and closer to lockout gravity becomes
more and more influential due to the
vectoring and so this actually is
probably not ideal again I just want to
preface all of the critiques here with
all the respect in the world to seum I
think he's a phenomenal athlete I think
he looks essentially like the perfect
man and that's exactly why he's a
five-time classic uh physique Mr Olympia
but um we can all do a little bit better
and there are some insights here and
there that could maybe uh improve almost
anyone's physique and if you ever get
too bogged down in the idea that well
why don't you look like that Mike slash
seems to work for him I would ask you to
consider the fact that let's take
champions from the 60s and 50s and the'
40s some of these guys looked not even
as good on drugs as today modern natural
bodybuilders look and you ask why
there's a lot of reasons one of them is
the fact that we know more about how to
train more properly and we know more
about recovery nutrition Etc so if you
say like the Champions cannot be wrong
the Champions have to have 100% of
exactly what works for them it's
unlikely to be the case and it's
possible that even some lowly form of
life such such as myself can make apt
critiques on the margins which could
improve someone's training a little bit
so all of my critiques of Mr seum here
are not critiques of like fuck moron
should hire an exercise science
Professor to write a shit fucking idiot
clearly the guy's want five olympias his
genetics are Stellar his work ethic a
stellar he actually seems like a super
super nice guy in general and what he's
training how he's training is generally
very effective and works very well that
doesn't mean we can't learn from
examining everyone's training including
my own as to how things could be done
better so just the preface that further
very mean sounding critiques on my
part the three sets and then when I felt
like really like my most connection was
like built throughout the set I was just
doing the lockout portion to really
squeeze up into my upper quad and hip
making sure I'm just getting a really
tight contraction and I would do that
for like five reps the tight contraction
seems to be via uh scientific inquiry
wildly overrated so emphasizing the Deep
stretch seems to be like a good idea for
net growth emphasizing the peak
contraction seems to in direct
comparisons in science not result to as
much growth as either full range of
motion or emphasizing that bottom
stretch position so it could be Chris
could be on something in this particular
context for his particular body this
could be a a net benefit situation or
net marginal benefit compared to other
ways of training but um I'm skeptical
about
that what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now leg press squat press whatever you
want to call this again filling it up
into my hips right here super deep into
my quad I'm going to Rack it at eight
reps rest pause 10 15c rest go again the
failure just to get even more than 12
reps out of it it's a good idea my reps
work
great
so it's not a bad technique at all if I
was critiquing here what I would love to
see is Chris maybe put on some
weightlifting shoes to get extra heal
support and thus increas his ankle
Mobility if that's a limiting factor for
him just in case I recommend that to
most people then to slide his feet as
low on the platform as he possibly can
while his heels are still producing as
much power as possible and still in
contact with the platform so you see his
uh feet are up in the Middle top side of
the platform I'd love to see them as low
as possible and that would allow him to
have less degree of hip flexion you
train a lot of glutes and lower back leg
pressing like this but you want to train
quads which means you want as much knee
flexion as possible so if you take your
foot and you lower it on the platform
you get more knee flexion and that way
you get a better quad stimulus now the
uh downside of that so to speak is that
you don't you can't use as much weight
as you normally would well Chris is
using all the weight in the gym so not a
problem for him if he would used to use
less weight he would have to spend less
time putting plates onto an off the
machine so that's actually independently
fatiguing and it's also that position is
just uh overall less stress through your
body less force and probably better for
all your joints so something definitely
to consider if you're training uh like
press like this in your uh in your own
spare time with your workout
routine damn his calves look sweet
that's like eight calves in that mother
how does that work uh I will say the
control is very good I would love to see
a bigger range of motion obviously you
guys know how we do on this channel but
the fact that he's not locking out at
the top means that he's sumting lactate
metabolites and that'll absolutely cause
a decent amount of growth and um in
addition to that uh he's not doing kind
of crazy explosive pulse reps he seems
to be doing relatively slow Ecentric
controlled concentrics which is awesome
especially at this time in his prep
because as you get closer and closer to
looking your best your probability of
injury does tend to go up and he's
controlling the weight very
well
I would like to see him pause at the
bottom if you slow down towards the
bottom and pause take a second and then
come up not only does it some e even
more metabolites it burns the shit out
of your quads it's really quite terrible
but also it reduces the amount of force
that occurs from the transition the
transition from Ecentric to concentric
that phase technically is called the
amortization phase especially if you're
doing Plyometrics but the more
plyometric like your movements look the
quicker the ammortization phase is the
higher the peak Force are and this is
from direct Force platform testing that
I've actually conducted myself in the
past so the absolute highest amount of
force in a squat for example is seen
Barone with essentially everyone that
we've ever tested in the bottom of the
squat in that little Peak uh that super
high Force when you hit the bottom and
come back up that's a good thing because
that maximum Force at the stretch grows
a shitload of muscle but it's also a bad
thing in context because close to a show
that's the absolute highest peak Force
you'll ever supply to the body in that
point and it is when the tissue are
stretched maximally those two things
added together means the probability of
injury is though very low still in an
absolute sense in a relative sense is
much higher than it could be so
especially when I if someone was Chris
bom said strength especially if he can
over overcome any stimulus deficiencies
by just doing a few more reps or one or
two more sets of this movement I would
love to see him slow down to a full
pause at the bottom and then come back
up I think that could be a really good
thing I like to do this belt Squad at
least once a week depending on what I'm
doing in my hamstring or quad day I'll
do it on either day and my spine got a
little bit crushed I was doing overhead
press on this thing was like 2 and a
half plates I kind of overarched a
little bit too much and my back like
hyperextended I've definitely done that
a bunch on overhead press so it was a
little sore and this is good this
honestly pulls it in the opposite
direction so another reason I'm doing
that fix my back get some fucking big
old meat sticks for legs the belt squat
is a superior form of exercise for the
quadriceps and I'll tell you why there
is a term in sport Science called axial
fatigue it is the fatigue that is
imposed on you when you have weights
pushing down on your spine if your spine
gets compressed the increases the amount
of axial fatigue it's not a bad thing
but it'll cost you because it's very
independently fatiguing that means that
first axial fatigue contributes a lot to
systemic fatigue so if you do a lot of
heavy squatting versus leg pressing
you're going to get a lot more fatigue
out of the squatting because it involves
all the muscles that stabilize the spine
and that's especially fatiguing to the
whole system in addition to that it
severely saps your energy to do more
things that are actually loading for
example good mornings or stuff like a
deadlifts or bent over rows if you cook
yourself with quad movements like squats
and front squats for example that are
actually fatiguing within the total
axial fatigue allotment you have for a
week which is a theoretical number
everyone has just might not know it you
can't do as much defga deadlifting and
as much B row bent rowing and as much
good
morning as you normally would so then
you're paying a trade-off in the other
direction of like well my back training
is not going to be as great cuz I used
my back too much for leg training again
barbell squatting and Smith machine
squatting is incredible in context but a
huge advantage of the belt squat is that
because the belt is positioned to the
very bottom of your spine and almost all
the force transducers through your hips
and Below you essentially avoid axial
fatigue altogether the stimulus to
fatigue ratio of belt squats if you do
them right especially can be just
straight up in my view some of the
highest around that's not true for
everyone but for many people I believe
the sfr of belt squats can be superior
in most cases on average to many other
leg exercises so this if this is an lag
exercise you've used before I would
highly encourage you to try it all right
let's see how cum uses this and see if
we can give any pointers to get your
hands a little bit closer towards
neurotic perfectionism that results in
bigger muscles but no one wants to be
your friend because you're an asshole
and you have no friends and you're alone
all the time sometimes you cry about it
but sometimes there's not even anyone to
cry to so I haven't put on the ACT just
keep keep that rage inside
just
just hey guys if you want more uncut raw
unedited too hot to share on YouTube
version of this then consider joining
our membership for this Channel and you
get all this crazy stuff plus a lot more
educational content every single week
see you there that's really good depth
that's really really good depth and I'm
here for it 100% this is great the
Cadence is awesome controlling the way
down controlling the way up and a gentle
pause at the bottom this is A+ work if I
didn't know anything about lifting I
would look at this exercise and ask
you'd ask me what muscle is it training
I'd be like the hamstrings and you'd be
like why be like look at them shits man
mother hamstrings got hamstring and he's
got a little mini hamstring under his
hamstring you can see from the side is
that I didn't see that shit in anatomy
class guess that's what happens when you
win a bunch of olympias you just grow
different
muscles what you got now is he was
pausing and now he's not pausing anymore
because I think it's just getting really
tough and pausing is really hard that's
my suspicion that's why I sto pausing
sometimes in the middle of a set CU I'm
like that I need to get out of here I
encourage you guys that if you start a
set with pauses continue to pause all
the way through will that allow you to
get more reps no fewer reps but it'll
maximize the stimulus and minimize the
fatigue oo Smith machine squats holy
crap that's deep I like it
so he's going full depth he's not quite
locking out which means the tension
stays in the quads which as a argument
just from tension is nonsense because if
you lock out the tension goes away when
you unlock and go back down the tension
comes back the total time you can get
over the course of the set because you
get the extra rest brakes still the same
amount of tension however when you fail
to lock out you can sequester more
metabolites in your quads they don't
have a chance to leave that metabolite
sequestration causes the metabolites
directly to sumate to much higher levels
and those have been been shown
scientifically to actually cause growth
Pathways to activate so if you can get
the crazy crazy quad Burn by not quite
locking out it isn't the best strategy
in the world it isn't the only strategy
in the world but it's a great strategy
in order to maximize muscle hypertrophy
so I'm liking seeing him do it here the
only downside it's brutal as cuz you're
like I like the idea of squatting all
the way down to super great depth coming
back up locking out and getting a quick
mental break from the pain before I go
again but if you don't lock out at the
top it's like nah fam you just continue
to be in the pain it blows dick but it's
worth it like many things that revolve
the penis and blowing it I think if when
you're doing it it's like ah this sucks
but then after your friends are like hey
that was great here's a hundred bucks
and a cab Fair go home rethink your life
we just do it again the next weekend
that's what I say
what uh Scott is this the good girl or
bad girl machine good girl machine
because it forces you to close your legs
against resistance so if there's a
sociological resistance later to closing
your legs like guy the part the case sty
heard you were DTF and she's like no and
she closes her legs the sociology of the
situation because you know the guy
hitting on you is Mr popularity Big Man
on Campus you're like I don't know I
kind of want to open my
legs but at the same time I'm like I
want to be what's that term Scott video
guy Chast right I was gonna say if your
name is Chastity no offense this is just
a joke there's a very high probability
that you are anything other than Chast
in my experience um being purely
theoretical I've never seen or talked to
woman but anyway these uh are adductor
focused exercises and they're quite good
if you need Ador aductor development I
will say for most people I think this
exercise is not necessary it could
actually be overkilling how much it
expose their adductors if these people
especially go really deep with good foot
position where their knees slide out as
they go really deep on hack squats leg
presses especially lungos and definitely
squats of all kinds so adductor work
here I don't think is really necessary
it's like deadlifting doing bent over
rows and doing stiff-legged Ed of good
mornings and then also being like I
think I need more work for my lower back
it's like do you maybe not may but maybe
you do so we do flexion rows for the
lower back sometimes we need extra
volume SE is doing adductor machine so
in in his context I'm sure he's
intelligent enough to determine if like
the is a limiting factor if they're not
healing on time and interfering those
workouts I'm sure I'd stop doing this so
I think this is a very good movement in
context if you're doing these I actually
recommend something a little bit
different than what he's doing it's
almost the same but I would recommend is
a very slow Ecentric obviously for the
good reasons of hypertrophy and
maximizing stimulus to fatigue ratio and
reducing the probability of injury but
not only that but slow Ecentric as well
as deep pauses a pause for 2 seconds at
the bottom trying to get a little low
range time actually not only strengthens
and
bulletproofspeaking.com s from injury
and there's a very not fun muscle to get
hurt it's also a little finicky
adductors are pretty prone to injury
kind of like hamstrings like every now
and again they just pull and you're like
God damn it not only is that the case
with that kind of work where you're
going as deep as you can and then
holding at the bottom for a second but
not holding into position just holding
and then allowing the weight to pull you
out even a little more so you do a whole
rep go slow at the bottom hold for 2
seconds which means you just put in a
position and then gently let the weight
pull you apart every rep you're going to
get a little deeper it's actually
excellent Mobility SL flexibility work
for adors the more flexible your adors
can be the less a bling factor that will
be on squats and leg presses lunges the
more it'll potentiate the growth of the
rest of your leg and it's baller growth
for the adductors themselves it's both
better for growth and better flexibility
I highly encourage you to give that some
thought felt pretty good today for legs
got through a good workout did some
squats haven't done in a while hey Chris
what's a workout oh that's right you're
Canadian in the great United States
where bald Eagles are technically in
charge I believe it's a workout but in
Toronto it's a workout and that's pretty
cool actually I've never met a single
Canadian who's a bad person no wait Greg
duet exists all right guys I'm here with
Greg
duet all right folks that was really fun
I had a great time watching SE buum
train legs um my mind was stimulated and
even my uh distal Anatomy was stimulated
if you're an anatomy fan figure out what
that means in your spare time grading a
Mr Olympia is very difficult because he
just better than all of us so I'm not
grating his physique which to me is a 12
out of 10 it's revolutionary it's uh
changing the structure of our sport
literally structure think about
it but this training I would
give an 8.5 out of 10 great on the
basics great in the control foundations
awesome the arrangement of the exercis
is awesome uh that you know 1.5 or two
points missing there is just little
nuances little uh splitting hairs kind
of stuff that uh would love to see slow
Ecentric um more pauses a bit more
control uh and and really that's just
about it otherwise it's great so I would
say great but not perfect uh unlike his
physique which is actually perfect and
hopefully we'll have an opportunity to
look at more videos like this in the
future where I criticize people that
look 50 times better than me and try not
to throw up from Wild hypocrisy see you
guys next time well if you guys like
this video YouTube thinks you like this
one and we tend to agree so give it a
click and let the fun
continue