I recently read a paper about training
to failure for hypertrophy and for
strength that actually changed a lot for
me there were kind of two camps but
there were the Bros that trained to fail
you religiously equally you had the
adamant space camp thought that actually
you could see pretty similar hypertrophy
three reps shy of failure however as a
study had participants train closer and
closer to failure you saw more growth
all the way to failure seemed to about
double the magnitude of muscle growth
seemingly increased growth as you go
closer and closer to failure pretty
linearly but then actually there was
something called non-linearity so from
about 10 reps in reserve to what we call
volitional failure that was a pretty
linear growth and increase in
hypertrophy as you went closer and
closer to volitional failure however
they also distinguished between the
volitional failure and momentary failure
momentary failure is actually closer to
True failure failing your app further
increased muscle growth even more than
you would expect if it was simply a
linear relationship so actually a very
consistent and very notable Improvement
in hypertrophy the closer you get to
True momentary failure