so guys I'm here at Power H gym downtown
Tampa my man Josh vogle we're going to
hit another painful leg workout Josh
said that this one is more intense than
the last one brought Jeff back and we're
going to go through an even harder
workout so sounds good to me all right
man let's do
[Music]
it
[Music]
so when we're doing the leg p and our
range of motion we're going to get the
to a shorten position and then from
there we're not just going to let drop
into theway Linkin we're actually going
to stop about 3/4 of the away this is
getting the cap out of being involved in
the leg Pearl emotion what that's going
to do is just allow greater tension and
no rest on the hand string throughout
the whole movement we're not just going
to think about dropping our leg down to
that position we're actually going to
think about pushing our heel back
towards the wall we' actually be pushing
it like that although it is just going
to go down our intent is just going to
be straight back towards the ball ready
yeah here we go we're going to do four
reps
here and up squeeze come on
up good keep your ass down shove it down
the whole time and up up up up up I'm
just sping come on come on keep those
hips down and up squeeze good you got
two more like that come on don't lose
tension come on back down three like
that go two up squeeze Jeff one more and
up I want you to go all the way down and
go up halfway sloppy form go
five
four 3 come on
two
[Music]
good
oh
man
go come on more Josh come on let's
go rep it rep
it get five three
five we're going to be doing a quad
dominant squat here so I'm going to be
doing barbell Jeff's having some back
issues I believe so he's going to be
doing the hammer string squat press our
intent is going to be on the squads so
for me what I'm going to be doing is I'm
going to be making sure that my knees
are continuing tring forward rather than
doing like a low bar style squat where
my I've been at the hips first so I'm
going to here and get a break we try to
stay just like that we're going to be
training in the active range of motion
so I don't care if I get as far down as
possible I'm going to go as far down as
my quads will let me while staying
turned on same thing with Jeff so we're
going to make sure his quads are
activating we're having paw down in the
pole it's going to be very uncomfortable
see very shitty but from there we're
going to make sure his quad's actually
fire and what about a rep Tempo like are
you slowing down the Ecentric or just
kind of natural we're going to do a 3C
entric or 1 to two count pause and we're
going explode out of it while not
locking out think about a front relaxed
close and bodyb you want to start while
firing a front relaxed close so here
sitting down on your knees but see them
is sitting down really really hard you
can get activate first and then start
[Music]
down
[Laughter]
[Music]
so there going slower to there back down
don't let me feel like the S hard the
whole time think like
Nota that was nice man it's only one
plate but I feel my quads pumped so much
more than I normally would it's crazy
what you can do just by in like thinking
with intention about what muscles you're
activating I want to use as much weight
as I can with as much intent as I can
right right I've noticed a big
difference personally when switching to
just like a completely external Focus so
like how much load is on the bar to
having more internal cues I've noticed a
big difference in terms of activation
especially with like my glutes because
you can squat or deadlift a lot of
weight but have virtually no or maybe
not virtually no but very comparatively
less glute activation than when you
forcefully or intentionally turn on your
glutes and then activate them through
the whole arange of motion it's a
totally different movement
[Music]
almost
[Music]
[Music]
oh
[Music]
so we're doing leg extensions here he
going start up just like you would set a
normal leg extension however when we get
to the full extension part where the
muscle shorten we're going to hold it
there if you watch Jeff real quick he's
going to go up and hold and then go back
down slow and go up again don't let it
set all the way back down
this so right there and go up and
squeeze good now squeeze your knees my f
come between your knees there continue
to squeeze like that and go back
up good a cue here is when you get up at
the top pull your toes towards your
shoulders and you actually feel it fire
typically all the way up to the
hip go
again good two more
squeeze good one more
good we're also going an incorporation
called isometrus so an isometric is
where you're here and you're just
holding it and flexing it isatonic is
where that this is here and pushing
against it and it's going to be stalled
at one point I'm actually going to hold
this the arm down while jump is trying
to extend I'm going to release it and
have it perform then leg extension it's
kind of like the uh post activation
potentiation see it feels good it's not
going to hurt you so why not do it yeah
all right let's try as out for four
three one go back
down
two here we
go here and go push push for five four 3
two let me go back down seven reps seven
good come on six do not let it set all
the way down come on up five let's
go sque four P those toes back let's
go good three come on
squeeze good one
more and up good
rest all
[Music]
right come
[Applause]
on come on good come
on good let's
go come
on squeeze let's
go come
on let's
go good three more go squeeze uh one
more come on squeeze uh
[Music]
good five you're strong with
me D let go
go Josh
explain this torture device okay so so
adding the bands the higher up you go
the more it's ping back down so it's
adding greater tension at the top
another thing we have J do is when the
Fe are up on the platform at this is his
toes we're going to pretend there's a
piece of gum right here on the bottom of
his foot he's trying to scrape it down
off the platform like that interesting
that intent is going to help his
hamstrings Lally just F and fire
like so I'm going to show what he means
by that cuz that that was hard for me to
even visualize if you're thinking about
doing
this like there's going to be tension so
it's not actually going to move but you
want to think about driving your feet
down that's basically uh a queue to
force hip extension so that's going to
drive your hamstrings and glutes on and
they really turn on when you when you
think about
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
that
[Music]
come
[Music]
on
[Music]
[Laughter]
go up halfway back down all the way up
P up halfway
go come
on let's
go
take
Warrior
there you
[Music]
go
sure
damn looking very big you guys both look
huge okay so guys we're here at Tampa
Pizza Company Josh had to duck out but
Stephanie and I are here getting some
pizza this is my number one rated pizza
place in Tampa it's so good started with
these chicken fingers Hawaiian pizza
Backyard
barbecue chicken pizza and they're not
too greasy it's like probably relatively
light as far as Pizza goes and then
Steph is the healthy one the two of us I
got a salad butd but I'll definitely
have some of this pizza cuz it's by far
the best pizza I've ever had probably
like in my entire
life what's going on everyone uh so I
just wanted to quickly say thank you so
much for watching the video with Josh
vogle I'll link his Instagram and pages
in the description box below if you like
the video don't forget to give it a
thumbs up uh that really helps me out a
lot and also I have a very exciting
announcement uh Stephanie has a actually
released uh her YouTube channel and her
first video if you were ever wondering
what it's like to live a day in the life
of a PhD student uh you can check out
her first video which I'll put a link to
uh right over here if you haven't
subscribed to my channel yet you can do
so by clicking the button here
everything is also linked in the
description thank you guys once again so
much for watching I will see you in the
next
video