these are the things you need to pay
attention to if you're consuming a
plant-based diet first by eliminating
consumption of animal products you're at
an increased risk of deficiency in
certain nutrients specifically here's
what they are a well formulated vegan
multivitamin can circumvent many of
these issues look for a vegan
multivitamin that contains these around
your RDA and you'll likely be covered
additionally plant-based eaters
typically don't get much creatine in
their diet and with creatine being one
of the most effec ious supplements for
muscle hypertrophy strength and power
supplementing with creatum monohydrate
becomes more important consume 3 to 5 G
of protein likewise supplementing
with beta alamine with a precursor to
muscle kosine can be beneficial finally
although plant-based protein sources
seem to be nearly as anabolic as animal-
based protein sources increasing your
protein intake 2 g of protein per
kilogram of body weight just make sure
you cover your bases that's why