all right what's going on guys so in
this video I'm gonna be maxing out on
the squat bench press and deadlift now
the last time I did this was about six
or seven months ago
and some of you guys may remember I
ended up hitting four plates so 405
pounds on the squat did that for just a
single rep now looking at this footage
back I don't think this was a true max
attempt but it was my first time putting
this kind of weight on my back since my
lower back injury so I didn't think of
this as sort of just a new starting
place for me
now for the benchpress I ended up
hitting 350 pounds which I was also
really happy with and for the deadlift
ended up hitting 485 pounds which I was
also quite happy with especially
considering I hadn't touched that kind
of weight in several years due to those
in
now looking at this footage back I don't
think this was a true Maxo tone they're
not sleeping well enough check out the
poem
[Music]
according to reputable sources SIPC
rules are going to be most efficient
exercise
nothing treat good morning god damn it
good morning god damn I think to the
program stick to the program little
cookie on the way against what's moving
into the glitter Church wait
[Music]
[Music]
yeah holy crap me
6:16 that's good I think I could have
done one more to just think okay so that
was my max squat attempt so this time I
got four plates for six reps which when
I plug that into a one rep max
calculator I get four hundred and
seventy pounds now I do find the EXR ex
calculator to be reliable however as the
rep count gets higher and higher the
validity of the equations that's based
on it gets lower and lower but I would
say something around the 472 480 pounds
is probably an accurate 1 rep max for me
right now especially since a couple
weeks ago I hit 455 pounds for a single
quite easily at about an RPD of 8 or 9
and I should clarify that when I tested
my maxes six months ago I did it
directly by working up to a single rep
with something near 100% of my 1 rep max
whereas this time I took a so-called
AMRAP approach where I did 90% of my
estimated 1 rep max for as many reps as
possible and then using the AMRAP
results you can figure out whether
you've gained or lost strength
indirectly so according to the best data
on this a true max effort set with 90%
of your 1 rep max should result in about
3 reps so if you get less than 3 reps on
your ham wrap it means that your 1 rep
max is probably lower than you thought
and maybe you've lost strength if you
get more than 3 reps it means your 1 rep
max is higher than you thought
and you've probably gained strength so
since I got 6 reps which is more than 3
reps tells me that my squat max is
probably higher than I thought my
strength is increasing okay so watching
this back from a different angle a
couple of things I'm looking at here the
first is I think I'm doing a much better
job of bracing on these reps so when I
take my big breath of air in before I
descend you can see I'm breathing deep
into my gut and the bar doesn't rise up
on my back as much as it used to I also
think my depth is really good on these
so I'm getting below parallel but I'm
also not bottoming out the reps and
wasting energy
I just need lessly extending the range
of motion so from a strength perspective
you want your squats to be just deep
enough but not any deeper and I think my
reps do look consistent throughout this
ham wrap so my chest doesn't start
caving forward my hips don't start
shooting up as my quads fatigue and I
think I'm doing a pretty good job of
driving
my knees out and thrusting my hips
forward and using my glutes to push
through that sticking point so overall
I'm really pleased with how this set of
squats went I think it was honestly
probably my best set of squats in years
okay now let's have a look at how my
bench AMRAP went the next day today I'm
gonna be hitting 315 pounds for as many
reps as possible on the bench press if I
can get five or six reps I'm gonna be
happy if I can get seven or eight reps
I'm gonna be really happy
Jeff don't let your RP get told this is
I am wrapped s get out of here come on
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
all right so 315 for a trap set about an
RPG of 9.5 or 10 and plugging this back
into the calculator I get a 1 rep max of
391 pounds now I am a bit more skeptical
of this figure because like I said
earlier these equations can easily
overshoot the higher the rep count gets
so I'd be more conservative with my max
estimate here and probably say something
more like 365 to 375 pounds especially
since I haven't been really training
with loads quite that heavy and the
heaviest I worked up to on this program
was 345 for a double which would put me
closer to around 365 pounds as a max
when I plug that in so I think my
technique on the MRAP here also looks
pretty solid so it looks like the bar is
coming down and slightly forward to the
highest contact point on my chest then
it moves slightly back and up after a
slight pause and the fact that I'm
briefly pausing on these reps does make
me feel even more optimistic about the
future of my bench because in the past
I've only ever done 315 for 8 reps with
touch-and-go reps so I'm counting this
as an all-time PR and the fact that I'm
sinking the bar into my chest is just
personal preference
some people seem to be stronger by
softly pausing the bar whereas others
like myself can get more of a spring by
letting the bar sink down a bit and in
powerlifting both are illegal as long as
the bar is pressed up without an
additional sink after the pause ok so I
took one rest day and then I hit my
deadlift AMRAP so let's take a look
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
for ya huh sure I'm kind of hoping I get
at least five but not worth it I don't
know haha alright so this was probably
the lift I was most disappointed with
just because plugging it in it only
gives me about a 1 rep max of 495 which
is only 10 measly pounds up from my last
max testing but I think what happened
here was probably some combination of
accumulated central or mental fatigue
from the previous two amrap tests it was
like my body was capable of doing more
reps but my brain just wouldn't let my
muscles do it and I know my true
deadlift 1 rep max is in fact higher
than 495 because just about two weeks
ago I pulled 495 for two reps so if I
just plug that in instead I get 509 as a
1 rep max which i think is more
realistic for me right now so the silver
lining here with the deadlift is that
well now there's a lot more room for
progress in my next training cycle and
what I want to focus on moving forward
is my flexibility in mobility
I'm finding that my hamstrings and hip
abductors start to feel really tight
when I get into that wide sumo stance
which then causes my hip position to
deviate simply because I'm finding it
hard to get into a comfortable lifting
position so that's something I'm going
to work on over the next few months by
doing some dynamic and Static stretching
from my hamstrings adductors groin and
inner thighs just after training to make
sure that sumo stance is feeling more
comfortable so I want to put all of this
together with three key takeaways that
you guys can apply to your own training
if you have strength goals because when
I add all of that together even going
with the most conservative estimates
I've still added at least a hundred
pounds to my total strength in about six
months which at my level of advancement
I'm pretty pleased with so how did I do
that well first of all there's probably
some muscle memory effect though
I had built a high level of strength
before then I got injured and now I'm
building it back now this is probably
relevant to most of you right now
because not everyone has access to basic
training equipment due to the pandemic
so if you're forced to take a step back
whether due to injury or the quarantine
or something else once you get back to
structured lifting again you should be
able to reach our old PRS relatively
quickly second in my video on overcoming
injury I discussed a study showing that
a successful return is underpinned by
developing self-confidence at a certain
point you need to shift your mindset
from seeing yourself as someone who's
injured to someone who is strong and
capable of lifting again so I built that
confidence back myself by gradually
lifting heavier and heavier until I got
to the point that I could really start
pushing myself hard again and it really
is as simple as that if you want to get
stronger at a certain point you just
can't be scared to lift heavy it may
sound obvious but that doesn't make it
any less true if you want to get strong
you've got to lift heavy now third I
think I've developed a mature lifting
mentality at this point in my training
career I don't lift with my ego anymore
meaning I'm not dead set on hitting
specific numbers just because I want to
impress myself or someone else and I
don't think I ever got to the point
where I let my technique take a backseat
to lifting heavier now a couple other
quick things that I think helped since
the quarantine I have been eating in a
moderate caloric surplus which when you
couple that with hard and smart training
definitely can supercharge your strength
progress also because gyms are closed at
the moment I've been forced to focus
much more on the barbell lifts now I've
still been running the same high
frequency full-body program as usual
it's just that I've had to make some
modifications so not having the leg
pressed has allowed me to squeeze in a
few more high bar squats not having a
shoulder press machine means I've been
doing much more overhead pressing which
definitely has had more strength
transfer to my benchpress than a machine
would so I found that even just
modifying these bodybuilding exercises
to be more barbell oriented has resulted
in more strength specific transfer which
isn't that surprising so I've run
through my high frequency program three
times now and it's been fantastic for
both strength and physique gains for me
I think this is the best progress that
I've made in years on both fronts but
today I started writing my next program
which is gonna be more of a true power
building plan with about a 50/50 mix of
strength and hypertrophy or maybe even
slightly more focused toward the
strength side so I'll definitely be
keeping you guys posted with how I'm
making out with that and as you
we'll make sure I run it through myself
and with a few clients before I make it
publicly available on my website and is
always the best way to stay up with new
releases from me like this is to just
join my newsletter which I'll link it
down below alright so that's it for this
one guys thank you so much for watching
if you enjoyed the video please leave me
a thumbs up don't forget to subscribe if
you haven't already and I'll see you
guys all here in the next
[Music]
[Applause]