of that you twerk it on dance of that
you twerk it on Twerk It of that Mir
girl you twerking it on The Dan flow
that you twerk it Twerk it on the flow
Twerk it on the danow twerk it on the
danow twerk it
on hey what's up guys so I wanted to do
a quick video on an article that's been
making its rounds on social media lately
and I think it's a good article to sort
of pick apart because it really does
address all of the sort of common claims
that are made against sugar and there
are 11 statements made in total so I'm
going to take each one one by one and
look at them more closely now it's worth
noting that there is not one citation in
this whole article even though she does
reference some studies which I had to
sort of go and hunt down on my own that
sort of renders the scientific
credibility of this particular article
low right from the very beginning and
before I started addressing these issues
one by one I just want to give credit
where credit is due and a lot of the
information that I'm going to be
presenting comes either from Alan
Aragon's research review or from a
debate or series of debates that he had
online uh with Robert lustig so I'll put
links to both of those things in the
description box below so you can have a
look for yourself and figure out um
where all this is coming from or where a
lot of it is coming from okay so let's
start with number one uh the author says
sugar makes your organs fat and fructose
a component of table sugar and high
fructose corn syrup in added sugars
triggers your liver to store fat more
efficiently okay so this is coming from
a 2009 study where two groups were given
either
glucose or fructose in the form of a
soft drink that was supposed to make up
25% of their daily caloric intake for 10
weeks
and at the end of the studies the
researchers found that dietary fructose
specifically increases denovo
lipogenesis promotes dyslipidemia
decreases insulin sensitivity and
increases visceral adiposity in
overweight SL obese
adults and it is this visceral adiposity
or adiposity that the author is
referring to in this point but honestly
who really gets 25 % of their daily
caloric intake from fructose in this
study the subjects had to eat
150 g of pure fructose per day to meet
that requirement in addition to eating
their ad libitum diet so however much
food they wanted on which they were
already gaining weight and just to give
you an idea to get a 150 g of pure
fructose you would have to eat seven
cans of Pepsi every every day in
addition to the diet that you are
already eating so what this study really
shows us is that when obese women who
are eating however much they want add
150 gram of fructose they start seeing
increases in visceral fat but to apply
this study to active healthy populations
eating sugar in moderation is definitely
imprudent okay so number two sugar
primes your body for diabetes so she
mentions a public library of science
study which I dug up and found out that
it was authored by none other than
Robert H lustig and for those of you
guys who don't know who he is I'll put a
link somewhere here uh so you guys can
go and read more up on the sort of stuff
that he espouses but I'll just say that
lustig is notorious for cherry-picking
observational data to support his
stance and furthermore this specific
correlational research which does have
its place
is not showing us causation at all we
can't get from this correlation between
increased fructose and increased
diabetes prevalence to the idea that
fructose causes diabetes or is somehow
associated in a causal chain linked to
diabetes number three sugar hammers your
heartt now this is just simply a hasty
generalization combined with some fear
mongering she's assuming that because
sugar has a clear impact on type 2
diabetes then it also has a clear impact
on heart disease and stroke but this
just assumes way too much first of all
this warning is only relevant to
populations who already have diabetes
and then it assumes that the increased
risk of heart disease is due to the
sugar and not the plethora of other
factors also associated with diabetics
like reduced physical activity and high
caloric intakes overall number four
sugar creates tense blood vessels so
this is essentially saying that fructose
causes increased blood pressure or sugar
causes increased blood pressure and I'll
just refer you guys to a 2012 systematic
review on this exact issue which
concluded fructose intake and isocaloric
exchange for other carbohydrates
significantly decreased diastolic and
mean arterial blood pressure and there
was no significant effect of fructose on
systolic on systolic blood pressure
again these things aren't as clearcut as
the author would have you believe number
five sugar promotes cholesterol chaos
and furthermore sugar overload could
spark your liver to turn out more bad
cholesterol while also inhibiting your
body's ability to clear it out now first
of all let's be wary of the term sugar
overload I'm not even sure what that
means in this study of over
25,000 subjects concluded that fruit
fructose and nonf fructose sugar intakes
had no positive association with blood
concentrations of triglycerides HDL
cholesterol and so on when consumed in
typical amounts number
six it leads to type 3
diabetes so I actually dug this study up
and I did a search of the entire paper
for both sugar and for fructose and no
results were found for either term so I
think that at this point the author of
the article is just sort of making stuff
up on her own so we're over halfway
there number seven sugar turns you into
a junkie now this is a complex subject
and something like addiction is not very
easy to demarcate within the
psychological Community but I'll just
quote a 1997 review on carbohydrate
addiction which said evidence for the
physiological basis of carbohydrate
addiction is weak compared to drug
addiction
and if carbohydrate addiction is a
genuine phenomena then it is probably a
habitual dependence based on strong
reinforcement like gambling rather than
a substance-based
one number eight sugar turns you into a
ravenous animal in rats yes in humans no
I assure you claims about fructose not
affecting satiety in humans have not
stood up in clinical trials and I'll
quot a 2009 review on fructose and
satiety to summarize my point given the
overall lack of consistency across
experimental designs the case for a
lower satiating efficacy of fructose as
a contributor to the current obesity
epidemic is simply not
compelling number nine sugar makes you
an energy starved zombie given that
sugar is itself a preferred energy
source to say that it makes energy
starved is not even logically consistent
number 10 sugar turns your smile upside
down the claim is that those who ate the
most junk food faced a nearly 40%
greater risk of developing depression
again something as complex as depression
can't possibly be reduced to something
as onedimensional as sugar intake there
are just too many factors at play to be
this
reductionistic and finally number 11
sugar wrecks your
face again I did track down the paper
she is referring to and it does confirm
that glucose and fructose link the amino
acids present in the collagen and
elastin that support the dermis
producing Advanced glycation n products
or
ages in that this process is accelerated
in all body tissues when sugar is
elevated however in this entire paper no
reference to actual cont controlled
trials that investigate the specific
effect of increasing dietary sugar
consumption on AG
accumulation was made and the one paper
that was cited only notes a strong
relationship between skin
elasticity and age as in aging and body
mass
index not sugar intake or anything of
the sort and so the author of the paper
seem to be operating under the premise
that since sugar is necessary to produce
ages then increasing sugar in the diet
will necessarily lead to an increase in
ages but no evidence is provided to
support this claim so for now I think
I'd be best off just putting a question
mark on this
one okay guys so the bottom line here is
that sugar is often villainized for all
sorts of bad things but it is important
to realize that there are so many other
factors that come into play here and to
reduce everything to being Sugar's fault
is simply a matter of being ignorant to
the data or just being intellectually
dishonest and to conclude I'll finish by
saying that 60 gr of fructose per day
seems to have no negative effects on
anything and in active individuals it
would be silly to think that consuming
this amount of fructose is going to have
any sort of negative impact on measures
of Health especially within the context
of an overall health healthy diet and a
good exercise program all right guys
thank you for watching this video don't
forget to like the video and subscribe
if you haven't
already