I'm connecting with the cheapness force
can you feel it
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video is about
how to build a home gym for cheap whoa
Color Me interested all right how do I
relate to this topic you may ask because
you may know some facts about me that
seem contradictory to me having any
relevance to this topic at all I it's
true am so profoundly wealthy that
recently I got into this thing where
getting out of a car finding a parking
space Keys what are they for it's
annoying so what I do is when I get to
my next destination I just crash my
Lambo into it I go in the gas station
get whatever I need snacks or whatever
Butlers my Butlers usually follow me
around a helicopter they repel down
military spec Ops style secure the area
and um it's a transport helicopter uh
and then what they do is they they take
the crash Lambo away on another
transport helicopter while the the
current transport helicopter wheels down
lowers down another Lambo that's not
crashed pointed exactly into the
direction of where I want to go next the
key's already in it it's already on you
think Dr Mike this is a ridiculous story
wouldn't somebody at the gas station
just get into your Lambo uh what it's
got sniper fucking cover are you kidding
me that helicopter doesn't go anywhere
try again motherfucker oh like fucking
bullet explodes next to you holy shit
just run away and the police know about
me so they know hey let's uh that's Dr
Mike slambo you're gonna get shot and
he's got all the rights to kill you
because it's his fucking shit that's the
kind of level of wealth I'm dealing with
so clearly a home gym makes no sense to
me at all I have a facility the facility
we call it
however I do if I really think back uh
faintly remember and this is the real
part of the video I did grow up in the
Soviet Union until I was age seven the
idea that you have a gym at all the let
alone a home gym was baffling to most
people and I uh grew up mostly poor for
a super long time in the United States
when we moved over here so I know all
about that fucking life of trying to
save some fucking money and the ultimate
reason that I could connect with folks
that are trying to save money on the
shit is because I am genetically
three-quarters Ashkenazi Jew which means
that when I do this
oh I'm connecting with the cheapness
force
Can you feel it
a few other groups can connect with it
Jesus this is going to get awfully
racist should I even say it Scott said
don't name them you know who you are oh
you know who you are and you know who
you're not but not maybe don't know but
they are you motherfuckers you know hey
comment below which groups no no that'll
get us banned don't comment anything on
that in any case stupid jokes aside here
we go Mike shut up you're take the whole
shit if people think you're funny too
seriously you don't get actually to the
shit let's go to the shit here we go
home gym purchases ranked by performance
to Price Index
what you get out of it in the numerator
how much it costs in the denominator we
want maximum effect on our bodies
specifically for muscle growth from what
we buy with minimum cost to our wallet
and pocketbook
my rank one is adjustable dumbbells you
know them shits where you fucking click
the 16 at 60 and you put it back down
you click the 40 and it's 40 pounds
those things
it kind of doesn't matter how much they
cost
because whatever they cost it's fucking
worth it because if you have a dumbbell
set that goes all the way from 10 pounds
to like 50 pounds or something like that
you can do so much with those just two
dumbbells that the price of 150 250 350
is so fucking Justified just save your
money for a while when you buy that I
would probably get the warranty on it
they often offer that sort of thing
because the clicking mechanism in some
models is excellent and some are like
three weeks later it's like not clicking
in or whatever so definitely keep your
receipts but those adjustable dumbbells
are just man my vote for the best price
performance or performance price rate
swallow it says price performance I was
wondering it's not the other way around
I'll just say performance prices
numerator denominator and those are just
like I can't recommend them more so if
you ask me like hey what's like one
piece of equipment I'm on a budget
adjustable dumbbells that's it
the next thing you buy assuming you
already have adjustable dumbbells that's
how this list works I'm not going to
rank these in terms of like well you
could also just buy this no no I want
you to buy adjustable demos first in
almost every case
the second thing you buy when you come
into some more money
maybe your criminal Enterprise has seen
an uptick or whatever I'm not going to
judge how you make money your only fans
got a few extra Subs that's how I make
money
the next thing you want to buy is an
adjustable bench press which has flat
and incline multiple incline options
uh maybe even it has one of those little
uh seat hook thingies for your feet and
goes into a decline so you can use it as
an AB bench as well that's not super
mandatory but flat an incline
being that you have adjustable dumbbells
now
and you have an adjustable bench
you're multiplying the number of
exercises that you can do like in a
combinatorial way it's intense you can
do an unreal amount of shit with just
those two pieces of equipment and I'm
going to say this without point to find
a point on it you can get in a fucking
really good shape
for most people viewing this channel you
may be able to get into like the shape
you've always wanted at least not
limited by your equipment anymore so
that's a really great start and also the
big benefit if you live in a very small
apartment or you have just like a room
you're renting in a house or whatever a
fucking adjustable bench plus a set of
adjustable dumbbells damn there's some
shit you put off into the corner the
fucking cat gets in there wow dumbbell
crushes the cat ow you come home cat's
been dead for 12 hours so Jesus Christ I
went South I'll just stop that one
number three
if you've got those things already
and in some cases even if you don't but
really I would prefer those two things
already adjustable ml's adjustable bench
my next big recommendation is to buy a
budget power rack
squat cage whatever you want to call it
and usually they come with Olympic
weightlifting bars that have like 300
pounds on them
if you just buy the power rack
I would say Olympic Bar needs to be your
next purchase you can get utility out of
a rack without one but really the two
are like match made in heaven
Iraq plus bar with like up to 300 pounds
of weight just standard Olympic straight
bar
is something you can almost always get
if you Bargain shop for under a thousand
US dollars as of 2023.
and
that thing right there by itself
is going to get you almost as far as you
ever want to go in Fitness if you're
really clever and creative and you watch
our videos about how to vary exercises
and modify stuff for Home Gyms and
minimal equipment we have those videos
already by the way give them a Google
and
with an adjustable bench and adjustable
dumbbells if you also have a power rack
with a barbell and some weights holy
fucking shit now here's the thing there
are amazing racks out there
that are phenomenal D1 sport performance
grade racks Elite uh Fitness Systems
they make a fucking unbelievable series
of racks there's a ton of other
competitors in the space that make
awesome shit
the video was not about that because you
don't have five thousand fucking dollars
to a rack with fucking eight band hooks
or some shit I'm not denigrating these
things these racks are amazing and
absolutely worth their fucking weight in
gold
not literally I guess you know what I
mean they're a great piece of equipment
and if you have the money I would
absolutely buy them
but this is about making a home gym on a
budget and that means you want to get
the cheaper racks as long as it's made
of fucking steel and you're not the
world's strongest man you're not gonna
break the fucking shit look up some
fucking Amazon reviews and if people are
like oh this is pretty good I've had
this on my house and they've used it for
years that's all you fucking need that
you can get pretty goddamn cheap
next
there are a bunch of companies
that sell cable attachments to put onto
your power rack so that you can have
cable curl
row tricep push down and face pull and
even pull down options
this is a humongously awesome
super efficient use of your money
because it takes your already existing
power rack on which you can do
everything you do in the gym damn near
and gives you cable options
huge Victory now at the end of this
saying fuck it I'll just skip skip one
slide Scott the video guy there is
actually something on the market I don't
know if it's veteran or if it's good but
I know there's other versions of this
that are pretty damn good
if you Google full body train power rack
squat cage with cable clock crossover
and machine attachments you get this
whole insane set for actually a very
reasonable sum of money depending on
where you are and what the market is
it is a power rack with a dipstand with
cable attachments with a rowing plate
for your feet with a bar holder and a
different row setup this is that thing
that I'm talking about the only thing
it's missing is a bench and some
dumbbells so you can actually combine
with that points three and four into
fucking unbelievable home gym setup
unreal
and if you already have a rack there are
cable attachments and various
workarounds you can buy for it that will
be really really good and give a lot of
utility
lastly in your home gym collection
this is a huge one I can't put to find a
point on this
the next investment you want to make
that's the most worth your money
is to purchase different cable handles
for the cable attachments you got the
narrow pulling handle you've got the
tricep push down handle you got the wide
parallel handles you got them uh the
fucking shits that look like you cut
your hands into those you know so I'm
saying the Mad grips
if you have cable attachments
and you get a different cable attachment
if you have a cable station which you
now do
if you get a different attachment it's
like getting a different machine
because that's how much variation you
can milk out of just different grips
and because most of these cable
attachments are like between often less
than 50 but usually no more than a
hundred dollars that's like buying
another machine for 75 bucks holy
fucking shit so if you're tired of doing
cable rows like this you buy another
attachment now you're doing them like
this then you're doing them like that
and a lot of times some of the bars that
are kind of squiggly will have multiple
points of contact for you and they're
inherently multiple machines in one
different attachments are such a huge
effect on variation that in my own home
gym I have a whole wall my friend made
for me that just has hooks on it and I'm
like collecting different attachments
that I have and it's awesome because I
look at that I'm like oh what kind of
fun stuff do I do this muscle cycle and
it's really just having a ton of
different machines but super low cost
and extra bonus super safe uh saving on
Space fucking machines have a nasty
footprint that cost a thousand fucking
to 5000 what am I saying five thousand
fucking dollars they sit in a fucking
five by five area that's not fucking
useless you can't go there anymore
unless you're using that one fucking pec
deck machine and that's all it's good
for cable different cable attachments
including the single arm ones like the
the what is it the A to Z USA ones or
whatever that shit is fire symbol fire
symbol fire symbol it is unreal value
so to review
what do you get when PhD Sports
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders
the most effective muscle growth
training app ever made
get yours now
[Music]
adjustable dumbbells number one gym
purchase
for a home gym with a budget number two
get yourself an adjustable bench and you
can get these you know if you're Richie
Rich you can get a few of these at the
same time
power rack with barbell with some weight
on it
cable attachment to power rack maybe you
can buy a power rack that's both of
those combined three and four the actual
rack and the cable attachments
internally built
if you're really on a budget I would
recommend that
and lastly different cables for
different uh different attachments for
the different cable options
if you just buy these five things you
may in many realistic scenarios be
spending I'm going to say only 1500
bucks
1500 bucks is a lot of fucking money
but to have
a home gym
which
basically means you never have to
fucking leave
and you have everything there that you
want
and you can get almost Optimum results
I would say that's fucking worth
and some of you that are great bargain
shoppers and find things used you could
do better you could buy all this for 700
or 800 or 900 bucks
that's essentially a full-scale home gym
in a fraction of a room in your house
that's pretty fucking good so give that
some thoughts and listen if you guys
have comments on what else you think
constitutes a really good value please
post them below
I don't know if YouTube allows this that
if you have links to really good deals
or just names so that YouTube doesn't
filter out your links because sometimes
if you post links it just says go fuck
yourself if you have names of things to
search that are great value options for
anything on this list or anything else
you think is valuable please post them
below and if you see something you
really like you're like oh that's a good
that's a good one I love that suggestion
like it so that the high liked comments
filtered at the top because when folks
come to this video in search of what
kind of shit do I need to buy for my gym
on a budget they'll read the comments
they'll be like oh fuck that thing
exactly is the thing Dr Mike said click
on the link oh my god it works so they
search the term hell yeah they buy it
gym manufacturers make lots of money
they go home and they feed their little
families little poor children and they
give them food yay because thank you for
clicking and you guys get jacked
everyone wins but the real winner us
because we monetize on YouTube hell yes
money bring more money
in any case guys thank you for tuning in
let me know if you have any questions
comments below or what equipment you
think is going to add to this list and
we'll see you next time