eight hours of work on your arms is
decently likely to cause rabdom myisis
basically your body damages its own
muscle so much that it makes a go no go
decision I'm like is this salvageable
it's like if you've got an Evac plane
after your special ops mission but the
thing has like 20 holes in it you're
like uh helicopter come get us like what
do you want to do with a plane like
we're just going to leave the plane here
that's what your body can do with
muscles you damage sufficiently and by
leave them here that means eject them
into the bloodstream where they up your
blood vessels and then they go up
your kidneys and then you pee an
interested shade of Blackish red now it
has been shown through the scientific
literature that if you damage your
muscles enough the resources used to
heal them and make them bigger are now
just poured into healing them because
the damage is so extreme you kind of
can't afford to improve them it's like
you have $20,000 on a Home Improvement
fund your you know top of your porch
falls off it's only $3,000 use the other
17 to make the house better but if a
tornado comes through your house and
rips the into pieces you ain't
upgrading you're just going to get
some money maybe enough to build back
the house and maybe not even