you're going to need a lot more protein
when you're on
gear folks I'm Dr Mike of renissance
periodization and this gentleman here is
man hensman and he is an expert
researcher in sport and exercise science
and he dabbles not occasionally but all
the time in sport nutrition and he has a
message for you it's that you are two
things at least one potentially eating
more protein than you need and two by
that l a stupid bad person who should
have no friends even if he currently has
them the second part I made up but the
first part might have some truth to it
meno I always thought that to maximize
my muscle growth I need to eat somewhere
between two grams of protein per pound
of body weight per day meaning if I
weigh 200 lound I need 400 grams and as
much as possible am I wrong you are
wrong no way you are wrong I never been
wrong but go ahead entertain us so one
of the mo I think it might still be the
most popular article I've ever written
it ranked number one on Google for a
long time one of the yeah when people
still use Google what is Google is that
something chat GPT talks to when I ask a
questions yeah no unfortunately it talks
to ban unfortunately does talk to B if
only it talked to Google but uh Bart
might fix that some point anyway if Bard
can do anything at all yeah it's not so
great yet but um so I wrote an article
looking at how much protein you really
need and my perspective on that article
was okay I'm just going to ignore what
everybody says and that has basically
become my motus operand like how I
operate I'm going to ignore what
everybody says I'm trying to go in with
a completely blank mind I'm just going
to look at the empirical data on this
assuming that we have it turns out we
actually had a lot of empirical data we
had a lot of studies including
bodybuilders powerlifter seriously
trained individuals Dar psky in the 90s
have been doing really good research
with very very serious lifters tski and
bird invented protein as far as I can
tell yeah they had really solid research
already and I looked at all of that
research and I came to the conclusion if
you look at the research that's
controlling for nutrient timing so it's
the same amount of meals at the same
times but different amounts of protein
there is not a single study that has
found benefits of more than 1.6 gram per
kilogram per day now in your Freedom
Units Freedom unit guy freedom is so
fucking great in Freedom Units so in the
imperial system that is 82 G per pound
per day no no that's actually the 1.8
that's already the the up market so I
appli the triple Sigma to that to get to
the8 to yeah it's it's a method from
business basically to account for uh
excess variation in individuals because
ju you know just because it didn't
benefit the averages in 10 studies or so
at the time might mean that you know
some individuals have an extraordinarily
High requirement for protein and
therefore you we do what's called a
triple Sigma method where you add some
of the variation back in there to the to
the average now that gets you about to
1.8 G per kilog per day which is 82 G
per Kil per pound per day total protein
intake based on total body weight that
is enough for basically everyone with a
few exceptions that we can get into
later and research has not found any
benefits of more than
71 that's 1.6 I think gram per pound per
day now that has been tested
subsequently in and study that IO
offered uh myself a randomized control
trial further also in another met
analysis with some of the best
researchers in nutritional sciences that
we have in Fitness and we found again
exactly the same threshold that was the
breaking point in The Meta analysis
where we just look at all the data
together after that point the curve just
completely flattens for lean body mass
gains and we also see that in in muscle
thickness strength development all all
the gains you want including fat loss
body recomposition any anything so
that's pretty much for the vast majority
of natural individuals that are not
vegan don't have muscle
memory and aren't doing concurrent
training that's pretty much you need
okay let's get into those
nuances I'm on more drugs than Rich
Piana could SWAT a stick at you're not
Natty I am right now I don't have
needles in me okay um do I need more
protein or just as much or less because
I've heard that you can definitely
process more as a drug person your
fractional synthetic rate is higher
total body but also your feed efficiency
is higher so you absorb and utilize more
protein when you're on drugs than not do
those roughly cancel out what is your
reading of that sort of situation yeah
so this is a funny situation where I
think you don't actually need hard
numbers in the data because there will
be people that say well protein
synthesis goes up we know that but
muscle protein breakdown goes down
because you get higher feeding
efficiency your body excretes less
nitrogen when you're on androgenic
anabolic steroids so what's the net
effect some people say well the feed
efficiency is so great that you actually
need less protein and to that I would
say that even though we don't have hard
data on this it is almost certainly
complete nonsense you're going to need a
lot more protein when you're on gear
there have been a few studies that
looked at the protein synthetic response
in people taking gear and by taking gear
we're talking about 200 milligrams
testosterone that kind of stuff that's a
lot that's a hard cycle that's a hard
cycle yeah for uh guys in retrospect uh
anything remotely respectable in Pro
bodybuilding is north of 1,000
milligrams please continue so even like
trt plus dosages basically we see these
days that's normal trt if you if you're
on
YouTube so if you're on like trt plus we
already see like 50% increase in muscle
protein synthesis does muscle protein
breakdown go down yes a little bit but
we're talking about a several fold
difference in a response because the
body is an efficient organism if you
consume protein there is a massive
increase in the amount of protein
synthesis that will that it will
stimulate meaning if you're doing
strength training consuming a lot of
protein protein synthesis goes up a lot
protein breakdown doesn't change as much
even if you go into like a 40% energy
deficit we see in studies some studies
there's no change in muscle protein
breakdown you need to go into like a
hard deficit for a long time to make any
difference in muscle protein breakdown
why because muscle protein breakdown is
not efficient the body breaks down
proteins when it has to when it's
remodeling tissue there some protein
breakdown is needed to build new muscle
it's like you when you build a house and
you build a balcony to the house it's
like you making your muscle bigger you
can't just tag on the balcony to the
exact house you need to remodel the
outside build the balcony on and then it
fits together it's the same with muscle
growth so that's what Pro muscle protein
breakdown is for and that is even more
efficient which is already very
efficient normally when you're on gear
that's going to make a minor difference
to your protein requirements in turn
you're going to have a massive spike in
muscle protein synthesis why is this
relevant I think it's even relevant for
natural trainees because it explains why
we see that professional bodybuilders
take enormous amounts of
protein they actually benefit from it
and I think this is an extremely large
difference between natural and enhanced
trainees where natural traines look at
Pro bodybuilders and muscle magazines
are happy to feed into that because they
can sell you more protein
supplements it does actually work for
prob bodybuilders you need a whole lot
of protein for natural traines research
is very clear more than 1.8 gram or 82
gram per pound per day of total body
weight protein all total protein
including not so great sources is enough
you want at least 50% of your protein by
the away from high quality sources
that's what those that's the Assumption
made with the um with that total protein
requirement how much more meno and I
know you're going to be guessing and I
have my own guesses but I my guess is
you need if you're a 200 lb individual
you can maximize your protein intake as
a natural eating something like 150 to
170 grams of protein per day if you are
enhanced it strains my imagination to
think you need much more than 200 to 220
grams of protein per day am I wrong we
don't know because we don't have hard
data on this but this is very
interesting I think and we have a few
lines of evidence that we can look at we
can look at directly at B protein
symphysis that seems excessive because
that would suggest that even like I said
with like 200 milligrams testosterone
your protein requirements go up by like
50% imagine what happens when you're
taking a gram plus the other line of
research we can look at is what the pros
are doing now I'm normally not a fan of
that at all the whole the whole feis of
being evidence-based usually means that
you're looking primarily at scientific
research and not so much what what the
pros are doing because what the pros are
doing can vary depending on which Pro
you look at what they're taking their
own genetics what works for them whether
you're looking at them now versus 10
years ago versus 10 years into the
future so I think most people look way
too much what what what the pros are
doing but in this case is we don't have
hard data I think it does make some
sense to look at the pros and we have a
decent review where they concluded that
most Pros take like 2.3 to 3.1 gram per
kilogram per day I think per kilogram
not per pound folks yeah so that's like
up to 100% more protein than what
natural lifters need I think that's
probably a decent ballpark to go by and
I think probably the rule of one grand
per pounds which is kind of bror that's
probably not a bad idea for bodybuilders
up until you know kind of Arnold's era
that seem to work for them and that has
stood the test of time so I think that
the one gram per pound that makes sense
if you're taking cycling sometimes or
taking like low do Cycles by today
standards very interesting definitely
contrasts with some of my views and I
might might have to do some updating
just kidding I've never been wrong and
never will I don't actually learn things
I Intuit them directly from the
universe it's a safe sign it's great
it's easy uh a couple more questions I
have an announcement to make I'm a vegan
did you know that I'm now better than
all of you how much protein do I need is
it more than the natural recommendations
yeah a lot more potentially research on
this
has at first pointed very strongly in
the direction of you need a whole lot
more protein because your protein
quality is so low like the digestibility
is poor the amino acid composition is
poor it's not the amino acid composition
that the body has which high quality
sources have like meat meat is very
similar to human meat in that the amino
acid ratio is quite similar which means
you're consuming protein in like a whole
package in the same ratio approximately
that you have in your own body so we can
simplify the process what the body
actually cares about like the individual
requirements of all the amino acids
especially the essential ones we can
simplify that to just saying protein in
total and that's nice we like that it's
very simple if you're a vegan you cannot
do that because if you do the math and
you have some protein sources that are
very low in lysine or Lucine or any
other essential amino acid in particular
it turns out that you will need like
three times or more protein to get all
of those amino acids in so if you're not
looking at your sources of protein then
theoretically based on the amino acid
composition and not even factoring the
lower digestability
you need a whole lot more protein now
research studies over the last few years
have shown that the body is actually
remarkably capable of using the free
amino acid pool and storing protein in
either the digestive system or the amino
acid pool and combining proteins quite
well across the day so that you don't
need like a perfect mixture of amino
acids every single meal it'll kind of
drag out what you need yeah and it's
also quite capable of synthesizing the
non-essential amino acids and yeah it's
very efficient overall so it it turns
out that is probably not nearly three
times as much and my typical
recommendation is if you just want to
make it simple rely heavily on a blend
of 80% P protein 20% rice protein that
has a really good protein quality
digestibility is very high amino acid
ratio is very good for our vegan Source
it's pretty much as good as it gets and
then I would say about 2.1 grams per
kilogram per day so that's like 10 20%
markup versus the normal
82 grams per pound per day that you
would need and I think then you are 100%
okay and you can do that on a meal basis
too like if you have one vegan meal some
people freak out about that and they
feel like oh I need high quality protein
every single meal you can also use a
vegan protein shake add say 20% more
protein to it and you're probably also
good okay I have another announcement to
make I'm female now first of all it's
fine I've just been flicking the bean
all fucking day now that I'm a female
person
how much protein do I need because you
said something earlier that piqu my
interest you are of the supposition that
a high level of androgens can really
increase protein
requirements men have something like 20
times the Androgen load of women on
average does that mean they need I'm not
going to say 20 times of protein that's
fucking ridiculous even as a joke that
wasn't funny someone's going to get that
out of context somewhere do males need
more protein than females probably not
so this has been analyzed
both directly and indirectly directly in
a meta analysis on nitrogen balance
studies which aren't the the greatest
but they found that women actually had a
small Trend towards lower protein
requirements and in general research on
Direct protein metabolism and the effect
of sex on that biological sex you didn't
catch on to
that I 100% expected it might versus um
versus um procedural sex yes romantic
sex I now I don't know what that means
I've never had it I've read a picture
book about it once it looked scary and
it looked like they were fighting right
have you ever had sex no I don't do that
I just read my man yeah they found that
it's about 10% lower in women the
protein requirements based on nitrogen
balance and that was not statistically
significant which means I would since
protein is so important I would not
consume less protein as a woman
especially because for a women it's so
much easier to get your protein in than
if you are heavy if you're 100 kilos as
a guy if you're like Mike it it's it's
work to get your protein in if you are
saying it's work if you're a heavy
bitch that is also work but if you're a
50 kilo bikini competitor it really
isn't difficult pause I'm not going to
ask you your body count because that's
personal though I know it is quite high
you're s
legendary what is your single body
maximum weight count no names what
what's the biggest bitch you've ever
been with in the bedroom and I need the
number in kilos and pounds man I mean
nobody playing no more the time for
games has come to a fucking end okay I
would say that's probably about 80
kilos so like 185 pounds yeah I would
guess so man that ain't shit playing
with the fucking minor leagues lizo if
you hear this I am a married man but in
an alternate universe every part of your
fucking body girl I won't miss a fucking
bit every inch we're doing something to
it anyway that aside
protein females MH where were you yeah
so I would not go lower then I would use
the same recommendations as for men
there have been two recent studies as
well that kind of came to similar
conclusions both in endurance traines
and strength traines so just use the
same standards um and if anything you
might be able to go a little bit lower
but I wouldn't risk it got
it another caveat all these people
studied are well to use the vernacular
I'm familiar with
pussies they don't train like me they
don't go to 24-Hour Fitness in the Los
Angeles metro area and yell literally at
weights 5 days a week like I do and they
sure shit haven't seen a Rich Piana
video and so they don't know how to
train hard so don't I need a lot more
protein than these fucking bitch made
motherfuckers in these
studies yeah that's an argument actually
I got a lot and the answer is absolutely
not most people dramatically
overestimate how hard they train
compared to people in research that's
you if you look at for example the tski
studies they had competitive
bodybuilders training 1.5 to two hours
per day so yeah if you think you train
harder than those and the powerlifters
and the Olympic weightlifters and all
those people even then if we look at the
research on training to failure you
don't actually get that much more of
hypertrophic stimulus but if we're
looking at you know two absolute
complete balls out failure versus two
reps in the tank so I I don't think that
argument makes any sense at all and it
turns out that there are actually a lot
of serious exercise scientists that look
at serious training individuals
unfortunately we have also a ton of
research and untrained individuals but
we're looking at a body of research here
that's like 50 plus studies deep I had
another change of
heart I got into a time machine and I
made myself much older I'm now 67 years
old do I need a ton more Pro
based on the latest meth analysis on
this you do not but you do need to
distribute it into bigger servings so it
seems that older individuals have higher
Lucine threshold you need more protein
per meal to stimulate a robust anabolic
response if you just consume some milk
in your coffee that might not trigger an
anabolic response so you need probably
three four meals per day I would
probably wouldn't go higher also
generally not necessary to go higher
unless you really prefer it and make
sure you distri R your protein
relatively equally among 3 to four meals
per day if you have the same total
protein that's fine because on the other
end of the spectrum you know your
protein synthesis is also going to be a
lot lower in that sense it makes sense I
think that while there's a higher
protein requirement per meal the total
proteum requirements across the day is
not going to be higher I mean you're not
going to build more muscle if you look
at it from a standpoint of muscle
protein breakdown and symphysis your
requirement in the end is always based
on the sum total of what you need to
avoid breakdown and what you need to
stimulate symphysis if symphysis goes
down a lot for any reason whether it's
because of age or genetics or it goes up
because of drugs usually protein
requirements will follow along that is
all super super helpful I have two ideas
I want to share with you and I'd like
for you to either give me the KN of
approval or tell me how you think maybe
they're misapplied my thought about
enhanced bodybuilders this is all
tentative it's up for change with
available evidence and more
reasoning I'm not overly convinced that
enhanced bodybuilders need that that
that much more protein than every anyone
else because while they do have larger
protein
needs
um in know in another sense the MPS
curves are higher significantly I also
think that the amount of protein your
body shuttles towards muscle is a much
smaller fraction than people think most
of the amino acids you eat go to total
body functions and a lot of them just go
to intestinal cells and skin cells which
you lose fucking pounds of all the time
you ever been around me I shed a lot of
skin I have actually like a fucking
snake guy fing every day I wake up in a
different skin and so my idea is if you
are an enhanced bodybuilder try one gram
per pound per day to one and a half
grams per pound per day somewhere
between there you'll find that good idea
of protein wrong right somewhere in the
middle don't know matter what do you
think I mean it's tough I would ear on
the side of high protein it takes
because my idea with gear is if you're
going to use gear you want to make sure
that you get get the most out of it and
yeah it's inconvenient but just suck it
up you know if you're literally yeah uh
you protein shakes whatever it takes and
to the extent that it might help it
might help a lot maybe you don't need it
certainly lots of bodybuilders have
gotten big with just normal kind of
protein
intakes but if it might help and it will
it's basically the alternative to more
gear it's going to be very beneficial to
your health so I would ear on side of um
yeah suck it up and just get all the
protein you need go um you know kai
Green Jay Cutler they basically Ronnie
Coleman they were like just protein
feeding machines Ronnie Coleman ate like
two times his body weight per gram per
day you think that's not excessive
potentially utilizable two times body
weight yeah propound
propound I mean at his dosages with his
genetics I I don't question that
honestly like I mean I think it's
reasonable another thing I say is I
think just for
Imperial
convenience gram per pound per day MH is
enough protein to give you one simple
number to
remember and it obviates the need to
consider very highly the degree of
protein quality MH and because that's
not a crazy excessive difficult amount
of protein what I usually tell people is
absolutely if you have a more nuanced
reading of the literature you can take
in less if you're drug- free if you're
enhanced maybe you can take in more but
a gram per pound is a really good place
to start for a lot of people if they
want one simple answer what do you think
about that poke some holes on that sure
I mean I would say you're going to have
to do some math with your Macros anyway
so unless you're you know really limited
mentally
I think I think there is a big benefit
for most individuals to know that they
can they're fine with 1.6 and certainly
with 1.8 gram per kilogram again 7 to8
gram per pound because it also opens up
your menu to a whole lot of other foods
and protein is expensive protein can be
not the most satiating or not the most
palatable food to eat say satiety is
another Factor by the way if you want to
get into that and also it opens up your
menu to things like cheese which
otherwise just aren't really on the menu
without massively going over your fat
intake so yeah there are a lot of
benefits and really just no need to go
higher in protein you have to do your
Macros anyway so Simplicity argument I
mean
um it's reasonable but I think if you at
all serious about training then use the
accurate number okay two more things
talk about protein and satiety I heard
that protein makes you uh more satiated
less hungry but I've heard a very good
retort by you saying that yes if you
just generalize by all three macros
protein is the most satiating all three
but that misses a really really big
forest for the trees and that is the
fact that there is a subcategory
especially of carbohydrates called green
veggies which have by far a bigger
effect on satiety for calories un th if
you're cramming extra protein to stop
hunger maybe you should be cramming
extra veggies and fruits and whole
grains instead is that a rough summary
of reviews did I miss something yeah
theoretically the idea in many
researchers mind still is that protein
is simply more satiating because it has
higher effects on the gut hormones that
mediate your satiety so basically
protein inherently just any source of
protein you consume it it changes the
hormones that your your body has and
therefore you get full more than if you
consume carbs or fats now in research we
know that based on the protein leverage
research that is only true up you until
the point of requirement our body has a
specific appetite for protein kind of
like salt and water where you you kind
of keep eating you stay hungry until
you've had enough protein and the body
has sensors for that it's absolutely not
perfect it's not the case that you can
just eat based on intuition and you will
get enough protein especially not for
bodybuilders but it's pretty decent and
in particular if you have a very low
protein diet like you have the average
Indian diet for example then you're
almost certainly going to overeat
because the body doesn't stimulate
satiety because it's like well great you
got in a of sugar but I still want the
protein we still need the amino acids so
if you look at the research um and I did
that in in great detail in my book you
can see after the point of like we just
discussed the point of which muscle
protein symphasis and the like are all
maxed out at that point we don't see
anymore the protein is inherently more
satiating and then you get to the point
where we can't just look at protein
versus carbs versus fats you can't do
that in general anyway because we're
talking about Foods people don't eat
protein people don't eat carbs that's
just us crazy bodybuilders obsessed with
thinking you know what am I eating I'm
eating carbs you doesn't make any sense
like what kind of carbs are you eating
broccoli or are you eating pure dextrose
because metabolically speaking that's a
completely different food satiety wise
completely different food
so when we start looking at specific
food choices the idea that all protein
sources are universally more satiating
especially in the case of someone who's
optimizing their protein intake than
carb and fat sources is complete Bonkers
it's
nonsense green veggies even beans
potatoes in many research studies are
more satiating certainly than way shakes
way how much does a way Shake fill you
zero I get hungrier if I'm if I'm fasted
I consume a way Shake I actually get
hungry rebound hypoglycemia yeah so what
about fresh fruits yeah they they can
exactly they can also be much more
satiating I think the the harmful effect
that we've seen in flexible dieting if
it fits your macroy circles is that
people consume protein of any source at
the expense of other foods that are a
lot more healthy possibly more palatable
cheaper and just better for your health
and diet in a lot of ways in particular
these fibrous carbs you can go home rest
assured that you also don't need more
protein for satiety reasons and I have
actually done Co offered a study where
we looked at this in strength trained
individuals 1.8 versus 2.7 gram per
kilogram per day so like 50% excess
protein versus optimal protein intake
across a wide variety of measures we saw
no benefits to for iy so for appetites
hunger how much how many calories they
eat if they're not tracking no
differences very awesome one last thing
I have a new identity now since it's
well
2024 I tried all the stuff I had my
pronoun on my bio I didn't get any more
followers took those down rainbow flag
the usual nothing worked now I have
become an infinifat so I weigh 300 kilos
660 lbs is it true that I need 500 g of
protein as a natural and 750 gam of
protein as an enhanced or is there some
kind of lean body mass calculation that
we can do yes in this case I agree with
Eric Helms that lean body mass is the
better measure for most individuals I
think it's doesn't matter because any
accuracy that you gain from using lean
body mass especially if we look at the
research which really doesn't find big
differences between individuals at all
surprisingly so body weight's probably
already
overcorrecting it finds that if you look
at obese or overweight individuals Eric
Helm's recommendations are probably more
accurate than using total body weight
because you would have wildly excessive
protein intakes because their body
weight is so high so then I would say
2.3 grams per kilogram lean body mass
that's the better recommendation so that
replaces the 1.8 gram per kilogram total
body weight if someone is overweight the
extra accuracy that you get from using
lean body mass is offset by the UN
relability of estimating your body F
percentage in the first place so you
people think especially for theoretical
reasons lean body mass must be better
than using total body weight to estimate
my protein
requirements but that requires knowing
your body fat percentage and even if
you're using a dexa scan that can easily
be off by some 5% so any accuracy that
you think you gain there in research it
just doesn't pan out you don't actually
get a more accurate reading of your
total uh protein requirement it just
over complicates things for no reason
you can use that I don't think it's
worse like Eric Helms recommendations
but I don't think it's necessary in the
case of overweight individual I think
Eric Helm's recommendations are better
to avoid wildly excessive protein it
takes what rough body fat percent do I
start considering myself overweight or
what visual characteristics am I looking
for overhanging fat what am I looking
for to start looking at lean body mass
versus just regular body mass so
depending on which organization you look
at you're looking at something like 21%
body weight uh for men and 31% body fat
for women at that point you start
becoming uh overweight and really just
kind of if I have like a little fluffy
fluff yeah if uh there's absolutely no
uh ABS detectable as a guy you do have a
certain amount of muscle mass you're
starting to get there
usually
so and in general your body weight BMI
is even not that bad to go by in this
case I think most people if you um if
you're far from ABS you're probably
overweight actually I think um it's a
harsh reality that for a lot of people
in Fitness they are actually um
overweight or uh pretty close to it I've
had lots of clients who are like oh yeah
lift especially guys women not so much
but lots of guys they're like yeah you
know I I'm finishing my bulk face now
and I think I'm you know probably 16%
body fat 18 at most bro yeah yeah
exactly and in reality then I'm like I
think you're 21 plus for sure like
you're you're in the 20s
and even had a few cases where like they
were just completely mind blown and they
did the dexa scan I was like yep
25 that sucks to see yeah I mean it's
not it's not that difficult to get
overweight man this has been incredibly
illustrative this may be our most
informative video on protein yet
including all the videos I made which
were fucking dick compared to this folks
my number one content creation tip for
you is to stop learning things and have
people on your channel that know things
already I've been Dr Mike this is menah
Henson
see you guys next
[Music]
time