hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization hypertrophy myths today's
myth is constant tension bro
these are all pro myths I'm just kidding
some of them are nerd myths
we're talking about the myth we're going
to talk about actually the true things
that it has in its Elemental truthful
Silver Linings around the dark clouds
talk about the dark clouds the bad stuff
and then we'll do some real talk to sort
of finish it all up so the myth here is
expressed in the idea that you need to
keep tension on the muscle for it to
grow constant tension is important and
then especially sets with breaks in them
for example instead of pressing like
this you press like this you go down you
press like this every time you rest
having the weight Bear Down on the
joints instead of the muscles there's no
tension on the muscles or much less your
muscles rest and that's bad because
constantation causes growth and if you
have not constant tension you have less
growth that's the idea that's being
discussed here now there's some good
stuff here
first point is that in order to
drive a muscle close to failure which we
want for hypertrophy gains as soon as
possible constant tension is a good idea
so if you never lock out on bench press
you do this for you know 30 seconds
whatever wait you're going to be able to
not do it anymore and failure is going
to be impending but if you lock out and
you come down you luck out it just takes
much more time thus not ASAP to get
closer to failure so that's definitely
something you have to consider
without constant tension
if you take little breaks you can let
the muscles rest and thus they reduce
their how much metabolite they generate
right all the lactic acid and all the
other metabolites don't really generate
a ton of the muscle they get time to
wash out and that probably reduces some
growth stimulation because there's not
as much sequestration of metabolites
which is likely another pathway for
growth other than just tension itself so
bad news right if you had a set that you
said I'm going to do for 10 reps and
last week you did a similar set for 10
reps constant tension is going to get a
really nasty Burn by the end of the 10
reps in your rack if for some reason
this day you do similar weight similar
load still same uh sorry similar load
same thing as weight and similar reps
you may do 10 reps and because you rest
each time you can actually finish the
set pretty easy and things never got
burned much not a whole lot of
metabolites not a whole lot of
um close failure proximity and then it's
actually less hypertrophic such so
that's the big thing is if you usually
use constant tension but then you switch
in the middle of your mesocycle to using
rest breaks you can have the same or
even higher performance with more brakes
but you end up getting less growth
stimulus because you're not taking it as
close to failure as you were and you're
not producing as many metabolites as you
were so that's kind of the stuff that is
really good about this however there is
bad stuff first thing is uh theoretical
sense
tension is what causes growth not
constant tension
and tension that gets you close to
failure causes the most growth
and if it had breaks on the way it
doesn't matter if towards the end of
that set many of the reps are closer to
failure whether or not you took breaks
in the middle of that set or did
constant tension either way when you get
close to failure the growth starts being
poured in
so you don't have to do constant tension
there's nothing magical about it what
you have to do is take steps close to
failure and make sure ideally that they
also generate lots of metabolites along
the way
here's the real kicker
if you take breaks during the movement
but you still approach failure
you can end up doing more repetitions
you get close to failure with constant
tension then you take a break
again a few constant tension reps take a
break
and then go you can have a few failure
approaches and thus when you get close
to failure you flirt with it for longer
you do more total reps that is more
total tension more time under tension
just not constant tension
and because a lot of times people get
the two concepts confused to say time
and retention constant tension about the
same thing
time under tension is every rep you
measure and add up together and there
were breaks between reps it doesn't
fucking matter right like if you got hit
in the face 10 times it doesn't matter
if it was like boom boom boom boom boom
boom or someone was like boom boom boom
you still got hit in the face 10 times
and if you got hit in the face 15 times
versus 10 even though one happened fast
and one slow
it's the total number of the fucking
counts same with reps so if you do with
taking breaks more total repetitions you
get more tension and if the brakes are
strategically placed as you get really
close to failure you take a break rest
for a second and then you are able to
revive a little bit and then get a
couple reps close to failure and you
take a break and a couple more reps just
like that you end up doing both more
mechanical work which means more tension
which is more growth stimulus and you
end up having more effective reps more
reps closer to failure in that set and
that is actually going to cause more
metabolite sequestration and more
tension over time and more proximity to
failure which is more growth so there is
a way by leaving the religion of
constant tension and embracing in some
contexts rest breaks in between rest
pause for even just if it's just the
length of a lockout you can actually get
more head pressure If you that way it's
not for sure but it's more than 50 50.
if you take little mini breaks there is
a actual Advantage there why because
your slower twitch fibers are hit pretty
good with constant tension because
they're very fatigue resistant and
constant tension sure fatigue the fuck
out of them
your faster twitch fibers which are
actually more prone to growth they're
going to kick out early and they're
going to stop being able to support you
but if you take a break for a sec and
then you go down boom take a break each
time you take a break your slower fibers
don't need the break they're good either
way your faster fibers greatly benefit
from the break and they may be able to
have so uh such a big benefit from that
little mini rest even if it's a fraction
of a second or a second they may net you
a few more reps on the tail end they may
have more energy and ability to contract
a few more times for you increasing the
amount of tension they expose themselves
to increasing the total metabolite yield
getting closer to failure for longer and
thus giving you more growth in the
faster fibers which are more growth
prone to begin with
so it actually looks like constant
tension in many cases is not ideal and
is actually the opposite of Ideal it's
like a needless way to fatigue yourself
too quickly and end the set too quickly
where you could have milked the set out
for longer and made it even more
hypertrophic
now
Real Talk the first biggest thing to
address is don't use constant tension as
an excuse to cut your range of motion I
know it's sort of unrelated but people
say this shit all the time it fucking
some fucking idiot stare at abusing
moron is doing this shit with dumbbells
in the gym and you're like bro no
offense but what he's like Constitution
bro shut the fuck up get out of my face
that's bullshit doesn't mean anything
get out of here that you locking out the
dumbbells and you're going back down is
not going to ruin your set
hypertrophically because constant
tension fuck out of here
if you take breaks between reps
make sure to standardize the brakes so
you don't conflate more concentration or
less constant tension and then you can
stimulate gains but know if your
strength is falling off here's the big
problem right
you started out doing constant tension
reps week one week two constant tension
week three your dumbass realized that
like you are not going to get 10 reps
leak you usually do you're going to get
like eight or nine because your fatigue
is really high because you have exceeded
your maximum recoverable volume because
you should be deloading at least for
that muscle but you don't you lie to
yourself and you go haha wait I can
still get the same number of reps on
paper by doing like seven reps and then
locking out or breathing for a bit and
doing another two reps so I cannot
reading for a bit hey look I got 12 reps
I hit a PR
yes technically you stimulate it even
more well you caused more hypertrophic
stimulus it won't end up actually
stimulating hypertrophy because you're
so fatigued at this point you're
regressing and possibly losing muscle
you're way beyond your maximum
recoverable volume but you could lie to
yourself and say you hit a PR
technically you did because you're using
rests as an easier way to do it it's
similar to running a certain time in the
5K
and then next time you're like man I'm
definitely too beat up to run this I
shouldn't be running this but you know
what what I'll do is I'll run the 5K but
I'll run like 2 or 3K I'll rest for a
bit run another two or three k finish
the 5K that rest I'm going to cut out of
my time hey look PR but that you took a
rest there that's not a PR you're
actually in a lower state of
preparedness but you're lying yourself
and telling yourself it's better so
here's the thing if you choose to do an
exercise form as a cycle as constant
tension keep the constant tension if you
choose to use Maya reps you say okay I'm
gonna get 10 Reps for sure and then rest
for three seconds or three breaths and
then I'm gonna get three reps and then
rest for three breaths and I'm gonna get
two and I'm gonna rack that's the plan
you do that every single time that you
come in every single week don't just
really really randomly take as much rest
as you need because it'll throw away
tracking completely you'll have no idea
if you're actually less strong and way
overreached and should have deloaded
because you can always just rest a
little longer in many exercises
and do more reps
here's the last part to that
many exercises but not all exercises in
which having to hold the weight
and take a pause drains you
are exercises which you should do with
pretty close to constant tension you can
lock out and come back down just don't
wait a lot perfect example of squats
with a barbell when you walk out a squat
there is a time that starts
leeching energy out of your fucking body
because you're standing over the shit is
crushing you you have to stabilize it
it's awful
as you do your squats if you come up and
wait for three seconds you're actually
reducing the number of feature reps you
can do in that set because it's draining
you while you get nothing out of it it's
net fatigue is increasing net energy
drain when you stand there
thus when you start squatting just keep
going and when you're close to failure
just fucking rack
however
if you're doing an exercise like hack
squats
it's comfortable it's preset what you
can do is truly lock out your knees at
the top safely gently so even get hurt
and you can do 10 reps then rest and it
actually fatigue actually does come down
while you rest standing there in a
locked out position three breaths later
you do another five through both another
three another two and then you finish
the set Maya rep style a rest pause
style you can get a ton done and
actually on an exercise like a machine
press on an exercise like hack squats
and a few others
you can benefit from resting at the
bottom or resting at the top whichever
way The Exercise Works and making each
set more effective by not doing constant
tension so the rule here is this if
resting drains you more than it
refreshes you constant tension is great
and you can still lock out of the top
for a brief second but not for much
longer because then it just drains you
while you're not moving which is not
hypertrophic is stimulating just fatigue
however if you figure out an exercise in
which being in that position and holding
an isometric actually relieves stress
actually reduces the amount of fatigue
you have then it is absolutely worth
thinking about doing arrest pauses at
least longer rest breaks between reps
and potentially even mire-ups to get
even more hypertrophic yield
that's a lot of sand stuff if you want
to hear me say more stuff like this
video so we continue to make YouTube
videos because we make more money
YouTube seems to like that sort of thing
subscribe to the channel if you really
love us and if you really really really
love us and you just can't wait to be
around our YouTube channel maybe you'll
make your move on us at some point ooh
you dog you hit that uh that uh
subscription button to get into the
membership side where you get more nerd
stuff and all kinds of cool freebies and
bonuses and
uh I wonder how good the air is fuck it
we'll test the YouTube Ai and even adult
content I'm just kidding it's a joke
YouTube please don't demonetize us
I'm really playing with fire here aren't
we Scott the video guy and by we I mean
me at your expense see you next time