that's where most people fail a lot of
people can actually hack a diet but they
fucking just shoot back up very few
people can hack a diet to get down to a
weight and then stay down there in real
talk if you're not a human being and I
just hear somewhere about the fact that
you lost a bunch of weight people are
proud of you I couldn't give a flying
fuck that shit does not impress me and
it shouldn't impress you why it's a
fraction of people that rebound back
ending on how you ask the question from
a research perspective somewhere between
three and four people and nine in ten
people come right back up to their old
body weight within several weeks or
months of having lost the weight
initially so when people are like I lost
50 pounds doing the whatever diet I'm
not impressed with that shit I'm not
impressed with the diet because almost
any diet that cuts calories can get you
to lose weight but a fat diet does so in
a stupid fucking way it's way too fast
or it's way too restrictive it builds
zero habits for you to keep after you're
done dieting you're just going to go
back up like almost everyone else