nearly every day I make a point to have
these three convenient healthy foods in
my diet to make me
healthy welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
today with wolf coaching PhD in sports
science and we're discussing three
underrated foods that I consume nearly
daily to improve my health they're
highly convenient and they're something
that you should be able to incorporate
within your diet to improve your overall
health first what makes a food healthy
well it's actually a combination of the
following things first off it's
important to note that no food is
perfectly healthy or perfectly unhealthy
it's not a dichotomous State rather it's
on a Continuum what dictates where a
food or a meal falls on the Continuum is
based on the following first having more
fiber within your diet is going to
improve your health outcomes so all else
being equal a higher fiber content is
going to make a meal healthier secondly
and this is mostly relevant for weight
loss and maintaining weight loss and
just staying at a healthy weight a food
having a low calorie density or low
energy density generally will make it so
that you eat or consume fewer calories
this makes it easier to get satiated and
to not regain any fat that you might
have lost or to not gain fat in the
first place and so with a good fiber
content and a low calorie density a food
is a lot more healthy already the third
component is a really practical one if
it counts as one of your five a day
that's a really good sign usually one of
your five a day means that it contains a
lot of vitamins a lot of minerals a lot
of phytonutrients a lot of antioxidants
all things that will likely improve your
health overall importantly foods that
count as part of your five a day
guideline are also usually foods with
low calor density and that are high in
fiber that said when you're considering
what foods to add into your diet to
become healthier keep in mind that
variety is important you don't just want
to have the same type of fruit over and
over again and expect that that's going
to optimize your health some variety in
your intake is going to be likely
beneficial different fruits and
different vegetables and different
legumes and beans and pulses will all
offer slightly different nutrients and
to get a variety of nutrients to cover
all your bases a variety of fruits
vegetables Etc is beneficial with that
being said part of the reason why a lot
of people are underc consuming fruits
and vegetables for their health is that
there's a barrier both in terms of time
taken to prepare and in terms of money
indeed nowadays fruits and vegetables
can be relatively expensive depending on
what you get and so both time and
MoneyWise I'll be picking foods that I
think are really beneficial they usually
won't cost a lot of money and they're
usually pretty convenient ient without
further Ado here are the three healthy
food hacks I do pretty much every day as
a means to improve my health first I try
to have a salad at least once a day and
to do that I prepare a specific vinegret
let's face it during most of your diets
your salads are probably quite boring
and not that enjoyable and the reason
for that is as compared to a salad in a
restaurant is that often times in a
restaurant you get either a mayonnaise
based dressing or the salad is actually
dressed with vinegret in this case we'll
be taking advantage of vinegret as a
means to to make salad consumption
actually enjoyable because here's the
truth salads are actually a great way to
get a variety of fruits and vegetables
and nuts at the same time here's a
recipe I love to use from the Food Lab
by J Kenji Lopez art the reason I love
this vinegret is one it's extremely
tasty but secondly all of the elements
within this vinegret should last for a
really long time in the fridge I'm
talking a month at least and so because
I'm quite lazy and convenience is
absolutely a thing I prepare this like
once a month and then just use it every
evening as I need to here's the basic
recipe that I usually scale up by about
four times so that I can get a whole
liter roughly of vinegret at once to
make a cup of this vinegret you'll need
3 tbsp of lasonic vinegar 1 tbsp of soy
sauce 4 taspo of Dijon mustard one small
shallot diced finely grated or ground in
a m and pestle alongside one medium
clove of garlic also diced grated or
ground in M pestle 1/4 cup of extra
virgin olive oil half a cup of vegetable
or canola oil that you could replace for
more extra virgin olive oil if you want
to it is slightly healthier and finally
salt and pepper to taste while keeping
in mind that this will be used to season
a lot of food so overs salted once
you've made this vinegret just Stir It
aggressively for example if you put it
in a tu Ware container like I do just
shake it up like you would a protein
shake it'll form an Emulsion and it will
be tasty and assembled from there you
can assemble really any salad you want
but let me give you what I usually do
first I start with some sort of Rocket
based salad any salad will do but I like
rocket it goes well with it vinegret and
dark leafy vegetables are a great choice
for health and then as far as additional
elements you can really go wild here
it's totally down to you but here's what
I have I usually add some sort of dried
fruit saltanos are my favorite I also
add some pickled red onions that I make
using a solution of half water half
vinegar some salt and some artificial
sweetener I also then add some sort of
nut I like salted peanuts and finally
for an additional serving of Health I
add chickpeas add some vinegret
depending on how big your salad is a
tablespoon may be a decent place to
start toss it all together and season to
taste voila enjoy altogether this salad
gets you a lot of your five a day it
gets you one to two servings of
vegetables based on just a salad another
serving of fruit based on the dried
fruit potentially another serving of
vegetables based on the pickled onions
and finally an additional serving of
beans and pulses depending on what you
add so all together we're talking about
3 to five servings of your five a day
ready in just about 3 minutes from start
of assembly to end of assembly and the
only work that was really required is
making that vinegar at about once a
month importantly don't see this is what
you need to eat if you don't like
certain ingredients of the Sal feel free
to substitute I want you to make this
your own salad that you can enjoy day in
day out for example if you want more
flavor not necessarily for health here
you could consider adding anchovies or a
crumbly cheese like Feta for example
it's totally down to you so salads are a
huge Health hack that I literally use
basically every single day the next big
Health hack that I use in my own diet
are smoothies now let's address The
Upfront cost you need a blender to make
a smoothie however you can get these for
$30 or so so it's not a huge up front
cost and it will save you a lot of time
and provide you with many meals in the
future once you have it you can have two
to three servings of fruit in a Flash
I'm talking in less than 2 minutes my
favorite super simple approach most
evenings I will throw around 250 g or
about half a pound of smoothie fruit AKA
frozen berries and bananas into a
blender add some water add some
artificial sweetener to make it sweeter
and finally add some creatine
monohydrate it's a really convenient way
of getting creatine in as well and
before you count for me no artificial
sweeteners do not cause health issues in
fact compared to just adding more sugar
to your food it'll probably make you
healthier additionally by keeping the
amount of water that you add to this
smoothie relatively low it'll have this
kind of very cold nearly Frozen sorbet
like texture that does two things one
it's delicious and two it slows down the
rate at which you can consume it and as
it turns out eating more slowly actually
makes you more satiated that's right for
the same food it will make you Fuller so
not only are you getting a ton of
vitamins and nutrients you're also
getting a decent hunger blunting effect
that being being said if you don't like
bananas and berries as a combination
there are a lot of other fruit mixes out
there that are available Frozen very
cheap and very tasty for example a
tropical fruit mix could be used for
this instead again I want you to see
this as a concept and not as a
prescriptive approach to smoothie making
in fact if you really want to experiment
you could even make your own smoothie
mix pick your own fruits and just throw
them in a blender add some sweetener add
some water and enjoy and so in just
about 2 minutes you can have three of
your five a day in terms of fruit
servings in your diet depending on the
fruits you pick if can also be very
costeffective and finally the third hack
is even better if you really don't trust
yourself as far as cooking goes if
making a vinegret is too challenging for
you don't worry this is still pretty
helpful and that is to buy readymade
vegetables and fruits there are actually
a deceivingly large amount of vegetables
fruits beans lentils pulses nuts that
you can buy and consume very easily for
relatively cheap the most exotic and
pricey one that comes to mind is kimchi
you buy it you eat it you got some
vegetables in some cheaper options
include baked beans pineapples apples
bananas sauerkraut with the cheapest
ones usually being baked beans bananas
and apples you could take this a step
further if you are willing to cook there
are many Frozen vegetable mixes out
there that you can use for example I
often make a bolog with a mix of onion
celery and carrots and additionally add
some tomatoes in one dish that is four
servings of vegetables and this dish for
example lends itself super well to bulk
prepping at leave a recipe Down Below in
the description if you want to check out
a recipe for balers that takes advantage
of these four vegetables with that said
these readymade fruits and vegetables or
absolute Lifesavers deep into a cut when
you don't necessarily have the time or
the energy to prepare your own food but
you still want to be satiated and maybe
improve your overall health ultimately
the biggest thing with all of these food
hacks is to find the ones that you enjoy
can fit within your diet and lifestyle
and just make them consistent I know I
mentioned variety as something important
earlier and that is true but just
Implement what you can don't get carried
away thinking you need to get a huge
optimal variety of all of them in every
day otherwise you won't see an
improvement in your health just having
some of these in your diet consistently
will be the main thing in closing just
build sustainable habits try some of
these tips out what do you use in order
to get more fruits and vegetables in I'd
love to know tell me down in the
comments below if you like the video
please comment like subscribe and I'll
see you guys my subscribers in that next
one peace