ow ow ow ow ow ow ow ow ow I'm doing
four and a half Cycles am I gonna get
electrocuted almost threw
[Music]
up hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance priorization now I'm a
professor of exercise and Sport Science
and a competitive bodybuilder but the
'90s oh those were the good days but I
was only a child so I missed out
entirely I'm the awesome late night
gimmicky fitness equipment and
infomercials that made the 9s so famous
and so awesome and so amazing so now to
make up for my lost opportunity really
I'm going to do some appraising of '90s
Fitness commercials and I might also get
a chance to play with some '90s fitness
equipment you can just get for three
easy payments of $1 1999
999999 because Scot the video guy
actually order of these things let's do
it great legs thank you instantly
problematic statement went right off
hand how do you get them I used to do
aerobics till I dropped then I found thy
Master o Suzanne
Summers every single time you squeeze
Thigh Master you strengthen and tone
right where you need it let's just cut
right to the chase my professorship
spilling right out of me PE officer told
me that's not good especially in public
due to the force curve being what it is
the movement gets more difficult as you
close it the range of motion being what
it is which is not very high now see the
Thigh Master is a very inefficient way
by which to hypertrophy the adductor
muscles these guys here does It tone no
toning is not a thing local spot
reduction of fat burning fat in a
specific place just doesn't really
happen in any meaningful extent the
secret to shapely thighs is exercising
these muscles with just the right
resistance just the right resistance
whatever that happens to mean for a
variety of people that would buy the
product 1 800
33196 Scott do you think we could call
that now
331
960
[Music]
that gets us nailed for
copy wasn't worth the bit shit uh I just
assumed that the lines are so busy off
the hook for people calling in about
thigh Masters that we just couldn't get
through we'll call again we'll let you
guys know how that went oh my
God the coil system I mean like I could
use it as a shitty gripper I can do like
80 reps of
grip
yeah I mean it is a great workout for
people on the go and this is
awkward fuck out of here
next six second ABS I was a child and I
do remember the evolution of these they
started with like 10 minute abs and it's
like 10 minutes once a week it's so easy
and then the fucking scammers and
spammers got in there and they're like
dude we can beat this we got 2minute and
then 6C ABS listen to the clicks why she
out in the middle of a field this
machine is concentric only it only
provides resistance on the way down I
assume Scott you don't happen to have
one for me do you oh you assume okay let
me make some predictions first so it
only works half the movement the
concentric the coming down not the
resistant up it's not going to train
your abs all that well I assume there's
no mod of progression so once you get
used to it doesn't work after 3 weeks is
she inducing vomiting that's what that
looks like having trouble taking a dump
what box is amazing this is priceless
wow let me take a look Karen's been
working out what's up girl it looks like
a vacuum cleaner doesn't it doesn't look
like a vacuum cleaner Scott you could
you can vacuum up all your bad memories
wish I had a machine for
that that's the front actually I I can
be 100% certain when I tell you I've
never experienced this much Elation over
anything we got titties so we're in
let's try it it's fucking big which is
never for a statement I've heard
directed at me in any capacity okay so
it looks used what is this Scott eBay
how many cat ladies died when this was
in everything we have is disgusting oh
my God I definitely have fucking some
kind of communicable disease there a
pretty ergonomic underhand
grip it's quicker it's hardest at the
bottom easiest at the top it's clearly
in there it's got some kind of spring or
band So at the end of the world get some
kind of abdominal flection against
resistance but if you lie down to the
ground and simply crunch up you get as
much resistance except the force curve
is better all right all right I'm
getting fit one by one here Scott the
Box
smells yeah half these shits have been
like in an attic for the last 20 years
that's where they belong you're
overworked I am overworked and your gym
membership is underused is this
commercial written for me time to shake
up your routine with the vibos shaped
professional slimming Bell professional
I have never experienced and with that
much vibration who knows what kind of
ABS I'll be able to get designed to
effectively tone slim and tighten at
just 10 minutes a day is it 100% a way
to get electrocuted at home stimulating
muscle groups from ABS to calves and
encouraging circulation as you do
absolutely nothing there's no way she's
reading that book her eyeballs are
shaking and the book is shaking them
titty shaking all right I'll stop the
handheld controller lets you choose from
five different intensity levels that'll
get your muscles moving and your blood
flowing with no effort at all I don't
know how vibration makes your blood flow
I'm aware of no physiological reasons to
suspect it would but getting your
muscles moving it sure a shit doesn't do
you guys ever been on like in a rocky
car ride like the car's doing this or
the bus or something do you notice that
your muscles are doing any of that work
no no they're not they're quite relaxed
because they're not doing the vibrating
the machine is the only thing this thing
is going to increase is your fucking
power bill 10 minutes a day is all it
takes for a healthier happier you order
your vibro shape Health happier U is an
excellent uh framing of legal ease none
of these things can be guaranteed or
even Quantified so they can't lie to you
if you can't pin them at anything just
10 minutes a day I wonder how they came
to that conclusion please tell me you
don't have that yeah this is my favorite
get the fuck out of here am I going to
get electrocuted yeah oh Scott thank you
so much oh it's so old did someone die
in this oh it's cool it's got a little
waist measurement thing so you can see
how less of a fat ass you're becoming
over
time
okay that's a lot it's actually really
uh intense vibration did you guys know
that lowlevel repeat vibrations can
cause brain damage I'm doing nothing at
all and I'm getting in shape oh you can
switch the direction what the fuck does
that mean don't worry that button
doesn't do anything I can tell you
exactly what this feels like it feels
like someone's shaking it's something
cool to put on and feel like things are
happening to you but nothing's actually
happening to you you're just vibrating
next hello my name is Bruce heeson I
always wanted a name where Heyman was in
it practicing since
1977 what I did was I took the power of
vibration and inertia I put those two
forces together vibration and inertia
nope neither one of those are forces to
create an oscillating device that would
rapidly contract the muscles in your
body first to go very deep in the core
the smallest multii muscles in the spine
this is perfect bullshit you got a layer
in some degree of technical truth the
multifit is absolutely are in the spine
and they're deep in the spine and so
you're like this guy knows things as a
physical therapist and then the next
shet he's going to tell you about how
all that stuff helps and goes deep in
the core is First Rate nonsense it's is
sharp stuff the benefits of using body
blade includes strength balance
coordination stabilization working the
body rehabbing from a stroke maybe as
you drive body blade back and forth you
have to rapidly contract and coordinate
to be able to stabilize your muscles
that's true you could say all the same
things about a pen and someone writing
if you're writing with a pen like do you
see the fine motor coordination required
do you see that all the minute muscles
of the form and the wrist being required
you're like yeah yeah do you see all the
rest of the postural muscles of the body
have to be activated in order to allow
you to do that yes we like new the pen
workout just write your name 100 times
and you'll be in great shape you got a
body blade for me
Scott ow ow did you see that it hit
me is this that as
advertised ow ow ow ow ow ow ow ow ow
I'm doing four and a half Cycles am I
using this wrong am I just much bigger
than he was what the fuck I got to get
out here then okay it was minimum safe
distance yeah
Deborah you guys here's what the body
blade does it's a thing you just do this
with that's
it if that's hard for you go to the gym
okay first off today I've got the level
one 20 drometer popping go you didn't
give me a used ja jawser Sizer did you
they're new thank God you're like yeah
pick this up on eBay go ahead and put it
in your mouth really soft it feels
amazing to use honestly bro with the way
my shit looks I should be a fucking
model for these motherfuckers man yo
jawser size hit hit your boy up we do
sponsorships you find someone with a
bigger jaw than me I dare you just for
Num sake say you can do 100 cut that in
half to 50 so that's going to be your
rep that's 50 reps in reserve that's
fucking ridiculous throughout the day
start in the morning a little before
lunch some on your way to work I got to
do this shit all fucking day you just
keep my fucking pocket pussy in my
pocket throw it in my mouth every now
there a fucking crusty fucking parmesan
cheese on it a piece of gum you're like
shake that off get in me it feels like
you got to work out you're good but if
you feel like you need more reps go
ahead and add to your workout routine as
always fness with your face Aloha I love
it I love this kind of advice you you
feel a good workout sweet if you want
more fuck it do more this thing doesn't
do anything anyway all right Scott stick
things in my mouth sure they're sterile
they're from China great man I've put a
lot of weird shit in my mouth over the
years but this doesn't even come close
to
[Music]
topic straight down in front right hey
Crystal Ball what will I be in 10 years
like oh successful and wealthy and an
expert can you give me a screenshot of
what I'm doing it's like this
oh oh I failed at life if you guys want
to oh oh it came
apart what is this what is this I pay
money for this what is this is there
like a rag this thing comes with do you
clean it and where are you putting it
back into guys check this out okay he
said do it multiple times a day right
what am I supposed to do put it back in
the fucking plastic so the plastic gets
warm in my fucking pocket and then my
warm plasticky rubbery saliva fucking
later I get it out and I'm like oh yeah
excuse me you're at a business meeting
and they're like like you uh you don't
brush your teeth after every meal do
you're like of course not but jaw
hypertrophy is something I take very
seriously whatever deal you're trying to
close you fucking just did it they're
like oh my God this man knows things
Scott fuck you get this away from me
it's official with more than 1 million
sold neckline Slimmer is changing the
face of America what the fuck is a
neckline Slimmer neckline Slimmer is the
world's first resistance system for the
neck chin and face practice saying yes
against resistance hey Betty want to go
out with me yes lifting firming and
smoothing their necks and jaw lines uh
heads up just in case I forget to say
the science stuff this is all nonsense
spot reduction isn't real if you use
this stupid machine for a few weeks
you're going to have nominally more of
your neck looking less like this and
more even eliminating their double chins
honestly guys the these results are
typical of cosmetic surgery which I
highly encourage you to get if you want
to look a different way and you'll feel
the difference right away in Just 2
minutes a day I personally guarantee it
order okay so if you speak with a
British accent and you're a man of
authority in a suit I believe you that's
why I'm buying one right
now no way am I going to get a uh
feminine neck so this goes
here
hey honey what are you doing in there
nothing
baby
yeah oh that hit the fucking spot okay
that one gets a completely useless out
of 10 welcome to the shake weight upper
body workout I'm Lindsay I don't mean to
body shame anybody but Lindy's lower
arms about the skinniest thing I've ever
seen in my life now let's start with our
six minute upper body workout this woman
is really skinny and like honestly
skinny girls what's up y'all are Queens
but like does she look healthy to you
Scott the video guy no she doesn't I
think this is a follow along workout
though so oh oh okay yeah yeah yeah hey
Mike what are you doing today well I
don't know Scott the video guy shaking
my way to
Fitness oh yeah I got a video and
everything Oh wrong
Channel
is that how you do and starting with the
chest let's
shake keep those muscles contracted
almost feel that burn and one and let's
take an active recovery for chest flies
open up the shoulders and give me a fly
she's kind of jacked but also super
skinny I can't tell what she is and
let's give it a shake shake
shake all right what's the science Dr
Mike like all things that shake
pointlessly there's no direction of
concentrated resistance to any specific
musculature there's no way to
progressively overload this in any
meaningful capacity it just acts as a
kind of training device for masturbation
inside of that has zero application
whatsoever but a lot of these were sold
which tells me that there are many evil
people in the world selling people lies
and very many people in the world that
just don't always know what they're
buying I guess was there like a study or
something back then that
came out with shaking like why is
everything in the 90s a shake based I
think they figured out that if you get
people to shake something or if it
shakes it's the minimum amount of
construction material required to
actually lie to people to make it seem
like you're working out and know I did
actually uh we had done a lot of
vibration literature research directly
at my master's program and we find that
the the vibration plates were good for
short-term acute improvements and
flexibility and a precisely nothing
all right Scot the video guy told me
this will be long enough to be a video
and I think mostly it's just me making
lwd sex jokes which is about the only
thing such fitness equipment is good for
folks don't get ripped off with at home
scams get you some
dumbbells get you a power rack at home
join the gym lift through a full range
of motion make sure it's very difficult
that's the point of exercise you will
get more muscular you'll get stronger if
you control your diet then you will get
leaner too any of the resources you're
looking into we have them here in
Renaissance ization RP strength YouTube
just search anything you want we
probably talked about it but go anywhere
else online that folks that are not
Liars will tell you how to do things but
uh if I ever get a time machine I'm
going back to the 90s to invest in these
stupid Fitness cams because I don't have
any morals at all see you guys next
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
time