I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
[Music]
folks we are back from vacation good
golly Miss Molly it's been a while but
we are back dr. Mike how're you doin
still healthy still alive oh yes I'm
feeling it a little little jetlag today
we got in last night turns out we
actually got it on the last American
flight out of Tokyo so crazy didn't even
realize it we just overheard somebody
say it later and we were like oh that
worked out the airport when you got back
uh so the Tokyo we were we went out of
Haneda at Tokyo and that was a good
ghost town nobody was there we thought
it was pretty strange but LA I had like
a fair number of people still there
it didn't seem it was definitely light
but it wasn't raising inspection on your
way back in or no no so they they did
the crazy inspection for the countries
that were on the flagged list but
Thailand wasn't so they didn't make us
go through like another check at Tokyo
and they made us go through another like
another security checkpoint but other
than that did the global entry thing
like took my fingerprints and just left
so not too bad I am gonna do some social
distancing for the next week or two just
in case but San Francisco from what I
heard has essentially put people in
their homes for three weeks so you can't
go yeah what do they call it like
shelter at home and I think I think la
is about to do the same thing actually
kinda crazy did you hear that the UK is
actually just letting the virus run its
course and just moving on you're kidding
no and I think I think you know
obviously the the issue was not so much
about the virus so much as the strain on
the healthcare system and making sure
that it doesn't have a huge spike but
they're just letting it kind of run its
course and not taking quite as many
precautions as a lot of other places are
so it'll be curious I'll be curious to
see how that turns out since our you
know our culture's are so similar at
Bushehr their approach is so different
yeah I want you this to go really poorly
or really bad yeah exactly you know I
and I think what's interesting too is I
was talking to a lot of my clients today
catching up on some emails I think the
economic impact on this
is gonna be so massive that things are
gonna start going back to normal sooner
than later because people can't just
close up their fucking businesses for
weeks on end you know what I mean and
some some some of the businesses like
that I know in like Michigan for example
mandated that like some businesses
closed yeah same things in Philadelphia
right now
non-essential businesses can't be open
that serve the public so bars and
restaurants and stuff can't they can
deliver but they can't be open to the
public
that's so bogus that's one of those like
gyms all the gyms here closed that's one
of those really weird over in my opinion
particularly but I think that's kind of
an overstep right on the power a little
bit where it's like you're telling
everybody that they can't run their
businesses I'll say that it's I'm not
entirely sure if it's an overstep I'm
very open-minded to that idea what I
will say is it's a very it's a thing
that comes with serious trade-offs yeah
yeah yeah for sure so I feel bad for
people who are like hourly workers and
stuff like man it's a tough situation
but anyways that being said I think that
things will once people start realizing
that level of impact will kind of get
get back to normal hopefully trigger
quick in every every day that this
social distancing happens it flattens
the curve more and more so it's like
yeah like after two weeks it's better
than if you get two weeks of real social
distancing out of this it'll be better
than you know two days or zero totally
so hopefully things get back to normal
if any of you guys are on the struggle
bus as a result
commiserations for you I know it's tough
and hopefully we'll get back to normal
here but Mike and I are back and we're
gonna answer some goddamn questions
let's start now ready ready Tim Morris
says hey guys let's say a person who is
skinny fat takes all the courage he can
find and starts cutting to about twelve
thirty percent body fat which makes him
look even worse because there wasn't
much muscle to begin with thus proving
the skinny fat he then after maintenance
is finally able to start a pound walk
for the first time would you guys
recommend training with a full body male
physique template it would it be wise to
pick muscle groups the person prefers
let's say arms and shoulders or chest
and back both the templates are
available I noticed that's true most of
the people who use the specialization
templates are people that want to bring
up those muscles in relation to the
others and already have a good base so
you don't have a baseline of muscularity
we really would on average recommend
buying the full body template it's also
the most personal template
if you find yourself that you really
want to train legs but you're stuck with
an arms shoulders template yeah has some
leg training in there just for
maintenance but it's really just not
much so I would honestly unless you're
very very dead set on you only want to
develop certain muscles I would probably
buy the regular template for Bobbie
James yeah I agree and this is one of
those situations to where like if you
bought the chest and back one and then
compared to like the gains that you
would have gotten on the all-around you
might get like the same chest and back
gains using both templates and then on
the all-around you get all the other
gains too if you're a relative beginner
so I would just do the all-around
Brandon Armstrong says typically end up
just using the barbell for the majority
my movement since I trained primary over
power lift you try to say fairly
specific to that where you guys thoughts
on using a smith machine for barbell
movements when and when does it makes
sense
James lamented over the barbell I'm not
sure how much variation orders is so the
Smith machine is fine for just variation
it's also cool for folks like
bodybuilders especially more advanced
bodybuilders who want to have the weight
a little bit stabilized a little bit
reduction in an eerie risk and you just
want to crank away but still like the
way barbells move and like the limiting
factor of machines so you can do like
squatting on a smith machine can
sometimes if it's an angled smith
machine especially you could put your
feet out in front of you a little more
than possible turning it more into a
hack squat emotions more quads specific
less overall in England are various
kinds of benching on it is very cool
especially inclined benching and stuff
is just super convenient and you could
just get to work right away
you don't have to unrack rack which is
when a lot of like little the small yeah
you know tiny little micro injuries can
happen sometimes especially to get
really strong and you know if you know
so if it fits the bill you're not
operator oza just for variation so it's
totally fine but I wouldn't expect the
Smith machine to make these grandiose
improvements in your training I
definitely wouldn't expect that and then
this is related James so I'll read this
next one and you can just summarize your
thoughts on smoke machines generally if
that's okay sure he says also your
thoughts on the Easter's with machine
over the regular barbell for beginners
when friends or family asked me to
recommend exercise usually Thomas start
with a major common bar my movements but
would like to know if leaving out the
smoke machine is a bad idea since
what I've noticed people just starting
out prefer it and maybe I'll give them a
chance of sticking with lifting until it
becomes a habit then they haven't
switched to maybe well so lifting is
hearty the way a smith machine or not I
will say beginners it is my opinion the
beginners who learn on Smith machines
let the restriction of the Smith machine
to teach them how to lift wrong they
never develop that stability to begin
with and then there first of all doesn't
transfer to real world strengthen health
as much and second of all it's one of
those things where beginners give
everything they need air fire bells and
have no need to force Smith machines if
someone only has a smith machine in
their apartment gym it's totally fine
the lifts as a beginner but if they have
a smith machine hand a free rack
beginner free rack every single time
James yeah so it pains me to admit it
but I think the Smith machine is
actually really great for hypertrophy
and might have some distinct advantages
that sometimes the barbell does not have
however I think that the barbell is good
generally for people who are wanting to
do sporting things or eventually
transition all that muscle mass go to
strength related outcomes I also think
like Mike already said that teaching
somebody how to do the barbell lifts is
generally a better idea because once you
learn the techniques for all the free
weight movements transitioning to any
machine whether it's a smith machine or
a weird machine that you see at the gym
is generally very easy because they'll
understand what the movement is
essentially trying to mimic or trying to
promote so usually the goal is to teach
beginners how to do the book the gift
sorry let me rephrase teach beginner is
really really good technique on the
harder technique and then kind of
disseminating out into other things is
really really easy so if you teach them
how to high bar squat they'll figure out
how to fucking smith machine on their
own you know what I mean same thing for
any other machine you could pick on the
gym yeah they're great inside mark
Conway says greeting from Newcastle Mike
and James Newcastle upon Tyne
isn't that like where that is or
whatever like the British cities are
hilarious because they are like when
it's literally Shakespearean type shit
so I'm using the male physique template
for training and my partner is
considering buying a female physique
template my question are other than
volume or the female templates any
different and do the female physique
templates emphasize different body parts
are for example the glutes compared to
the males I've so the answer to that is
both yes
the female layout is different the
frequency is different
the amount of exercises is different the
loading pattern is a little bit
different and then they do the female
physique templates emphasize different
body parts yes they do they emphasize
the lower body a little bit more and he
says I asked as I've advised her to
purchase them however they're
essentially the same layout as the male
templates that are not I'm happy to
tweak this to save her some money
you can't rate you can tweak your male
physique template to save money that's
absolutely fine
but some of the tweaks just won't go as
far as you want like especially if she's
interested in getting her best results
sometimes the frequency of stimulation
was just so much higher on the female
physique templates it's so much more
appropriate but you can't tweak
frequency because you have to add entire
rows and columns and days and then
you're just making your own plan at that
point and he says as for me I'm on the
week for week 4 of the okay that's a
different question also
James anything on that that I missed I
mean basically I think if she wants the
best there are significant advantages to
getting the male the female physique
template but if you really want to
scrimp and save on money yeah you can
tweak it you actually wouldn't tweak it
much the the male physique template you
would just have her autoregulation she
would just build up two volumes you
would never survive yeah I agree I think
it's you could you could definitely use
the male physique template but they
would probably be under training in
terms of frequency volume and they'd
probably be overdoing it in intensity in
many cases not all cases but many cases
so it's it's doable but not optimal as
for me I'm in week four of the five-day
template providing I don't feel
systemically fatigued would you guys
recommend purposefully increasing the
volume from week five onwards by reading
everything as a one or is this silly
invest just continue rating zeros if
everything is good I find I barely slash
don't have Dom's from the last workout
when I train a muscle again however the
sets in the session do give me a pump
and provide downs up until the day
before I train the target muscle yet I
mean literally literally literally mark
I cannot envision a more perfect
response to getting great pumps I know
where this is know right before training
so change nothing zeros zero is my
friend James yeah and I actually I
thought you were gonna say use the the
algorithm it 100 when I've said but I
think yes
Harborside use the algorithm that's the
correct answer but I think the
algorithms helium zeros so yeah totally
so here's the other thing and it kind of
just is worth reiterating um we never we
never purposefully rate anything
arbitrarily you never just say like I'm
gonna rate these as one or I'm gonna
rate these as zero you always rate them
based on the best most honest feedback
from yourself that you can give so I
mean like if it sounds like you're in a
good spot so like I think what Mike said
is in reading it as a zero it's probably
a good idea but just to kind of go back
to that point should you ever just just
arbitrarily rate them as one for the
sole purpose of just making it harder no
you would always go by the algorithm
always go by your best interns ik
feedback and go from there so it's it's
not a I think that's a mistake that a
lot of people make with the templates
cuz they just assume that the here's
letter
Heinemann yeah more is better and harder
harder harder harder but that's not
always the case
in many cases it is when people are
chronically under training and they're
trying to figure out their MRV stuff
more is better to a point when they
figure out where that MRV is and then
adjust from there but for those of you
who are have been around the block a few
times more it's not necessarily better
and just give the best best answer that
you can yeah that's super great um
finally what are you thoughts on
creatine monohydrate male pattern
baldness
nothing I've been taking creatine on and
off for a couple years they had no idea
at elevates DHT I banged it I made the
top of my head last week and upon check
and I came to the startling realization
that I am thing no not sure whether or
not this is screeching related though is
never you check as far as grandparents
go it's not looking good for me as both
grandfathers are either bald or have uh
receded
my questions are a D thing creatine
could accelerate no power follows to the
increase tht if so would you recommend
consistently lowering it or stopping
completely if I'm worried about hair
loss after stopping is it likely as I'm
here would grow back apologies the
excess of questions as always thank you
both so much for your soul teachings
stay healthy all the best Marc thank you
so much Marc so I'm gonna pitch this one
big games after I give like two cents
because James is the PAH the baldness
expert because he's not bald and I am
do I think creatine could accelerate
male pattern bothering Christy HD I
think creatine I've never seen a
creatine increases DHT but to the effect
that it has to increase DHT
going to be very tiny effect because
female state creatine with no
compromising effects and DHT is on
health and reduce so it is the antigen
so I don't know if that's really a thing
that's clinically relevant and the genes
rested on you yeah I actually have no
idea and in terms of specifics what I
will say is that even if there is an
effect of creatine on hair loss I'm
gonna say genetics is gonna be the
bigger overriding factor so if it's
meant to be it's meant to be I will say
this I fully admit that I was thinning
and I was getting the male pattern
baldness right back here for a while my
friends our friend Jada pointed out to
me in a very unflattering way yeah and I
started using Rogaine I actually used
like the Costco the minoxidil or
whatever it's called from Costco and for
me that worked it actually filled back
in the I was getting the typical male
pattern baldness spot started using that
twice a day and it worked it works with
like 80% of men if it's male pattern
baldness if it's other like if you have
like a sharp widow's peak or something I
don't think it's gonna correct that but
if you're having male pattern baldness
it does work and a lot of people the
problem is it's kind of an investment
because you have to use it twice a day
and when you stop using it your hair
goes back to balding again so yeah it's
a bit of a fuss but for me it worked and
I usually recommend it because I was
really happy because I I was thinning in
the top spot no no I'm doing better
Harrison katpa says hi Megan James
hi James and Mike actually so recently I
started dating this amazing girl who who
is already into going into the gym but
her going to the gym is so different
than mine that I don't know how to
encourage her or what advice to give her
what she asked for
I know powerlifting a trained
powerlifting everything you do from gym
food sleep with powerlifting she on the
other hand is more of a casual gym
attendance for health and says I would
like to get toned and build strength but
not get bulky and she claims that I gain
muscle really easily so I don't want to
train heavy yeah how much of this is in
this no more all of it yeah get to that
my sec then what do I say to somebody
whose goal isn't to get big and are
strong as possible would like to have
abs fat loss
she showed me Kayla it's science as an
example ah man really here's the code
she's like the bane of Mel's existence
Mel we're getting like a little just
right that's described it as kind of a
tennis players physique lean but not
super lean with a little hopper body
muscle and also low lower body muscle
so here's to this that appreciate for
answers you want to put her on like like
a four day or if she's interested in
your help all four day a week upper
lower split probably like a procession
lower session or session lower session
moderate volumes I would say between
three and six sets per muscle group per
session and progressive you know sets of
roughly five to fifteen reps per set
five to twenty the basics and then so
there's a very good anti catabolic
stimulus there for her probably a bit of
an anabolic stimulus as well grow a
little bit of muscle and then what you
probably want to have her do is download
the RPF just kidding but seriously um
any kind of organization of eating that
leads her to drop between ten and
fifteen pounds over the course of
whatever three-month period she chooses
that fat loss is going to make her look
way more like Haley of science than any
amount of gym training or any fat guys
that she's gonna be getting herself into
so Kayla in size is a number one big
check Marcus that she's skinny getting
skinny is easy you just eat less so if
you get skinny either a right way and
drop mostly or only fat and gain a
little bit of muscle she's gonna notice
that her transformation is very
impressive and because she's gonna lose
this ten to fifteen pounds
she's not gonna complain about looking
too big almost everywhere what is it
Milton Friedman said inflation is always
an everywhere a monetary phenomenon it's
a there's an almost Milton Friedman
quote of female scare fear of
muscularity is almost in everywhere fear
of gaining weight and size okay like
people say like oh my god Marissa in de
so jacked but if they realize she
weighed on one fourteen may be like okay
make me look like like she's tiny
egg on it so you know very rarely will a
female lose weight on the scale her
clothes will fit looser and she'll get
more revealing muscles making a look mo
muscular and she'll complain about it
she'll complain about it if she goes
from 150 to 165 and gets more jacked but
it's really the 150 165 that does it
James yeah I completely agree with that
really so the way that you would kind of
package it is you're fat so you say like
okay you say like we're gonna do some
weight loss but the the time he just you
not me
right just you if she's asking for your
help is what I meant right so you're
saying like we're you're gonna do some
weight loss to try and get the aesthetic
that you look but the type of resistance
training that you're doing it's meant to
preserve your muscle while you're losing
a weight if you do other things like
trying to lift a high volume really high
volumes are trying to do strength or
anything it probably wouldn't work out
for a while you just say like look this
is basically like a maintenance volume
so that while you lose weight
you're not losing muscle if you don't do
this what ends up happening while you
lose weight is you get that hot dog look
where you start losing body fat and
muscle and hot dog that's an easy just
put the I'm telling you put that just
incept a hot dog in there and people go
I know exactly what you're talking about
I don't want to fucking look like that
right easy peasy but she probably
doesn't need to be training up to you
know like figuring out her MRV and stuff
really she's kind of the same idea of
like maintaining your muscle on like a
mini cut worried just take the MB and
move it up to mev values that's kind of
what you're looking at in this situation
say like okay do a little bit more than
maintenance since you're cutting and
other than that just lose some weight
and you look great
next question from hair sudden said I
just competed our power few neat and
handsome died in medical length and time
any questions for my next competition
prep first camp past competition prep I
did a mass phase where I went from 85
kilograms up to 91 over 12 weeks or
awfully 25 kilograms week for the
majority the mass my macro numbers on
the app or 200 protein 90 fats 315 to
675 carbs I had about 85 to 9 percent
adherence during the 12 weeks I was
massing only five of those weeks from
the typical hypertrophy rep range age of
10 reps squats dead lifts and 1215
accessories for high amount of sets the
remaining or strength numbers
perhaps four or five reps in this squab
deadlift eight to twelve reps and
accessories I would say that's depending
on your number of sets that could still
build muscle basically a 12v comprised
of the following one and a half weeks a
rather random training as it just come
back from the run annals and I had a
crap ton of schoolwork to do those weeks
five weeks hypertrophy mezzo-forte one
accumulation 2d load one week transition
four weeks during cleanser after the
mass I did six weeks of maintenance but
my body weight steadily decreased but
was one in the range
I wanted 90 kilograms accord erp a
perfect my macros were roughly 200
protein 90 fat and 250 carbs
I started maintenance with my strength
mezzo d load and then proceeded with a
five-week peak and taper interesting
doing a taper out of strength as I was
interesting so I'm wondering it like he
did like three weeks functional over
reaching in two weeks taper or he may be
yeah not sure by the end of the fifth
week maintenance I was eighty seven
point eight kilograms for six week I
purposely increased carbs and water a
lot from a meat which was March first I
felt a little I guess that's a strength
and peaking phase then I felt a little
more comfortable competing with a little
bloat and weighed in at eighty eight
point seven note I did fly to my meat
okay now as a couple of days after I
mean I weighed in eighty seven point two
what would you say is the biggest cause
of these fluctuations and body weights a
lot of it is going to be how pumped to
your muscles are from constant damage
from training so when you train at high
volumes your muscles hold a bunch of
water internally which makes them look
cool but that's a lot of times because
they're being sort of chronically
disrupted once you switch to lower
volume program that tends to not happen
as much anymore and you can lose five
pounds or you know two or three kilos
just on intramuscular water
oh yeah and even just flying as is known
to cause some some bloating so even like
you just get on the plane you're gonna
be bloated for a few days get off the
plane comes off and then next question
is why did I lose so much mass once I
switch to maintenance that's actually an
easy one because a lot of the cloak wood
gains you got from massing is just from
eating 600 grams of carbs a day you have
that amount of water storage
salt and the carbs that comes with that
is often huge and when you come back
down it turns out your actual tisha
gains weren't as much as you thought so
that that's a big thing
yeah I'm just Deeb loading basically the
yep he said you didn't lose any strength
PR to squat PR bench and PR deadlift
nice oh that's really good bench maybe
went down summers are expecting a hit
180 kilogram based off of five around
the 155 well you know your bench has to
go down it has to actually go down to go
down not your play actions
do you say PR Don his bench and then he
said we are on his bench by 7.5 kilos
but you see it was expecting he hit 180
off of a five-hour and 155 listed there
they formulas are very rough so he did
not go down oh I see yeah let's go say
kilos yeah yeah if you PR then you
didn't go down you went up yeah I'm
talking about you're crazy you crazy man
okay and then he says I have 19 weeks up
until my next meet I'd like to dedicate
myself so all of us sounds pretty good
what I would say is next time when you
gaining weight I would stay in
hypertrophy rep ranges and set rangers
especially the whole time yeah part of
the time yeah he says I have 19 weeks
left until my meet I'd like to dedicate
9 to 10 weeks toward a participation I
do 9 or 10 it doesn't matter it doesn't
matter they just very small distinction
yeah what would you recommend my goal
weight gain should be for the next 9 to
10 weeks if I plan on doing her pert if
you're training you know gaining more
than a half a kilo weeks not a good idea
and at your level I would say gaining a
third of a kilo to half baby biasing
towards a third or 0.4 kilos per week is
probably good for every single one of
those weeks so slow us steady especially
for powerlifting yeah it also you know
could depend on what weight class you
want to weigh in a two so it's totally
yeah so it's kind of the reason why
bring that up is kind of up to you to
find the right body weight class power
strength ratio or strength of body
weight ratio I'm planning of doing two
blocks of sets of eight in the squad
ranch deadlifts would you recommend a
different rep scheme no sets of eight
sound great as long as your assistants
work slightly higher volume that's a
great high perch arranged
you can you don't have to do like you
know we like to use ranges we don't
necessarily like to program straight
straight reps so you could say like six
to ten give you an average of eight
something like that my current plan is
to do four mezzos
total for hypertrophy hypertrophy
strength PT taper would you suggest
anything different so I would say that
being that you're still gaining a lot of
muscle I feel it's great and that's not
the gold standard as you get better and
better you're gonna have to switch to
like more like one hypertrophy to
strength and one peak taper yeah cuz
you're gonna get more used to milking
out strength you already have versus
putting on size but that's a very fine
plan James dude yeah yeah totally and I
think during the meet he says I began
feeling tired and hungry around when I
started benching I know I didn't have
enough to eat of the meat from meat what
I'm going without food and water until
after weigh-ins 8:15 a.m. and I'm
finishing up third attempts deadlifts at
4:30 p.m. so you didn't eat that whole
time yeah oh there's no way he didn't
eat the whole time I hope for somebody
around 200 pounds what would you want to
see in terms of macros throughout those
hours as well as caffeine intake in
addition you just described can you
describe the types of foods I eat Whole
Foods versus candy versus junk foods
absolutely not we can do you one better
in the Renaissance diet 2.0 there's an
entire section about nutrition mm-hmm
weighing in when do we in what to eat
exactly after Williams what to eat after
what he pouty between your lifts so on
and so on so if we try to describe it
this educate imagine is very highly
complex so there's a lot to say he
wouldn't want to fuck and fuck you over
with a partial advice check that out man
that's absolutely yeah totally agree and
if I'm reading that correctly it sounds
like he didn't eat or drink from after
weigh-ins until after deadlift attempt
so you definitely don't want to fix that
if that's the case yeah I'm still using
the app and it started my next mass but
it has me starting in 195 protein 200
fat 230 carbs 3500 calories based upon
what was necessary for me to gain
between 4 to 5 point 5 kilogram for a
week should I purposely overshoot my
macros to start out with or wait for the
app to catch job absolutely wait because
remember your maintenance let's go back
and look at me
it's calories your maintenance calories
were roughly 26:10 there's no way in
God's green earth you're not gonna gain
good tissue at 3,500 oh yeah
so you're golden just follow the app for
sure and he says I'd prefer not to waste
two three weeks and it typically takes
three calories unnecessary rate and then
have to play catch-up later you are not
I promised muscles growing under under
the table there it's not a waste I mean
it what's a waste is like gaining five
pounds of unnecessary fat and then
having to spend the worse way more time
cutting it off later right so also once
you gain the fat you're partitioning
issue it gets worse so like the worst
thing you can do I'm asking is taking a
shitload of fat up front and be like
that's all right it'll even out like fat
after that's whole different phase so
it'll even out yeah so IRA belly will
even out yeah Jason that Co she says
high jump guy here James I'm looking at
you know you know I'll just read these
into fall to you on all the answers and
I'll let you know if I want to pipe in
and saying okay sounds good number one
can you give ruff after estimates for
hamstring quad and calf maintenance
volumes if solely doing plyometrics
depth drop depth jump jumping I mean
want to experiment towards the end of my
plan by dropping weeks if I'm not
dunking what I don't want to risk my
significant muscle loss because I
currently weigh as much as a middle
schooler at the age of 32 yeah so I
think you know addition so in terms of
additional quad hamstring calf work it
might be like as little as just doing
like two sets twice a week so a total of
like four sets maybe even less so I
would say anywhere between like 1 or 4
sets of direct work in addition to those
is probably pretty close unless you have
giant fucking quads like dr. Mike size
quads might be a little bit higher but
if you're doing like a lot of sprinting
jumping stuff like that I would say 2
times 2 2 times 2 sessions a week per
muscle group probably is good that's
like a very safe like it might might be
a little bit of an overshoot that
probably very safe okay number two on
the RP diet app rating plyometric
workouts volume will be
but since intensity is high rated light
for recovery I would rate either lighter
off doesn't matter much light is fine
yeah I think lights fine number three
can you answer this question for a broad
scientific literature and your own
direct experience is there the case if
you are lifting heavy for multiple
months your body may need some type of
weight D load for a month or two to
realize the potential of athleticism the
Cydia floats are out of the jump
community someone who lifts for a long
period of time takes a significant
amount of time off and they're able to
jump higher at the end games so I mean
like in a very broad sense yes it's you
that's kind of what periodization does
for you where you have like periods that
are muscle building and you have periods
that are strength building heavy loading
then you have periods which are out
power based which are more a little bit
less loading and then you have periods
that are like like just pure power and
speed based which are mostly unloaded so
that's that notion is is definitely well
supported I think that taking time off
from weights exclusively is maybe a
short-term gain long-term cost kind of
scenario and we talked about that the
last couple times jump guy has asked
some of these questions but yeah I mean
definitely I don't necessarily think
taking the heavy weights off necessarily
improves your athleticism but it does
allow you to alleviate a whole bunch of
systemic fatigue and allow your muscles
to move to a more type to more explosive
state just from not loading them as much
which is part of a normal deal o taper
or even just mesocycle manipulations
tune volume over time so it's definitely
a good idea but all I'm saying is don't
don't get the idea that um like not
lifting somehow makes you more athletic
that's what we would probably just want
to avoid because lifting makes you very
athletic and it's definitely a good
long-term strategy to improving
athleticism very cool number four in
power block are there issues with doing
strength training after power in the
same day does it have an impact on power
Deval strength training after power is
generally the better way of doing it so
usually like your power type activities
aren't going to be so fatiguing that it
puts you over your
MRV for expressing strength whereas the
reverse is not true so if you do your
strength training stuff you will exceed
your session level
MRV for expressing things like power and
strength so that's why we have them
listed in my lecture series on rp+
that's why we did the exercise order
sequence thing so yeah strength if you
have if you have to train both on the
same day power would be speed first
power second strength later because
strength will be less impacted by the
things that you get in the power
proportion of the training session just
just to make sure guys that you have
these sort of theoretical nuances very
well laid out on your mind some of you
may be thinking what about the research
on post effective activation
potentiation or the very heavy loads
that increases power output well thing
is that's not strength training that's
strength showing off so yeah going up to
one single or double super heavy in the
squad just once after a set of warm-ups
just one set will make you produce more
power in the subsequent death jumps or
whatever you're doing for power the
thing is that's not a three by five
strength workout that will deteriorate
your power and it's gonna make your old
power workout after not good so just
just keep that right yeah and in the
example he gives death drop build on
death goddammit
depth drops then we had jumps and some
light lunges and our DLC yeah that's
completely fine general update number
one got abducts I went from 22 percent
body fat to thirteen point seven the
region from 30 to 18 yeah I was fat I
know Dex is a directional I lost 15
pounds of fat and two pounds of muscle
in the legs I tell you what that X is
not accurate enough to tell you that but
you basically lost nothing as far you'll
Aust plenty of fat and no muscle I can
definitely say that he said with that
said my squad numbers have been going up
so I'm good yeah yeah it's absolutely
not clear he lost lost my blogs yeah if
your squad numbers are going up it's
very unlikely that you lost any amount
of muscle in fact you might even gain
muscles though yeah generally update
number two we discussed a few weeks ago
juggernaut method two versus grinding
outside lifting thanks for advice
juggernaut method is fun as hell since
I'm hitting
rep pr's after grinding through
hypertrophy I needed this ending there
five leaves five waves yesterday
Saturday I hit my one arm from January
of last year ten times that's plays whoa
cool
right on dude it sounds like it's going
well alright the man of the plant Zach
drawl Zach my frontal control sorry for
the editor work long last time I was a
voice to text typing on my way to work
your recommendation on cart master milk
has been life-changing here was my
favorite food and I have been able to
eat it every single day through this
clock because of carb master or some
other amazing high protein / cup from
the foods you guys have I mean the only
thing comes to mind right now for me is
the you know what's it called
enlightened ice cream is just
unbelievable Charlie Jung my training
partner eats one can of enlightened
every day as he's losing pounds of body
fat because it's that well that's nice
you got anything out here in California
we have flame broiler which is like the
most RP friendly fast food I've ever
seen it's just like pick your choice
that size of chicken beef or like you
can get like white meat chicken or tofu
comes with like white or brown rice
comes with vegetables boom it's amazing
and it tastes good so that's my favorite
and then he says also the ISSN has
position statements hmb and beta-alanine
fry particulate in both is very research
and effective and also let's search from
the malate is likely somewhat effective
I would agree with their position on
social manali to disagree on HIV and
beta-alanine I've seen some data on the
supplements that they can reduce Dom's
at times if it doesn't actually it might
not mean anything so I'm going to keep
that in mind even if you don't agree
with the efficacy of these supplements
in theory that reduction and dials be
limiting to hypertrophy and some weight
maybe or as Dom's a symptom of goodnight
Bert Rafi and this would be merely
limiting the downside but not of the
gains so we don't know we don't know we
are we do know a couple things so first
of all if you are reducing hypertrophy
I'm sorry if you're reducing Dom's by
shortening the time portion which it
occurs by supplying a ton of rest in
nutrients and for sure increases
hypertrophic right so if you used to be
sore for three days but I undersold for
two it's doing the same amount of work
because you're eating more and sleeping
better so on so forth
great we also know that the best way to
reduce Dom's as long as a trainee heart
still is to use anti-inflammatory drugs
all of which also curb your growth so we
know
that the doms conundrum is not a simple
one it's not like if you just reduce
nouns you get better
remember about I'm going to discover
that if you did post workout cardio you
got less sore I mean that's such a
straight-up recipe for gaining less
muscle because the reason you got
post-workout now is first of all you
flushed out of metabolites and second of
all you probably increased AMPK activity
which just turned back the clock on some
of the muscular regeneration that you
were sort of enhancing or putting into a
play and he's not Dom's would never
arrive as your gains what else in that
arrives is nothing you're trying to get
down so they go extreme Dom's improbably
battery games but modern times might be
indicative of good things I wouldn't see
that these supplements reduced arms is a
good thing necessarily they have to be
more vetted directly uh either way
regardless my opinion parallels Mike
virtually the same way uh but here's the
deal I can promise you that taking beta
alanine or HMB is not going to make a
tangible improvement in your hypertrophy
training regimen so like yeah that's the
that's kind of the whether or not those
mechanisms are there what are they doing
not I can't give you a straight answer
because I'm not sure but I can tell you
that that's not gonna make diddly dick
of difference in your program so it's
probably not worth the fuss is really
kind of the short answer it's not to say
that it's not a good thought experiment
and worth exploring further but having
used all of those things myself and
having plenty of friends who have used
them they just don't do dick that's just
the thing so don't worry about it you
know what I mean it's like and
citrulline malate is like the funniest
one because it's in every goddamn
supplement since the dawn of time yeah
man my favorite was still the extend
bandwagon that was like the golden years
of for me growing up in like like I said
young like fitness enthusiast person it
was like a BCA's yeah it was like BCAAs
glutamine citrulline malate and it was
in this life disgusting mixture and lame
Horton would just like dump it all over
himself all the time I was like this is
the greatest time to be alive ever
laney hasn't gone crazy yet and
supplements weren't
we're still a mystery yep yes all right
secondly I know there has been some
conflicting data on this still I know
moderate exercise doesn't like to mean
support for the Cillian chronically well
intense
I work alone exercise programs linked to
higher risk of infections I would do if
I were doing something to try to be
cautious about Coors Light virus of
course like virus with doing an MeV to
have an RV program and the dealer to be
safer than traveling all the way up to
Emory yes yes what by very small margin
absolutely yes so that's true but then
again like so what are you going to the
gym for like are you going to train or
are you going to not get sick
yeah also you might as well just do
maintenance if you're exactly if you're
that worried about it just do
maintenance training and then you have
no but you know very little exposure or
system stomach fatigue related
sorry my brains a little poopy today
yeah I agree it look at that point just
do maintenance training if you're
worried about if you're that worried
about getting sick if you're going to
the gym to Train go fucking train and
don't be like well I'm gonna take it
easy because you know coronavirus like
now fuck that go train if you're gonna
train and if you want to take it easy
take it easy there's just not much
wiggle room in between or it's mostly
just a waste of your time it's not like
a pride or ego thing that's just like
what reevaluate why you're going to do
what you do you're doing man I'm having
a hard time talking today's fucking jet
wax killing me
fuckin and socks little little brain
foggy but I think you guys get what I'm
trying to say even if it wasn't very
eloquent yeah alright and he says PS I
am selling a new special lean keto
friendly snake diaphragm the cardboard I
are friendly Florentine let me know if
your is true is definitely not cat at
all oh my god it's not a drawl I need to
know more sir take my money more fiction
higher to notice intensifies yes that's
right fictional fuckness says what is
this this exercise would you recommend
for power lifters weak point is thoracic
extension so a high bar or camera bar or
safety swap are good mornings are
excellent for this because thoracic
extension is like real big limiting
factor there as well as the new flexion
rows that myself and my training partner
have been doing check them out on our
Instagram those are two exercises I can
recommend right away as well also if you
do chest supporter grows with an
intentional extreme flexion of extreme
extension
actually James and I did when we were
training in Thailand so it's also on my
Instagram give those some looks James
yeah those are really good suggestions I
would also say that you know if you if
you're training for powerlifting it's
fair to assume that you're doing quite a
bit of deadlifting variations and I
would say that's probably gonna be
largely covered over time by that unless
you have a very distinct this so the
reason I'm saying this is I suspect this
is one of those like you know when
people are like they were just trying to
find little minutiae things that they
suspect is wrong with them when there's
really probably nothing wrong with them
it's just like you just need to go train
and just keep training hard and you're
probably fine this might be one of those
scenarios I don't know but I suspect
like usually when people have these like
really fine-tuned like I really need to
work on you know this like very explicit
thing and it's like ah if you're
deadlifting most people don't have too
much trouble with the thoracic extension
you know what I mean so I would say like
just consider that and if you are and if
you've identified that you're having a
weak point there then all those
exercises that mike recommended are
really good so first all right tyler
cywinski says hey Doc Mic Check James
thanks for answering some of these
questions very much appreciated would
love your take here if you have a moment
I have bilateral equal and hernia repair
scheduled this week the recovery
requires a meeting lower body movement
patterns with bracing squat Dead's RDL
etc these will be out of my program for
about six weeks
as per my surgeon while this was an
ideal it seems like a great opportunity
to focus on some pushing some pulling
shoulders and arms or whatever is
allowed once I'm allowed as I work back
towards full health so here's the thing
you have a surgery like that for about
two or three weeks you won't be allowed
to lift at all right so basically for
three weeks you can lift other than
upper body focus and he says would you
mind taking talking through a few
considerations on a best approach
training once allowed under these
conditions yes you're going to do mostly
machines very stable you're gonna do
start out with lots of higher reps lots
of sets not super close to failure
because you don't want to struggle and
then as the week's go by you feel better
better you're gonna keep the high reps
but approach failure more and more and
keep the volumes relatively high and
well when you come back start with lower
volumes right because you're better
for three weeks and then slowly raise
your sets slowly raise your wait a
little bit to stay in the you know 25 to
30 rep range for most exercises and then
come come back and and go closer to
failure close to failure coaster failure
add stats as needed and then after about
she was you know eight weeks of training
like that and starting to do some rehab
work ish type of stuff maybe a little
bit of training some more that for the
lower body you're gonna be a position to
start more or less normal ish
programming and then go from there
yeah I think that was a really good
suggestion and you know you might start
your low when you actually get back to
you know lower body stuff even if it's
not like training you know really really
hard training you might just start off
doing some like basic stuff like some
knee extension some me curl some forty
five free back raise right like just
building up some tolerance to training
before you get on the leg press before
you think about getting on that smith
machine before you thinking about taking
a squat or a deadlift just some real
basic stuff in the legs just to kind of
really again build up that tolerance of
training I had a fucked up thing
happened to me this morning I had been
doing cambered bar squats for my last
block before we went on vacation so it's
like I've been squatting with the
fucking barbell today I just did a swap
I'm doing a mini cut right now I swapped
exercises I just went to high bar squat
I immediately overreached my adductors
like on the first set and I just kind of
ignored it I was like I'm just like
jet-lagged crampon whatever nope but for
sure I fought I did three sets of like
eight ish adductors completely just
blown out to pieces I have no idea why
but just tolerance was gone you've ever
had that looks like it's like I was so
mad cuz I was like I've been squatting
it's like I've been doing fucking cam
bars class it's not that different you
know what I mean but it was like it was
as if I hadn't squatted in like months I
was like I just instantly overreached my
adductors fucking day one
thanks a doctor's yeah a doctors are
really take a ton of damage man I've
done a one-day addict road rage before
for sure yeah even even guys like us
make knucklehead moves like that I just
ignored it on the first set like now
you're fine two three sets later can't
walk I'm great
alrighty got a bomb the sign if says hi
doc spell questions for you number one
what is the best calorie expenditure
fatigue ratio cardio modality in your
opinion I assume the answer be walking
walking is definitely up there the
elliptical is up there as well
what if you put time into the equation
feel free to get exotic incline walking
move in weighted vest well that's gonna
save you some time but it's gonna
increase the fatigue I will say the
elliptical because you first of all it's
not impact
second of all its upper and lower body
and third of all it has a pretty nasty
calorie through a book which means like
per unit of time you can burn a lot of
calories spread over most of your body
so it's a calorie to fatigue expenditure
ratio I would say is the best
then it says should only ever do it no
but it's definitely a great modality and
it's mostly concentric only to for the
most part that's like you push this way
you pull this way and you don't really
have the loaded recoil which is really
nice
anytime that's an SFR question including
calories again keep in mind this is
going to be very variable from person to
person so what is best for Mike and for
myself might be different what's best
from for you might be different you know
it's just one of these things that's
just there's a lot of individual
variation there in terms of yeah I think
like uphill walking weighted vest
walking any of those are generally
really good the downside is they don't
burn a ton of calories so the amount of
time that you have to invest into them
is generally large anytime you want to
shorten the time scale the fatigue scale
goes up it's a big trade-off so some of
the ones that I think are the best are
the elliptical like Mike already said
I'm a big fan of the assault bike very
similar you get the upper and the lower
the only thing is with the assault bike
your quads do tend to take a bit more of
a beating because the power outputs just
a little bit higher yep he has a very
related question right after so he says
sometimes the only option I have a
stationary bike which I think for some
people could have a really bad calorie
expenditure to fatigue ratio I usually
prefer to put it on lowers and you pedal
a bit faster that way so it does not
find their quads how would you bring
about this approach I mean yeah we
definitely wouldn't put on a high
resistance to get fucking Punk like
pedestrian if you're getting a pump your
that's not cardio well yeah I mean like
it's with the cycling it's like you're
it's hard to not get a pump you know
which means it's shitty cardio it's
gonna cost your fucking legs right so
the last pump you could get the better
on cycling
oftentimes that means cycling mr.
fucking here's so here's a funny thing
right the bicycle is designed as a way
to increase propulsive output massively
while conserving calories it's highly
efficient you put on a bicycle you burn
five calories you go like half a mile or
some shit on your foot under feet you're
way less efficient but a loss of
efficiency is sometimes a very good
thing because it lets you burn more
calories so you know from that
perspective of cycling it's just man
it's very local to your quads
not a great way to burn calories it's
not weight supported so it's got some
downsides I feel like your approach is
good within the means that you're using
it and he's saying I'm just imagining it
being better than medium distance medium
speed cycling if my objective is to burn
similar calories with less fatigue yeah
totally the slower you go the less
fatigue you accumulate per unit of
calories but it does mean that it takes
you a while to run the calories shows
time trade-off there as well I would say
if you have a stationary bike and James
may disagree with me on this we'll see
what he says but honestly dude if you
have a stationary bike and nothing else
I'm just fucking watch my cardio with a
backpack on or you you could you could
do both right you could you could have a
little bit of both for your cardio
source so you could alternate like you
could do walking on some days or cycling
on others I think cycling is fine if you
actually like if you look at some of the
like the vo2 stuff on cycling it's
pretty up there it's not as good it's
like ambulating methods like running for
example but in quads are gonna be the
limiting factor and it could impact your
quad training whereas something like
walking or elliptical you can just
activate a whole lot more muscle mass at
the same time which is gonna bring more
energy per unit of time so I like
cycling as a method but it's probably
better for cardio purposes rather than
like you know like neat or lists type
stuff for head manager if you want to
get really strong cardio the bikes great
if you want to just burn some calories
maybe not the best trade-off yeah
structure and flexibility the RP diet
app builds a structure of eating that
creates the results you're looking for
but has the flexibility to let you scan
your favorite foods and follow your
preferred diet philosophy the digital
diet coach in your pocket is more
powerful than ever so let's build a
better you with the RP diet app
this is kind of more it's I mean this is
one of those things like the number 30
percent is is there to signify like
plenty of breathing room from my Z it's
not for you to go I need to calculate my
MRV and then yes it's a 30% less it's
just like this is just meant to say like
give yourself a hardy margin of error
away and to be completely honest the
lectures you saw are intended for
trainers who are advanced training
beginners so they'll be able to tell
what clients are coming close to them or
me as a beginner it's really tough to
talk about yourself but generally when
you feel like well fuck this is a lot of
work don't go up from there not for the
first year or two yes yes last one Mike
mentions progression he was six to four
re out of three are for beginners I only
know when I have three RI are when the
bar speed slows down sweet how do I
figure out being sick sorry are when the
weights I use increased session a
session event need from estimating my
future lab results listen they so you're
never gonna go down and rep screw your
getting strong so fast so sick sorry are
is when the weight first starts to feel
like it's weight right so when your legs
have to start not grinding but slowing
down your reps a little bit okay that's
just like roughly six are our three re
are is when your rep slowed down a lot
and you think is getting real tough
right things get notable at six things
get tough at three
so basically six already are you can
judge is if the if the next rep is gonna
require basically no effort this you're
not 6ri are if the next rep is gonna be
like okay now we're working that's like
five six alright okay so as a beginner
you want to just be really easy on those
and don't do a whole lot of them and so
you basically want to start it sort of
you know business set of like okay this
video like felt like work and then three
are are is gonna be uh plow this is real
talk I only have a few reps left right
so six re are is like when he gets tough
three RR is when you feel like okay I
only have a few reps left that's we
harder than tough hopefully there make
sense hmm how does an accumulation phase
for a beginner look like it looks like
well wherever you read this other ship
because where you're gonna read much
more in-depth discussion but basically
you are stay in the five to ten rep
range mostly use you know pretty rapidly
add weight to the bar as long as your
technique is stable then you add a few
that's now and now and again if you're
just not getting so anymore or you feel
like you're trading super easy and you
just keep doing that and then sometimes
if you can't have weekend reps and then
at some point you get pretty tired and
you think okay like I'm RVs coming up at
some point I feel like I'm doing a lot
of work then you recycle back down and D
load for a week and then start at an
accumulation for use again yeah so not
terribly different from other other
Hakeem Christian phases just yeah stay
in far back mm-hmm dan jolly my last rp+
question says hi guys in general worried
thoughts on removing a treasured
movement for only the last few weeks of
a cotton or to bring it back potentially
we sensitized for subsequent mass block
predictable context I've discovered a
few movements in my current cut that
he's in Somis as a proxy I've seen very
potent and I'm actually slightly
concerned they've just been wasted on my
calorie depleted body so remember
sometimes you can build the beginnings
of muscle in a calorie depleted State as
long as you go into muscle gain within
several weeks that can actually end up
gaining muscle so there is no news there
with the last mile cycle am i coming up
I'm wondering if I should as mentioned
temporarily push them aside to
potentially improve the readiness for
subsequent mass and that's totally fine
what you can do is just train them with
a very low volume so that you're
becoming neroli better at them but
you're not pissing away tons of volume
resistance James so I generally would go
against like making really really big
changes that are not necessary kind of
when you're already in your mezzo cycle
or if you've been using an exercise like
throughout an entire block already man
yeah I have a hard case saying like oh
should I just make a really big swap on
a different exercise like yeah you can
but it really does kind of throw a
wrench into everything else that you're
doing especially when you look at like
systemic spillover or fatigue on other
exercises and stuff like that so I think
the idea is like okay it's not something
that I would generally do I think maybe
what might be a better idea is just
taking like a short maintenance like a
three week maintenance phase and just
cooling down that movement and do
something else and then you can bring it
back for your subsequent mass that might
be a good option but I don't have a hard
time endorsing that one with a really
enthusiastic endorsement but I think
it's okay
it's a lot of very like for me that's
like a big change to make like well into
like a block or a mesocycle I never sure
next question
only says it seems an obvious yes to me
what are these different approach of
similar situations perhaps a rep range
switch you could also do Reverend George
does yeah yeah I might even buy the
better way hmm
and a quick second question in view of
the recent stuff on physiological muscle
building processes being more complex do
you feel like cycles of two mass mezzos
and one mini cup he's too short amassing
period and one should really be doing
three and one if possible I'm not
convinced of that I don't know because a
lot of these things you put into motion
during massing and then they you
realized during potentially even a
mini-cons and then you start be massing
him and they work and heat it
consistently training hard it might not
have to be all high volume all the time
for long stretches of time but I'm not
sure I do know that you don't ever want
to Train needlessly cut off mass phases
when you're still getting great
responses and I also know that you don't
want to go longer on massing even though
it's dogs your training people say look
all but is six-month mass like really
has month five network well that'll be
like beat the shit
stop doing that so how much weight did
you gain like four pounds like get the
fuck out any visions oh and another one
I've been enjoying Citroen malli lately
but I know the god James behemoth again
one of madness please forgive me if I
misinterpret that Mike no absolutely
correct it's very matte it's just not
enough literature on its make me so if I
hadn't I was actually gonna be like wow
it's looking good then a couple studies
came out but it was like nope doesn't do
shit it seems to me like if the
supplement does indeed serve to enhance
a pump than the self swallowing effect
should make it attractive supple an
option I would I would agree with you
and must unfortunately we know from our
experience on a no boosters that it
doesn't work like that unfortunately you
know boosters do really enhance a pump
and don't seem to show dick as far as
enhancing hypertrophy so I don't know if
it's that straightforward still bana B's
oh well who knows a lot you want to go
to youtube
real quick YouTube and then we gotta run
this is where we get to creep on dr.
Mike says YouTube yeah playlist thing
going on here yeah everything you have
always wanted to know or some dumb shit
here like see what's dumb that's dumb I
don't maintain muscle about the gym I
just sucked all the money on that
athlean-x bulking and cutting he's got
the truth folks mm-hmm that name just
against oh did you see that Kevin Lee
fight recently sorry I saw some fighting
stuff yeah he like tapped and pretended
he didn't I didn't know but yeah she
told me about him he said it was like
really embarrassing dude he tapped clear
as day and then like the ref stopped the
fight and he tried to keep fighting it
was like oh were you stopping the fight
for it was like they showed that I
showed the replay of him like it's like
Eric can't do next time don't bother
tapping Jorge Masvidal had like the
funniest response to that I think one
was Twitter or Instagram something but
he was like you should be cut you hoe
ass bitch that's awesome Jorge's there's
a real intellectual with Rockstar Gautam
a he's a is he who was he fighting who's
Kevin Lee fighting oh fuck I forgot who
was he fighting Oh Charles Oliveira oh
yeah all right let's pick up a few
simple questions this time and we'll be
back to full strength later when we have
your questions because this is two weeks
of questions yeah Elijah Clifford says
being able to get your musculature back
faster a thing via muscle memory is a
thing yeah just strength cardio also
have that ability how do things work in
that regard yes yes so cardio has that
ability to a smaller extent but your
mitochondria don't just disappear and
they can regenerate faster if you've had
them before so that definitely works
although and cardio doesn't work nearly
as well
however when cardio one big thing is
once you learn how to run or swim or
bike your efficiency is something that
comes back real fast so you return back
to really good training really fast you
also know how to train really well and
you know all your landmarks and what's
too much and what's not enough so those
people come back real quick
strength absolutely because her strength
is largely measured is based the muscle
mass and what strength isn't based on
muscle mass the vast majority of the
rest of it is based on technical ability
and you don't forget how to squat any
fundamental way you're rusty that comes
back real quick strength might come back
faster than size mm-hmm because neural
gains come back or real fast it's like
learning you learn how to speak French
up until you were 10 years old and you
moved to America you go back to France
when you're 15 for one month you speak
perfect French at the end of that box
like a clock man it doesn't take that
you know strengthened or rather a muscle
size takes a little more than that if
you haven't trained in five years to
gain back but it's it's neural thing
your processes are very very adaptable
very responsive and even using another
motor example it's like if you learned
how to ride a bike at some point like
you cannot ride a bike for 15 years and
get back on the bike and be able to ride
it even you might not be able to do a
mountain bike ride but you can get on
the bike and ride pretty quick yeah
but early Bergen says how to determine
what load to use when starting a medical
so you should know how strong you are
you should know what reps roughly you
need for what rep range and then you
predetermined your rep ranges already
when you want to shoot for a load that
gets you into whatever rep range you
think is good with 3 to 4 RM that's it
and the good news is is you have a whole
session to do that the first microcycle
of every day like it would Charlie and I
do a new mezzo we roughly think we know
what load we need but sometimes we go to
like 400 or something or like you do a
warm-up set you like see I'm gonna be
like 12 these it's not gonna be 8 like
it's supposed to be well it's for 25 you
know do 425 and then it's 9 Rick okay
next week we're gonna go up by 10 pounds
instead of a perfect of 5 so it's always
on a regulation that this nothing short
of Luther knowing yourself there's more
intricate answer we could give and we
give him the upcoming hypertrophy book
about like how to progress if you're a
beginner like you go up pop up and then
where do you restart the weight
progression if it's a same rep range do
you start right where you were if you're
a beginner yeah you basically just keep
going up three intermediate you go
basically halfway back down where you
were through the mountain cycle if you
did like 280 290 300 what are you do on
your next one well if you're beginner
you do 310 or 300 feet at roughly you
like 290 and then you go 290 310 and if
you're advanced you like 302 or 280
point 2 5 and then you go to may 92
two five or three Oh 2.25 so basically
like that's just to the matter James
anything to add in there yeah and this
is just really what it boils down to is
just keeping good like training logs and
good records of things that you've been
doing like so if you you know keep a
workout Journal and you're like I don't
know how to how much I should be
squatting for you know roughly eight
reps today like we'll go back to the
last time that you squatted a trap see
where you were and you know it's
probably gonna be right around that
weight maybe hopefully a little bit more
yep alright James one last question for
you which I don't know shit about but
this is actually very interesting
no no Nikhil said I get pushed over
easily I easily get pushed over when
moving the barbell or sorry when moving
the ball I guess this is basketball even
though we all way the same I was told by
a team member that I should go to the
gym and do the overhead press and hex
deadlifts do you agree he fixed the same
issue with that prescription um so I
mean like on a very simple level yes but
I think the underlying issue is it's
like if you find that like if you're
doing them like team sports or contact
sports and when you are having contacts
you feel like you're getting overpowered
or over so you know just not as strong
as some of your other people that's kind
of the underlying problem is that you're
probably just not as strong as they are
perhaps they're heavier and bigger or
perhaps they were they caught you flat
and they were moving fast right you were
stationary and they were moving or you
were changing direction they caught you
off balance those are all feasible
options
sounds like just from the description
more often than not you might be a
strength thing and so things like
overhead pressing and hex bar deadlifts
are certainly ways that you can go about
getting stronger but there are plenty of
other ones too if it is basketball it's
just just assume it's basketball cuz it
seems like it was everything's
basketball I would say squat get good at
squatting stuff like that get good at
like bench pressing maybe some incline
bench pressing something like that and
even overhead pressing I think those are
all good but yeah certainly any of those
movements are fine but don't think don't
think that there's a magic prescription
going on there with the overhead
pressing and X bar that's it exactly the
those two exercises right it's the issue
as gets stronger
yeah and that won't happen as much those
are just avenues for you to help you get
stronger yep movin that's all we got
all right folks thanks
being patient with us hope you enjoyed
hit a nice long one we should be back on
schedule and have all of our thoughts
and well wishes going out to you guys if
you're stuck and in your home or you're
having trouble getting food or gym
access we feel you hopefully these
things will calm down we can all get
back to the game train yeah that's it
for me
anything for you dr. Mike that's it man
all right guys talk to you soon ace