[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike and dr. James here
again again gonna keep it loose and
casual for this one and hopefully stir
the brain a little bit stir the pot yeah
why not so I talked a little bit about
obviously we can't do a whole lecture on
motivation that would require entire
course which would probably have for you
later but just a couple of facets of
motivation for training and today dr.
Hoffman and I went to dr. dreams dr.
Hoffman James you know whatever well my
friends called me home and yeah yeah
we're not friends
we're gonna be talking about sharing
some of our own thoughts and then
hopefully looking to you guys to give
this some thought and maybe interact
with us in a webinar about this topic
talking about what motivates us to
continue to strive to diet to Train and
what motivates you and particularly what
our lot of the big question behind this
talk is there are many ways to motivate
oneself what are the ways that are
sustainable and at the same time kind of
life-affirming because look if somebody
like kills your family in front of you
when you're a little kid and that could
give you a very sustainable source of
motivation to take ultimate revenge on
them Batman right but that's not exactly
life affirming
and one of the things that runs to the
Batman graphic novels and the cartoons
in the books is that it's just killing
him inside not in the sense that it's
literally killing him but it's just a
really he's having a bad time to put it
another way so we're gonna be looking
for that kind of motivation that is
three things effective sustainable over
the long run and something you can look
back on and say you know this whole
thing was great as opposed to you know
the Batman stuff which has two of the
three of those
some other forms are very great but not
sustainable and and everywhere in
between
so you know the first I guess the first
question is sustainability
yes the sustainability is something you
want to think about in terms of you know
where are you drawing your motivation
from and how is it driving you and are
you trying to do it from like a place of
nastiness where you're saying like I'm
jealous or envious or you know like I
just wish I have it I don't have it
that's gonna drive you nuts right it's
not a good way of going about it you
know like for me I think I personally
draw my sustainability because when I
was growing up my favorite things were
like you know like the Rocky movies
Dragon Ball Z like all this stuff where
you get to watch people train and it
wasn't it wasn't the fact that they were
fighting right that really got you
pumped up for it it was like all the
stuff that they did so that they could
fight right it was all the training that
they went through and I think that's
something that's like in terms of
sustainability something that's really
gonna drive the process a lot harder
than focusing on like end points goals
as just the end all be all right like
you have to enjoy part of the process
being there and you have to do it
because you really just want to do it
not because there's some weird thing
that's driving you nuts oh that you
envious or jealous of or somebody has
that you don't have spitefulness there's
a lot to say on that one thing I'd like
to touch on and like to hear your
thoughts on as well James is the often
not always but often or valley mning of
end goals as a source of motivation for
most people I'll tell you this I don't
know what what your experience was like
in this regard at East Tennessee that I
think we talked about it and it was kind
of similar James and I got our PhDs
together he got his when year after I
did I worked into the ground for my PhD
and I was expecting ascension afterwards
I was expecting where's the parade
yeah I was expecting you know like a
blow-up Snoopy doll Mickey Mouse
confetti or sure
ticker tape parade I was expecting that
once people called me doctor that it was
going to feel incredible that I forget
about that that that the accomplishment
of the PhD was in itself going to feel
that I was like a new person and that
feeling that ascension was going to be
all worth it unfortunately in the month
or two after getting my PhD I never felt
much of that I felt a little bit of it
into with time I grew into loving my
status and my accomplishment of what I
do but right afterwards I didn't feel a
damn bit different and it left me with
this huge gaping hole of what how am i
doing what how did I how did I get so
ripped off yeah it's like a weird form
of like it's like somewhere between
postpartum depression and Stockholm
Syndrome percenter not a percent well
and there's a perfect way to say it's
saying I basically you know it was one
of those I used a really nasty of an
allergy at the time I won't repeat it
here but it's all it was almost like the
difference between finishing my PhD felt
like finishing a battle in which a ton
of your good friends and fellow soldiers
die everyone at home is cheering that
the war's over pretty true your friends
and relatives
Marcis congratulatory everyone thinks
it's great but you gave so much to the
process you lost a part of yourself you
know the the people who are cheering
that the war is over are usually not the
ones who fought the war the ones who
fought the war have a calmness about
them a relief but a bit of a resignation
that not all was won and some things
were lost that's how I felt about
finishing my PhD say given so much to it
and this ascension never came that it
only came later
in retrospect what do I look fondly on
about getting my PhD is the process
itself is the grinding at the work it
made me a different person it gave birth
to RP because only when I ascended to
that level of productivity
knowledge of ability to balance
athleticism and academics that I started
becoming productive enough to be doctor
my kids were told that's where I became
dr. Mike as result but the becoming
wasn't something I could even detect
occur so a lot of times we get so caught
up in when I win this competition
fool yo boy is everything gonna be
different in often times it's not um
people think about you know how do
Olympic champions feel how do how does
mr. Olympia feel how does it feel he if
Phil Heath hungry he probably feels like
Phil Heath um you know there's this
interesting balancing act you also have
to do with you know like I now a days
I'm like doctor my cancer tell I'm this
quote-unquote big deal and whatever like
all these followers and I've produced a
lot of value do I feel good about that
not really why cuz like I just not a
cocky person like that like every time I
play with the role of feeling proud of
what I've accomplished I'm like I know
better than anybody else why the hell
would I feel like a like a big dog and
these bullshit accomplishments and
they're nice accomplishments but would I
really take a lot of pride from and
motivation seems to be much more of the
process yeah of doing these things
versus the person I've become
so it's I'll put to you this way my man
James you can weigh in if you're hoping
if you hate the process and it's not
motivating you at all and you're hoping
that once you accomplish your new level
of body fat you win the next competition
you qualify for regionals if you think
that is going to Olay to you to some new
just bar in which you are going to be
floating with that angels and heavens
and everything's gonna be great you
might be right but it's a very good
chance to just just be like you the next
morning yeah and I think you know
there's kind of like varying degrees of
like intrinsic motivation and extrinsic
motivation and everything in between but
I think for a lot of us we we do it kind
of in an ass backwards way where we
actually pick our goals not necessarily
just because we want the goals but it
gives us an excuse to train for
something right we really just want to
Train we want to have something to work
towards and accomplish right the goal is
more
formality whereas like yeah sure I would
love to squat 475 sometime in the next
couple years but really I just want to
get into the Train you get into the gym
and work for it but I try to get
stronger try and have those really good
lifts where you feel really good about
yourself and you come home and beat up
for days I'm getting this much closer
right whether or not like I actually get
it it's really inconsequential it's more
about like the struggle so you tend to
be motivated personally by the love of
the training process yeah
and I think you know like it's different
like some people might you know I think
that's a little bit more of an intrinsic
approach but I think some people might
have a completely extrinsic approach
which is not right or wrong it's just
different it's not likely for most
people I think so but I think you know
like some people just want to have that
Instagram post like they do this whole
thing and they really they don't give a
shit if they're gonna be the next
physique or you know figure person but
they really just want to get like that
high-five that social support that
picture on Instagram with like you're a
six-pack and you look great and
everyone's like you're the man and
that's good enough you know what I mean
that's why they're doing is that keeps
them rolling months and years later I
would say no I would say it's not
sustainable yes you know effective but
not sustainable because remember we're
not even talking about we're talking
about two things sustainability and good
place versus bad place yeah I missed one
when I started talking about this
because the fact is it has to be
effective sustainable and come from a
good place and be rewarding we're not
talking about effectiveness if it's
obvious it has to be effective or every
man horse motivation I assume bike
service cus it's not motivating you who
cares so if the training process isn't
motivating to you who cares don't do it
I James and I probably both say try to
cultivate a love for training because if
you love the process of training nothing
else matters
people ask you know I've asked me mostly
people not associated with the fitness
industry friends relatives who don't
lift why I suffer so much bodybuilding
and doing jiu-jitsu I mean you do
kickboxing James will come home with a
huge wealth on his leg like limping I'm
like what happened is like we're kick
training today
the thing is that people don't
understand it why do you do this to
yourself
because I love the process it's like
asking someone who's drinking like
what's your goal with this like it feels
good to drink I'm not sure like what do
you want out of this party can imagine
question like why are we going to this
party like to have to waste it yeah like
wait but what's the end goal at this
party or like to get home the party for
sure someone could say like wine I just
get home now or like right okay said
that wrong the end goal is the party
when training is a party motivations not
an issue and then if you want a goal you
just pick a goal and then it all works
well together so I think our best advice
on the sustainability is to fall in love
with a process of training and sometimes
that occurs organically and sometimes
you have to make a conscious maybe that
effort but a realization every now and
again the hey am i enjoying this let's
try to enjoy this because there's a lot
of things about training you can love or
you could not paying it not pay
attention to them and just put that grit
and put the metal in and everything's
hateful and all of a sudden you're like
it's all about the goal well if you
learn to love training the goals come
and the goals go and you still
accomplish just as much yeah and I think
there's something to be said - it's not
like all sunshine and rainbows either
like it when we say we look you know we
really like training we love training
it's not that next part well yeah it's
like there's nothing really all that
enjoyable about putting hundreds of
pounds on your back and moving up and
down or getting kicked in the leg or
like choking getting choked out at
practice not eating as much as we're not
starving right there's nothing really
fun about that but the real question is
it's like at the end of the day do you
get a sense of like satisfaction in what
you're doing it doesn't necessarily mean
you're gonna be like even a happy person
necessarily it doesn't even mean that
this is gonna give you joy but if it
gives you some satisfaction some sense
of accomplishment like yes I've worked
towards something I enjoy this process
that's where the love of the training
comes in it's not necessarily like man I
love to do 4 by 10 deficit deadlifts
nobody loves that that sucks you're
gonna vomit you're gonna be out of
commission for like three days it's just
awful for sure you know so I think it's
one of those things where I think
sometimes people take they're like like
the unicorn rainbow turret approach
where it's like everything's supposed to
be happy I'm supposed to love it
supposed to be great I'm supposed to
have ice cream and France I'm a whole
and shoot love at each other wait no it
sucks some of it sucks right but are you
do you feel satisfied at the end of the
day like with what you've done the
overall process yeah its loss that's not
just outcome yeah yeah I think that's
really worked
I guess that even comes into more of an
issue of like happiness but like I think
that's where like the satisfaction comes
in well let's let's use that to segue
into the second point of kind of life
affirming positive motivation versus
kind of dagger Ettore motivation this
deleterious that leeches away at you one
thing I can think of really quick is
this one's for the haters you know post
like that like getting a lot of hate
lately what do you guys think of this
like weird indication what do you think
about that James like it's just a
spiteful it's just nasty right it's like
you it's when it like at the end of the
day one of the things that like Mike and
I both have read the books on like yeah
game stuff pickup artists stuff just for
fun because we think it's funny but like
one of the things that it's really
important in that aspect is confidence
right of course like having still
dynamics social dynamics and having that
aura of confidence about you right and
so like if you are having to tell people
that you're the man you're not the man
right that's the same thing like I don't
feel like the man you probably don't
feel like the man either so if you're
having to like prove to people and you
know unlike in a spiteful way like hey
check it out like you're wrong or I was
right or this than that it's like do you
you probably really don't feel very good
about it in the first place right I
found that a lot of the people that are
your haters when you prove them wrong
you realize that they hate it on you and
about a thousand other people and they
were actually 13 year-olds in their
mom's basement and they're they don't
even remember who you were one thing I
found is people who you know set some
unfortunate things about me or my
academic accomplishments or my physique
or something like that for some time I
was very upset about it and then when I
made my physique better and fix those
things those same people would be super
friendly and be very supportive and very
occasionally I would bring up to them
like oh not singing the same tune and
they'd be like what I'd be like you used
to talk shit and they're like I don't
even remember
that and you like bring him back and
then I like hole dude sorry man I must
have been in a real bad place and
they're different people eh
they moved on but you haven't where they
were talking smack to ten people but you
were the only one that let them really
get under your skin like yeah at the end
of the day like Amanda it's not like
they're Lex Luthor and you're Superman
they're just some punk kid in the street
and you're Superman and you may never
get their approval they may not even
remember that they hated you it's all
the stuff it's like you're really gonna
let that one person take that much
precedence and the thing is it's cool if
you do let them take the much precedence
but how do you feel during that entire
time of proven haters wrong you feel
hateful you feel bad you feel bad that's
the only relevant thing to say well I
feel like that you know the our old
instructor of dr. Phil sands had a great
story I'll try to keep it as short as
possible but basically hit on that exact
issues basically long story short
ancient sensei and his young apprentice
are walking around right and they're
just chilling sensei's the man
apprentice really appreciates sensei
right and they come across like a muddy
riverbank that they have to cross at
some point and a woman appears and the
woman's like oh can you guys help me get
across I don't want to get all dirty and
The Apprentice guys like how dare you
the sensei is the man how dare you like
even address him you're nobody
and the sensei is like yeah whatever
helps her across and in the process she
stays nice and clean he gets all muddy
right and so sensei's all muddy from
helping across the river bank so he
dumps her off and it's like all right
later and the apprentice is furious he's
like I can't believe you lowered
yourself to helping this person and now
you're all muddy and like she doesn't as
she didn't deserve that
and he goes homie I left her at the
riverbank you're still carrying her ya
know so it's like are you really gonna
so that guy who told you that 13
year-old back you know called you names
on Xbox Live or whatever you grew up he
forgot about it all he didn't carry it
with him right you carried that with you
the whole time are you gonna really let
that cause you anxiety and like burden
your life and like is that really what's
gonna drive you to do great things in
life like come on ya got better than
that and at the end you know I have
quote-unquote proved some haters wrong
in my day it's not very satisfying at
the end you feel like you did them a
service it's almost like they could get
you to do anything just by hating on it
you prove them wrong you come back and
go see and they're like well do this now
this other thing that's not you know
whether your trainer your coach you're
supposed to have your own motivations
and reasons for young things so and the
other thing too is like it's sometimes
people get real caught up in that goals
like you don't have to have goals that
say like you're gonna be a physique
competitor or you're gonna run a
marathon or you're gonna be the best
kickboxer in the world right leg you can
have very simple goals just like hey I
want to be a little bit better than I
was yesterday right a lot of times I've
seen people struggle with really long
term goals I've known a couple people
that were then several months of
beginning weight training
well hashtag future physique Pro in
Instagram and it's like do you have any
idea what goes into that have no idea
what goes into that you have no idea if
you ever become that I know several
people who just stopped competing and
stopped training all together before
that ever happened and the the real
realization there is yeah how could that
possibly such a long term thing motivate
your daily grind fundamentally you're
gonna have bad days you're gonna have
bad workout you're gonna look at
yourself in the mirror three years into
this ten year journey you're not gonna
look anything like a physique Pro it's
gonna do motivate the shit out of you
and you're gonna get this overwhelming
thought that I'm never going to reach it
but with thoughts like that of course
you're never gonna reach it so instead
of saying I want to be a figure Pro
eventually why don't you say I'm gonna
be bigger and lean in the last time then
I'd let me see where this journey takes
me did I ever plan on being this current
jacked and lean level no I used to look
at flex magazine and all the
bodybuilders on the covers and in the
pages and think these people are magical
they're superheroes when you're sixteen
seventeen absolutely I never thought
once I could look like them but what I
did was I loved training and I wanted to
get just a bit bigger just a bit
stronger just a bit leaner now I look
like them just some great extent and
sometimes I even have like I'll look at
a guy's back and be like that my back's
weaker than that guy and
how the hell did I get there well I
never had the plan to get there I just
kept going if I if it was my goal at age
18 to become a professional or something
or to become that big and lean it would
be so daunting I would never think I
would achieve it and a lot of people
burn out with goals like that mm-hmm but
why don't you just enjoy the process all
remember how do you get there the act is
the same whether or not whether or not
you want to summit the mountain or you
like walking uphill
you're gonna walk uphill either way yeah
if you get close enough by walking
uphill to where the summit is in view
you can then have the goal let's go up
and summit today if you don't like
walking uphill and if you say I want a
Sun at the mountain and you look off and
you can barely even see it that's hugely
de motivating to a lot of people so
maybe again enjoy the process set
shorter term goals feel the happiness
both from doing the work and from
accomplishing them and then life may
have in store for you other things for
example some of the best CrossFitters in
the world started out as physique
competitors they never amounted to
anything in physique but they became
world champions in CrossFit that's
amazing in some cases even more popular
sport Dana Lynn Bailey as an example
wanted to be the best figure girl in the
world she was too muscular to check and
and probably AB because I'm her largely
they opened up the women's physique
division as an entirely different sport
and she was crowned its first champion
which was obvious because she was the
she still is the standard bearer for
that look yeah and you know imagine if
you know told her like oh you know what
how instrumental was your trying to be
the best figure Pro to becoming your
best figure Pro II that why I never
actually got there but because she kept
training she never gave up all these new
opportunities opened over her and then
she was the best at something so it's
when a situation and a lot of people
like ed :
actually started as a bodybuilder
believe it or not he had a pretty good
physique would he ever have been mr.
Olympia no but he just figured out way
he was doing bodybuilding training and
some of they think the lifters at his
gym like you're using how much weight
he's like I know this much other way
give powerlifting a try
and I actually as a really quick funny
story about it : there was a this was
recounted in a polishing USA magazine
where it was like a meet in the early
80s and Ed was still very very very
young and unheard of and a couple of
coaches were talking this is a big
national level polished to me back to my
world good old has sort of light
equipment slash raw days and this one
guy goes you know I've got a junior
Ennis a single ply he goes I got a
junior lifter is talking to another
coach that's gonna total 1,700 at this
meet and then at 165 and there's lodge
in this guy's like wow he goes and the
other guy goes yeah I got a junior
lifter that's gonna told him 1,900 and
they look guys like what that's
ridiculous Young had cone so it's
supposed to be a bodybuilder but he just
would he do he kept training and
opportunity opened up so I think but you
asked ed : what is a relationship your
training was Chad what's this myth and I
actually asked him what he would have
done differently had he programmed his
own life training from now knowing now
what he knows so I actually think I did
put things pretty well I would have D
loaded more often I would have more
important uh fatigue management but he
loved training so much he missed out on
that so this is a person that you know I
don't know how many people do you know
James at the very top who don't like the
training process I don't know anything
well you know the thing is - I think the
problem they run into is they're just
doing something that they don't
necessarily like right and so this
happens all the time you don't have to
love like hypertrophy training you don't
have to love strength training you don't
have to love sport I mean like there are
certain uh one of the problems you run
into is people do it because they think
they're supposed to and they're supposed
to like it right folks you can find
stuff that you actually like right like
so if you actually deviate from the kind
of the typical gym lifestyle and if you
just don't want to do bodybuilding
training four or five days a week find
something else that you like maybe
you're really good at running maybe
you're really good at combat sports
maybe you're really good at like hiking
or swimming or something else right
that's stuff that you can get behind I
can't tell you how many students we have
this I think this is kind of a more life
encompassing concept where you know like
sometimes we'll have students in our
major who just aren't doing well they're
just getting like CS and DS and bombing
classes and you have to have a sit-down
moment with them and say like look homie
you're not doing well you're not giving
me your best your best actually might be
somewhere else so this is a lose-lose
for both of us you're not getting a lot
out of exercise science we're not
getting the student that we want out of
you it might be time to end
putting in maximum because you clearly
not because you're clearly not
passionate about it all we're exactly so
remotely interested exactly and that
might be somewhere else that doesn't
mean that you suck and you're a terrible
student it just means that this is not
this is not your jam right your jam
might be somewhere else and the same
thing I think applies to many areas of
life including fit that's where it's
like you might hate weight training all
the time and that's okay find something
else that you actually at least value to
some degree you don't have to
necessarily like it in the sense like it
doesn't bring you joy because to be
sweating and uncomfortable but you get
satisfaction from posish like the
results I think one important thing to
say on that note is you know we all all
of us listening to this video and
watching this video will live in a
modern free world if there is no need to
be in shape at a high level other than
for health which doesn't require much
shape there is no need to be amazing at
CrossFit there is no need to be the best
body builder of all time that need is
illusory it is all voluntary it is all
for fun you know people walk up into a
body on stage or power lifting platform
and they walk into a CrossFit Games
you know regional and they think warfare
it's battle it's do or die you're a real
soldier come up to them and be like what
is it that you're doing here I want you
to explain it to me in basic terms maybe
there's a language barrier what would
you say this is a game it's for
entertainment it's it's fun there are
spectators recreations right it's
literally it's a game so now that you
know that maybe you can pick the game
that you like the most and give it your
all because fundamentally if someone
tells you you've got to make it big in
this sport unless you're a professional
in that sport in which case you probably
don't have any motivational issues you
don't have to make it big of a sport as
a matter of fact if you're a
professional it won't be professional a
bunch of other stuff will be an
accountant well that's the thing like so
to be a professional I mean that means
that that that sport or activity or
whatever it is you're doing is is
basically sustaining your life income
generation
income-generating and most of us that's
not the case right and you can imagine
how much training and sport practice
they have to do to actually become like
what how much training you have to do to
become a pro MMA fighter to the point
where you actually don't have to have
side job right like I'm all of it I mean
you have to be many hours a week you
have to be up there you have to be you
have to be start becoming top tier right
like pro level fighter I mean most of
those guys you see in the lower rankings
I mean they have full-time regular jobs
and they do fighting on the side some of
the guys you see in like Bellator they
start getting better contracts but they
still don't get enough where they can
just train all full-time they still
probably work at least a couple jobs I
mean so that's the idea so that if
somebody tells you like you got to be a
professional or you've got to like train
to be a world champion there's gotta be
the best total nonsense absolutely so I
think just to you know we'll leave you
guys with some kind of summary points if
the points of thought there's so much
more to say on this and maybe we'll do
that in later videos or seminars but I
think the biggest crosscurrents here
yes motivation should be effective so
pick something that works for you but
avoid the stuff that causes you
anxieties and causes you inks that
causes you revenge is never a good
motive no matter how many movies is
entertaining to watch movies about
revenge like The Punisher John wick or a
John wick but imagine being John wick
does he look happy to you imagine being
John wick not for two hours of a movie
but John wick all the time the guy's
miserable you don't want to be John wick
now so do something that is effective
but do it if that it's positive impact
on your life that you're happy doing it
and do it in such a way that is
sustainable and you're not over reaching
and making goals that you can't you know
grasp and it's something that's a part
of a lifestyle
if you check all those three boxes
there's many ways to do it but
fundamentally if you check all three
you're off to a really great start and
you'll probably accomplish more or less
what you could from a genetic and
environmental standpoint I'm just to
leave off on my in and get to hear your
thoughts in those James people asked me
fundamentally what I like most about
jiu-jitsu and about bodybuilding
jiu-jitsu
but for lack of a better term jamming
flowing when you're in the moment and
you're moving and sticking and pulling
off moves even if you're not winning if
you were being athletic it feels amazing
you're literally in the rush of combat
it didn't get much more fun than that
that's why I do jujitsu but to become
some living weapon although that's
happening and it's sweet fundamentally
it's the act of doing that and what is
it that I like most about bodybuilding
is a twinning sure as hell those are
winning in my case not just yet not good
enough is it the result the result is
cool it's the act of progress it's the
idea that I put down a weight that I
could never do for that many reps it's
the idea of having a tank top on in the
gym going like this in the mirror or not
should scare yourself like holy crap I
really look like this getting better not
being good people a lot of times like
message me on facebook and be like oh I
only weigh this and that you know it's
hard for me to get motivated because I
don't look that chat but I want to be a
bodybuilder that's the maximum
motivation to me it's the progress that
was motivating I I'm jealous of them in
some respects because I've already made
most of my major gains they have so much
look forward to to the beauty I look
back at my moment in trip and weight
training and looking back it's so much
of the growing and the training in the
eating and the knowing you're getting
better and that's the fun part for me
what is it that keeps you going
fundamentally in your and your and your
sporting endeavors and lifting and in
combat training yeah well for lifting I
just I like I just wear my weirdo I just
like the process of lifting right I
don't really even need you guys to talk
about our techniques like doing mass
phase and cut phases for me is just an
excuse to have structured training for
gym time otherwise I would just do it
anyway easy problem to solve right like
the gym that's it like the gym stuff I
really like the kickboxing stuff because
it's a new skill set it's a skill set
the problem that I've always had as an
athlete is I'm like I don't want to say
strong but I'm like stronger than most
people but I have really crappy
anthropometry and kickboxing is like one
of the few sports where it actually like
one of them's coming
long limbs come in handy I can actually
be strong and be and feel feel good of
how to doing it feel effective whereas
like a lot of other sports like when I'm
in the gym I'm not the strongest guy you
know it's like I've been training for a
long time and if sometimes it feels like
I don't really have all that much to
show for it doesn't bother me at all but
you know every now and again I wish I
could bench more squat more but the
kickboxing look like I hit the bag and
it's like poo bad flies all over the
place zina it feels good right and so
that's a totally selfish like I like to
hit other people I actually kind of like
it to some degree when they hit me just
not in the face like when we take leg
kicks and stuff makes the money my boy
where I practice the other night and the
guy hit me really hard in the leg and I
was like and he was like oh I was like
no no that's why I'm here
yeah that's what we're doing right so I
mean like for me that's and it's just
something that like you just felt like I
never did it before tried it out was
like wow actually this seems to fall in
line with like what I like to kept doing
it got better at it and that was it
right it was like I can go and try and
do marathon training or I try and be the
next you know Bruce Jenner before you
know before we changed over after but I
suck at those things sure and that's
gonna be miserable for them and it will
never get better
yeah find what you like find what you
can get better at practice it be in love
with the training process everything
else is painted in gold mm-hmm thanks so
much for tuning in folks see you next
time
[Music]
you