[Music]
all right what is going on guys so today
I'm going to take you through a full day
of eating on a lean bulk so I'm gonna
show you guys every meal the nutrient
breakdown of those meals and the
rationale behind the food choices meal
timing distribution and so on and for
the last few months I've been following
a strict body decomposition approach to
my nutrition following the guidelines in
my new body recomposition guide that i'm
excited to say is finally available for
pre-order on Geoff nipper comm how many
of you guys know I've been working on
this project for the last six months or
so with my good friend a nutrition
researcher Chris Erica and it's the
exact protocol that I'm gonna be
following for the rest of my lean bulk
so the book is gonna be 30% off for the
pre-sale and if you pre-order you'll get
two chapters sent to your inbox right
away and then as soon as it launches
you'll get all 15 chapters which
includes sample meal plans pre and post
workout nutrition examples full
supplements list a chapter on training
skinny fat and even a guide for recovery
factors like sleep and stress and I'm
also offering a customer service with
this if there's anything you don't
understand
in the manual there's a support email
that you guys can contact and if you
guys pre-order the nutrition book you
can get 30% off any training program as
well as a bundle so if you guys are
interested in taking your nutrition to
the next level I'll have the new
nutrition guide as the first link in the
description box down below as a sense
Steph and I have been back here in
Kelowna we've been kicking off every
morning with a morning walk so I'll wake
up I'll usually weigh in and then I'll
drink some water and we'll walk to Tim
Hortons where we get a coffee there
isn't anything really special about
doing that walk fasted that just helps
kind of wake me up and get me ready for
the day okay guys we just got back from
her walk I'm gonna get some breakfast
ready first I'm gonna show you guys what
my macro targets are gonna be for today
I've got 225 grams of protein 75 grams
of fat and 300 grams of carbs and that
will give me an approximate caloric
target of 2800 calories per day
a couple months ago I was more around
the like 2600 calorie range but since
then have gradually increased that
number up and over the next three or
four months
try to increase that number further to
somewhere around 3200 maybe 3400 or more
calories per day while maintaining the
amount of fat that I have on me so my
goal is to build as much lean mass as
possible while minimizing the amount of
fat mass that I gave now some people
will note that that protein figure is
really high from my body weight I'm only
163 pounds however I do think it's
better to go too high on protein than
too low especially when your goal is
recomposition there's at least four
reasons for that the first is that
extremely high protein intakes have been
shown to improve a body composition in
the literature even as high as 3 point 4
grams per kilogram so that's just over
1.5 grams per pound which is super high
for protein intake also protein is the
most satiating macronutrient it also has
a higher thermic effect than carbs or
fats and also I think you have nothing
to lose by going higher on protein and
very high protein intakes have been
repeatedly shown in the scientific
literature to be safe for bone health
the kidneys in the liver so I think a
simple cost-benefit analysis is going to
show you that it'd be better to go too
high than too low and then I set my fad
at around 25 percent of my total caloric
intake and then just fill in the rest
with carbs and I should say I don't
always track macros and sometimes I will
take more of an intuitive approach
depending on the day and I have been
tracking for like I don't know a decade
so I have a really good idea of what's
in foods now but since I've been
focusing more on body recomposition I
have been tracking more diligently so
we're definitely gonna do that today all
right let's get breakfast so for
breakfast just to be doing the usual
here I'm gonna do some scrambled eggs
some turkey bacon some goat cheese on
the eggs
Kiwi of course do that every morning and
what else oh and some hashbrowns or well
potato patties technically oh yeah how
about you that looks like a good
just to me people always give me a hard
time for this breakfast they're like why
why are you eating those foods well I
the hashbrowns and you know most of it
for this meal most of it just comes down
to
it's a high protein meal it's relatively
low carb which I like to do because I
like to partition my carbs more around
the workout and later in the day when my
appetite picks up and other than that
it's just an enjoyable breakfast with
foods that I like so guys I'm gonna put
the macros for this meal up here on the
screen you guys can pause if you want to
check it out and also I'll have to fish
oil capsules and three well it's
actually just one serving of a
multivitamin I do try to have one or two
servings of fatty fish per week but I'm
not I don't always go through in that so
I just take two of these just to be safe
and I think of a multivitamin kind of as
like a nutritional insurance I think you
should always try to max out your whole
food options first and if you do a good
job with that you probably don't need a
multivitamin I like a quote from Alan
Aragon he says a poor diet with a
multivitamin is still a poor diet but I
think in the case of athletes where it's
really common to have nutrient
deficiencies it does make sense to
supplement with with a multivitamin for
no real downside so anyway that's why I
do that I'm gonna dig in enjoy this meal
and I'll catch up with you guys in the
next one alright guys up next we're
gonna be doing at our pre-workout meal
now I would say the pre-workout meal is
the most important meal of the day
because ultimately it's gonna be
responsible for fueling your training
which is what's gonna drive your body
recomposition progress forward so I
would say for most of the other meals
the actual timing of the meals isn't so
important but for the pre-workout meal
that's one that I definitely would pay
much more attention to alright so guys
for the pre-workout meal I've got a
chicken sandwich here I've got some
fresh chicken breast some shredded
cheese Mayo some spinach and a little
bit of mustard on some ancient greens
bread which is my favorite bread and
then I've also got 100 grams of
blueberries over here
a banana to go along with that I'm so
for the pre-workout meal I recommend a
soft minimum of one gram of carbs per
kilogram of body weight so for me that
amounts to about 75 grams of carbs and
you also want to prioritize choosing
carb sources that are going to utilize
multiple transporters for absorption
Yorn tromelin was nice enough to send me
a copy of his PhD dissertation and as
part of this thesis he recommends Co
ingesting glucose even fructose to fuel
performance as they use different
intestinal transporters for absorption
so the simplest way to do this is to
just combine a starchy carbs source like
bread with fruit source which is high in
fructose so for any food workout meal I
always recommend having at least one
food source like a banana and I also
like to include some berries so these
are the macros for the meal we've got 46
grams of protein 13 grams of fat in 82
grams of carbs which is going to make
this my highest power of meal of the day
and so for a meal of this size generally
I try to eat it about one hour out from
the workout itself and then about 15 to
20 minutes before I leave for the gym I
start sipping on my pre-workout and I
try to turn that to be about 30 minutes
before my first working set in a perfect
world and that's when you're gonna get
the most benefit out of the caffeine so
I'm gonna dig in eat this meal let it
digest a little bit start sipping on my
pre-workout and then we're gonna hit a
workout let's go home
all right guys we're about thirty
minutes into the workout and at this
point is usually when I'll have my intro
workout nutrition now I wouldn't say an
intra workout feeding is mandatory but I
would advise it under any of the
following five circumstances now so the
first one is you're really trying to
optimize your training performance
second of all you have plenty of carbs
affair so you're not on like a lower
carb diet you don't want to waste them
just by like drinking them or eating
into a workout third your workouts last
longer than an hour if you have
relatively short workouts I don't think
it
necessary at all you've trained fasted
so you didn't have a pre-workout meal
probably a good idea to get some carbs
in and finally it's been three to five
hours since your pre-workout meal that's
more similar to fasted where you might
want some extra nutrients to keep energy
a little too high I'm so for me what
I've been doing they just pop them back
shoot these fuzzy fuzzy peaches so the
main idea is you want to have a fast
digesting carbs or just for continued
energy through the workout and as a
general rule you want to have about a
half a gram of carb per minute of
training starting around thirty minutes
into your workout so say your workout
lasts for an hour you'd start at 30
minutes have some fast digesting carbs
source and you'd have about 15 grams of
carbs so half a gram or a minute after
that first 30 minutes and so for me 15
grams of carbs it's just like five or
six of these top back like a few of
those throughout the rest of the workout
and that's really all there is to it
sometimes I'll go for a liquid carb
source so I'll just like mix up some
kool-aid or tang or something like that
lately I've just been going with the
fuzzy peaches so anyway we're gonna
crush the rest this workout check me
guys back home alright guys just got
back from the gym we're gonna have our
post-workout meal now whenever I finish
up a workout my appetite isn't the
strongest and so I don't really try to
rush to get protein in as quickly as
possible my rule for timing your
nutrients post-workout is that it's much
less urgent than pre-workout like I said
earlier I think pre workouts the most
important meal for the post-workout meal
I think you should try to get some
protein in as quickly as you
conveniently can so that means slamming
a shake after your workout perfect
that's great if you don't have much of
an appetite like me it's perfectly fine
if you wait until you get home and have
a meal and I would say according to the
best evidence that we have on this the
general recommendation is to not space
your pre and post-workout meals by more
than four to five hours so for me I went
to the gym I don't know a my pre-workout
meal at 1:00 so I would want to make
sure if I'm trying to optimize
everything that I have my post-workout
meal in by no later than say 5 maybe 6
p.m. the wider that window gets around
the session the more likely you are to
potentially
taeju recovery or miss out on some
potential gains because the muscle is
most sensitive to amino acid uptake
after resistance training and then it
starts to go back down so there is some
anabolic window it's just that it's much
wider than people originally used to
think so anyway with all that said we're
gonna get a meal ready over here it was
kind of like a quick and easy snack more
or less like I said I don't have like my
biggest meal post-workout but I do like
to have yeah it should be 1 serving of
oats this is select protein for oats now
you don't need to use this kind of
protein powder but I like it because it
does mix really well and it also a way
casein blend and actually like blended
proteins post-workout I'm according to
one of my favorite books on nutrition of
all time the protein book by Lyle
McDonald combining casein and whey
post-workout may have a benefit compared
to consuming either one in isolation of
course we're talking about like the tip
of the iceberg here but there's 10x left
to go there so I'll stick this in the
microwave for a minute I'm so anyway
here are the total macros for that meal
we've got 34 grams of protein 4 grams of
fat and 25 grams of carbs and even
though I think a lot of people make a
big deal out of carbs in the
post-workout period I think that are
more important pre-workout where they're
actually gonna fuel training and where
my appetite is a little lower after
training a 10 - like I said earlier
prediction more of my carbs toward later
meals in the day it's just for simple
adherence purposes I'll have a little
bit lower carb intake post-workout um so
yeah I'm going to finish up this meal
and I'll check in with you guys for the
next meal alright guys it's been a
couple hours since my post-workout snack
so I'm gonna have another meal so it's
kind of interesting because now my
appetite is really starting to pick up
that it's later in the day this is
always when I get the hunger juices
around like between 6:00 to 10:00 p.m.
so I'm gonna have a huge meal right now
so this is a big Tupperware full of
chili that my mom made for me so but my
mom will do is she'll cook for me pretty
lucky in the sense either Sam
or spaghetti or chili like three or four
nights a week and just give that to me
in Tupperware with the macros what I'm
saying with the macros so basically just
makes it really easy for me to track so
I'm gonna eat all this this is a three
cup serving of chili and in here
actually I'm gonna heat it up first I'll
show you what we got so and I don't know
like if there's nothing to input because
obviously my mom made the chili I don't
want to put in everything individually
I'll just add it like in MyFitnessPal
just go protein macro you can search for
that and then I'll just add 62 grams of
protein for that meal and it'll just add
fat macro carbon at across because my
mom you know does up these macros so if
you have a recipe and you know the
content you can just put it individually
like that it needs to be fall a little
bit but you can see we got some
chickpeas in here we got some kidney
beans ground turkey some peppers garlic
in there it's just super healthy meal
probably probably my most healthy meal
of the day super high fiber and I'd like
to have fiber later at night one gonna
help me feel more satiated and two is
gonna slow the rate of digestion a
little bit so I tend to have a bit of a
longer overnight fast like it'll usually
be maybe 10 or 12 hours that I go
without eating so I try to cram a lot of
fiber in eat slower digesting sources of
protein later in the day so anyway gonna
heat this up again and enjoy a little
taste test I mean I also added about 15
grams of shredded cheese on top and that
makes it taste so much better
mmm
that's so good I forgot to sail so my
mom I think got this recipe online so
I'll put the link to the recipe in the
description if you guys want to make it
for yourself after this I think I'm
gonna go play a bit of basketball of
them playing in like a little men's
league here in Kelowna so I'm gonna go
shoot some hoops this is a huge meal so
I tried to time it about like an hour
before I go play see I'm gonna down this
do a bit of work and then go shoot some
hoops so I'll put the macros for the
meal up here on the screen if you guys
are interested in that super high
protein and also very high fiber meal
and I'll check in with you guys for my
last meal before I go to bed just got
back from basketball for whatever reason
when I run full court basketball it
absolutely kills me so I'm feeling so
tired right now I ran for well it's
quarter to ten now so it was a couple
hours a couple hours um so we got one
more meal to go before the end of the
day here now so there's gonna be our
last meal I was gonna point out to you
guys I've been reading through this this
thesis I showed it earlier from yawn and
another one of his main points in the
book he's actually written about this
for a while but he's kind of big on
pre-sleep being potentially important
being window so he says here an
important in missed opportunity to
consume a high protein meal in
well-trained athletes is before going to
bed and I do think it's an underrated
time of day because it's when you're
gonna go the longest without eating
again so you have you're basically at
the greatest risk of catabolism when
you're fasting so when you go to bed so
anyway I've been trying to really
optimize this now I'll show you
get you're gonna go with cottage cheese
so cottage cheese is a very slow
digesting protein primarily from casein
basically forms a clump in your stomach
and then it takes time for those amino
acids to be digested and absorbed so
we're gonna go with some of that and
I've been eating that with some of these
weekend's over here so get a few of
these crackers dip it in the cottage
cheese don't knock it until you try that
it's actually really good oh and forget
little good old kale salad with a ban I
actually love Cottage cheese's this is a
treat I love it soon as the chili I'll
add a little bit of cheese on top I
typically we just eat these as a snack
when I'm watching the TV so lately I've
been reaching the Breaking Bad series
and I just started season five and I'm
convinced that Breaking Bad is the
greatest show of all time
re watching it gave me such a deeper
appreciation for it cuz I watched it
when it first aired and now re watching
it I just I feel like I appreciate the
show so much more so I haven't seen the
movie that's out yet I want to finish
the fifth season first but yeah if
anyone has any show recommendations that
you think that you think is better than
Breaking Bad comment below but I
personally don't think any good I'm
gonna watch that these are tough
potatoes they're kind of like rice
crisps but obviously I guess but they're
really low carb per serving really high
volume so it just makes for like a
really nice light snack so yeah I love
these you haven't tried them I don't
know if they're available everywhere we
have them here in Canada so I'm gonna
put the macros for this meal up here on
the screen we got 40 grams of protein 23
grams of fat and 72 grams of carbs for
630 calories so I'm gonna enjoy this
last meal I'm gonna flick on an episode
of Breaking Bad over here but if you
guys are interested in checking out the
new nutrition guide make sure you hit up
that pre-sale link at the first link in
the description box down below also I
did want to say that in this video I did
focus on some of the finer details of
nutrition which I actually find most
interesting and that is the tone that we
take in the book however we do also
cover the basics where basically if you
wanted to get you know some of the
results are probably most of the results
you could just focus on hitting your
calories hitting your macros and we go
through all the details in terms of how
to set that up in the book but then also
go several layers deeper and explain all
the complexities of nutrition in there
and so I think it's a really great
resource if you're interested hit up the
button over here next to my head I'll
take you to the pre-order link you leave
me a thumbs up if you enjoy the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one