what's up guys sean nalewanyj on Elcom
real science athletics common in this
video today I want to talk about the
subject of training for strength versus
training for aesthetics so a common
thing you'll hear nowadays on YouTube is
the idea that it's better to put your
focus on strength and performance as
opposed to hypertrophy or aesthetics
because training for strength is more
functional and it's less of a
superficial goal and I want to give a
few reasons why overall I don't think it
really matters which one you
specifically decide to focus on and why
you should simply go ahead and train for
whatever goal you want now before I dive
into it if you're new to the channel
here and you do find this advice helpful
don't forget to hit that subscribe
button below to stay in the loop on
future videos and also make sure to
follow me over on Instagram as well I
post there every single day with useful
training nutrition supplementation and
mindset advice that you'll definitely
get a lot of value from it's at Sean
underscore Nayla wani that's where
you'll find me when I'm not here on the
YouTube channel now before I mention
these points let me first make a couple
things clear here just so that I'm not
misunderstood so first off I do think
that training primarily for muscle
growth or fat loss is totally fine if
that's what you personally want to focus
on but at the same time getting
excessively wrapped up in the aesthetic
side can be harmful for some people
depending on their personality type so
if you find yourself totally obsessing
over every single ounce of muscle or
every quarter percent of body fat you
gain or lose and you're up there you
know checking your reflection in the
mirror every 10 seconds then yeah that's
probably not going to be a good thing
overall and it definitely can become a
source of stress and neuroticism if you
take it to the extreme so I would say
that training mainly for aesthetics is
fine as long as it isn't taken to an
unhealthy obsessive degree you aren't
going down to excessively low body fat
levels that are blatantly damaging and
for most people not to the point where
drugs get involved and if you do find
yourself in that situation then yes
changing up your perspective to make
your goals at least a bit more
performance-based can definitely be
helpful and then the second thing is
that if you are training mainly for us
that it goals
I still do recommend that you train your
entire body equally and that you cover
all the basic movement patterns in your
training program so I'm not recommending
that you go in and train chest and
biceps all day long okay for the sake of
overall balance and to prevent injuries
train your whole body you know
back your legs everything and include at
least a bit of weekly cardio as well for
overall health purposes okay so with
that out of the way let me cover three
reasons why I think having either goal
as your primary aim whether it's
strength or aesthetics is ultimately
fine and really is your own choice and
not anyone elses so the first reason is
that to a very large degree the two
goals go hand-in-hand
when people try to claim that training
for strength is superior to training for
muscle growth they're talking as if
these two things are mutually exclusive
when they aren't we know that
progressive overload is the underlying
driver of building muscle and so if you
want to add a significant amount of
muscle to your frame by a necessity
you're gonna have to get reasonably
strong in order to do that and the more
muscle you want to build a stronger
you're gonna have to be overall you know
you're not gonna walk into the gym on
your first day and be pressing 30 pound
dumbbells and then be pressing 30 pound
dumbbells a year later if you want to
grow you know in order to build up your
chest and your shoulders and your
triceps to greater and greater levels
you're gonna have to have had progressed
from you know 50s to 60s 70s 80s and
beyond so the fact that you're
continually striving for improved
strength is exactly what you have to do
in order to keep getting bigger and so a
bodybuilding program is essentially a
strength training program at heart
anyway so you know people can talk about
how bodybuilders aren't functional or
how their bodies are all for show when
in reality any natural lifter you see
who's been training for at least a
couple years and is carrying a decent
amount of extra muscle throughout their
entire body by default they're gonna be
physically stronger than the vast
majority of the population the only
people they're not going to be stronger
than our power lifters who specifically
trained to be as strong as possible but
outside of that very small niche because
powerlifting is a tiny niche relative to
the general population but people forget
that because they spend so much time
wrapped up in online fitness content but
outside of that very small niche of
people those bodybuilders are still
going to be in the very upper percentile
strength wise across the population as a
whole so bottom line is that if you're
training for muscle growth and overall
aesthetics and you're doing it properly
then you are training for strength by
default the muscle that you build is
functional because there's no such thing
as non-functional muscle and
a year or two or three you're gonna be
physically stronger than the vast
majority of people out there and that
brings me to the second point which is
that unless you're a competitive power
lifter or an athlete or you have some
real life day-to-day need to be
extremely strong at a particular
movement pattern then beyond a certain
point there's actually no practical need
to just keep getting stronger and
stronger and stronger and so training
for increased strength beyond what you
actually require to function optimally
during your regular life that's really
no different than training for increased
muscle growth in the sense that when it
all comes down to it they're really both
ultimately ego driven goals so there's
nothing better or morally superior about
either one because they're both
ultimately coming from the same place if
you're training to build a significant
amount of muscle and you're working your
whole body hitting all the basic
movement patterns then your practical
day-to-day strength needs are already
going to be covered by default and so
whether you choose to go beyond that
point is really just a matter of
personal choice in terms of your
preferences and what type of training
goals excite you the most the reality is
that the vast majority of people out
there have no practical need to be able
to deadlift 500 pounds or squat 400
pounds or benchpress 300 pounds outside
of specifically being in a gym
environment to test how much they can
lift and in some cases definitely not
all but some you can even make the
argument that in the long run some
bodybuilders actually end up being more
functional than some power lifters
because a lot of guys out there who are
constantly trying to push the envelope
and become as strong as physically
possible a lot of them end up hurting
themselves whether it's a lower back
injury I've broke my back your shoulder
or whatever else and so the guy who is
fairly strong but still keeps things a
bit more on the moderate side might
actually end up with healthier joints
and connective tissue you know 10 20 30
years down the line I'm definitely not
saying that that's true in all cases but
just look at how many power lifters end
up injured or eventually have to scale
things back and for a lot of people it
can actually end up detracting from
their overall functionality and
performance in the long term then the
final point that I'd make on this is
that if strength and functionality is
the superior goal and if that's what
people should be focusing on then why
stop at powerlifting or why stop
specifically at the goal of seeing how
much weight you can lift in a low to
moderate rep range right like ultimately
if your talk
about overall fitness and functionality
then that only represents a tiny
fraction of all the possible ways you
could be training for that goal you know
you have these guys who can squat
deadlift and bench a really large amount
of weight talking as if they're in this
superior position because they train for
performance when in reality there are so
many other functional performance-based
things that the human body can do for
example why glorify strength
specifically over endurance you know
there are guys who can squat 600 pounds
but would be out of breath from doing 10
minutes of cardio what about other
weight lifting movements outside of the
big three why is a deadlift more
valuable than a clean and jerk for
example
what about calisthenics what about
sprinting long distance running jumping
swimming climbing even something like
throwing you know there are a million
different ways to train for this thing
that we call performance and no one is
going to be able to train and excel at
every single one and so I don't think
there's any reason to specifically
glorify powerlifting or the ability to
lift very heavy weight for low reps with
barbells and dumbbells as some sort of
be-all end-all so to sum this all up I
don't see any good reason to claim that
training for maximum strength is the
better goal than training for maximum
muscle growth or for overall aesthetics
because like I covered in this video the
two go hand-in-hand to a large degree if
you want to gain muscle you're gonna
have to gain some pretty decent strength
by default and although you won't be as
strong as someone who prioritizes
strength from a practical perspective
you'll still be as strong as you need to
be to function optimally in real life
assuming that you're not an athlete or
someone who needs to be very strong at a
particular movement pattern for some
reason so there you have it guys the
reality as I see it about training for
strength versus aesthetics if you do
want to learn the exact step-by-step
methods that I recommend using in order
for you to build muscle and lose fat as
efficiently as possible while also
gaining some significant strength along
the way then make sure to take my
physique quiz over at quizzed Shawn now
calm because that'll get you started on
the proper training and nutrition plan
that you need based on your individual
goals body type and experience level you
can click up at the top of the screen
for that or use the link in the
description box below on the
supplementation side of things you can
also visit real science athletics comm
to check out my no BS research backed
supplements that I personally form
to help you get the very most out of
your fitness plan and maximize your
overall results link for that is also in
the description and make sure to hit the
like button leave a comment down below
and subscribe if you haven't already
in order to stay up to date on future
videos thanks for watching guys and I'll
see you in the next one
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]