there we go no you how solid I feel
everything working there is a lot of
tension yeah it's a lot of tension I
what's going on guys we are back here in
Pickerington Ohio today when we going
for a workout with John Meadows the
mountain dog we're gonna get in a super
intensive back workout I want to give
you guys a quick look at what I'm gonna
be eating pre-workout so we're here at
first watch which is one of my favorite
breakfast joints this is a chicken
burrito bowl so we've got some chicken
some black beans avocado some kale slaw
a whole egg and under here we've got
some quinoa and it looks like some rice
and you guys know anything about John
Meadows you know his workouts are pretty
crazy so I'm gonna be loading up on some
carbs so I also got these lemon ricotta
pancakes I think where Shawn and I are
gonna split these design thing because
anyway I could eat both of these hits
home and then I also got this kale
confit so this is one of my favorite
things to get here at this restaurant so
that's gonna be my print workout meal it
is 11:30 so we're gonna train around
1:00 1:30 so and I want to have two two
hours definitely gonna need some time
for this today to digest but I did want
to fuel up so anyways I'm gonna dig in
enjoy this and I'll see you guys over at
the gym let's hope
[Music]
we just rolled up here at the gym I'm
just thinking now you guys know I've
been running full body for the last like
six or seven months at least so I'm
curious to see how a workout like this
where I throw all my back volume on one
day feels like I feel like I wonder if
like my per session recovery capacity
has gone down at all or whatever or
maybe it's gone up like maybe I'll find
it easier I don't know it'd be really
interesting to see but yeah we're just
waiting for Don to roll up here now I'm
gonna smash it here he is here he is I
had to bust out something creative for
the what the but the plan is to die ball
so what do we hidden yeah let's see you
play like five exercises we get our
laughs get our rhomboids go traps a
little bit of spinal record work I think
what'll be interesting too is there's so
much talk about volume and intensity and
just kind of eyes were trained and we'll
just you know put our thoughts out there
on there all right man let's get into it
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
so what I wanted to do here was I was
thinking um start off with more lats and
I find these particularly good for kind
of a little bit more targeting in the
lower part of your lat so what I like to
do in these is first of all I like the
fact that this is dual so that I got a
little bit better line of pull with my
lap but I see a lot of people doing the
answer
what I want you to do is just lean back
a little so that you're you take your
elbows straight down this way
the supination is up to you is whatever
you feel comfortable the thing I don't
like about bars is it forces you into it
yeah yeah yeah like I feel that can be
really hard yeah and the rights to your
wrists and this is very hard so I like
these because it lets you supinate
whatever you feel comfortable with all
I'm thinking about is get my elbow down
and pletely and flex my lap that's all
I'm thinking about casual you're not
squeezing here you're more or less just
yeah it's all that there's no no
scapular retraction here it's pretty
much isolation yes and you're kind of
getting a little stretch action over
here too I'm picking up on your your
tricks so pretty much what we're doing
here is unilateral pull down but it's
very lat focused
so rather than squeezing the shoulder
blades together pretty much just driving
the elbow down and then getting a little
bit of lateral flexion at the bottom
because the lats don't only extend the
shoulder they also flex the spine
laterally a little bit so you'll feel a
really strong connection doing them that
way and then this is something I've
never tried before so with non-working
hand
we're just leaving it so you kind of get
a little bit of a stretch on the lats
as you go through a three-block so all
right that feels really good we're gonna
do two or three warm-up sets that's ten
we even reps in the tank here just kind
of getting oh yeah yeah
the goal here just the established mind
muscle connection is the number one goal
yeah and if you think about back
training well you have the hardest time
connecting with most people say we're
back yeah I know
you know I definitely have a stronger
mind muscle connection with my right
side I just feel it it's squeezed top to
bottom so much better the left side
feels a little more force so that's a
perfect way to help correct for that you
work both sides of it individually and
the other thing a lot of people with
these myself included have a tendency
and you were just helping me not do this
to kind of lean with your chest or it
makes it so much easier right then if
you keep your chest up toward the
ceiling right so now we're doing like
two working sets like two hard sets
wasn't too hard sets I'm thinking about
eight reps so the eighth rep it's
somewhere in that ballpark so what I
would want is I would want the last rep
to be the last rep you can do with good
form okay so you could cheat and do some
more yeah but I'd rather you just use
impeccable form yeah again that with the
goal being perfect mind muscle
connection and if you're somewhere
around eight reps you know you got a
good load yeah yeah yeah cuz I think
some people like okay well let's just
lighten it up and give it and just
squeeze well if it's so light I can't
even create enough mechanical things
right even do anything right and if it's
so heavy it's like okay now you're gonna
have a good bicep oh yeah like you can
make a moderate to lightweight feel hard
if you're cueing it right you know like
I could have moved that way
fairly easily but it was super hard
because I was so conscious about keeping
the upright posture driving the elbow
down makes it way harder when you take
your traps out of it and when you take
momentum out of it I keep telling people
trash your muscles not your joints hmm
so you really putting a lot of focus in
here you wanna hit all right
come on crazy contraption
nice nice nice the lower lap savages
how I already got a crazy life pumped on
here we go come on come on let's drill
him let's drill big flat big flat
they flex drive it up or down squeeze
come on one more time come on drive it
down again yeah perfume is
come on perfect trips huh come on keep
going it's perfect trips come on thank
you big flex come on BAM yeah here we go
feel the blood pumping in the last now
everybody's here two sets of eight on
the unilateral pulldown and you're like
can you do it this guy it's all about
intensity but see that's not that wasn't
stupid intensity those were good those
are good cleaner right right there's a
good thing rush yeah yeah and uh very
targeted
yeah I got kind of a cool one for you
here yeah we're gonna go into this room
the super secret room so what is this
contraption we're gonna put it over our
head we're gonna brought running broad
jump jump high jumps I wouldn't rule it
out we're actually just gonna do a trap
bar oh okay we get this neutral grip and
we could just yeah now that we got our
lats primed
yeah really prime so this is gonna feel
awesome now it could be me but I haven't
seen a Trump fire without the complete
attachment here yeah this is a really
cool trap bar it's made by kabuki but
it's really nice but see now now look at
where your hands are too when you're oh
just a little where you're pulling up
like we're gonna see what your hands on
yeah so it's allowing you to
now you're right laughs these right and
there's a wink it's heavier and you
progress along and didn't even the
rhomboids will start to help you that's
really nice because you're obviously not
limited by the bar head in your torso
yes more freedom to extend more right
see I knew I knew there'd be some
nuggets of wisdom in here of course
that's great then the cool thing here
here is look you can set the things oh
yeah beautiful so we'll do like one set
just kind of get the feel of it flex and
real hard of about eight or so reps
somewhere around there and then what to
do two sets where we go real hard okay
okay so one warm-up set two tough sets
something like the eight to ten reps
right yeah
okay so this will be my warm-up set yeah
this contraction it's crushing sold a
pool has a lot of tension yeah a lot of
tension
[Music]
yeah those are challenging there's a
difference between just kind of yanking
it up and sweet and almost like
struggling wheezing and drive in the
elbows back up it makes it way harder
the key to back your number on poverty's
your elbows it's how you move your
elbows your focus on your elbows it's
not focusing on your arms it's focusing
on your elbow and then just making sure
your torso set in right position so
there's our last set gonna go all out on
this one but still keep the form tight
is that right yes yeah okay all right
let's see what you got all right that's
it right there okay put the belt on for
this one all right baby
oh oh oh
that's a decent tan squeeze your breath
please your breath where's your back
come on that's it come on come on come
on last one good lot tension there oh
yeah super good good stretch good
squeeze love it that's one exercise no
twelve to go I want to see if you feel
the way I feel I'm gonna go grab a band
I'll be right back yeah but John says I
want you to feel it you know you're in
trouble so this is just a ban of gin but
the way I do these I like for people to
get real high up in the range of motion
that's like an untapped range of motion
you're going to get a pump like under
your armpit like right here that's
amazing I want you to feel this okay
pull the band down got it so medium grip
right there so up Roja
when you get down with that weight do
you feel that it's crazy grip just like
nice and steady
that's a perfect man that's exactly what
I want right there right there perfect
perfect
just sitting get about 12 good let's do
one minute good that's good for a first
set nice those are good it's a good feel
I've done those before but I'm really
emphasizing that top squeeze it right
you do feel it in that Terrace area yeah
here yes with the pull downs we were I
was feeling it more here yeah this is
now it's much high yeah what we're doing
is if you think about we're just kind of
working our way up yeah yeah yeah that
makes sense yeah so are we doing like
the same basic kind of thing here we're
gonna do one warm-up set and then a
couple hard working set yes and 1012
reps sort of it was your around 8 12
once you get to where you can't get up
real high if you if you can't like let's
say you were weren't able to get up or
high you do she's a thicker band right
right hello everyone
hey let's get
[Music]
so what we'll do is we're gonna walk
work right up our lack then we're gonna
work over into our round boys and lower
traps if their weaknesses were the
opposite and they could start here yeah
yeah yeah
most people don't make that problem yeah
yeah most people have a tougher time
connecting with their last white guy
just if you're a white guy call a white
man disease oh really yeah that's fun
I'm telling you man white guys we have a
hard time with our last okay Terri City
baby
three more semester here more time one
more time come on how solid I feel like
everything working they're new yep this
is new isn't it yeah so we can move this
inner out we can go pronated supinated
neutral beautiful what I was thinking
for our rhomboids and traps was the
pronated here yeah yeah and then just
set the footplate so our elbows are
traveling here right yeah so a lot of
times the foot plates not adjustable for
people and then they're pulling from the
wrong angle this is really heavy it's a
surprise
oh that's nice though I was not
expecting that fall from there in there
ready for that
that's the coolest machinima
so not only are these adjustable here so
you can go a little wider a little
narrow and 360 degrees of rotation on
the handle the footplate is adjustable
and then there's like this joint in here
so here John said we're trying to focus
more on the rhomboids rear delts and mid
traps so with all that stuff you've been
taking the neutral grip here we're gonna
go double overhand or toning good kind
of drive that side all right so we
jacked up the weight I'm gonna do
John's weight been doing 8 to 10 I'm
gonna try well we'll see what I can do
let's say put to the test you never know
oh it's good when you get that it's like
you're almost rounding around the pad oh
and then full squeeze it up that's what
I was all about the stretch you kind of
roll really gonna be rhomboids this is
more kind of the upper part of this
power yeah yeah the glow trap yeah right
yeah it's so hard I mean if you take a
wide grip like you do your whole back is
working on your back it's crazy yeah I
didn't know we were gonna do these these
are one of my favorites they're so hard
I know
people o people under 8 how hard they're
cuz the range of motion is kind of small
but this makes a lot of work perfect
perfect right there right there oh yeah
I'm I can't go too hard on this yeah
we'll be smoked for tomorrow we'll say
two sets of 10 yeah normally we would go
harder but we're splatting to wear so
we're using our brains and we're to hurt
ourselves this is a fantastic exercise
though so we start on our lat lower lat
we've worked our way up we got into the
upper lats went over to our Ron boys
traps that was fine all right I mean
your workouts are very intense but
they're very structured like they're not
ridiculous well people that don't really
understand what I do they'll see me do
like one high intensity said and though
it's what you do that might be a speed
rep or it might be something with reps
in reserve and they think all my sets
are leaving it's like no that's just one
isolated part of my workout so it's the
same thing with you I get I get do you
do any direct upper trap work like shrug
shrugs are so railroads I I don't the
reason why is I get migraines I used to
train my traps pretty heavy and actually
they got over developed I haven't
trained my traps to probably seven or
eight years I feel like deadlifts we're
pretty good for your upper traps
you know you get some rhomboid right
here some mid mid trap then as you get
up to the top you get a lot of trial for
sure yeah and that's the only thing I
really person got out
I got good spinal erectors a good trap
yeah yeah and I got to this point where
I started getting migraines wanna go
anymore my experience but that is people
who have good genetics for traps like
you will get a lot at a deadlifts for me
is genetically a weak point so if I
don't have extra isolation work like
shrugs up retros shrug ins deadlifts
alone I don't find they really quite cut
it I can tell you one thing that I had a
lot of success with people on was a
simple hold at the top for three seconds
whether it was a dumbbell or a barbell
if you hold it for three seconds at the
top you do a set of ten or twelve
absolutely blows your traps up
save it over tomorrow
for her actually deadlifts yesterday so
very careful that's sick
yeah hey I appreciate again you excited
for small to be doing sort of a little
scary okay now you know how I feel all
these times so how did that feel that
was really good man I like that style of
training it's good to switch it up it
was really nice anyway you want about
fooder yeah yeah yeah man I'm never
turning please yeah we've got a refuel
for tomorrow
absolutely well we're gonna go grab some
post-workout I'll show you guys what we
get yeah I can't wait man I can't wait
till Wednesday to every day off yeah
that was that was a challenge in a good
way
you know I was saying rashon like I
don't feel like you know I don't need
that you don't need to get the puke
bucket out no it's not that hard but
it's like my back feels just top to
bottom yeah fully stimulated maximum
stimulation follow me yeah so here's
what we got this is called the pink lady
roll this is Jones recommendation I
think we got this last time we were here
to this salmon looks delicious so some
salmon nigiri and edamame I'm still
actually pretty full from that breakfast
as you how do we go into person yes yeah
yeah they're so good anyway we're gonna
dig in to enjoy this and that's gonna be
a wrap for the video so if you guys
enjoyed it don't forget to leave the
thumbs up I'm gonna link the video that
we're doing on Jon's channel tomorrow
down below we should go check that out
and subscribe to John Levin oh you came
from over here I really appreciate it
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here the next one