the fitness industry commonly claims you
only need compound exercises for app
growth the truth is they're wrong and
here's
one welcome back Dr my wolf here PhD in
muscle hypertrophy back today with a
video about the ABS first of all what
are the ABS even commonly referred to as
ABS or core or midsection here's what
they really are the ABS or the core is
composed of a variety of MUSC groups
technically even though lower back
muscles the erector spin are involved in
the core right but the muscle group
people usually refer to when they talk
about their abs or their core is really
their six-pack muscle right while there
are other muscle groups like the
internal and external low Leakes like
the transverse abdominus like the lower
back muscles the OSP the main muscle
group people really care about
aesthetically is the Reus abdominis if
you look at this muscle on the anatomy
chart what you'll see is that this exact
looks like the six-pack muscle that a
lot of people are after interestingly
because there's a variety of muscles
they actually all have a variety of
functions right some of the more
internal muscles like the transverse
abdominis have the function of
controlling your diaphragm and
stabilizing your spine a little bit the
same can be said for the erectus Pine
however when it comes to the appearance
of the ABS the main muscle group
involved is the erectus abdominis and
potentially depending on your priorities
the obliques but the rectus abdominus is
primary function spinal flexion exactly
what you're told you need to avoid doing
deadlifts is actually what your abs
allow you to do flex your spine so you
might have heard that compound exercises
like the squat the bench the vlift the
pull-up the overhead press are all you
really need for abdominal growth and to
get a six-pack the truth is they're
simply wrong think about the squat or
the deadlift in these movements the bar
is actually trying to force you into
spinal flexion in order to resist this
as you've been told m multiple times in
your Fitness career back flexion is bad
keep your back straight in order to
prevent this flexion your lower back
muscles are actually active which is the
opposite of your six-pack muscle if your
six-pack muscle were to contract it
would actually force you to round your
back and flex your spine and that's
exactly what you're trying to prevent
and so your rectus abdominis simply
isn't being worked very hard during the
squat or the deadlift or even the bench
now you could argue that as with many
muscles in the core the rectus abdominis
could be involved in some stabilization
right of the spine and that might cause
some growth but that is reasonably
unlikely the one side exception in terms
of compound movements for the ABS is the
overhead press and the overhead press
your natural inclination will be to
overextend your spine and your abs will
actually have to work in order to keep
your spine a little bit more neutral so
I've just denounced a lot of fitness
influencers and the claim that compound
movements are all you need for ab
hypertrophy let me give you a caveat
there is no direct data on AB growth
stemming from different movements so
while I'm saying there's a very strong
rationale here for why we shouldn't
expect compound movements to really grow
your abs it could be a case that
actually you do see some AB growth the
truth is we just don't know personally I
don't think it's likely and here's why I
think you need to incorporate some AB
isolation exercises in your program if
you want to grow your abs as a quick
aside people often rely on EMG data or
electromyography data in order to inform
what ab exercises are better for certain
portions of the ABS or what they should
do the truth is the validity of EMG as a
means to select exercises or say one
exercises better than the other or one
exercise Targets this area of that
muscle has been called into question
multiple times both in actual studies in
review papers and so I really wouldn't
base your ab exercise selection off of
EMG studies showing greater activation
of a certain part of the ABS in one
exercise versus the other however when
deciding on which ab exercises to
perform general principles of EX exer
selection still do apply for example in
any exercise you pick we want to make
sure that your abs are actually the
limiting factor so when you stop a set
when you can't do another rep it should
be your abs that have reached failure
that simply can't produce enough Force
anymore to complete another rep a few
more principles one we want to be
training the ABS in that length and
position this is actually one of the
things I found during my PhD in sport
Science is that that lengthen position
is really important for muscle growth so
any exercise we pick should be training
the ab in spinal extension additionally
in the same vein we want tension to be
applied pretty forcefully in that
lengthened position ideally an exercise
should be as challenging as possible in
that stretch position that really grows
your abs finally we generally want to
stick with Dynamic muscle actions which
shortened and lengthened the ABS versus
isometric actions where the ABS simply
stay at one muscle length don't change
length or don't move like for example
during a plank the plank would be a
worse exercise on account of just being
an isometric muscle action so how do you
best train the ABS the truth is you best
train the ABS grow to your abs have them
be visible get a six-pack simply
training them like any other muscle
group that means training the ABS two to
four times a week for your best growth
between five and 30 reps per set maybe
all the way up to 50 if you don't have
much weight around train them pretty
close to failure you should probably be
doing 10 to 15 sets of direct ABW per
week maybe even more than 20 if you
really want your best ab growth try
picking exercises that lengthen the ABS
underload I'm talking about exercises
like the ab wheel roll out the dragon
flag the Candlestick certain machine
crunches decline crunches all of these
exercises are great for lengthening the
ABS underload AB training absolutely
makes your abs look better you will have
more of a six-pack if you train your abs
however unlike many other muscle groups
what most people care about with the ABS
is a visible six-pack so while AB
training will absolutely help you have a
better six-pack and maybe you have a
six-pack when you're a little bit fatter
losing some body fat is a Surefire way
to make your abs more visible and more
visually impressive to make app training
a little bit more time efficient and a
little bit more engaging for some people
let's face it not exactly the most
exciting training you'll ever do you
could consider super setting them with
another exercise like for example super
setting some AB training with some bicep
training because the muscle groups
involved in these exercises are not the
same you can safely do one set of abs
and then one set of biceps without
really interfering with performance on
either one and getting the same muscle
growth as if you just did them
separately and stared them through the
abyss for 3 minutes between sets finally
oblique work is a little bit more
optional if you want to train your
obliques consider doing some spinal
lateral flexion exercises or lateral
rotation exercises for example you could
do some side bends you could use a
machine like a rotary machine this is a
bit more optional because the obliques
both do contribute to spinal flexion
just like the re abdominus so simply by
doing exercises like like I mentioned
earlier the a rollout the dragon flag
Etc you'll still be training your
obliques a decent amount as well but if
you really want to optimize the size of
your obliques consider some isolation
exercise for those as well that's the
video let me give you a few takeaways
first compounds are very suboptimal for
the Abs if you really want to have a
better six-pack isolate your abs train
them just like any other muscle groups
during app training spinal flexion is
key do not just move about at the hips
right move about at the spine so go from
being like a cat stretching a very
overextended spine to like what you
think you shouldn't do during a deadlift
right where you round your back a ton if
you can get from one position into the
other you're successfully training your
abs do plenty of isolation exercises for
your abs if you really want to grow your
abs and have a more visually aesthetic
six-pack finally if you want to reveal
your abs training will take you a long
way but if you can see a thing you will
need to lose some body fat so a deficit
in terms of calories your energy and
losing some weight is still the key
that's the video if you like the video
please consider liking subscribing
commenting and I'll see you guys my
fellow six-pack havs enjoyers and lovers
in that next one peace