hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization today's quick tip is how
to eyeball your macros and actually get
really good results insert every
eyeballing joke you can
ogling the opposite sex hey it's 20 22.
ogling the same sex
just ogling is a really good idea so
check this out
eyeballing macros tends to be associated
with the fact that you're just making
this radical errors and you're going to
be a fat fuck or too skinny or some shit
like that
you gotta track you gotta measure you
gotta weigh everything on a food scale
all the serious people do it
hold on
that has a lot of truth to it if you're
a beginner and you don't know what the
hell you're doing don't eyeball your
macros you need to get something like
the rp diet coach app i'm just saying
every time you subscribe to it i get a
tiny bit of money if ceo of rp mr nick
shaw decides i get money that week which
usually doesn't and then it goes to
making sure i eat making sure the house
has heated water but most of it goes to
the lamborghini fund as you guys are
already very well aware
rp diet coach app
it does all the macros for you so
actually you just waste it on a scale
and it tells you exactly how many macros
everything has it takes care of it and
you know even if you're not going to buy
a product no fucking worries this one's
a good shit out there myfitnesspal
whatever macro factor all good stuff
at some point after you use these apps
for a few months maybe longer
you're pretty damn good at knowing how
much proteins fats and carbs are in some
shit you do it all the fucking time and
if you remotely look at the app and read
the shit instead of just saying tell me
what to do you get pretty used to
eyeballing your macros pretty well at
the very least you have some reference
ranges
this is especially true
if
you're eating pretty clean basic foods
much of the time okay
a cup of rice just looks like a fucking
cup of rice it's not fucking rocket
science
if you have been eating out but it's at
the similar places so like if you go to
chipotle and they always put the same
number of scoops or whatever and even if
you go a similar time and that one girl
is always there you realize half of you
is going for the food the half is being
like hey hey uh stacy do they wear name
tags of chipotle uh scott do they wear
name tags at chipotle i don't think they
do
you're not encouraged to speak to them
as humans just as burrito manufacturing
machines
of which often they are terrible at but
that's neither here nor there in any
case you go to chipotle and the same
person makes you breed every time
because you always go at 2 39 p.m
exactly they think you're probably a
serial killer and they're correct
and you kind of get used to how much
food you're eating right and you you've
gone through the task of going to
chipotle.com and looking at their
nutrition facts and calculating all out
then the burritos are roughly the same
fucking science so you kind of memorize
the macros after a while and if you've
been doing this shit for like you know
six months plus
you're damn good at eyeballing your
macros you're just really used to the
shit if someone's like how much protein
is that you're like it's probably about
40 grams they weigh it they're like holy
shit 38 grams how the fuck did you know
that you're like it's not my first day
eating and counting shit
so if you are in that position where
you're getting really good at it you can
feel free to eyeball
and just track on estimates you can
write down shit in your app just through
eyeballing and here's how you do it on
maintenance if you're not gaining or
losing weight as part of your goal you
can for sure eyeball as a matter of fact
it's a really good idea because a lot of
times look like i fucking designed and
sell a fucking app it's a huge fraction
of my income that has you track all the
shit i'll be the first person to tell
you that when you're on maintenance
taking a break from the app is probably
a good idea every now and again um so
maintenance maybe take a little bit of a
break from tracking super meticulously
and just eyeball it if you're
comfortable
if you're on a massing phase a muscle
gain phase yeah probably using apps is a
very good idea but if you're gaining
weight on track and you're used to
eyeballing
no problems right
if you're gaining weight off track maybe
not a good idea on a fat loss phase if
you're not stalling if you're losing
weight according to exactly how much
weight you should be losing or roughly
then you are
totally fine to continue eyeballing now
if you're in a muscle gain phase and
you're not gaining as much weight as you
need to be or you're gaining too fast i
would recommend going back to formal
tracking at least give it some thought
because clearly eyeballing's not fucking
working
if you are on a fat loss phase there's
another big problem
when you're in a fat loss phase your
perception changes because you start to
be hungry and like oh i don't know a
billion years of evolution makes you
start to mis-estimate sizes you're like
yes this genetically engineered massive
apple has 15 grams of carbs like
motherfuckers got 75 what are you
talking about you're like no it's 15.
all apples are 15. you start lying to
yourself i would weigh and track and
measure and use the rp diaco chap or
something like that because then you
know you can't lie to yourself if you
put the fucking shit on the scale and
it's like okay it's 37 grams of carbs
like damn it i wanted to pretend it was
25 so i could eat more if that's you
fuck eyeballing but if you're good and
you're losing weight on track keep going
unless you're stuck on fat loss or
muscle gain
worrying about 20 to 40 gram swings in
various nutrients like if you're eating
like 200 grams of protein a day 300
grams of carbs and like whatever 60
grams of fat if you're worrying about 20
to 30 swings on protein gram wise
you know 30 to 40 swings of carbs and
like
15 to 10 swings on fats that's fucking
insanity it all averages out and to come
back to an earlier point
if you're losing on track
who gives the fuck someone could be like
well you should be measuring more
precisely because then you're estimating
more accurately you're like uh-huh so
that i can do what like lose weight on
track like ah i'm already doing that oh
shit with almost no effort minimal
effort
if you're getting great results you can
eyeball it's totally cool
and here's the last
exclamation mark on this little talk for
today your favorite top bodybuilders
most of them eyeball
some of them use a food scale in rare
circumstances
many of them can't count
i'll see you guys next time