hey guys dr. Mike Gesell here for
Renaissance plus today's topic is the
attempt to figure out what the best
rates of weight-loss are for fat loss
and by best in this case we mean
specifically for people just interested
in losing fat to become leaner for their
own aesthetic purposes and healthier for
medical purposes so they're kind of you
could say three schools of thought on
this I don't know if their schools of
thought but three positions one is the
slow and steady position which says that
you got to go SuperDuper slow you don't
want to jostle anything disrupt
homeostasis too much throw yourself off
your game plan bite off more than you
can chew and there's some good stuff to
be said for that
the opposite end of the spectrum is the
get over fast school of thought or
approach which is like cut into the diet
lose fast so that you can end the diet
quicker so you could see really good
results fast to keep yourself motivated
and there's some good things including
what I just said to go for that and
there's kind of more middle-of-the-road
approach which sandwiches itself between
the two of there's such a thing as too
fast as such a thing as too slow let's
aim for that middle through the course
of this video I'm going to be echoing
that middle of approach I want to be
very clear on something people often
pride themselves on saying some things
like well you know extremists are never
correct and extremism is not ever the
right view and well you know the middle
is usually best that's not actually true
that's not always the case there are
lots of exceptions to that enough of
them that it's not really good rule to
go in the middle for example a just a
really quick political example at the
time of the founding of the United
States a essentially the liberal
Republic a constitutional republic was
non-existent up until that point the
u.s. experiment was completely radical
and one could have surmised at the time
of the you know revolution of 1776 that
well you know these are extremists and
it's gonna fail
so that idea
it didn't fail it produced the or kind
of led to the discovery of the most
viable current form of government there
had ever been assured in a world
revolution for freedom and civil rights
and all of the great things that we now
take for granted as the beginnings of a
political discussion so as almost any
time you talk about a country that is
not a constitutional republic and whose
government has not run as a democracy
it's it's like well that sucks but they
have these other things going for them
it used to be a really really extreme
view so people back in the days of well
that's very extreme could have prided
themselves on their middle-of-the-road
approach oh well better safe than sorry
but not too cautious right in the middle
and it would have been very wrong and
there's lots of examples in all sorts of
medical and biological fields as well
that tend to refute that idea so we're
not taking the middle-of-the-road
approach just because we're kind of
playing it pretty aggressive but still
safe we this isn't like you know stock
investing or something like that
the reason we're taking the middle of a
roll approach is because of the logical
reasoning that there are too many
downsides some upsides on the two slow
approach too many downsides though there
are some upsides on the too fast
approach so let's take a look at those
downsides and upsides and then find that
the logical mechanisms steer us towards
that middle of the road not just this
kind of compunction to say while the
middle is always best because that's
just not true it doesn't have to be true
so first a point of attack here is we're
gonna try to talk about what to fast is
what rate of weight loss is too fast to
lose fat at well you know so in some
kind of sense there's no such thing and
the faster the better right it's not
like oh my god you lost five pounds of
fat last week you're gonna be five
pounds leaner most of these issues come
along from a sustainability perspective
the number that were most comfortable
referencing is one percent of body
weight lost per week in a week to week
to week plan on average that doesn't
include body water so if you lose more
than one percent your first week don't
worry about it that's fine but week
three week four week five if you're
still losing faster than one percent a
week some of these downsides may hit you
sooner than Lee
and you may find that your approach was
too aggressive now there is obviously as
with all human traits and behaviors
there's a normal distribution about this
point some individuals can tolerate 1%
just fine some can tolerate 1.5% per
week just fine it actually works better
for their combination of physiology
psychology and particular situation in
which they're in some individuals can't
even get close to 1% we'll talk about
some of those later in the slow approach
but the 1% is just an average but
knowing nothing else about yourself if
it's your first time dieting or second
or third or something if you want to
diet faster than 1% per week consider
this first and then make up your
decision because for the average
individual it might be a bit too fast up
to 1% and including is fine but much
above that especially 1.25% 1.5 or 2%
everybody with per week starts to run to
some problems so of question is what
problems one problem immediately is most
of us are dining just to lose weight
we're dining to lose fat which means
we're dieting to preserve muscle mass as
well as loose fat can you lose a lot of
weight fast and one percent of week yes
can you keep most of your muscle
probably not the further above 1% per
week you go the more risky it becomes
for muscle loss so if you stay within or
at that 1% figure meaning if you weight
200 pounds at 2 pounds of weight on
average loss per week or or less then
which end up having is a lot of fat loss
but at minimum risk to muscle you start
pushing 1.2 1.4 1.6 percent per week you
start to eat away at muscle in most
cases muscle loss is not a great idea
not a good idea for health a
deteriorates your health makes you
weaker and it also if you're doing this
as many of you are for view
impressiveness you're gonna end up
looking skinny you know nobody really
likes to hear that at the end of the
diet people think that looks sick or
it's like oh hey are you like doing a
willem dafoe look-alike contest or
something you're like ooh it's actually
maria shriver look-alike contest but
close same person I think so it's one of
situations where there are few people
especially in our fitness industry and
most of you watching we're not really
dieting to be thin weird I need to be
lean lean implies here when you buy a
lean steak doesn't mean you
get the stake there's nothing there
that's that's the analogy for skinny you
get a good big steak but it's not a lot
of fat so an order spare muscle and have
that lean look which most people really
like and most people really going for
you want to make sure you take your time
less than 1% of weight loss per week a
second really big concern if you lose
weight fast enough your energy levels
for training are gonna start to plummet
which again is gonna affect your muscle
mass it's also going to affect your
performance of sport if you're a
crossfitter if you're a weightlifter if
you're a power lifter if you're a
bodybuilder your ability to perform well
at your chosen sport to do what it takes
in training to keep getting better or at
least stay as good it's going to
significantly deteriorate if you're
losing weight for a CrossFit competition
because you think your gymnastics
performance is going to improve if you
lose fat awesome if you lose it so fast
that you get so weak in training that
you are not able to execute the volume
load or even to be able to do the
movements that are required you're gonna
suck worse and worse at gymnastics and
then you're gonna get skinny and you're
gonna realize oh geez I didn't get
better at anything I wanna so the energy
levels for training are a big problem
there's another chasing the tail problem
where if your energy level for training
start to really drop because you're
cutting calories too much then at first
you're gonna be losing weight really
fast but because your energy levels for
training and maybe even for cardio are
down your average expenditure of energy
is gonna go down in training sometimes
you can adjust for this sometimes it's
too much and you can't when those energy
expenditure levels go down we run into a
problem you don't have to cut even more
food from your diet which leads to even
lower energy and that whole cycle
continues until you barely have energy
to Train you're eating very very little
and you're losing a whole lot of muscle
mass and forget about competing in your
sport because you now way way below your
normal competitive levels another
situation or problem with this approach
is not just your energy levels for your
workouts which may through a variety of
motivational quotes and grit and drive
and maybe the use of stimulants properly
can over
another concern is your ability to
perform daily tasks and be cognizant of
co-judge at work as I am filming this
video currently I am one week out from a
bodybuilding show and by necessity to
the exotic nature of that sport I am
well outside of the range of what
normally would be done nutritionally in
training wise and my cognition is
severely impaired I am absolutely not
sharp whatsoever difficult for me to
read and respond to emails it's hard to
type it's hard to go up and down stairs
I'm not very good at life right now
if you diet much faster than 1% per week
you may find yourself in that scenario
even though you're not dating for a body
gleeg show there are other concerns
other than dieting through life and this
is especially true if you're dedicated
if you're committed and this is just
another cutting phase for you and you're
nowhere near quitting you might be able
to survive this and just kind of take it
on the channel say ok this is just a
part of process that's what I'm doing
this lobbie daughter I know it's a very
temporary State and it's okay for me to
not be super productive for two weeks
just barely get by I've done plenty of
work before this hey I'm even working
right now and it's working out ok but
especially to beginners who often rush
into these things who try to diet faster
than 1% per week they may come to the
very erroneous a very unfortunate
conclusion that oh dieting that's the
thing that makes me not be able to think
trouble walking up stairs hard workouts
are impossible and I suck at my job oh
when I suck with my family too because I
don't have enough energy to do anything
for them my kids want to go to the park
or the zoo and I can't take them or I
don't want to take them or I'm really
crapping when I do because I have no
energy dieting yeah that thing that's
not for me I can't dive well that's a
terrible conclusion because at a slower
rate of weight loss dieting is super
sustainable and not really a big deal
it's still yields results it just takes
a little longer that's ok so if you rush
people in or you let them rush
themselves and oftentimes into a really
really fast weight loss they come up
with the conclusion after usually
failing the diet after several weeks or
months and rebounding which we'll talk
about
but usually come up with a conclusion or
dieting we know that's just not
sustainable it's crazy but the only
thing that was sustainable about it much
of the time is that they try to do too
quickly right and of course then it
becomes an untenable situation so
remember that the energy loss isn't just
a problem work outs that energy loss is
a problem through daily life which is
usually much more important even than
your fitness goals so there's a limit
there so making sure you don't go too
fast can make sure daily life is good
and it can really lead to sustainability
and an enjoyment of a fitness process
which really potentiates you doing it
for a long time
another concern if you die too harshly
the speed and and force with which your
body reduces your own subconscious
physical activity in movement patterns
wakefulness and metabolism is much
greater
you basically for to use a very
colloquial term go into starvation mode
which is a real thing if you starve
animals humans are included in that
group long enough it's specifically hard
enough then they will start to display
very low levels of daily activity why it
is an ancestral genetic mechanism that
is programmed possibly through one
measure hundreds of millions of years of
evolution reinforced all of those
hundreds of millions of years that when
there's not a lot of energy in the
external environment not a lot of food
being very active is a very poor use of
resources so the idea is your food
seeking Radar becomes really precise
your physical activity becomes really
low you basically sit by a tree for a
while when food happens to pop up only
then do you have a fight-or-flight
response to go catch it to go solve a
problem but if food is not abundant your
body and mind are designed to go into a
regressive conservation mode so your
neat right which is an acronym that
essentially translates into unconscious
energy production activities how much
you fidget and all the stuff
non-exercise activity thermogenesis the
complicated way how much you're fidgety
how much you talk to your
don't you pick up the phone in this last
little bit dieting for this competition
I've had situations where I wanted to
say a cool joke to my friends in
response to something they said sitting
right in front of me and I abstained I
didn't say the joke because it didn't
feel like it because I didn't feel like
moving my mouth because talking was hard
you died hard enough you diet fast
enough you who hit that wall sooner than
later
you would hit harder as soon as you hit
that wall or as soon as those kinds of
processes begin to roll your resting
metabolic rate and your total metabolic
rate start to go down how much physical
activity you do unplanned not just an
exercise even if you're hitting the same
amount of cardio day you might not walk
across the street to the drugstore like
you planned you might not go dancing
with your husband like you planned all
of that starts to decline your
metabolism your total energy expenditure
starts to go down and then what do we
get from that we have to cut our
calories even lower to keep up those
weight loss rates so it makes the diet
incredibly starvation prone it makes the
hunger pangs crazy because you have to
go that much deeper to make those cuts
so in a sense your body when you're
dieting too fast much faster than 1
percent a week will make you diet slower
but you don't want it to make your diet
slower because that comes with a lot of
other harsh consequence particularly
mood effects and hunger pangs when you
diet really fast
your mood will become sour low energy
recalcitrant you won't want to be
shifted from your daily activities for
anything ok for example you're at your
office somebody brings in something a
form for you to sign that you haven't
seen before normally if you're dieting
within realm or you're dieting not
dieting at all we're dining responsibly
and not too fast you go oh cool I'll
just take care of this right now
if you're dieting at faster than 1% by
much in most situations somebody brings
in the form and it's this gigantic and
convenient your mind has to shift its
perception altogether it's got a it has
to basically realign itself completely
and all of a sudden you're going to form
what the hell is this and you can get
aggravated
it's not very entertaining aggravation
because you're too low energy to explode
on anyone so uh it just feels like that
all the time every inconvenience is
multiplied many fold if you have a
family especially if you have children
significant others you already
understand before I even set this that
this sort of situation is not
sustainable in the least and if you plan
on doing this more than a couple of
times to get to your goal body weight or
body fat you're gonna be inconveniencing
yourself greatly inconvenience ain't
family friends and co-workers
exceptionally good idea to not go there
hunger pains another really big concern
if you diet relatively slowly you can
get away with minimal hunger on a diet
especially with some really good
adjustments and we've written a lot
about that at various Renaissance
writings and videos and things like that
however if you died very very very fast
faster than one percent per week your
chance of getting rebound hunger pangs
are nasty they go up really fast food
starts to look sublime in nature some of
you may have experienced this before but
if you diet way to rapidly you'll be
watching a movie I remember my situation
particularly again I was dieting for a
robotic leg show so it's a little bit of
an exception but very identical kind of
process just for a different reason and
I was in theaters watching The Hobbit
movie when it came out and I remember
that in one of these situations the
various or were they called the why I
guess they're hobbits right no the
dwarves showed up to Bill Bowes house
and they started to make dinner and they
were consuming cheeses and sausages and
breads and I'm sure there was some
dialog in there that was important
irrelevant to the major plot of the
movie but the only thing that interested
me was the food that's all I could think
about that's all I thought about after
the movie was over that is the only that
when I think now about what the Hobbit
was about that's the one scene that
stands out forever in my mind because it
was so permanently woven in when I saw
it and damn near starvation mode that
kind of pervasive psychological hunger
not just physiological anymore that
desire to eat tasty foods till the
ceiling blows off sets you up for a
nasty rebound even if you don't get a
nasty rebound if you follow good
maintenance phases it makes you
miserable while you're doing it and it
can leave you with lasting effects that
are not pleasant
borderline disordered eating behaviors
not formal eating disorders but nothing
you want rattling around in your head
it's a bad deal and most people find
that this kind of radical hunger is
unsustainable and most of the rest if
they can sustain it during the diet
they're so overwhelmed by these
situations when they're off the diet
that they regain either all or too much
of the weight back all that's struggling
and for what
just to regain the weight so those are
some really good reasons really big
really powerful reason that 1% or faster
on average dieting speed is not a good
idea per week now mind you just to
reiterate we're not saying just to be
conservative better safe than sorry
we're not saying that if in fact these
issues were not a big deal for fast
weight loss rates we would absolutely
recommend them why'd I a longer than you
have to but they are big and almost if
not all of the consultants and coaches
and Renaissance most people in our
community have personally experienced
these when you personally experienced
them you know not to mess with them
anymore any more than you have to so
they don't have to diet that fast
maybe we can obviate a lot of these
problems by dieting a bit slower so
that's the sort of refutation for that
way too fast
one common really quick before we move
on to the downsides of slow weight loss
excessively slow weight loss one of the
common arguments made is okay I've got a
client backed or myself I'm just
starting out on my weight-loss journey
I'm very overweight I can lose a lot of
weight really fast isn't it a good idea
for me to lose weight fast and there's
something there to say that you know
it's very motivating to see the scale
drop fast etc and people say look you
know muscle loss risk
is really low if people are very
overweight and losing weight and just
start an exercise for the first time and
that's absolutely very true so why not
push them faster
well I bring that argument back to you
and I'm going to be as ginger and
politically correct about this as I can
but as many of you know about me my my
limits for political correctness or
rather slim here's the deal what kind of
people can you push really fast what
kind of people can you push a lot if you
have a trained martial artist who
suffered who's been kicked who's been
punched and you push them hard in the
gym getting kicked getting punched you
know they can take it they've proven it
and they can take the kind of beating
that almost nobody can and they'll
bounce back and you don't have to worry
about them as much now everyone has a
breaking point but their's is high and
they've proven that on the other hand if
you have an individual who is just very
not prone to violence gets a pinprick
and starts crying is that the kind of
individual that you want to punch and
kick in the face a lot and say hey it's
just a part of training next set let's
go of course not if their chances of
quitting you're gonna be super high just
the same way individuals that tend to be
very overweight and this is not
absolutely meant as an insult it's meant
at a pure statement of fact on average
the individuals that find themselves
very overweight because as evidenced by
their being very overweight they're
probably the kinds of individuals that
need to be more careful about avoiding
the pitfalls of dieting there are the
kinds of individuals that probably have
more cravings than average than
everybody else that probably have more
challenges in their life or in their own
personal psychology of adhering to a
plan of consuming healthy foods all of
our strictly the calories if you're 200
pounds overweight you're not the number
one candidate for being the kind of
individual at that time maybe later you
will but at that time we're not guessing
you can be pushed the furthest we're
guessing you probably can't be pushed
the farthest but because physiologically
your body will release fat very easily
when you're very highly over fat and we
don't have to worry about muscle we
don't have to go easy on you
so where does that leave us it leaves us
right back into that middle we're
talking about yes
physiologically individuals that are
very over fat and just start a program
of training and diet can go faster but
psychologically they probably shouldn't
so that averages us back to right around
that middle value and we'll talk about
the middle values when we talk next
about what the bottom end is of too slow
so you guys see where I'm going with
that can vary over fat people go faster
yes should they try as a matter of
course no if they do a successful diet
and they lose at around one percent and
they just rock it out and they go that
was super easy we could say try faster
next time after maintenance phase but
how about this
just blow the same speed one percents
really fast for someone who weighs 300
pounds that's about three pounds of body
fat per week you stretch that for three
months we're talking about mega amounts
of weight you do three or four of those
cycles your normal weight now so if
something that is supposed to be
challenging may impossible for most
people to do rapid fat loss at one
percent and you have a client who you
yourself have pulled it off
with basically no harm and the thing you
think is I can do that faster
don't take your maintenance face and
have another painless at Las Vega was a
way to lose fat without any of the
downsides without any of the low energy
without any of the hunger without any of
the anything that we're talking about
here that would be amazing and you found
it so why not stick to that right it's
like saying I went on a hike and I
didn't ever get foot pain or I didn't
get hungry and I didn't prick my hand on
anything and that was a really fun hike
and I got through ten miles someone says
what are you gonna do tomorrow you go
cuz you know you're at this resort and
it's a hiking resort they say you know
I'm gonna go for 15 miles cuz I want
some some pain why is that really gonna
make your hike better well I feel like
I'm getting more value that way out of
the resort or something that's something
any sense you can always come back right
so if you have successfully run a fat
loss diet and it's already at the top
limit
you say I can go faster don't go faster
is my best recommendation and ours a
renaissance it's taken maintenance phase
for sure know that you have no lasting
impact all that negatives of the diet
and then take another easy route to
another 30 pounds of weight loss it's
amazing so then you used to weigh 300
pounds now hypothetically you weigh 260
pounds and someone's like man that must
have been really challenging there you
go you know what it wasn't challenging
at all what does that mean does that
mean you didn't suffer a grind or grit
enough to earn it know that craps for
children
there's no earning it in Fitness there's
doing it and getting it done that's all
that matters and secondly you have a
huge advantage if you are in that group
you're now a 260 pounds and you feel
like you haven't even warmed up yet
guess what you are like 60 pounds to go
over the next several phases of the
cycle you'll find that as you get closer
to 200 pounds you will have to flex your
muscle a little bit you will have to
grind a little bit even below 1% so the
beauty of that is if you're very highly
over fat and you think you can go faster
Humor all of us and don't
and then you'll save that much more for
the later phases when you'll need it
you'll have that much less die of
fatigue I can't emphasize that point
enough now to switch gears what if we
take the extreme view and say well let's
do that for everyone let's make dieting
so easy that you barely notice it huh
now we're talking about very slow rates
of weight loss and let's talk about the
downsides there we quantify a
renaissance very slow as anything much
slower than half a percent per week now
we're gonna talk about a group of people
in a sec that can lose slower than that
and they're special exceptions but for
most people interested in fat loss and
weight loss for health and fitness and
performance anything much slower than
half a percent per week has some
benefits all of the ones that are the
opposite of the cost won't lead to
muscle mass if you go slower than half a
percent a week your energy levels will
be great you don't get any neat
reductions in any unconscious effort
reductions you don't get any negative
mood effects you don't get any hunger
pains rebounds so we're saying oh my god
is awesome it is awesome in those
respects but it has some other downsides
too which push the needle back into the
middle ground so what are those
downsides first of all this is a
tracking problem if you lose 0.5 percent
of your body weight or less that is
basically like saying if you weigh 200
pounds you're losing a pound a week if
you're a bodybuilder or a fitness pro or
a crossfitter who's got a lot of
experience and you're used to your body
you're used to listening to your body
you know what kind of carbohydrate foods
and diets and stress have an effect on
your weight one pound week is very
tenable to lose and you can actually
keep track of that because of the
regularity of the rest of your life for
most individuals especially that are new
or relatively new to the dieting process
especially let's say if you way closer
to hundred and fifty pounds
now we're talking about fractions of a
pound lost per week you eat a little bit
of salt or it's a little bit more humid
outside or you drink a little bit less
water for some of the weigh-ins and all
of a sudden looks like you're making no
progress at all we'll talk about how
that's demotivating in just a second but
what about tracking what about
adjustments your guess as to how many
calories you need to take in how many
calories you need to burn could be
wildly wrong you wouldn't know for weeks
if not months because you're moving so
slow so if you're losing a plan to lose
a quarter of a pound of tissue per week
how do you know you're on the right
track you could be gaining for three
weeks but due to body water it looks
like you're losing so then you pissed
away three weeks
you weren't really losing you were
gaining you were going the other
direction you had no idea so there's a
tracking problem there there's not a
tracking problem in the middle of the
road there's definitely not a tracking
problem at one percent plus but we have
those other problems all right so if you
lose weight fairly rapidly you can tell
if the plan is working you can tell how
well it's working because weight drops
off pretty quick if you lose weight way
too slow or the goal is to lose weight
way too slow you can be in a situation
where you're not really quite sure if
you're losing me
people see how's that fat loss phase
going you're like ah what's going on
come on Twitter view loss for you oh
nothing on the scale yet but I feel
great
someone's ever really satisfied with
that answer fundamentally so does the
tracking problem there's another problem
just hinted to it earlier of
demotivation
it can be incredibly demotivating to be
doing the diet to be doing the cardio to
be restricting fundamentally and we've
published articles on this dr. melissa
davis of RP has made a very good article
of this very good blog post about the
cutting is not a lifestyle healthy
living is a lifestyle but a dedicated
fat loss space as a distinct beginning
in a distinct end and it is
characterized by restriction even the
most liberal cutting plans are
fundamentally restricted and that
psychology weighs on you while it's
weighing on you you're not seeing any
results on a scale that can be varied
emotive here you're cooking all these
meals you're making all these Tupperware
containers you're counting all these
macros all the stuff and for what some
weeks you lose weight some weeks you
don't in the weeks you don't my god that
can really bear down on you and
especially if we talk about that group
of people that starts out with no weight
loss yet on they're very over fat and
they've done a lot of things that failed
and a genetics posing that group to a
while we're just gonna play it by ear
and go super easy well after three or
four weeks of seeing almost no results
they're gonna get very upset they're
gonna get very console run and they're
probably just gonna quit and a lot of
people do so there's such a things
that's too slow from a motivational spat
point it's good to have a weight loss
fast enough to where you're like boom
this is happening the weights going down
the waist is is tightening up your belt
nachos a couple weeks every couple weeks
we're getting a little looser you got to
move up a belt notch every now and again
measurable results can be very
motivating so there is such a thing as
too slow for motivation on itself and
what I just inted to a lastly is I
remember there is this illusion of a fat
loss lifestyle that loss is not a
lifestyle fat loss is a tool a phase a
distinct unit of time that occurs and
then it is over and then you get back to
your healthy eating lifestyle and
maintenance by definition losing fat is
an imbalance of the homeostatic
processes of your body your body's
fundamentally out of balance that is a
psychological burden it is a clock that
begins to take as soon as you start
dieting
if you died excessively slowly meal prep
restriction the idea that you can't just
go to a restaurant and eat whatever you
want for one meal because you know
what's gonna count some way or somehow
you know that your body's really gonna
bring you back to your homeostatic
normal base rate but that if you have
every meal every now and again of just
eating whatever you want your body's
just gonna bring you back up to that and
you won't be able to lose that
realization that you're in a diet that a
psychologically taxing and if you go too
slow you just end up dieting for a
really long time for a minimum result
I'll put it you this way is it safe to
go on a road trip and travel only down
side streets and off the freeway and go
30 miles an hour absolutely much safer
than the freeway on that but how long
can you road trip for until you go
insane and quit and turn back and turn
around you can so the car analogy is
really good here there are three
fundamental ways to do a road trip one
which we already talked about the
excessively fast is going 120 miles an
hour down the freeway was just plain
dangerous and unsustainable the other is
to use only side streets and go 30 miles
an hour painfully slow right and the
other is maybe 60 70 on the freeway
within the speed limit but at the
top-end get you where you're going
pretty safely but it also gets you there
on time you don't have a tendency to
just not want to ever road trip so we
want diets to be a pretty decent clip
sustainable but decent so that they
begin they go for some length of time
several months they end there's
something to show for there's no rebound
but you got somewhere really good
instead of just floated around lastly
just to make sure we're clear some
individuals some groups of people they
don't fall under this constraint so for
them it's actually okay to go slower
than half a percent per week advanced
athletes to whom training intensity and
volume are incredibly important if
you're a crossfitter
and you have to be at competition weight
in four months and your competition
weight is only about five pounds below
what it is now in tissue you have to
train your butt off to be in shape for
that competition
you can't have a diet weighing you down
you can't have a fast weight loss rate
being so hypo caloric that it doesn't
support recovery it doesn't support
maximum performance you may choose to go
very slowly
yeah half a pound a week or something
like that even less but you're also very
used to your body you can tighten just a
couple of knobs and get that weight-loss
going and you know you're on track and
you can check in every month and if the
last month didn't get you down about a
pound or two you can go again a little
harder this next month
but you can't go super fast because
training is so important
other athletes that need to do this our
bodybuilders gymnasts wrestlers
individuals to whom performing at the
very time of their training is super
important if you're losing weight just
to lose weight if you're losing fat just
to lose fat some relatively minimal
amount of weight training and cardio is
gonna be although it you need to do you
can not perform at work at your 100%
best for a couple of weeks and be okay
and then you can lose weight really fast
because you have a big margin
but for athletes that really need to
perform at a super high level yeah they
can go slower especially if they're used
to bodies and especially if the tracking
situation is not a problem
for those individuals yes 0.5% and
lasses totally fine but for most of us
between half a percent and 1 percent
weight loss per week RP we recommend for
about 8 to 12 weeks and then with about
eight to twelve weeks of maintenance in
between those fat loss phases if you
want to keep losing fat that's probably
the best combination fast enough to keep
you motivated at a good clip measurable
slow enough to avoid the extremes of
hunger the extremes of energy reduction
Louis
give that some thought thank you so much
for tuning in see you next time
[Music]