listen to jacked scientists those are
the guys are going to tell you like
these are the foods that are actually
good for you these are the foods and
almost everyone agrees Sugar's terrible
for you okay I'll just have to come out
swinging Joe Rogan no offense at all
you're the man and my respect for you is
super
[Music]
Mass hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength I am a longtime professor of
sport and exercise science am a
competitive bodybuilder and a
competitive Brazilian jiu-jitsu Grappler
and today I will be reviewing
the pharmaceutical nutritional and
training approaches of a the Mr Joe
Rogan who is also a Brazilian Jitsu
practitioner and I believe is a lot
better than I am at it though he is not
encumbered by the unathletic nature of
being Jewish yeah that's right I said it
I hope we don't get canceled for that
let's see what Joe Rogan is up to and
see if we can't learn some shit 3 2 1
Joe Rogan one of the things that I love
about kettle bells is that it promotes
functional strength it promotes the
entire body moving as a unit and that
seems to apply very quickly to Athletics
yeah cattle bells are pretty cool for
that um I will say that almost
everything kettle bells almost
everything kettle bells do well barbells
and dumbbells do better if you really
like kettle bells how they make you feel
how the movement is there's not a
goddamn thing wrong with them but I
would say like over indexing on kettle
bells as a first order priority of
trying to figure out your Fitness I
would say uh barbells and dumbbells
first also body weight movements
push-ups pull-ups dips things like that
are unbelievable and also machines are
great and all of these confer functional
strength functional strength is this
really interesting term which the more
you look at it scientifically the less
it means but it turns out that if you
practice or play whatever sport you do
whatever physical activity you do and
you challenge all of the muscles of your
body through insanely High deep stretch
ranges of motion challenging them with
heavy loads getting close to failure
moving the weights quickly on the way up
controlled on the way down then that
really is kind of the 90% of functional
strength there's nothing more functional
about a kettle bell than about than
there is about a dumbbell or a barbell
machines because they Auto stabilize you
and you can sit down where you do them a
little bit less functional but most of
the function in machines is gained just
because you're gaining that strength for
a full range of mo and the muscle mass
that comes with it if you want to
actually be function if you actually
want to function in the sport context
you have to lift weights kind of in any
way kettle bells dumbbells free weights
machines and then actually practice the
sport so you can learn to use your new
found muscle and strength in the ways
that make you functional in that sport
but if you want overall the best
functional program and you want it
really simple kind of nothing beats body
weight barbells and maybe a dumbbell
here or there kettle bells are cool but
they're a little bit more of a limited
tool
there are many reasons why but that's
one of them yeah and non-glamorous moves
like Turkish getup Turkish getup may be
the most glamorous move ever invented in
lifting it's entirely purposeless it
looks like a waiter fell down and is
still trying to make sure he doesn't
spill the rice all over the place no
offense no offense to anyone this is me
spilling out my mind here the Turkish
getup is like a parlor trick of lifting
it's uh not very clear to exercise and
Sport scientist what exactly which
system it um is the limiting factor for
Turkish getup
uh the reality is it's probably your
lateral ADT strength um and uh it's not
even a good way to build lateral ADT
strength it just tests shoulder
stability um and movements like
deadlifts power cleans Etc I mean this
is not even a comparison as far as
effect which is like one of the very
best moves for Jiu-Jitsu it's just
phenomenal for your stability your core
and your your ability to get out from
under the bottom bottom positions it's a
just a phenomenal work if you tell me my
next comp compor I don't know anything
about him can do a Turkish get up with
80 lbs or whatever I'm like that dope
scary guy if you tell me my next
competitor can deadlift 600 lb for reps
I'm running away because there's not as
much Jitsu is going to work on him as is
typically intended that's why we have
weight classes in Jutsu that's why we
have drug testing in Jutsu it's one of
the reasons why Gordon Ryan beats living
shed of everyone because he's just
bigger and stronger in a way that
Turkish getups cannot get you how do I
say this without embarrassing myself
I've got really really strong arms but
when when I reach for stuff sometimes it
slips away from me because I get these
my forearms just aren't that strong and
so when I'm trying to Bent roll a lot of
weight and get really strong and jacked
for jiujitsu to go hurt people yeah my
back's getting a good workout soore my
shoulders and arms but then the workout
stops because I lose my grip and this
has been haunting me for years and you
know what I finally did something about
it and I feel like a new man and you
know what that something is I purchased
Versa grips what are Versa grips you say
can't possibly be an adre that literally
makes Mike money no way no wait it's
also that Versa grips legit no joke guys
are unbelievable gripping tools that if
you are limited on your pull-ups on your
bent rows on your lateral raises by how
much you can grip versus how much your
other muscles can move you simply turn
your Versa grips around on that bar or
dumbbell and then youring hand will snap
off before that vers grip lets go so if
you want an awesome enhancement tool
especially if you're Advanced especially
if you're really strong especially if
you get a lot of grip work from other
stuff Versa grips are really awesome we
got a whole code for you to save money
there's links in the description do that
shit now back to our regular scheduling
program yeah but the
testosterone it's Scott what's this
guy's name Joey what is he known for
I've seen his face everywhere a comedian
actor comedian and actor
okay the the last video oh I got you
that's right the last video we um
reviewed was like the longevity shit the
Brian Johnson longevity video and then I
look at Joey Diaz's face and I'm like
that is not longevity no offense no
offense yeah all jokes folks all jokes
here I gotta got you side on this mother
oh yeah you should I'm I'm failing all
those tests yeah testosterone
replacement therapy hormone replacement
therapy I started doing all that when I
was 40 yeah it it makes a big difference
makes a big difference yeah uh trt is
cool uh we have a whole video on this
channel about should you use trt is trt
right for you I would highly recommend
you watch it because I think it's pretty
informative we try it anyway but the
thing with trt is that it can be
absolutely transformational if you need
it but if you get your test levels back
and they're totally normal you probably
don't need it and one of two things will
happen you'll take it you'll get all SS
of nasty side effects and waste your
money you'll have to inject yourself all
the time for no reason or
you'll take the trt and
the injections are fine and everything's
fine it's not a bother but kind of
nothing will happen so why are you
taking it trt is awesome if you need it
a lot of folks ask me about trt and I go
okay so what were your testosterone
levels when they were last measured and
they're like yeah like you know like
pretty average but I'm like what you
mean but motherucker if they're pretty
average bringing them up to average
times two probably doesn't do a whole
lot if they're very low bringing them up
to average or Beyond is going to do
wonders for you and many people hit
what's called informally andropause when
their natural testosterone production
falls off in their late 30s and early
40s and sometimes mid 40s and so Joe's
timing for his trt is actually quite
good so if you're you know really
feeling low testosterone symptoms any
time in life is good find to get checked
for a test but it's really in your 40s
and a little bit beyond that that you
might start thinking trt is something to
look into and then you go get that test
level checked and talk to your doctor
the key to doing it though is do it
correctly you're supposed to go to a
doctor that's going to test your blood
levels test your nutrient levels and
adjust your diet first bullshit you go
to the back of the Gold's Gym there's a
guy named Phil there he looks kind of
weird but he's cool trust me you ask for
all his best shit you pay him whatever
in cash and don't ever do alcohol swabs
or fresh needles you just got to cut
right to the Chase and do the dumbest
shit in the world no wait wait no Joe's
right the first thing that happens is
they they want to find out how much
you're sleeping how how how stressed out
you are what are you eating why the this
is really important a lot of people say
they need trt they come to the doctor or
they just come to someone who knows what
they're doing in the gym and go hey I
think I need
tt there may be a probability of two
things
one is what's causing all the problems
in your life isn't low testosterone it's
the fact that you're stressed out of
your mind you barely sleep you eat like
total shit you drink like a fish Etc if
you simply cleaned up your goddamn life
you wouldn't need trt because there's
nothing wrong with your testosterone
level to begin with all the bad shit
you're feeling all the bad health
effects are from Life circumstances and
if we put you on trt that's not going to
fix shit second thing that can happen is
your test levels might be low as
measured but it's because you under
sleeping like crazy you're super
overstressed your diet is total shit Etc
so if we can take care of all those
things come back in a few months test
your uh test your test levels uhuh
examine what your test levels are again
and find you're well in normal range and
no surprise you feel amazing trt is not
a bandage for an open gaping wound it is
an enhancement if you need it but a lot
of times the bad stuff in people's lives
isn't because they have low testosterone
it's because they're awful at Living the
rest of their life and sometimes their
low testosterone is also caused by the
fact that they have too much stress they
sleep like shit they eat like shit and
they're basically Booz hounds if you cut
a lot of that shit down substantially
and improve your life you may not need
trt if you do improve your life and they
measure your test again and it's still
low and you still feel a lot of those
bad symptoms you'll feel way less once
you clean up your life then they're like
okay great then they give you a trt and
then you're living your new best life
super super awesome my workout I
schedule every Sunday I schedule
everything that I'm going to do during
the week I say I have to do yoga two
times this week I have to lift weights
three times this week I have to run
twice this week and however I fit that
in I fit that in that's a really good
idea a lot of people have uh trouble
sticking to exercise programs but when
you ask them like okay what's your
program they're like well it's kind of I
don't know kind of varies and you're
like do you even know what is on the
agenda
no Joe seems to be architecting his plan
for the week
ahead and then holding himself to making
sure to checkbox all those things if you
need help with a plan that's architected
not just a week ahead but four to 6
weeks ahead you might want to try the RP
hypertrophy app the most effective
muscle growth training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now if you really want to know like
what's good for you and what's bad for
you I always say listen to jacked
scientists thanks Joe those are the guys
I'm going to tell you like these are the
foods that are actually good for you
these are the foods and almost everyone
agrees Sugar's terrible for you
okay I'll just have to come out swinging
Joe Rogan no offense at all you're the
man and my respect for you is at a super
massive
level how do I say this without coming
off cocky good all for
jokes I am almost certainly the most
Jack scientist of all the people that
Joe Rogan is talking about I would
really like to see who's more Jack than
me in that regard and almost all
scientists say that sugar is totally
fine being that it not bringing in a ton
of excess calories and that's how sugar
is bad and also if you're eating a ton
of processed garbage it doesn't really
matter if it's processed garbage protein
sugar or carbohydrate which is simple
sugars and fats like it's all dog shit
so if you're consuming sugar from
relatively healthy sources and it's not
an excess calories the almost unanimous
consent in the actual research-based
scientific community of people that
study this kind of stuff is that sugar
is totally fine so is protein so is fat
what really matters is having them in
moderation in a balance and making sure
your calories are not excessive so that
you're lean and of a body weight that
allows you to be healthy that that's
really just about I don't
know it's just true is what it is and I
really am curious to see what Jack
scientists he's talking about because
again are they that jacked I don't know
what the PE bounds had to do with it
but yeah yeah and then you get into the
more controversial areas of seed oils
yeah I'll just say it right now seed
oils are not Rial seeds are only
controversial in a small Niche community
of typically extremely right-wing folks
that seem to be really upset about seed
oils for some reason um no offense to
the right wi y'all are great don't kill
me when the revolution
happens uh seed oils no controversy if
you look at the empirical literature and
there's been a lot of it just go to pmet
and you look at systematic reviews
narrative reviews meta analyses any kind
of comprehensive approach you're going
to realize that they've kind of studied
this more or less into the ground and
there's not a goddamn thing wrong with
seed oils they're totally fine and
totally healthy in most contexts now
people will say well look like you know
McDonald's french fried grease is made
of seed oils yeah it is but it's got a
couple other things in there like trans
fats that aren't that great for you and
it's the fact that each thing of fries
is 900 calories and you have to have two
of them because you can't stop eating
that's the bad part not the seed oils
part folks there's still more video to
watch and more fun to be had and more
things to learn I hope
but there is an Extended Cut of this
video with runchy nasty shit we just
couldn't show you on regular YouTube we
have a members area for that that also
has tons of other cool stuff it doesn't
cost a ton of money but it's great value
click around see if you like it I wanted
to get a full breakdown of Joe's is that
Joe Rogan yes is that me dude I get a
lot of shit on my social media like oh
my God it's Dana White like excuse me
sir yes you do you think all bald people
look the same I got it it's parts of
your brain that are missing no big deal
I wanted to get a full breakdown of
Joe's food program it's almost all meat
huh lot of jokes
there I'll shut up let's hear more about
Joe's diet my entire day was like 95%
elk started back on the carnivore diet
like one of the first things that I
noticed like almost immediately is that
I had an extra gear verbally my energy
levels are completely flat throughout
the day there's no crashes there's no
peaks in
valleys yeah the good thing is a
carnivore diet can keep your energy
levels relatively stable the bad thing
is the carnivore diet uh how do I put
this carbohydrates are the Undisputed
forever king of performance n nutrition
you want to perform at your best in
grappling in lifting in running in doing
whatever it is you do that takes lots of
high-intensity effort and focus and a
huge physical demand is no replacing
cars the all the research is in all the
athletes are almost unanimous
carbohydrates are King so with a
carnivore do you may have a steady
stream of energy throughout the day but
it won't be your highest energy level
that you're capable of perhaps another
approach you guys can try definitely try
that low carb approach it might work
really well for you but also try to eat
regular meals four meals a day for
example have plenty of protein plenty of
healthy fat because healthy fats
actually all fats slow down the
digestion and absorption of everything
else including the proteins and carbs
and make sure your carbs are relatively
low glycemic have high fiber so veggies
fruits and whole grains and not a ton of
them in every single meal not like 900
gam of carbs in one meal or some shit
like tons of pasta put you on your ass
just a moderate amount of carbohydrate
50 75 grams per meal four times a day if
you're like an adult-sized male or
whatever you try that and all of a
sudden you don't get Peaks and valleys
anymore you just get hungry for your
next meal you eat it and you feel great
and you feel great for 5 hours and you
eat your next meal when you're kind of a
little running a lot energy because of
this effect of eating slower digesting
carbohydrates paired with healthy fats
and proteins you can get a higher level
of daily energy and it's still really
really consistent if you go straight
carnivore the consistency is unmatchable
but it's on average for most people
going to be a lower level of energy you
do Jiu-Jitsu matches you gas out faster
there's just not as much oom uh no bueno
all right folks that was really fun um
again huge mega respect to Joe I could
be wrong about everything I said I'm
just sharing my uh my opinion I believe
to be true um Joe really gives a shit he
really cares about his diet he tries
really hard in his training and I will
say that as far as perception is
concerned on the internet YouTube land
Joe is maybe one of the most open-minded
people I have ever come across he'll
talk to basically anyone and at least
try to extract some wisdom from them
give them really good questions and
feedback and return but he's not just
pretending he knows it all me I really
do know it all which is nice nice no
wait that's wrong I know almost nothing
Joe is the man if you want to try some
lower carb shit do diligence give it a
shot if you want to try some kettle
bells they're sweet give them a shot if
you want to try some more moderate high
carb protocols you want to try barbells
and dumbbells they're also fing sweet
our Channel's all about that give
everything a try see what works best for
you and um let's take some inspiration
from Mr Joe Rogan who's like 50
something how old is Joe Rogan Scott 56
years old and stilling crushing it Joe
Rogan you're the fucking man you guys
are all awesome and uh see you guys next
time all right that was sweet folks
right here is a video that YouTube says
you should click on because I think it
makes YouTube a lot of money when you
watch YouTube also it might make us
money but I never see that money cuz Mr
n the rpco won't let me have any anyway
see you guys next time