if you're going out drinking a few times
a week drinking is likely harming your
growth by the end of this video you'll
know how to minimize the impact of
drinking on your
gains welcome back local alcoholic and
soon to be doctor Milo wolfit and today
we're talking about the impact of
alcohol AKA drinking on your gains
alcohol is a good time but it's also a
bad time for your gains the ways in
which alcohol interferes with gaining
can be broken down into two categories
the first is recovery and the second is
adaptation let's break it down first
let's touch on recovery a 2019
systematic review summarized how
drinking can impact the recovery from
lifting weights specifically a total of
12 studies were found that met the
inclusion criteria and look at the
impact of drinking after a session on
the recovery process from that training
session the author separated outcomes
into either being biological outcomes
into being performance outcomes
or finally into being cognitive outcomes
here's what they found by and large when
it came to creating kinas heart rate
lactate glucose estrogel sexual hormone
binding globulin lucaites or cyto or CRP
there were really no major effects of
drinking on these markers as far as
testosterone went again there were kind
of inconsistent effects at best there
were negative effects of drinking on
urine volume output cortisol and
potentially on calcium levels
importantly some data suggested that
drinking alcohol reduced the
concentration of amino acids in your
bloodstream after consuming protein
which suggests it would have a negative
impact on anabolism and thus muscle
growth as we'll get to later data on
signaling proteins and myof fiar protein
synthesis both back this up in terms of
performance there was a fairly
consistent impact on the recovery of
force production which is likely quite
important and Salient if you're a lifter
who training again the next day there
was little to no impact of drinking
alcohol on jump performance or on power
performance likewise no real impact of
drinking on muscle soreness or RP or
endurance finally cognitive function was
slightly impaired this is likely a
bigger deal for sports where you have to
actually you know you have decision-
making involved there are more complex
skills involved versus lifting but it's
worth noting that cognitive function did
seem to be impacted at least a little
bit now that we've broken down the
results here are few notes to keep in
mind when looking at these results first
off issues with recovery were generally
most pronounced when alcohol was
consumed in excess of about 0.5 G of
alcohol per kilogram of body weight for
someone weighing 80 kg that's the
equivalent of about 40 G of alcohol so
you need to limit your alcohol
consumption to about three glasses of
beer or wine in order to minimize the
impact of alcohol on your recovery after
a session alternatively that's the
equivalent of about three shots of vka
another note is that men seem to have a
harder time coping with alcohol and
recovery after Rec session versus women
women seem to be better at dealing with
drinking alcohol after a training
session and still recovering as per
usual another caveat when it comes to
recovery is that sleep disruption after
drinking substantial amounts of alcohol
is pretty well documented and sleep is
likely pretty important for recovery and
so if you're drinking so much that you
find that your sleep quality is pretty
rough and you feel pretty rough the next
day that likely isn't a good idea for
Recovery importantly the effects of
alcohol on the recovery after a lifting
session do seem to be more pronounced
AKA more negative when you just had a
harder training session compared to an
easy one so if all you did was hit four
sets of arms and then have 16 bear down
at the local Stadium yeah your recovery
might not be impacted as negatively as
if you did a hard leg session you know
five sets of rdls five sets of squats to
failure and then went drinking so an
easy strategy might be to keep an easier
session for right before you drink so
that even if you drink a decent amount
the recovery from that session isn't as
negatively impacted because it was an
easy recession the final takea away from
this paper is that chronic drinking is
not good news you see things like low
skeletal muscle mass you see things like
General issues with bilding muscle like
for example desensitization to Lucine a
key amino acid and the muscle building
process in general chronic drinking is
not a good idea even if you only have a
few drinks every day so for Recovery
there do seem to be negative effects of
drinking alcohol on recovery from
Obsession but we have discussed some
ways to minimize this impact but what
about anabolism or the muscle growth
process itself this is where review
paper by Steiner and L comes in if
you've ever read any sort of nutritional
research or molecular biochemistry
research you'll find that they use a lot
of text not many graphs and it makes for
some of the most dense and potentially
boring reading you've ever done but let
me just break it down for you right away
first alcohol appears to decrease basil
muscle protein synthesis what does basil
mean it just means without being fed or
without training or without doing
anything that might elevate your muscle
protein synthesis which is essentially
part of the muscle growth process
secondly alcohol also appears to
increase muscle protein breakdown which
as you might infer by hearing breakdown
and muscle that's not a good thing we
want to minimize muscle protein
breakdown and maximize muscle protein
synthesis next alcohol also appears to
make Muscle less sensitive to anabolic
stimuli such as eating protein such as
lifting weights so all else being equal
if you do a session and you drank before
that session that session will result in
less muscle growth compared to if you
were completely sober so alcohol use
both acutely and chronically for
anabolism and muscle growth measured
directly is likely no good chronically
as I mentioned earlier this can even
result in something called alcoholic
myopathy which is low muscle mass as a
result of chronic drinking so generally
for both recovery and actual muscle
growth from a session alcohol is no good
but what about alcohol in combination
with lifting weights AKA resistance
training this is where a review paper by
people I presume to be lifters leved
colleagues comes in again similar
findings alcohol broadly impairs the
mtor pathway which is heavily involved
in the muscle growth process while
lifting activates the mour pathway and
makes you jacked broadly speaking
alcohol seems to have a neutral to
negative effect on anabolic signaling
after a session but there aren't too
many studies on this topic with that
being said even if you chronically drink
you can still make gains in fact there's
some evidence in people who have for
example addiction to alcohol and thus
are drinking chronically as a means of
preventing for example alcoholic
myopathy and you do still see increases
in muscle mass it's not good news for
growing muscle getting stronger recovery
or any of that stuff but you can still
make gains all right now that we've
broken down a bunch of studies on
alcohol and anabolism and the muscle
building process on recovery and all
that stuff let me give you some
recommendations on how to minimize the
impact of alcohol on recovery from
lifting on your lifting progress and all
that stuff first recommendation no
alcohol is probably best next the dose
very much makes the poison ideally limit
any drinking to about three drinks Max
per bout so about three beers three
glasses of wine or three shots of vodka
is kind of the least you can drink
without it seemingly starting to really
impact recovery from a session ideally
don't do this more than one once to
maybe three times a week even if you
drink now and then or even fairly
consistently as long as it's in
moderation you can definitely still make
gains as a final note you may want to
plan for an easier session before you go
drinking and after you go drinking by
having an easier session before you go
drinking the recovery from that session
won't be quite as poor as if you had a
really hard session and then went
drinking additionally the day after
drinking most people don't feel their
best so by having an easier session
you're setting yourself up for more
success and this brings me to my final
point just because you're hung over
doesn't mean you can't go train getting
some work in like you know a relatively
easier session is a lot better than
getting no session in so even if you're
drinking especially in moderation and
you're a little bit hung over the next
day you can still go to the gym and just
do whatever you feel like you can but
getting something in while hung over is
fine anyways that's the video if you
like the video please comment like
subscribe let me know what else you want
to see let me know whether or not you
like the testosterone book in the
background and the applied body
composition assessment textbook in the
background or maybe even the certificate
back there if I do say so myself I'm
looking kind of fly I will see you guys
in that next one
peace this is where review paper by
Steiner and Lang don't know how to
pronounce it I apologize I am German hey
 it let's pretend they all know what
it means okay 16 beers with your mates
watching the football and beating your
wife afterwards probably that's too far
isn't it
 getting canceled over this one