okay what is going on everyone so what
follows in this video is a recorded
conversation that I had with Alex from
the YouTube channel alpha destiny and I
know that we have a lot of crossover
audience but for any of you guys who
aren't familiar with Alex he is the
founder of out alpha comm and I think
his main claim to fame is his very
impressive neck and trap development and
I've actually borrowed quite heavily
especially recently from his training
methodology and his general approach to
getting the neck and traps to just
explode which he's had a ton of success
with if you go on his website and check
out some of his programs you'll see that
he's had absolutely incredible results
not just himself but with his clients
and I haven't really seen any collection
of transformations like this anywhere
and so I wanted to have Alex on the
channel and really talk about some of
his approaches we do focus on training
however we also talk about the value of
staying at a slightly higher body fat
percentage as a natural body
recomposition nucleus overload and a
bunch of other stuff and you'll see that
Alex and I don't necessarily agree on
everything which is fine I think it's
important to sort of keep an open mind
and to expose yourself to different
strategies in order to create the best
possible approach that you can and since
this conversation went so well I plan to
do more recorded conversations or
interviews like this on the channel like
I used to and sometimes I'll interview
scientists doing research and other
times I'll interview people who just
have had outstanding results with a
specific approach and I think that to
confine yourself or to suffocate your
view to be so limited as to only look at
those approaches which have been
validated in the peer-reviewed
literature is really a way to leave a
lot of gains on the table and so I think
that this conversation with alex is one
that you guys will really benefit from i
know that i've
fitted from it a lot already and have
already been been applying many of the
principles that we talked about in this
call so I would encourage you guys if
you'd like to listen to the whole thing
watch the whole thing here on YouTube
there are some demonstrations where I
think the visuals will be enlightening
however I know it's a it's a lot to sit
at us or sit down and stare at a screen
for 90 minutes so you guys would like to
tune in to the audio portion only I'm
gonna upload this on my podcast so for
those of you who don't know it's called
the ice cream for Pierre's podcast and
it's available on iTunes and stitcher
and I'll have more information about
that linked in the description box below
so without further adieu for me I hope
you guys enjoy this conversation with
alpha destiny alright what is going on
everyone so I am here with Alex from the
channel alpha destiny for a much
anticipated highly requested
collaboration Alex how you doing man
fantastic Jeff how are you good man I'm
glad we finally got the chance to do
this when I when I said we'd be doing a
call people were freaking out yeah I
mean it's a long time coming and I'm
honored to be here thank you for having
me and I look forward to our chat and
sharing this knowledge and wisdom you
know absolutely man yeah I'm really
looking forward to it myself and I will
say I'm a fan of the content I'm a bit
of a new fan ever since I started
putting out a lot of my own neck and
trap training on the channel I've had a
lot of people direct me toward your
stuff some probably wanna see maybe like
six months maybe a little bit more than
that ago I just started binge watching a
bunch of your content so okay it's
pretty awesome man this is as much for
me as the people nice so Alex just in
case there are some people maybe who
aren't familiar with you and your
approach I'd say we get started with
basically you can just outline your
naturally enhanced philosophy that's
something I hear you talk a lot about or
if you'd like to go off into some of
your other training stuff I'll let you
have the floor right okay so basically I
follow a system called naturally enhance
I rewarded myself it's a full-body twice
a week training system and I use what is
well obviously you know what period is a
I follow concurrent periodization and
that essentially includes a weekly
intensity workout and a weekly volume
workout now the whole system revolves
around developing six essential muscle
groups which I've identified to be the
most important for looking massive as a
drug-free lifter these areas include the
neck traps upper back shoulders forms
and glutes
now when you strategically develop these
muscle groups this is really what's
going to add to your frame this is the
mass portion this is what makes you look
big and clothing it's what you notice
when a guy bulks up it's what you notice
in a guy who uses performance-enhancing
drugs because of the antigen receptor
sensitivity increases greatly with this
drug usage and you'll typically see a
lot of guys who are enhanced they have
massive traps very wide neck pull the
shoulders things of that nature so the
whole thing behind the natural and has
philosophy is to develop these six
essential essential muscle groups
through using strength training
strategies now I use full body training
because it allows me to be in the gym
only twice a week actually while having
a life will be the same thing if I ran a
push-pull legs and upper lower but full
body is my preference and I utilize
concurrent periodization which I can
discuss more about that later but
essentially um I rotate special
exercises that are specific to
developing these six essential mus
groups and I do that on a weekly basis
and we could talk more about that later
on yeah absolutely I'd love to dig into
a lot of that but one thing that I do
like about this approach is that it's
it's quite unique I don't know if it's
unique to you but it isn't yet and I
hear a lot of people talking about
especially not in natural bodybuilding
spheres you hear a lot of people
emphasize you know like the chest arms
you don't hardly ever really it seems to
be gaining some traction in terms of
popularity but as of a year or two ago
you'd hardly hear anyone talking about
directly training the neck right the
traps are almost seen as something that
well if you don't take Juice you might
as well give up on those because there's
not an exactly receptor there for them
to grow anyway so so these have I think
historically become very neglected body
parts and absolutely you're kind of
running a little bit counterculture
which I
I happen to enjoy because you see so
much of the same sort of regurgitated
redundant information out there and I
find like you're presenting a very I
guess different unique approach with
with your naturally enhanced philosophy
so yeah well it's certainly flipping the
script around
yeah whereas most people want to be
shredded and look good with their
clothes off for me it's the opposite you
know and whereas most lifters want to
have just chest and arms Beach muscles
we're kind of doing the opposite thing
but it really is important you know the
neck in the trap area especially like
people don't realize what it does when
you're just looking at someone face to
face like when you see a jag guy man
snack and traps you know you're not
looking at his chest and arms the most
but I mean you are there but like I'm
speaking you face-to-face you could see
the yoke you know yeah exactly so it's
okay so the yoke but you know this isn't
this is a term I've I've heard prior to
you but you've definitely popularized it
I think yoke
yes so what is it what does that mean
what is the yoke all right to get yoked
means you get you got super wide neck oh
the mountainous traps right boulders
shoulders basically it's the UH it's the
mass portion right you look massive on a
t-shirt it's the upper back that's
popping out it's um it's that 3d
mountainous effect so if I'm just
talking to you face to face you know you
see a wide neck that's freaking past the
ears
you got trash popping out and if I turn
sideways the upper back you know if I
turn around upper back it's basically
the area that makes you look massive you
know we can also throw in the long head
of your triceps technically because that
does make you look a lot beefier from
the backside but ya being yoked it just
means that you have that look like a
frickin like a bulldog you know I'm
saying so I know you use that you use a
bulldog there do you do you still use
bear is that still yeah yeah well I used
that term for a long time but uh I was
having some some problems if you will
you know because it was associated with
a different type of culture who catch my
drift but uh yeah yeah I saw that I saw
that video so yeah yeah yeah the
listeners who don't know so Alex has
this term called bear mode I don't know
if that's that's unique to you or not
but I I mean I think it is yeah at least
in the
the muscle and bodybuilding sphere but
basically and correct me if I'm wrong on
this but like the idea is to get that
yoke area really developed be at a
slightly higher body fat percentage so
you look just thicker bigger more
muscular and then maybe add a little bit
of body hair or what-have-you to sort of
disguise that little bit of extra fluff
so you don't have Datuk that smooth baby
fat look instead you kind of have like a
sharper more grainy appearance while
being really really big that's a hundred
percent what it is and my channel I talk
a lot about losing strategies now you
got some guys are like hopefully macho
and stuff they think that it's insecure
that you want to look good in all the
stuff but to me it's fine like first of
all when you bulk let's be honest here
right you're gonna accumulate fat around
your neck and cheeks to me it's very
simple just cover it up right it's
covered up problem-solve like I remember
I did clean shave about two weeks ago
bro
I saw all that neck fat man not I got my
beard back completely covered so it's
about maximizing the illusion strategies
you know growing out facial hair to make
yourself have a more angular looking
face you can do yourself by the way
clean shave you'll see what I'm talking
about
that's one facet right then the body
hair - people don't realize but if you
ever took an art class right there's a
technique that's called cross hatching
where you draw lines like in one
direction and then another direction
then diagonal you basically draw a bunch
of lines right and it creates a grainy
effect this is commonly used when doing
sketches now we're not an art sketch but
bodybuilding is an art form wouldn't you
agree and you can use these same
strategies on your body so when you grow
up body hair increase that that grainy
effect you know it adds false definition
actually and a really good technique is
to you can create fake abs in a sense
you know like you take a rake like an
electric razor you can go like number
one on a few spots it creates that like
that shadow especially if you already
have abs it fills in the ABS with more
definition you know so it's like it's
kind of like a cheat there it's similar
to what women use for the face like
makeup right well you're just natural
body hair and it flows well too because
you don't you don't have to shave you're
just being natural and it does make you
look a lot leaner right that's one facet
of it in terms of looking leaner and big
but the next part of it is actually
fashion - wearing the right type of
clothes you know that makes a big
difference in how you appear a lot of
bodybuilders they just go buy random
stuff off the rack that's
be around their arms it's it's droopy
around the waist it's not maximizing
their aesthetics you know so if you
focus on the fashion part of things -
you're gonna look the best possible so
when's the Alfa destiny fashion line
coming out
Oh plans ah yeah I find that to be
really interesting too because you know
it's exactly the opposite of what a lot
of top natural body builders preach
which is shave everything like even
those little baby hairs because when
you're getting on stage if you have that
it'll it'll kind of show up and it'll
just make that's exactly right even and
all that kind of thing yeah and I think
that that's a good approach if you are
really really shredded because you will
spread all the striations and I guess
that in a sense those striations can
provide that sort of cross-hatching
effect that you're talking about they're
not that lean you don't see that you
just see skin that's exactly what it is
you hit you got it basically when you're
really lean you have a bunch of
striations you have the veins popping
out and the hair covers it but if you're
in a fluffier body fat
what striations you know what chest
position do you have no see and create
your own with the hair you know what
what AB definition you might have some
you know a bit of definition
what's the Mobley's Shawna it's not
gonna be crisp like when you're in that
contest stage you have to shave it down
to expose the vascularity and everything
but when you're bogged up like you got
to cover it up with some hair otherwise
you look like a smooth baby man that's
what you look like yeah so Alex you're a
fan of guys maintaining a slightly
higher body fat percentage is this sort
of just like a long-term thing just you
should always walk around bare mode or
do you like to do it in cycles where you
cut down and then bulk up to add more
muscle how do you look at that okay it's
kind of relative to the individual
because the thing is there's natural
appetite that has to be factored in
right like the true bear mode well first
of all identify the range to be a 15 to
20 percent body fat which is a lot
leaner than what most people think 20%
body fat is most hockey players rolling
around 15% okay
so it's not you can see your abs at 15%
most guys who claim 10 most likely
around 1213 most guys that clean 15
around 20 or so so the thing is you want
to hover around 15 20 % right but
you keep around 20 you're eating a lot
of food because it's it's a rather it's
a higher body fat percentage and that
could be kind of tiresome for some
individuals now guys who have a
naturally crazy appetite they'll be able
to maintain that fairly easily but
people who were skinny their entire
lives or those who could lean out fairly
easily when they try to maintain 20
percent they'll be forced feeding all
day they might feel sluggish tired might
not be awesome or for them so that's why
I said you've got to calibrate you got
to figure out what is the optimal body
fat percentage for you like for me
personally I tried reaching 200 pounds
which would have been around 20% body
fat but there's too much force getting
involved so I feel that for me 15% would
be more ideal you know see I feel like
it's an individual preference type of
thing and what you're doing is you find
out what that body fat is and once you
hit it you just recon we could talk more
about we comping if you'd like yeah I
think I think we'll get into it but but
first just to give people some
perspective I think I've heard you say
you're 5 5 foot 5 is that right thought
I was like a little bit tall I'm 66 and
a half inches okay so that's a little
it's like five six and eight point five
okay Lacey you're you're a bit taller
than me so that that makes a bit of
sense because 200 pounds on me would
just be ridiculous I think oh yeah yes
it's only a digital you know what yeah
yeah true I mean 200 is is big just for
a context I'll usually walk around in my
offseason somewhere around a hundred and
sixty-five to 170 but since kind of
embracing a little bit more of this
philosophy we're talking about I've both
myself up now to around like 173
something like that I'm gonna try to
just keep pushing it up because right I
would probably follow more so into the
the category where I can stay quite lean
quite easily like I can maintain beach
lean probably you know around 12 percent
or whatever without much difficulty and
that's what I normally do because that's
what you hear preach so much is you need
to know the lean because I'm a
competitive professional natural
bodybuilder so you hear that you know
you need to stay relatively lean in
order to reach stage condition and so
that's what I've always done more or
less yeah every now and then a bulk will
get a little out of control but it's
always seen as a bad thing yeah whereas
I feel as though
and you know with your influence
especially I'm kind of starting to frame
it as a good thing it's like if you do
it the right way this can actually look
better than that you know hundred and
sixty-five pounds where if you're
wearing a dress shirt or something you
could be you know it isn't not even I'm
not even lifting or just being like a
you know a hockey player or something
like that right
not nothing against other players but
well yeah I'm sure you've noticed it
yourself Jeff now that your weight is
increasing has your shirt measurement
like has it tightened up do you feel
like ya stacked in your clothes
of course yeah yeah exactly so Alex
where where did this approach come from
because like me from a bodybuilding
background it it feels very
counterculture like what what is what is
your background so do you have any
aspirations to compete a natural
bodybuilding how do you look at natural
bodybuilding how do you see that a pro
yeah well I respect what natural
bodybuilders do I think they put in a
lot of effort and things of that nature
for me personally I have no plans on
competing on a stage it's just not
something that interests me but more
power to anyone who wants to do so you
know plus there's a lot of fake naturals
who compete in those shows which kind of
excuse things a little bit but um yeah
the thing is I'm not a bodybuilder you
know and I take a lot of my influence
from competitive athletes like strongman
competitors power lifters and a big
percentage comes from the old-school
strongman like the guys from the 1800s
and 1900s because they did a lot of
weird things like one exercise that I
preach a lot on my channel being the
rack pull bub knee came from these men
you know it's actually a modern version
of performing the hand and thigh lifts
so I would say it's more so a strongman
type of approach and heavy influence an
exercise science and the powerlifting
world like if you read science and
practice of strength training super
training managing the training of weight
lifters things of that like the classics
you know yeah you'll see where I get my
knowledge in terms of exercise science
but in terms of like the physic the
physical ascetics and stuff it comes
from the strongman competitors are
wrestlers field athletes and it may fart
it's kind of like a blend of everything
because for example the neck
right the only people who have been
training the next for the most part have
been old school strongman fighters and
wrestlers for the most part right like
you saw Mike Tyson you should do a lot
of bridging and things of that nature
but you don't really see bodybuilders
train their necks so that's why it's
kind of it's different in that regard
you know yeah so I would say that your
primary goal then is probably be to look
as big and muscular as you can so as to
sort of like improve your aesthetic
while walking around and close is that
kind of the main thing it's uh it's it's
maximizing the outer extremities of the
body that's what it is it's not it's not
a bodybuilder type of look it's not mr.
aesthetics it's um
looking massive and the most important
thing and doing that is the neck to be
honest with you will be the neck and the
trabb's hands down then the upper back
would probably come second you know and
also another thing that differs me from
bodybuild is that I don't focus on how
to quad sweep because that gives you the
xk / now the x taper is a highly desired
look nowadays but for me i just go with
the classic V taper so again it's like a
blend of a bunch of different fields you
know when you end up with this physique
that's unique in itself but it's a
massive physique
it's a physic that looks very good and
closed it's not the most aesthetic but
you definitely appear very large you
know right right right yeah I personally
like the look like when I first got into
bodybuilding I wasn't even aware of
natural bodybuilding my dad was a more
of like mainstream bodybuilding so yeah
I kind of grew up and when I was first
introduced to bodybuilding I sort of
looked up to the really huge physiques
like I kind of want like a Lee Priest or
so I like even even Lee Priest in his
off season I thought looked really
freaky and awesome and he was like you
know five foot four to seventy or
something absolutely ridiculous which
would be absolutely not attainable for
for guys like you and I but drug-free I
mean but it's a look that I kind of
initially looked up to and then sort of
got away from when I was really immersed
in the natural bodybuilding sphere
because people in that culture really
embraced what has become to be known as
the Ned Flanders effect so basically you
accept the fact that in clothes you're
not really going to look like you live
us when you take the shirt off it
changes the game because especially if
you're at a good lighting and you know
yes you're relatively lean
you will look really massive if you have
a pump you're in the gym shirtless you
look crazy yeah that's a very small
fraction of the time exactly that that's
the that's the main issue with it and I
think a lot of these guys who want to
look bigger and more muscular naturally
might be better off actually taking on
an approach similar to yours where you
you know encourage or at least accept a
slightly higher degree of fat gain put
on a little bit of body hair to cover it
up and refocus on those six muscles that
that you kind of emphasize yeah well you
again you're pretty much it you nailed
it like um I'm sure given the fact that
you've competed right you've dealt with
these natural body butters on on stage
like a lot of these guys get dwarfed
very very easily because they look good
for a small portion of the time like you
said there's lighting involved as
pumping and they they even have to
prepare their meals in such a way that
it maximized their effect for that day
ya know there's a lot of course it's
it's complex here so like I have a
friend who compete on natural
bodybuilding Ram yeah great genetics too
and I saw him like a few days before he
was competing you look very very small
and may see it at almost you know yeah
as well his face was completely sunken
in and oh yeah this was a guy that was
massive and he just looked tiny he
looked tiny as hell on the shirt but
when he took his shirt off and he got
pumped up and everything all of a sudden
he looked pretty good there but yeah in
natural conditions which is 99% of the
time like you're not gonna be in that
situation especially when you're walking
down the street I mean who walks around
schürrle salt I'm pumped up doing last
spreads and you know like it doesn't
really happen yes most people you walk
around completely relaxed and it's
that's that's what it is and natural
lighting go downtown you'll see what
your what your really act compared to
other individuals one criticism I think
I'd expect you to get from this is that
it's it's kind of a vein approach so
you're you're trying to look good just
all the time do i what is your why to to
impress people downtown or or what's the
goal no I know that's at least doesn't
at least as a natural I'm trying to
impress a panel of judges or what have
you it is slightly objective right so
maybe I could disguise that vanity
through competition whereas you can't do
that in the same way how would you yeah
how did you respond to that well I would
say we're all doing this for selfish
reasons man let's be
right if you're not your bodybuilder
yourself ish if you're a power lifter
you're selfish and we all like
validation let's be honest right but
that's not the main purpose that says
that's not the matrix you do this for
you you do this because you look in the
goddamn mirror every single day right
I'm sure you do it all the time let's be
honest as lifters we look in the mirror
we observe ourselves we look as good as
possible so it's not about impressing
other people certainly that that is a
cool Factory you know you're the big man
you walk around your big doing
everything it's not what makes you you
really have to be in this for yourself
like for me like you said it's
counterculture why would I want to look
like this if the ideal is to be mr.
ascetic with a low body fat it's
actually is the opposite you get more
hate by being this way in terms of like
the online fitness community so it's not
about impressing other people it's about
yourself it's always been by yourself
and I believe that if you are lifting
solely to impress other people you're
doing it for the wrong reasons you know
like a lot of guys they want to get
Beachbody so they can press chicks well
you might be able to do that short term
but after certain amount of time like if
you're not looking for yourself you know
you're gonna get demotivated and just
not the way to go you have to love the
iron you got to be so much in love with
it that when you go to the gym you just
put on all that effort you know for you
it's only for you yeah yeah it's
interesting because you never will
really be able to impress other people
anyway because there's just so many
people out there and they all have
different ideals like you may prefer a
look that's more you know yoked and a
higher body fat percentage or whatever
whereas you know a lot of people do
prefer that more shredded look like
you'll see these polls sometimes on
Instagram or it's like do you like the
shredded or the huge or whatever it is
no an actual bear that looks like it was
like sketched or something and different
people will have different sizes so you
kind of yeah you kind of have to do it
for your own own reasons but I do find
that people underestimate just how many
people including females like that
bigger higher body fat look right a lot
of people think that everyone even
online is all about just the shreds is
all about the shreds I actually don't
think that that's true I think a lot of
guys and girls like that you know bigger
maybe like you have you know a little
bit of chub on your midsection but
you've got that you know the big pecs
and the big traps and everything I think
that's a that's a good
a lot of people I think the absolute
absolutely liked it and the thing is if
you are an actual natural bodybuilder
and you're getting very shredded your
your muscles are gonna fly now you can
look string G flat so you're not gonna
show you're more shredded but you don't
look as you don't have that you know
yeah that that bulk to you yeah exactly
and also a lot of women find it
disgusting to be honest with you single
digit and you have like you know veins
in your abs and shredded obliques and
stuff I mean to us guys we find it cool
it's like yeah I want look like that but
a lot of women don't actually like that
look they'd prefer if a man were around
10 12 percent body fat like a lean look
but not single-digit necessarily so I
think guys you know they'll feel good
about themselves if they enter a higher
body fight they don't have to be slobs
you know it's just about being a bit
more fluffy and embracing it you know
Alex just quickly back to the point of
bulking and cutting do you sir
do cutting phases as well or do you just
kind of maintain the sort of bear mode
look around well I rarely have to be
honest yeah because my natural appetite
kind of regulates that but um I'm a big
believer in recopy that's the thing well
I like finding the ideal weight and then
you just you build muscle lose fat and
the way to do this is by having certain
days we're in a deficit of the days
you're in a surplus and your body just
it kind of changes automatically a lot
of power lifters do this a lot of guys
have to make weight for certain sports
have to do this for me it's very
effective and I gain strength fairly
easily doing so so I don't necessarily
have to cut however if I was trying to
get very leaned and I would guess I'd be
forced to a cut and I will probably do
one very soon
so when you say recon I'm sure you've
encountered the criticism where usually
people will say this is only possible if
you're you know taking steroids or if
you're a hardcore beginner or if you're
coming off of like an injury something
like that yeah do you do you disagree
with I disagree hundred-percent it's
nonsense first of all I've had guys run
my program and in months they go from
like to 62 190 ish they're bigger and
stronger and they get advanced numbers
in the process and I myself in 2016
I got the most yoke possible right
that's on my neck and traps got really
big I did it the entire time at 180
pounds body weight I recount the entire
weight did not have do any bulking any
cutting
mostl Asif a fairly easily the secret is
to manage your recovery that is what
kills guys when they recon if you don't
manage your recovery properly it's gonna
strip away your strengthen your muscle
so again with my system it's full body
twice a week it's just twice a week what
is that doing to you that's gonna stress
it's not a split routine that's five
days a week it's only twice week full
body now Plus do we do a lot of soft
tissue work to develop the tendons of
ligaments and keep you injury free and
and we pay attention in the gym we don't
we don't we refrain from ego lifting if
you're failing one of Max's all the time
you're gonna have problems with covering
so the secret is to manage your recovery
if you can manage your recovery if you
can come back every single workout
without feeling beat up and drained you
will be able to recon that is the way to
do it and like I said the way that I do
that is with full body twice a week and
concurrent periodization because I have
a volume and intensity day year-round so
I don't have to cycle through
percentages I'll explain it so you can
understand a bit more right for the
viewers anyway sure when you run linear
critias ation right you begin with low
percentages relative t1 or max and the
percentage gradually increases until you
peak for the one right max right well in
the process you lost a lot of the work
capacity from the first phases because
Andals something like a 5 by 10 you are
speak specifically for low repetitions
now with concurrent you're flipping the
script around because now we're maxing
out year-round and we're before in
volume work year-round so you're not
losing any work capacity you can
maintain a 5 by 10 every single week for
years for years on end and by doing this
you're always you're in peak performance
all the time and that's why you don't
suffer from recovery issues that's why a
lot of guys they peak too soon with the
linearization approach and they suffer
from overuse right so if you can prevent
overuse and manage recovery the proper
way then you will be able to wreak on
anybody could do it it might it's not as
optimal as bulking bulking is the
superior way being in a slight calorie
surplus
10 20 % nothing will beat that but you
can absolutely recon as an advanced
lifter without drugs you just got to do
right interesting yeah that that's a
controversial statement I think a lot of
people would disagree with you I think
that I can
bored with it just because I've seen it
myself I think part of the reason maybe
why your recon experience was so
exaggerated in a sense is probably
because maybe you weren't doing as much
yoke training so it was a very novel
stimulus for you when you started doing
it so in a sense for those muscles you
were kind of like a newbie again and so
you were able to to build muscle and
lose fat at the same time what do you
think that for someone maybe who's been
doing that yoke training for say five
years ten years what have you do you
still think that recon thing is the way
to go you should try to maintain a
certain way focus on progression in the
gym you know well like I said bulking
will always be superior right there's no
debate against that ten twenty percent
surplus is the way to go but do I think
that you will not make gains if you read
comp as advanced lifters say ten years
no I think you will make gains and on
the point that you mentioned that I was
rather knew that York training that
might be true however I did get stronger
at a lot of conventional lists like I
took my strict press from 205 to 225 and
I took my deadlift from 455 to 545 you
know yeah so that doesn't happen that
like that that is something that we're
doing for a long time now so even when
it comes down to the non-enhanced
muscles if you will everything got
stronger the key like the wood differs
me from a lot of guys that I focus on
strength development for gaining size I
believe that if you get bigger and after
neural adaptation sees hypertrophy will
occur so that's the focus as long as you
are gaining strength you will eventually
gain muscle there's gonna have to be
some type of effect coming in you know
yeah I agree I'm a I'm a big fan of of
strength training and and even pure
strength training for bodybuilders even
from a periodization perspective because
it seems like you period eyes it mostly
within the training week so I want to
talk actually about your your split a
little bit more but to me it sounds
something like it's a form of daily
undulating periodization so you have one
day where you're going quite heavy and
then another day where you're not going
quite as heavy but you're doing more
volume is that right yeah it's it's it's
pretty much that yeah but you're
rotating exercises every week
it's about that that's exactly what it
is right but instead of rotating lifts
that are specific to
our lifting you rotated to develop the
six essential areas for example week one
I might do a power shrug we to a trap
bar shrug week three our behind the back
shrug week for a snatch grip hi pool
interested so and and the thing is yeah
you're maintaining volume and intensity
year-round but you just rotate the list
because if you reading the science and
practice of strength training right
doctors a source it states that after
three weeks or so the biological of
accommodation will come into play right
and there's only two ways you can
override it you can either change the
parameters which includes the sets the
reps percentages things of that nature
something that you would see in blog
predation linear things of that nature
or you could rotate the exercise right I
choose option number two and I find that
it works very good for bodybuilding
purposes because you can attack your
muscles from a variety of different ways
you know so I can do like high volume
year-round but I'm just changing the
shrug for instance right no I changed
the rack pull so it's great for building
mass you know it's great for mass quit
first rank gains all that stuff yeah and
just to finish my point I think that
strength training can have application
insofar as it sort of carries over into
that hypertrophy works so say the work
that you are the strength adaptations
that you get from your intensity day
allows you to push even more volume on
your your volume day which should then
you know translate to more hypertrophy
over time that's right like if you think
if you take a 500 pound deadlift er he
can rep four or five like a lot of reps
you know I'm saying or 315 for a lot of
reps ops raising your absolute strength
will always have a dramatic impact on
what you can do for high reps now it
might not be the most optimal thing
there are diminishing returns at some
point and you do have to work in the
lower percentages to get better at them
because you know specific strength is
specific in that way but yeah raising
your absolute strength will absolutely
make you better at higher reps you know
yeah so just because I'm not overly
familiar with this you say you cycle
exercises week to week yeah do you have
any sort of emphasis on progressive
overload so do you come back so say you
start with the the rack pull or whatever
it was and then you do together or
whatever it would you come back to the
rack pull and then are doing more weight
it four weeks down the road
you got it okay you got it okay say uh I
do week one rack ball above the knee
week two at the knee week three below
the knee week four della four bands
right week five I come back in I do the
racket above the knee again pretty much
99% of time actually I'll say a hundred
percent of time I get a PR it's
guaranteed why is it guaranteed because
I work through all different joint
angles and I maintain my vomit intensity
year-round so the progression is
automatic
it's literally automatic the only thing
you have to do is make sure that your
total workload is high enough now you're
hitting in that 90 percent every week
everything goes up automatically like
it's the easiest thing the world it's so
damn easy I've made PRS every single
week like last week I failed 815 on my
Jefferson Rockville baloney last night I
got it it's guaranteed every time as
long as you're rotating the correct
special exercises that are specific now
you're going to be good that's the key
if it's not specific it's not gonna work
one thing I guess I would just be
curious about is you emphasize a lot of
recovery one thing that comes up in my
mind is doing a lot of this heavy
training so you know your ab senior
regularly doing one rep max training do
you think that injury is a concern with
that kind of training that is probably
the greatest risk if you're going at a
hundred percent like I do because I use
the max effort method but if that if
people are worried about that they could
always do the mat winning approach which
is going at 85 90 % that certainly works
a lot of people will run Bulgarian light
going 90 percent but for me personally I
just go 100 percent every time and the
reason why I'm not worried is because
I'm rotating the variation right and
that prevents my my nervous system from
having issues like that I'm overcoming
the biological of accommodation and plus
we I focus a lot on GPP general physical
preparedness which further raises my
work capacity and allows me to recover a
lot better we do a lot of soft tissue
work as well in the form of band push
downs I do like a hundred band push
downs every day just to make sure that
everything is recovering correctly so
like I said the recovery is the most
important thing if you can find a way to
do that then you'll be able to max out
your round every single week and again
I've been doing it over three years
maxing out never had an injury never had
a problem
and it's just going great I think maybe
part of the reason why you can get away
with that not to say you're you like
getting away with something but people
will hear this style of training and
think yeah that's not gonna that's not
gonna fly for a lot of people who it
because I'm sure as you know the ability
to recover is itself very genetic and
individual and some people can put 315
pounds on the bar do a back squat and
blow their lower back out very very
early training great can't happen I've
seen it and so I feel like it as you
sort of mentioned you know you can take
the foot off the gas pedal a little bit
and go at you know 85 90 % does it still
get very similar results that seems to
be more of a psychological approach
where you probably want to max out your
results in you know get as much results
as you can for your training which is of
course understandable but what I was
gonna say was I think part of the reason
why you get away with that is because
you only train twice a week so there's
just so much recovery in between
sessions yeah yeah well that's that's
what I'm saying that's a secret yeah you
know like if you think about it right a
push-pull legs it's two times a week
muscle protein synthesis for all the
body parts yeah right it's just divided
an upper lower it's also two times a
week muscle protein synthesis yeah now
if I do full body twice a week it's also
twice a week muscle protein synthesis
what's the difference I'm only in the
gym twice a week yeah and the thing is
we still use the same nervous system
people don't think about this and
there's also a certain degree of
crossover that occurs when you do
certain exercises so for example your
poll day and your leg date there might
be some exercises that interfere with
the recovery you know yeah oh yeah yeah
what I'm saying so when I'm only in the
gym twice a week I guess 72 hours
recovery like it's easiest thing to
recover from and that's why it works
with the recopy it is a full-body twice
a week if there was a more strenuous
program like a five-day bodybuilding
split you'll be a lot more difficult to
do so that's why I'm saying recovery is
very important and with the concurrent
and the soft tissue work and the GPP all
the stuff kind of moves together and it
keeps some injury free while being able
to make good strength gains and stuff
for that right right for me
I love training so much that I feel like
I would hate to run something like that
I mean just yes I'd like to be in the
gym I mean this is basically my career
and it's something that I love to do so
for me I feel like I would get bored on
my my rest days is that something you
hear a lot of from guys who who maybe
want to take on this approach some guys
it's kind of like it goes both ways some
dudes are just in love with training
they want to go ham every single day you
know yeah some guys want to train seven
days a week even twice a day that
happens you have guys like I used to be
like that but as time has passed by like
I really enjoy this twice a week set up
it works very well for me yeah and it
like it comes down to the psychology the
individual yeah some guys they want to
be in the gym five six times a week
others a bit less for some dudes this is
a life-changing thing for them because
they have full-time jobs they have a
family to raise and the fact that they
can build a good physique but only twice
a week like to them it's wow they're
happy about that so it does depend on
individual you know for me like it
doesn't doesn't matter because I have a
lot of other things that I do in my life
and this is not like the main thing
necessarily plus I still do my GPP two
to four times a week by myself that you
work so I'm still doing something you
know and the nutrition to nutrition is
year-round yeah of course of course I I
will say I've noticed because for the
longest time I've been more of a
high-frequency advocate in the sense
that I'm in the gym very frequently
necessarily training a body part very
frequently but in the gym five six days
a week at least for probably ten eleven
years so it's a very it's something that
I've gotten very used to I have stepped
back to cut stepped back a couple times
and only train you know a day on day off
for exams yeah rather than consecutive
days six days in a row
and I will say my training sessions feel
so much better with that extra couple
days of recovery at least for a while I
can only imagine how fired up you are
for your sessions if you're only going
in there twice a week I think that that
could have merited of itself like you're
almost like just itching to get in there
and train as hard as you can
so yeah yeah well the lifting is very
there's a huge psychological component
man yes and it really is its mindset man
its mindset and when you go in there
like itching you really want to
you want to hit it bad man you get pr's
and you put you put that effort in you
know especially with a full body full
body is not easy man you come out there
really really drained your whole body's
sore it's it's not it's uneasy so you
have to be you have to have the
willpower to pull that off and you have
to want to get it really badly you know
so like ever you're saying yeah and a
lot of times when I hear you know full
body training it's usually in the
context of very high rating oh yeah
beginners but also yeah there's some
guys who advocate for more advanced guys
because you do get those very frequent
lips and muscle protein synthesis but
it's usually you know your full body
training five days a week or four days a
week or so yeah like that but very low
volume low intensity sessions what do
you think of that sort of full body
approach yeah I used to train like that
for years actually that's what I did
before naturally nice and I got very
good gains off it but the only problem
with it is that it's highly auto
regulated you have to know your body
inside and out and everything has to be
freaking perfect yeah okay now when you
do full body twice a week it's 72 hours
recovery it's perfect you got volume day
intensity day boom you're good to go
nothing to worry about now when you're
going multiple days a week like you said
the volume has to be lower right the
exercise selection has to be very
intelligently selected yeah and and
you're only getting 48 hours recovery
now so everything you have you can't be
too much you can't be too low you might
have other problems with a nervous
system like if you do a heavy day on
Monday then Wednesday you got to come
back and again might be a bit difficult
so I found that the problem with that is
that it's it's too auto regulated but if
you know your body well enough you could
pull it off you know and also like I
don't know if you've seen Brad Stone
fuel you certainly did you see what he
said about the frequency thing yes I
think so it's basically something to the
effect of as long as weekly volume is
the same the actual number of times you
hit a body part is less important yeah
recently I think about a two weeks ago
or something and you made a post on
Facebook saying that he did a
meta-analysis write on a bunch of
studies that frequency and stuff yeah
and he came and he might be concluding
soon that training more than twice a
week like muscle protein synthesis wise
might not be a significant driver of
hypertrophy yeah you know
I've stretch anything yeah yeah that's
right so even if you are training
full-body four times a week
is that superior to twice a week you
also have to factor in the recovery
right yeah exactly if it's moisture if
it's if it's killing your recovery then
it's not gonna give you better gains
like again as long as you're getting
better recovery and progressive overload
is taking place over time I think you're
good and that's why push-pull legs upper
lowers all that stuff works yeah yeah I
agree
I actually have a long conversation with
menno hence women's who's a scientific
author on my channel and he's a big
advocate of that high frequency couch
where you get those frequent blips and
muscle protein synthesis I think it is a
bit ahead of the curve in terms of where
the research actually is I think that
the best thing we can conclude is that
twice a week is probably almost
definitely better than once yeah for a
week and that seems to be true even if
volume matched yeah that isn't to say
one time a week isn't effective or can't
work or it doesn't have potential merit
but I think that twice a week is all
that we can say for sure is probably
better and higher frequencies may or may
not be yeah well what I would say is
that higher frequency benefits strength
athletes primarily yeah yeah like look
you saw the Norwegian study obviously
that demonstrated that I think they gain
twice the amount of strength compared to
those who train like half the time so
for strength it works very well like
your garyun lights and since it's every
day 90% and you get strong very very
fast yeah it's not uncommon to add like
50 100 pounds on your lift in a bit like
in less than a month yeah this could
happen even as an advanced lift it
really does happen but are you gonna get
as much size I'd be inclined to say no I
would say no because there's a lot of
neural adaptations are taking place you
also train the movement as a skill you
know so might not be the best for
hypertrophy and that's why I think twice
a week is a good range to recommend for
the majority of people and you can't go
wrong with it you know it's also good
for recovery yeah a lot of that does
have to do with the fact that strength
is a skill so you're practicing it more
frequently whereas building muscle is is
not so not so much of a neural component
yeah you said digging a little bit more
into your your training say within each
of those days are there certain
exercises that you think
I should focus on are certain things
guys should focus on who want to build
up their neck and traps yeah just take
me for example and we can kind of run
through me because most people probably
might be in a similar situation yeah
that I am I've obviously been training
for like ten eleven years but as a
natural bodybuilder so there was a lot
of you know I start with body part
splits
get into push-pull legs occasionally
I'll running up or lower but usually I'm
running some kind of like push-pull leg
yeah or whatever and I've done that for
a long time and there's a lot of focus
you know on as we've kind of talked
about the the bodybuilding muscles yeah
yeah went over the last year or so I've
really taken a liking to you know
training my neck my traps and this sort
of thing but I'm still fitting it into
that sort of general template so like I
did at the end of a back day or
something like that right I've been
doing things like you know plaited neck
curls I'll do like partner assisted neck
rolls with my girlfriend which I
actually find it'd be really really good
actually like those better than the
plate loaded variations um it is and
I've been doing more recently you know
rack poles and mostly mostly just heavy
barbell shrugs and then some direct neck
work
what sort of recommendation would you
have from me because I still even though
I've made 'l i've actually made a lot of
progress over the last year or so
because like i had literally no
experience so it was like my neck and
probably traps were about the same that
they would have been in grade 9 as like
a 25 year old right by god now they're
kind of on the on the come up a little
bit but I still kind of like want to
take it to the next level so okay I
should focus on my train okay good I
like this so okay first of all do you
have a you have a neck harness right
yeah I do I actually don't use it that
much so let's hear about it okay well I
would definitely make use of that
because the weight capacity is gonna be
a lot higher than just using plates
right for example if you do the the neck
extension with a plate on the back of
your neck you'll be limited to about 45
pounds or so right
now the secret in developing your yoke
is to use very heavy weights okay
because it's weighted stretching
I get C yoked bottom line it is the way
to stretch my friend think about the
farmers walk right yeah what is it that
builds you traps in the farmers walk
just holding weights math it's just
stretching you out there's no shutting
component every strong make it better it
does it squares by the tribe gains yeah
so the farmers walk is very effective
but you can make it more effective put
some heavier weights and that's why I'm
a big believer in the rack above me so
I'll give you the formula right and
you've probably heard this in my videos
but I'll say it again there's four
things need to do a heavy rack pull a
heavy power shrug heavy cheat row and
then a lot of direct network mmm those
are the four facets of it okay the rack
pool is going to give you the greatest
way to stretch of all time there's
nothing that could surpass that it's far
superior to the deadlift for the purpose
of building your traps because you could
use a lot more weight yeah and also
you're not you're not loading up the
posterior chain is much either right so
you're taking a load off that and if
you're doing like a body part split like
on a pole day it's excellent incorporate
and you can still do your your deadlift
some day after you know without
interfering recovery too much gotcha
yeah I'm brown on that no real quick I I
think you're not a huge fan of EMG
research which is fine but I think that
there is actually some activation
research to support this then I looked
at I think it was a PhD dissertation
where he looked at dead lifts off the
floor and then the the greatest amount
of trap activation was like just a door
passing above the knee so that is
interesting you know like if even if it
wasn't effective from a pragmatic
perspective you do have that theoretical
backing from an activation exactly - so
anyway well that's cool yeah and I saw
your video too and it was very good on
building the neck chest but um going
back to the rack ball yeah you have to
get strong at it very strong at it and
the thing is your traps are incredibly
strongly you have no idea man yeah I'm
just the other day I have a guy that I
follow he rack pulled 1,700 pounds you
know as a natural here you can use
superhuman waste on this exercise right
so the traps have so much potential and
I find that people are not attacking it
correctly so for you Jeff I would shoot
for at least a thousand pounds on the
rack above me minimum start with that
okay shoot four thousand pounds alright
and then we could talk more about
advanced strategies you know
the way you could build it up there's
tons of ways you could do it you could
do my method which you rotate the
Rockville High it's kind of like a
progressive range of motion set up like
Paul Addison would do George Lehmann or
you could just use your regular training
parameters I mean you know what you're
doing you know the man you do so get a
stronger AK ball right also incorporate
the power shrug a lot of guys are doing
50 pound dumbbell shrugs and they're
squeezing at the top not optimal for
building your traps for the vast
majority of lifters who don't have high
antigen receptor sensitivity in the
traps when you're on drugs you inject
traps blow up and all you got to do is
lightweight fluff and pump I say screw
that use some heavy weights heavy
barbell shrugs heavy dumbbell shrugs
even get like get that way to stretch
and the thing is when you do a power
shrug the way the stretch is pronounced
even more because you're here right and
the weight comes down very fast yeah so
your traps are catching this weight and
it creates a very powerful effect that's
why Olympic lifts tend to be effective
for building the traps power cleans
snatches snatch occupy polls see
increased velocity that's making a big
difference it's catching the weight it
makes a way to stretch pronounced you
know so I would definitely include a
power stroke of some type and then some
cheat rows man listen forget about that
whole like stationary back thing right
now he's a bit of body momentum it's
again gonna further the way to stretch
and if you ever did a deadlift at the
bottom position or a hyperextension even
you know when you feel your chops at the
bottom of that lift you know they're
being pulled because your body's
horizontal yeah well when you do a cheat
row you're maximizing that weight
stretch because you're catching weights
at the bottom you know so don't just be
stationary like like you know that's
loan control stuff now use a heavier
weight get some body momentum again
don't sacrifice the lower back don't
round the lower back but usually heavier
weight get the stretch you'll know what
I'm talking about especially on things
like heavy t-bar rows stretches the
traps beautifully right and then the
most important thing you have to isolate
your neck okay too many guys all nicely
connects because they think that it's
replicating a certain activity that is
done in the bedroom you know there it's
secure okay but uh you got isolated and
I would say the most important part for
building the traps in particular is the
neck extension with the harness because
it has yeah it has the greatest weight
capacity and neck extensions will raise
your bubble
okay now it also works upper traps to
large extent you every didn't have your
neck extension you'll feel upper back
getting pump you'll feel the upper traps
all the way up to the top you know and
the thing is I believe anyway it might
be bro sciency boy it increases the
nuclei and your muscle cells right
increases your satellite cell production
and I can go more about that if you want
you know it's a bit that that's
controversial if I get into that topic
you know but I believe that it increases
the nuclei in the upper back in the
traps therefore making it easier to
build you know interesting so you gotta
train your neck I don't know if it's
it's bro science or not but certainly
you can increase nuclei and muscle if
they're if they're being activated and
so I the nuclei overload theories this
is something that's you invented or is
this something I did not know okay oh
give a shout-out to my boy me Jin of
Team 3d alpha I give him 100% of the
credit okay basically his theory is that
by training a muscle group every single
day first of all you d desensitize
myostatin which obviously that that
plays a role in you know preventing your
muscles from going and stuff so you
desensitize that and you develop but
more nucleon your muscle cells and what
he references is athletes who train at a
young age for example those from the
Soviet Union right you mold them at a
young age and increase it gives them
better genetics in the future you know
gives them more nuclei and for example
let's say you did football your entire
life American football and now you're
into bodybuilding you're 20 years old
you started bodybuilding training what
we find is that when they start training
their neck and their traps it blows up
fairly easily why because they have more
nuclei on their muscles same things for
for sprinters if you were if you
competed in track and field when you
were younger well now if you just start
doing a bobble back squats and deadlifts
your posterior chain might improve you
might open in that region same thing if
you did swimming at a young age if you
start doing bodybuilding you might find
your shoulders and your back blow up so
it seems to be like a strong correlation
again correlation does not imply
causation here we could just assume that
has to do with the genetics and that
people were better genetics are likely
to see these results that's a
possibility
but nonetheless there seems to be a
correlation that those who competed in
sport at a younger age when they start
bodybuilding these
groups that they use in the sport tend
to hypertrophy significantly and that's
the theory behind the nucleus overload
and it stated that you can replicate
that by training a muscle group every
single day for long periods of time and
then taking a week off and now you have
more nuclei on your muscle cells and
that's also one of the reasons why once
you are enhanced if you decide to cross
the natty line you can never be natural
again because you will have more nuclei
on your muscle cells yeah yeah yeah yeah
it's it's an interesting theory I would
probably call it more of a hypothesis
than it yeah yeah because know if
there's any scientific research actually
investigating it so what you'd have to
do is take people who maybe weren't as
athletic say as children right who maybe
don't don't have that gene and then use
them as a cross-reference to see if they
started training at a young age yeah the
air muscles blow up then you could get
rid of that genetic potential compound
yeah you're right you're right so you
can't test it like that all we can do is
speculate and look at the anecdote but
we do we do know there's a correlation
again we don't know what that
correlation constitutes it might be
other factors related but yeah I think
yeah I mean in any case if it if it
works it works what what the mechanism
is I think is less important from a
practical perspective and I think that
if you know taking a week off training
is been shown in research to be a good
idea anyway so whatever is going on
there I think it probably has merit if
it's been effective and that's something
that I just you know like in in general
about having these sorts of
conversations is you've obviously had
outstanding results with this approach
and so that should stand on its own and
you know we should we should take it
seriously right because ultimately what
we're after is is results I think more
than an explanation at least that's a
good point well I know your videos
focused a lot on science explain yeah
that's cool you know can you analyze all
the studies you give your analysis and
stuff and it's good it's well done but
you know personal experience stuff plays
a role too and I'm sure that you know
you've been training for a long time you
know what works for you what doesn't
work for you yeah and maybe that will
interfere with some of the studies yes
man anecdote is so damn powerful that we
just got to listen to it yeah some of
the old some of the greats used to
strategies that we know work Cydia yeah
you know like progressive range of
motion for instance Bob people's used it
Paul Anderson George Lehmann it's an
effective technique you know when you
gradually reduce the height of the pins
or whatever till you do a full range of
motion
this stuff works yeah you know
old-school handed thigh lifts even the
big three like all these exercises are
time-tested and effective and sometimes
we don't need a study demonstrating that
that they do work and I know that in the
case of the rock pools when I first
started recommending them many people
were skeptical until they tried it
themselves when they tried it man they
got amazing results and from that point
on like I became the rap pool above the
knee guy yes yeah I think that my
approach could probably be summarized as
like I like for science to sort of guide
practice like it informs us yeah things
that probably work then you go out and
you know you test it for yourself and
and this sort of thing but I also take
those anecdotes and people who've had
success in the field into consideration
because you almost in some cases it
would be nearly impossible to design the
study to sort of capture everything
that's going yeah so you have to take
clues from all of those shirin steps
right yeah and then an integrated
approach yeah especially with like
exercise science a lot of the studies
like they don't have a lot of funding
there and they're very limited in their
duration you know and and the biggest
problem that I see too is that they test
a lot of noobs you know there's just a
lot of noobs
and you know I got a bit of an issue
with that you know cuz you noobs things
that advanced lifters it's different you
know that's why I've heard from fun
little from some athletes that you got
to study the best not necessarily first
year lifter or something you know yeah
it certainly is a limitation but
sometimes you need to study on noobs
because that's the only way to detect a
significant effect so yeah that's you
had advanced guys then you you can
almost put them all on very different
stuff but yeah with with the samples
that they have like say you know
sometimes is as low as like 10 people
it's really hard statistically to detect
an effect if you don't ya have newbies
where you can actually tease out those
differences right yeah so I that is a
critic
you hear and that's why you have to be
careful when you apply it to advanced
people right yeah this is why we as you
get more advanced you need to take in
more than just the the basics exactly
exactly and I think that's that's also
what I liked about your um in your
science explain video with the arms you
mentioned that you you you pretty much
have to curl if you want bigger arms and
I agree with that 100 freakin percent
because sometimes you'll find in new
studies that when they do lap pull downs
that the nature the biceps hypertrophy
right but are you seriously telling me
that if you've been training for 5 10
years you're gonna maximize your arms
doing freakin lat pull-downs
get out of here bad you know exactly
yeah no I totally agree man totally ok
so back to my my training program so I
can I can get yes yeah yeah so you say
focus on getting a thousand-pound rack
pull yeah so as of right now and I'm
gonna be selfish and focus on me right
now and hope that maybe yeah I hope in
Raleigh this is one-on-one and you can
send me the invoice after but I'm gonna
I'm basically like battling this injury
so like I actually have a pretty
extensive powerlifting background as
well so I've got a lower back injury
that I haven't had a like actual
professional diagnosis on that I've been
fully satisfied with but it's an issue
to the point that I have to be quite
careful now I've gone from basically
doing a rack pull of like 135 up to I
think yesterday or the day before I did
4:55 for a set of 10 which is pretty
damn good for for me given given my
injury I rely on a belt a lot just to
give everything everything tight is
there something you'd recommend I do to
get my strength up to that level like
I'm still doing relatively high rep just
because I'm still a little bit tentative
to go to the like heavy like you know
below 5 reps yeah yes yes ok I'll give
you the best advice of which I'm capable
right and do realize I'm not a medical
professional here so I'm assuming that
you don't have some serious disc
injuries and that what you're dealing
with can be dealt with you know what's
the correct training I'm under that
assumption right now ok so first of all
the higher reps you like you're doing
reps of ten yeah how many sets are you
doing like a 5 by 10 or something like
that
I'll pyramid my way up and I'll do okay
so like three sets of eight to twelve
but you ramp it every time every set you
increase the other way I'm up here
emitting up as kind of like warm-up sets
but I do do quite a okay of reps on them
so it's not like alright a warm-up you
know gotcha okay what I found is that
even for deadlifts right high your
repetitions tend to fatigue the lower
back the most right so if you want to
get around that just flip it around by
doing more sets than reps so if you're
doing three sets of 10 do 10 sets of 3
it's where you get the same amount of
workload but the same weight yeah except
now you're not having all that fatigue
creeping up right and to get the
metabolic Atika just 30-second rest
intervals so you keep it low rest high
sets low reps right for my case because
I probably wouldn't want to jump right
to like a 3 I could probably do some
kind of like reverse switch where I
could like bring it sounded like you
know five sets of six or something like
that first and then you know see how
that goes and slowly bring up the sets
and bring down the reps I feel like
that'd be yeah that's exactly what I'm
recommending you so you switch it around
from volume work now you know right
volume work yeah and also like that yeah
another thing too for the technique you
have to you have to do it with the body
being upright okay you have to make sure
that the weight is actually above your
kneecap and not on your kneecap okay if
it's on the knees directly you can end
up being too bent forward and that'll
work the spinal erectors a little bit
too much right you want your body being
very very upright like you're doing a
quarter squat almost you know so maybe
leaning back a little bit and actually
digging the weight with your thighs
that's why the old school if that was
called handed thigh lift that could be
very beneficial you know cuz I've had
guys with the herniated discs be able to
perform this exercise just fine you know
with serious injuries here because there
is less shearing of the spine you're not
in a bent for position that the moment
arm is it's much smaller so it is a
relatively safe movement I would say so
the secret is you have to be upright
when you're doing it perhaps in your
case I would refrain from doing below
the knee rack balls for now at least for
now right and even add to knee make your
body very very upright you'll be able to
use a lot more weight and it'll feel
better on the lower back too but when
you lean back don't don't be like
freaking turning into a banana now
because otherwise you're gonna you're
gonna get snapped up
okay yeah sure you're upright yeah I
would even look up you know right right
yeah I like that advice for sure and
then the other exercise you said was a
power shrug so what how does this differ
from a regular shrug how are you doing
there before I talk about the power
shrug I feel like my advice has been
suboptimal for you okay let me backtrack
a little bit okay because it's not just
enough to wrap balls I would also
recommend for you spinal traction work
okay if your gym has access to reverse
hyper extension machine definitely make
use of it okay because it'll traction to
lower back and build the tissues at the
same time it's a restoration and
strength builder simultaneously I would
I would do like 40,000 pounds of work on
that exercise for real the last volume
in it and if you have access to it I
don't know I don't know if your gym has
it there but it would definitely help
you tremendously the reciter extension
gotcha yeah I
that's a tough machine to come back but
I think I could probably rig one up like
in a makeshift way if I don't actually
have the machine in using like a yeah
well ball or something
yeah some good substitutes would be the
sled pool that also provides traction
benefits or hooking up bands to a cool
hammer ease machine or a hyperextension
machine and you could just do it first
like that or wearing ankle weights of
some sort you know but you definitely
want to traction out that spine open up
the discs and another thing too I saw
your video on spinal flexion right it
was good analysis but perhaps training
spinal flexion could be beneficial
perhaps again this is a bit you know
some guys it's debatable you know i like
stuart mcgill and you know it's
debatable in this subject but i'll say
that training spinal flexion can perhaps
prevent injury prevent because if you're
ever put in that position and you never
train those positions well you know
maybe that will cause a problem
interested so take that one with a great
salt but definitely include some
traction work for lower back right what
do you think about dead hanging that's
something I've started to do but yeah
I'm a big fan of dead hang especially
when the sacrum is rotated at the same
time that's why I like hanging leg
raises very beneficial for guys who have
lower back problems depending on how the
discs are you know protruding or
anything so hanging leg raises even
hanging upside down like I know Donnie
Thompson has
three honey two disks and what he used
to do is hook up a band to the top of a
power rack and he would hang upside down
by using the band yeah works yeah I know
I know you're big on doing things that
make you look ridiculous in the gym oh
yeah just upside down with a band
freakin anchoring you but it does work
it trapped it like it poles you know and
you twisting motions again Donnie
Thompson had one the highest
powerlifting totals of all time
multiplied and her knee did this at the
same time and he was able to recover
himself by doing these lifts you know
interesting so hang upside down if you
have an inversion table make you say
that but yeah you want it you want to
treat the lower back you want to develop
the strength of it train tissues and
when you do the rack pull use correct
technique yeah so yeah yeah now I'll go
on to the power strokes let's hear it
all right power stroke what do you want
to know about it so how does it how does
it differ from just a regular barbell
shrug let's say what's the power part
Frankie it's the it's the fact that the
traps can handle extreme weights and a
regular shrug will never offer you that
weight on top of that the range of
motion is already very small and a
regular shrug so you mean to tell me
that doing a weight very very strict
like this is gonna be that much
different from using a little bit of
body momentum in terms of contraction
not so much it's a very small range of
motion it's very this is the range of
motion so you might as well do a power
shrug and get a lot more weight on there
and like I said before you are
maximizing the way to stretch which is
key the way to stretch is how you build
muscle in the traps that is the best way
to do it so you're still getting the
shrugging component you're still
squeezing at the top but you use leg
drive to get it up there then on the way
down it's really pulling on those traps
you'll see it if you do power shrugs try
this next time you work out if you lower
bad doesn't bother you do a 5 sets of 20
on a power shrug is BAM like go very
very explosive
you know you'll feel a howl track I'll
store your traps are the next day gotcha
yeah yeah so you don't really focus on
like a squeezer a controlled eccentric
you're kind of just moving the weight up
and down and feeling the stress for the
traps absolutely not I don't focus on
slow eccentric so I'm however I might do
stuff like that at the end of
work out so if I did like three
movements before that that focus on the
yoke they were all very heavy and fast
and maybe my last movement will be a
dumbbell shrug with like a hundred
pounds and I'll do the squeezing and
stuff just for some volume you know so I
would out reserve that for the end of
the workout or you use that as a part of
a drop set so you might do a power shrug
let's say you load up six hundred pounds
you do some power strokes right well now
you strip it down to four hundred and
now you do it strict right yes you can
do drop sets with a strict form you
don't have to drop straight completely
but definitely make use of that leg
drive and think about Olympic
weightlifters who their exercises are a
hundred percent explosive there's no
slow Centrex on these snatches and stuff
like that
okay and it's building up the traps what
kind of weight should I be using for a
shrug and what kind of reps are you
recommend okay the weight a weight that
allows you to get at least like whatever
allows you to hit five by five start
with that okay what should that be
because I you the way I've historically
shrugged has been more controlled and
honestly I've come from a background of
so-called science-based
I shouldn't say so-called but science
Bale yeah philosophy where if you're
doing you know back exercises you're
doing rows what have you you you can't
you don't do your upper traps that's bro
science kind of thing right it's it's
really really is neglected a lot I find
so it's not an exercise I've done a lot
of so I don't have a lot of context like
I would for say like a back squat like I
should know what I should be able to do
by pretty good standards there what
would be a good power shred okay okay
well what's what what numbers are you
hitting right now on the strict bubble
shrug I'm doing like I think around 405
for like 12 to 15 something like that
you're doing that strict no it's it's I
mean it's there's a bit of there's a bit
of body English but it's like I think it
would be stricter than what you're
describing yeah alright yeah we could
probably do a hundred pounds over that
you could probably throw on 500 right
off the bat hit that four sets of 20
instantly yeah four sets of 20
interesting okay yeah probably could but
try to try the sets of 20 the thing is
it's very hard yeah it's not this is not
easy my friend
five sets of twenty it comes out to a
hundred total reps with a heavy weight
so you see what we're doing here we're
getting volume
but we're using a heavy way at the same
time by using the legs to assist in the
move right right yeah see that's
something that I don't do I should
really try to minimize the volve mminton
my leg but or of my legs but it will
allow you to get the weight up and then
if what you're saying yeah true when the
stretch is the most important than the
thing then it makes perfect sense right
well it is it is man and the thing is
you're still it's the same it's the same
eccentric it's just a faster eccentric
you're still getting it right and you're
still shrugging at the top and a lot of
guys I'm sure you've heard them say that
dumb the tempo the concentric could be
very fast right it's it's mainly the
East centric we're guys tend to slow it
down yeah you know but with the traps
you don't need slow Centrex in the first
place because it is the way to stretch
that's why farmer walks there's a it
does not there's no range of motion
you're just stretching it out so I think
you will benefit from it greatly give it
a shot
okay awesome number three was the cheat
row the cheer oh yeah explain that to me
way to stretch way to stretch man you're
just using heavier weights you know a
lot of guys do they do for example
strict dumbbell rows they might max out
the stack you know and hit still like
okay you know how most guys they wrote
in her hip to really hit the last stuff
yeah how many guys you know who are
rowing higher up on the body and using a
lot of body English like not too many
people so what we're trying to do is
reverse it we're reversing the script
and she rose well again it's it allows
you to maximize a way to stretch you can
do it yourself put your body in a
bent-over position right with your arms
are stretch you feel the traps instantly
now if you're using a lot of body
English on the way down it's pulling
hard on those traps
especially the t-bar row the t-bar row
if you use your legs to assist in the
movement on the way down those traps are
being stretched the hell out men so it's
just it's about getting more weight and
again you don't necessarily have to
cheat row I would say the power shrug is
is more beneficial but I think that
because you could lift more weight and
you're getting more stretch it's just
it's a better thing to do in my opinion
you know
so when you say cheat Row is this
basically you're using your legs to
drive the momentum or using a partial
range of motion like you here cheat
easily cheat is in the context
okay I'll short a range of motion right
it's it's full range of motion right
lower back remains tied 100% of the time
the difference is that you're raising
your torso and you
more leg drive ya think a Penley roll
and that type of context but you know
barbell like in a regular type of
fashion right you know so it's not it's
now it is where you're like you can turn
in your body and you're doing these
weird movements the lower back always
remains tight now if you're if your
lower back can be tied you're lifting
weight to have you're gonna get hurt so
it's a very simple thing like most guys
are completely stationary they don't
move a single muscle an entire body just
one position they're rowing I'm saying
use a bit of body English raise the
torso a little bit when you do it like
and pull fast as well pull fast
use those legs as if you were to do a
deadlift almost and you'll see what I'm
talking about you'll lift a bit more
weight maybe a lot fifty pounds more
weight too so yeah enter pending on what
size are doing yeah yeah I personally
like the the t-bar row just just because
even even the chest braced one I'll do
sometimes just because it gives my lower
back a little bit more support so I can
get a little more heavily but yeah
lately I've been doing just like the
t-bar row in the corner like you know
like Ronnie Coleman and those guys yeah
it's probably it might be for me it's my
favorite way to do the cheer oh yeah
alright so Alex will clue it up because
your fourth tip was direct neck training
so how about we finish on that because I
know a lot of people will want to hear
your your take on on that so let's talk
about what's the best way for me at this
point I've been doing some you know net
curls neck flexion and some neck
extension but I've actually focused
primarily in my own training I'm on
forward flexion based exercises what do
you think is is something that I should
be focusing on now
well I would say flexion and extension
of your best bet right
but um you want increase the frequency a
little bit I would say train your neck
three times a week
every extra I would say training every
48 hours even if that involves going to
a gym just to train your neck if you
want optimal results now training every
48 hours with very high volume okay I'm
gonna say four sets of 25 on every
exercise okay four by twenty-five now
yeah on your neck curl you want four by
25 okay first of all for the curl for
the neck curl do it with the plate
loaded right put a plate on your
forehead doing that curl for by 25 for
the backside of the neck use that
harness okay four sets of 25 and feel
free to use a faster temple as well you
don't necessarily have to do this low
eccentric thing when training your neck
again it
it does come down to wait a stretch but
um you want to neck curl neck extension
for by 25 every 48 hours you will see
amazing improvements and try to increase
the weight if you can as well if you can
do like if you can complete what I'm
telling you increased away by five
pounds and your goal should be to hit 90
pounds for four by twenty five on the
neck girl like holding to 45 pound
plates that doing that for high reps if
you do that your necks gonna be huge men
yeah that's insane I mean that's a
that's a lot of weight that's a lot more
than I've been doing I feel like man if
I went in and did four sets of 25 I
would be sore for a week I know I would
yeah I'll probably work my way up to
that volume right yeah yeah I mean okay
no you know well but forms and calves a
lot of guys don't do high reps yeah
small huge emotion yet yeah kind of kind
of a similar concept with a neck you
know but trust me on this man trust me
four sets of 25 is gonna revolutionize
your neck training if you want to go
next level stuff this this is more
psychotic when you get more advanced you
can actually do reps of 100 like reps of
one hundredth of failure that is very
hard or you can do round so just three
minutes of straight neck extensions
things of that nature again all the
stuff comes from wrestlers and fighters
and things of that right right did you
put a lot of stock in lateral flexion as
well or yeah I I included in the program
but it's not the most important thing I
would say flexion and extension is by
far the most important thing you have to
both them especially for like proper
posture you have to both you know on the
side is it'll give you some extra gains
you might give you that last a little
bit of edge at 20 at ten twenty percent
edge but I would say it's more so
optional but it will benefit you
certainly you know but a lot of guys
they have issues with the loading
capacity right right ya know because the
plates you can't do more yeah so in that
case using a machine or like a neck
harness we could do side work would work
right but do you think about rotations
so there's some contraptions you can get
read that you kind of yeah rotation yeah
yeah it mainly benefits like wrestlers
right or guys were getting punched in
the face it can mimic that yeah its
specificity of training so for anyone
who's getting him that
face I would do some rotational work you
know field athletes all that guy guys
like that but for just building muscle
you don't you don't need it no gotcha
one thing that I've actually found alex
is that putting say once I get up to
like a 45-pound plate and I'm putting
that on my head like yeah yeah man it's
it's uncomfortable and I start to use my
my arms just try not to do it but it
happens and I use my abs and like I feel
like I almost get a better neck pump
when I use like a twenty five instead of
a forty five so I'll do that sometimes
right but one thing that I've started
doing recently and I mean like the last
couple weeks to a month is I'll I'll
just have my girlfriend push as hard if
she gets down on my head and I'll even
sometimes just try to isometrically hold
it up as long as I can until it gives
away and then I'll come up again and
she'll push what do you think of of that
to those two concerns so the first one
is if that the plates it's like I find
I'm cheating and it's uncomfortable and
then the the partner assisted stuff
alright in regards to being
uncomfortable right you have to wear a
hat I don't know have you been doing
this wearing a hat I've tried it with a
hat like do you mean like a to Korra
basically okay like a to you know I mean
okay you have to you have to have some
type of head wear yeah oh you need that
like a heavy dodol heavy-duty towel or
something and need to put some time
protector protection on you for it
otherwise you're gonna get a big little
Ridge right before it you know so you
out you need like a fabric you know
sometimes I'll bring a spare shirt and
I'll use that as long as you get some
padding you know it's gonna sink in it's
not gonna hurt you so you need padding
very very very important and that will
eliminate the uncomfortable feeling
what's actually gonna be more
comfortable for you is your hands okay
when you're doing 90 pounds you're
actually you're gripping to 45 pound
plates and because you're a short guy
like me probably have like smaller hands
there so it's gonna be like you know a
lot of grip yeah that's gonna be the
uncomfortable part not your forehead so
as long as you wear like a fabric on top
of forehead you're good to go right then
you ask me about manual resistance right
yeah very effective oh you're not
cheating you're cheating okay yeah
means you're not strong enough man yeah
so it means it's too heavy the weight is
too heavy if you if you have to use your
arms like a pullover type of motion
you feel your abs cramping up like crazy
it's the weights too heavy for you so
you have to back down a little bit and
work your way back up and a good
technique you that I'll give you is at
the end of the bench you want to cross
your legs you want to anchor yourself
because what happens is when your heads
going back with a heavy weight sometimes
you have stretches like you're opening
up your midsection you're stretching it
so much it creates too much pressure in
that area so if you can anchor your legs
onto the like the back of the bench
right now if you're gonna feel less
pressure in your abs okay yeah yeah I
hope you get what I'm saying yeah no I
know I hear ya totally yes cross those
legs okay and and refrain from using
those arms adjust their handlebars the
best advice I can give you is to do neck
rows with bands temporarily or do it on
the machine because this will prevent
your arms from doing any work right you
just to get to my muscle connection once
you have the mayas connection and you
know how to contract it without
incorporating other muscles then when
you go back to doing with the plate on
your forehead you're not gonna be
cheating anymore
I don't yeah and then the the manual or
a partner assisted yeah that works very
well that's that's what most wrestlers
do yeah wrestling it's all it's pulling
pulling on the neck yeah it's very
effective he just yeah that'll work very
nicely and you're lucky you have a
girlfriend that's willing to do that you
know cuz yeah yeah it's weird and that's
another thing right is that a lot of
guys are reluctant to do it in the gym
even because you do get looks or you'll
get comments people asking you like what
you're doing or you get tapes and put on
the internet if you're if you're really
lucky yeah which is unfortunate like I
still see Nick memes today man yeah
that's kinda cool I go online I see a
guy you know he's just doing neck curls
it's a harness on gym fail yeah it's
just it's a weird thing man people don't
train to next I don't understand it you
train it you train your freaking calves
with form they'll you don't turn your
neck your neck is a muscle bro you
donate and it'll thing is it has the
greatest impact on the way that you look
like anybody can do this experiment get
your ass up sorry I might love to swear
here get over get over to Photoshop
right
and why not that neck right use the
liquify tool bone make your neck freakin
wider than your damn use right and
you'll see how much better you look yeah
Gold Bill Goldberg we got Mike Tyson
look at all these fighter guys big neck
makes all the difference yeah yeah it's
funny I think I saw a photo you posted
on your Instagram of tanning Tatum and
yeah yeah he has a big like wrestler
tight neck right and I don't know if you
did it but someone photoshopped it to be
smaller and he just kind of looked kind
of goofy-looking micron from lookin
masculine and and muscular to look in
like kind of like a dweeb and it's crazy
how big of an impact just that one that
one muscle can make and yet it's the
most neglected and if they're ostracized
for it well remember what I said before
the the six essential areas neck is
number one bro yeah I I chose neck as
number one that's how important it is
and people are neglecting the most
important muscle for looking big if you
get a 19-inch neck a it'll transform you
completely you will look much bigger if
you have a wider neck then if you just
got a chest bump well you got a bigger
chest well like yeah you know I mean
yeah yeah totally and one of the at
least in clothes I feel like when the
clothes come off it changes yeah yeah
especially from this side like for for
me like I we talked about this before
but I get this a lot right like I'll be
wearing a shirt and then it'll it'll
come off for whatever reason and then
people will be like holy like I
didn't I didn't realize that that was
that was under there kind of thing and
especially if I'm turned to the side
because like I have really big triceps
really big chest so when I side on like
even like a lot of say like my photos
are like my best poses on stage right
like if I'm doing my routine of doing a
lot of side chest a lot of sense rise up
a lot of like oblique poses that kind of
thing because that's how I look big so
yeah it does depend on context but if
yeah but way too close
I think you're right man like that the
neck it can make a huge you actually
this is this is interesting because I've
seen a photo there's a hip-hop artist
Kid Cudi and he happens to just have a
huge neck but he doesn't let yeah it's
just genetic yeah and you see a photo of
him with a shirt on and he looks really
really yoked but then there's a photo of
him with his shirt off and he's just the
skinny guy like skinny fat right
but but if he's walking around people
assume that he's like pretty pretty huge
probably right and then the other thing
that convinced me of this
was there was actually a snapchat filter
I don't know if you're on snapchat but
they have these filters right where you
like press your head and you can put
like puppy on your nose and all that
kind of stuff there was one that they
had where it was like the jacked version
of the filter and it would make you look
Jack and I did it to myself
and all it did was it made my name is
really big right now yeah but if worried
look it looked crazy made me look like
more of a meathead in a way but it
definitely it definitely is a way to get
a more muscular it looks yeah that's
what it gives you yeah it just it makes
you look like you're on a ton of stuff
yeah especially like imagine if you're
just filming like another front of a
video and it's cut off like at the neck
area you know it's all you see yeah you
can be the skinniest guy down at the
bottom but if you have a big neck
sometimes people assume that you're this
massive guy yeah yeah yeah absolutely I
don't know you've seen Peru Bish's neck
man it's crazy yeah it's it's something
almost that subconsciously registers I
think and yeah with me with that like
natural body builder bias it's just not
something that gets focused on right
because it does not matter on stage but
if I'm if you're if you're just a
general population or you know you're
just someone who's looking around
subconsciously you I think notice those
the neck and those six that you you
mentioned I am I'm totally able to get
on board with that it's automatic my
friend yeah and it also it enhances your
your attractiveness to you know male
models they all have white and x-men
it's a beautiful thing and it actually
makes a neck fat appear less apparent as
well yeah yeah no I know yeah I've
noticed obviously I think there are like
always those idiosyncrasies like some
people even to me right like I've grown
my neck I think like an inch and a half
something like that which is pretty good
like it was really small starting out
and some people will be like you know I
prefer like the the skinnier look like
you know it looks better in a collared
shirt but that it's just not the the
muscle that we like right so but in any
case yeah I do agree with you man
as meatheads we want to look as big as
boss
yeah now to other like really quick
points on the neck and then we'll wrap
it up man it's been been a real pleasure
yeah likewise so one thing that I issued
or I encountered and this is probably
for people who maybe are more new to it
or they've been convinced and are gonna
start training one thing that I used to
get so often they're not so often but
quite often more often than I'd like
are these splints like I trained my neck
and I would get like I would wake up
with a kink yeah it's called a zinger so
how how do you deal with that or is that
an issue for you now because you're
doing crazy weight like when you when
you mentioned to me you need to do two
plates for four sets of twenty five I
was or whatever it was I was like nah I
like that I'll have zingers for weeks
doing that yeah well my neck was at its
peak it was over 19 inches I was doing
that for a hundred reps 90 pounds you
know so listen the way I used to get
that too and in fact when I stood ooh
bobble back squats I used to get sinkers
all the time I just have like neck
problems man and when I was a kid I
always used to be that guy who would
have promised when going down a slide or
anything so the way I got around this
it's very simple you just have to do
dynamic stretching before you train your
neck you have to dynamic stretching so
that means going up and down right left
and right rotational work in all
directions being here and just twisting
you want to do every single angle
possible right just to loosen up that
neck a little bit right that step number
one then secondly you have to warm up
your neck correctly you can't just jump
into crazy weights right off the bat you
have to I would say start like five
pounds right hit that for like 20 reps
10 pounds 20 reps you almost want to
pre-exhaust yourself you know yeah and I
also believe that train your neck from
all the angles will prevent this from
happening to you know so you wanted you
wanted the front the back and an even
side work and actually prevent those
ingress from appearing but it mainly
comes down to that and then in some
cases to it's the form you see a lot of
guys because we live sedentary
lifestyles we developed tonic necks
right so you don't realize it but some
people are a little bit twisted yeah a
bit offset especially if you work on a
computer all day
Doby
in one hand mouse on the next that
causes postural issues you know so when
you have partial issues and you do neck
training
you're gonna revert back to those
postures if you catch what I'm saying
you can end up neck currently in a
twisting fashion when you do your neck
extensions you're gonna want more on one
side you know and that can cause and
bounces and make you feel like you're
getting these zingers so it really comes
down to stretching out the neck
warming up correctly and using correct
form that'll eliminate the problem 100%
right and lastly do you think that there
are any safety concerns more so with
neck training than other body parts for
example one one thing that I've gotten I
actually got commented quite frequently
on my my own neck and trap video was no
thanks I don't want to get sleep apnea
is yes sleep tup it's debatable I mean
we have seen studies that the bigger and
that gets you expose yourself well
there's a greater chance of developing
sleep apnea I know because there's more
pressure on the throat and everything
the thing is though when we look at
those football players most of them are
on heavy amounts of drugs so that's one
factor to consider and they're also very
very heavy and body weight they weigh
like 250 300 pounds you know so is it
the muscle or was it because they have
very fat necks that's one thing that the
studies aren't accounting for you know
but it could just be that next size as a
whole fat or not could be problematic
again we're not too certain about this
I've spoken to guys who had 19-inch
necks for their entire life they've been
trained in act for 30 years and they
didn't have sleep apnea you know they
never had problems never had injuries so
it really is like we could say that
you're it's a risk in a sense right I
would say it is a risk and chances are
it probably does increase your risk a
little bit but you know what as a
natural your necks not gonna get like
past 20 inches anyway so isn't that much
of a concern I don't really know but it
yeah that's something to think about and
in terms of like the safety training egg
is it bad for the cervical discs well we
don't know I know
bridging could be the most dangerous
that could be the most problematic but
in terms of standard neck flexion and
extension
and you're not ego lifting is it a
problem I don't think so
yeah and again guys have been doing it
for 30 years no problem so again it's
it's like we don't really know about the
safety we just know that bridging has
the greatest risk gotcha yeah I'm not a
huge fan of bridging person I've done it
a little bit but I'd rather just do
straight flexion-extension just be guy
yeah I know what do we know for athletic
reasons anyway right yeah and yeah I
think that that's a good point I mean
that's kind of the case with any muscle
though right like you could I'm sure you
can look up risks of of you know doing
back squats like they're all over the
place it's just something you have to
accept if you're you know you're gonna
take on this as a goal and just do it in
the smartest way that you can which i
think is just like anything else being
progressive like don't try to do one rep
max neck curl you're training it right
to it take it slow progressively build
up your strength and this has been
enlightening for me because it gives me
some context as to what is achievable it
was kind of like when I first got into
powerlifting I thought I was super
strong but then there were guys you know
across the pond or in the states me
being in Canada who were doing you know
100 200 pounds more than me on the squad
and so it gives you some idea of what
you can do because there are not a lot
of people I don't think in our community
who are doing neck training on an elite
level like yeah that's really why right
so yeah that's that's been very helpful
actually
good point yeah point so Alex I'm gonna
wrap it up there it's been an awesome
conversation man is full 90 minutes
which is great a lot enjoyed myself very
much man speaking we do one-on-one yeah
so yeah hopefully it was informative for
for everyone else and hopefully we'll be
able to do it again sometime
you're you were in Canada yourself so
we're not that far we should get
together for a workout sometime and film
yeah we absolutely should men I'm in
Montreal you know I can get the Toronto
fairly easily yeah well you're I'm like
which I'm on the west coast I'm in I'm
in DC so I'm just outside Vancouver okay
but it's an hours later it's a decent
distance but it's it's worth it we don't
have to go through customs or anything
it's doable we're not to go to states
normal yeah it's it's doable then yeah
yeah yeah yeah
alright brother well it was it was real
it was fun chatting with you man and
yeah it was a pleasure Jeff thank you
for having me on here today I really
appreciate it I hope this benefits you
and the viewers and I look forward to
continuing our discussions the future
all right so that's it guys thank you so
much for watching this conversation with
Alex thank you so much Alex for coming
on my channel and sharing all of your
knowledge and wisdom with my subscribers
so if you guys want to find more of
Alex's stuff you can find all of that in
the description box I've linked it below
like I said I'm a big fan of his content
so if you guys like my stuff I have a
feeling you'll also like his stuff also
yeah don't forget to subscribe to my
podcast I do have more of these
interviews coming and I think that the
best thing to do is just upload them in
both places as of now I'm still trying
to decide exactly how I'm gonna do that
if you did like this format of content
and you'd like to see more of it please
let me know by commenting below liking
the video and if you happen to be new to
the channel please hit the subscribe
button I'd really appreciate it and I
will see you guys in a couple days with
another video we're on a video on
intermittent fasting so I'm doing some
research on that right now I think you
guys are really gonna like it so stay
tuned for that one and I'll see you guys
soon