how heavy should you lift for strength
versus Mass versus Power well let's have
resident Pencil Neck Paul Swinton answer
that question for us in a metanalysis of
300 studies here what came out for
maximum strength the heavier you went
the more of a strength Improvement you
saw and this makes sense based on the
principle specificity if you want to get
stronger at lifting really heavy loads
lift really heavy loads for power
somewhere between about 30 to 70% of
your max seems like the best range to
gain power likewise for jumping between
about 30 to 50% of your One Max seems
appropriate whereas for sprinting the
heavier you go the better what about
hypertrophy mass building well anywhere
between about 30 to 85% of your own Max
is likely appropriate most of your
training should take place between about
65 to 85% of your max since stats where
you'll be most accurate at gauging how
close to failure you are but including
some light awack in your training
routine is a good idea as that might
cause a little bit more hypertrophy than
always going heavy so do mostly sets of
5 to 10 some 10 to 20 and even some sets
20 plus reps hypertrophy hopefully that
answered your question of