okay what is going on everyone welcome
to the final episode of this push-pull
legs installment of the science applied
series after this I'm going to go
through a few upper body lower body and
full body workouts so the series isn't
just over yet but before we dig into
this workout itself and I just want to
quickly let you guys all know that my
intermediate to advanced push-pull legs
hypertrophy program is now available on
my website as you can check that out at
the first link in the description box
below
and I'll have a little more on that at
the end of the video um so anyway in
this video we're covering the second
lower body workout for the week and
remember that in our push-pull leg split
we're hitting the quads hamstrings
glutes and calves twice per week since
the scientific literature shows that
hitting each body part at least twice
per week is better for growth than only
hitting each body part once per week as
usual before we jump into any lifting
we're gonna do five to ten minutes of
low to moderate intensity cardio on your
machine of choice lately I've been using
the elliptical or Stairmaster because I
don't find they have the same impact as
a treadmill and allow me to break a
sweat sooner than a bike from here we're
gonna jump into two or three minutes of
dynamic stretching I do a full summary
of my warmup protocol in the push-pull
legs hypertrophy program but in summary
according to a 2010 review on the
performance effects of static stretching
and dynamic stretching while static
stretching before training is generally
associated with performance detriments
dynamic stretching has either a neutral
or beneficial effect and then to round
out the workout we're doing some light
foam rolling just focusing on tight
areas so for me I find my inner thighs
and lower back just feel so much more
mobile and loosened up after a few
minutes of foam oil and while the
literature is mixed on foam rolling for
reducing muscle soreness and improving
range of motion I personally lean toward
the data suggesting that it does help in
both cases and this is also more in line
with my personal experience with it I'm
so at the very least there isn't
anything to lose from foam rolling so
lately I've been throwing it in before
all my lower body sessions okay so we're
kicking the actual workout off with four
sets of four reps on the deadlift now
the deadlift is actually quite
controversial for hypertrophy after I
think three main reasons the first being
that the powerlifting style deadlift
really only has a concentric contraction
I mean you could slow the eccentric down
but in my experience that just increases
risk of injury so for proper deadlift
form you want to lower and dive the bar
straight down with your hands touching
the bar but not really actively
resisting the negative like you would on
other exercises since the research has
shown that eccentric contractions are
generally more important than concentric
contractions for hypertrophy many people
count this as a strike against to the
deadlift a strike to against the
deadlift is that it doesn't have the
greatest range of motion compared to the
squat your hips start higher off the
floor so the lowest you can get or
should get is to about a half squat
starting position and the supposed final
blow for the deadlift is that it's
harder to recover from than other
exercises meaning may not be able to do
as much volume on other stuff because
you need more time to recover from these
now it isn't so much that I think that
these are bad arguments against the
deadlift but more so I think they just
undermine the role of combining
exercises and I think the concern about
the lack of an eccentric contraction
kind of diminishes if you combine the
deadlift with other eccentric focused
exercises which we'll do later in the
workout and the concern about range of
motion I think is a bit exaggerated well
I agree that the bulk of the evidence is
in support of greater ranges of motion
for hypertrophy some evidence does
suggest that training through a limited
range of motion might stimulate similar
results to full range of motion exercise
and I think that again when combining
the deadlift with other exercises that
do have a large range of motion this
concern kind of goes away as well now as
for the recovery cost of dead lifting I
think that this ultimately comes down to
a myriad of factors namely how heavy or
dead lifting and how often you're dead
lifting but I think that with this
routine doing a deadlift from the floor
once per week with submaximal loads
shouldn't be too taxing for any
intermediate to advanced level trainee
to the point that it starts to impair
their other work to a detrimental degree
so it may be a bit of my power lifter
bias coming through here but I think we
shouldn't only care about building
muscle
we should also care about gaining
strength and given just how well these
two adaptations are correlated in the
literature I'm not sure we should always
be trying to tease them apart and given
the ability for raw deadlift strength to
carry over to other exercises I think
having a strength base here makes
perfect sense
even if your main goal is to add side
when we recorded the video I actually
had a bruised rib so I wasn't able to
lift my usual weight but in general you
want to pick a load that will have you
at about in RPE of six or seven so
you'll want to make sure you're not
taking these too close to failure and if
you know your one rep max something
around 75% 1rm should get you in the
right ballpark now as for the sumo
versus conventional deadlift you'll see
that I'm pulling with a wide sumo stance
here meaning my arms are inside my legs
and my toes are pointed out toward the
plates and the main reason for this is
that I'm just simply stronger with a
sumo stance I'm at my best I can pull
about 50 pounds more in sumo than in
conventional which is why I go with it
now but borrowing from a fantastic Gregg
knuckles article on this there are
really only two differences between
conventional and sumo sumo deadlifts
work your quads more and conventional
deadlifts tax your spinal erectors more
it's a common misconception that sumo
deadlifts are better than conventional
deadlifts at hitting the glutes but this
was debunked by Brett Contreras his
research long-ago
they're actually about the same okay so
up next we're doing three sets of ten to
twelve reps on the deficit Bulgarian
split squat this is a movement you
probably haven't seen me do much on the
channel now but I think it complements
the deadlift perfectly because unlike
the deadlift here you get a massive
range of motion plus a large degree of
stretch for a huge hypertrophic stimulus
on the glutes quads and to some degree
the hamstrings so what you want to do is
set up the exercise by lowering the
smith machine bar to the first or second
lowest notch and then put the laces of
your back shoe over the pad stand on a
plate to further increase the range of
motion and place it slightly out to the
side to allow for some hip external
rotation which will further increase the
range of motion another suitable
exercise here would be a front squat
since 1 2016 study found that despite
requiring lighter loads the front squat
may provide a similar training stimulus
to the back squat so for this reason I
think it's a great exercise to pair with
the deadlift because of the relatively
high recovery cost of dead lifting and
the comparatively low recovery cost of
front squat but again you'd only have to
pick one of the two either the Bulgarian
split squat or the front squat at this
point in the workout all right up next
we're doing three sets of 15 reps on the
hip thrust now you may notice that here
I haven't set up a rep range rather just
a single rep count of 15 and I do this
in the hypertrophy
program as well for some exercises and
the rationale here is to have you focus
on technique and mastering execution
before adding any reps or and weight so
you may not add any weight to this
movement for a few weeks but instead
just improve aspects of your form like
keeping your chin and ribcage tucked
down and only moving from the hips so
try not to extend your lower back and
harvesting a stronger mind muscle
connection and once you feel like you've
gotten the technique down and you can
add weight but only once you feel like
the RPE
has dropped by one point or in other
words once it feels about 10 percent
easier than the previous week and again
normally I'd be going heavier here if
not from my bruised rib for some
reference I think your one rep max hip
thrust should be at least as strong as
your one rep max deadlift of course
master the form before loading the
weight but still don't limit yourself on
your strength potential with ease and as
I've mentioned in several videos the hip
thrust is amazing for the glutes because
as shown by barbell and colleagues back
in 2001 the glutes fire hardest when in
or near full hip extension and since the
hip thrust loads the glutes in or near
full hip extension it's not surprising
that later research from dr. Brett
Contreras found that the barbell hip
thrust activates the glutes to a greater
degree than the back squat okay so we're
gonna blast through these final four
exercises a bit more quickly so next
we've got the three-second eccentric
goblet squat for three sets of 15 reps
and again here we're emphasizing the
eccentric on the quads both to offset
that sort of eccentric deficit on the
deadlift and because slow eccentric
sal√£o for a similar hypertrophic
response with the use of lighter loads
of course this doesn't always mean to
use eccentric focus training but just
that it can have a place in your routine
and this movement is also going to help
improve the skill aspect of squatting as
you want to maintain a very upright
torso let your knees travel as far
forward as they need to I've covered
this idea in a mythbuster video which
I'll link below and you can optionally
elevate your heels there with squatting
shoes or by standing on a two and a half
pound plate especially if your ankle
mobility is limited then we're moving on
to three sets of 10 reps on the Enhanced
eccentric lying leg curl now you'll
remember from the last pull day science
applied video that according to a 2011
and
see a report from dr. Brad Schoenfeld
eccentric strength is generally 20 to 50
percent greater than concentric strength
so to optimize the arguably more
anabolic eccentric contraction we're
gonna take advantage of this strength
curve by having a training partner apply
manual resistance to the eccentric
component if you don't have a training
partner you can simply slow down the
eccentric to about a three to four
second lowering phase and finally we're
hitting three sets of 30 reps on the
machine seated hip abduction
I think hip abductions are an underrated
exercise especially for men given that
there are essentially unmatched when it
comes to hitting the often neglected
glute medius muscle and the upper
portion of the glutes as well high reps
like this will generate significant
metabolic stress which according to show
in Feld's 3-pronged hypertrophy model
might be valuable for muscle gain and
since it's at the end of the workout
there isn't much of a recovery concern
on follow-up exercises so keep your butt
planted on the seat and really focus on
a mind muscle connection with your
glutes and many people find that
touching the area that they're trying to
activate is helpful here
I'm also this exercise may have
technique carryover to the squat in
terms of helping train the knees to stay
out and prevent potentially dangerous
excessive knee valgus basically it
trains the knees against caving in and
to round out the workout we're doing
three sets of 10 reps on the standing
calf raise and nothing too fancy here
but you just want to make sure that
you're stretching and pausing at the
bottom and then pressing all the way up
onto your toes and I do find that doing
these barefoot is a more comfortable way
to get a true full range of motion so
again how there's quickly tally up the
volume here for both of these workouts
if you'd like to pause and read for more
on volume and if you'd like to have
everything covered in these six episodes
packaged into a fresh and new training
routine make sure you check out my
push-pull legs hypertrophy program this
is an 80 plus page manual covering
everything from anatomy the program
variables and the science behind
everything and there's a full 16 week to
block training program with email
customer support if you have any
questions so it's gonna be $29.99 for
the first week of launch and then the
regular price will be $39.99 from there
and I should also say that this program
does borrow from any of the scientific
principles that I've discussed in this
series
the workouts aren't exactly the same as
these workouts and I wanted to have
something that was going to be kind of
fresh and new even though it is grounded
in some of the same science and does use
some of the same techniques so anyway
that's gonna be the first link down
there in the description if you'd like
to check it out thank you guys so much
for watching I appreciate your support
on this series has been a lot of fun for
me to make so far and yeah please leave
me a like if you enjoyed the video I
don't forget to subscribe if you happen
to be new and I'll see you guys all here
in the next video