hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
priorization I'm here to talk to you
about a globally important topic in our
challenging times what are the most
important muscles to train so that you
can look jacked I know I know finally
we're discussing the very thing our
society is built on how random people in
the street perceive you there is a lot
of controversy on this and a lot of
people have different opinions I'm
coming at it with my own biases but also
I have phds and stuff so I've got to be
correct damn it and don't you dare get
in the comments to debate me I'm going
to tell you this right now if if I see
you debating me in the comments or uh
Scott video guy can we block people from
our Channel yeah you're getting fucking
blocked I'm not even going to read your
shit one word of disagreement and you're
fucking out you're gone bro I don't care
if you're a member if you P money if
you're my close personal friend guys if
I comment on the channel and disagree
with myself I'm fucking gone that's how
far I'm taking this in any case Sho for
sure definitely let us know if you what
you agree with this list ranking order
what you disagree with questions
comments concerned we'll see you in the
comments without further Ado here we go
rank one and I do mean rank one in the
muscle you should be focusing on
training the most if you want to look
jacked in close or without by the way
this is an inclose and without close
list same list bold move Dr Mike showing
up without clothes to a restaurant is
the Bold move which I do all the time
which my parole officer says is uh not
wise shoulders with and without clothing
shoulders set up your Vaper and a lot of
the visual subconscious ways in which
people judge how big you are it's a two-
Factor model one is just how broad your
shoulders are that's probably the first
thing people subconsciously notice about
you if you see someone that shoulders
are really narrow but they have like
really big arms or something you could
be like oh that guy wow that guy's got
really big arms but you're not going to
be like that guy's big what is a
situation in which you see someone with
four foot wide fucking shoulders and
you're
like if you see someone with a hugely
wide shoulders big ass de Els the first
thing you're to think of is holy shit
and you could look at the rest of the
physique be like well actually they not
as jacked as they look they just have a
wide frame but it hits you that's Factor
one factor two is how does it relate to
the waist because if your waist is any
size that it is Big medium small however
big you get your shoulders will make
your waist look smaller and thus it sets
up the Vaper look which means people
don't just think you're big they think
you're jacked because a guy with huge
shoulders and a huge waist and a huge
gut that goes out beyond all of those
that's a big person but not the kind of
big person you're probably interested in
becoming if you have big ass shoulders
check you're fucking big and if you have
a small waist relative with the bigger
your shoulders are the smaller your
waist is relatively because it typically
doesn't grow over time then you are big
and jacked mission accomplished what
part of the shoulders I'll just make the
super clear the front part of the
shoulders doesn't make you look wider
the back doesn't make you look wider it
makes you look wider if you're from the
side like this shit it's the side delts
upright rows laterals cable work dildo
raises what I don't judge what you do at
home in your own spare time however you
hit your side delts that's how you
should be hitting them often two three
or four days a week with tons of volume
they barely get tired you can train the
fuck out of them eat plenty as your
shoulders grow you're going to look
wider and wider and wider and that's
going to make the biggest possible
impact on your physique if I was
training a Hollywood actor which I'm not
qualified to do as you've seen from our
many videos of the Extreme Experts that
train those folks and they're like you
got to make Willam defo look as jacked
as possible we're fucking training delts
From Dawn till Dusk and we're not
training anything else no I I take that
back we're training other stuff delts
are the most important I will die in
that hill but it's a delt shaped Hill so
sleep on the side delt I love you Hill I
love you too Mike what it's a talking
Hill delt huh number two once you're on
track to get big delts the next most
important muscle to be jacked in closed
or without is arms and I will not debate
you on this why because you may have a
lot of debating and you may be
intelligent and you may even be correct
do you know my kindor argument back to
you is big fucking arms fuck you big
arms win every debate a debate club like
w the the Taiwan grain deal does it make
sense in light of China's new AG don't
care big arms I won that shit give me
the fucking debate trophy big arms are
never the wrong answer to anything in
this world do you guys know what Thomas
Edison was known for electricity or
something maybe I don't know big arms he
had fucking huge arms how do I know that
cuz he had big arms I can close my eyes
and all the people that have big arms in
the history of the Universe I can see
them all they're still in The Ether they
never went anywhere Rich Piana the king
you never look at Rich piana's arms and
go ah whatever you're like holy fucking
shit and let me prove to you the point
by going to the opice let's say you
fucking see a guy like where do you see
people I got it Olive Garden bathroom
that's where you check other guys out
you go in there you get your dick out
you start peeing you fucking kind of
look around you know like that guy's
pretty fucking big that guy's a pussy
fuck him you know shit like that and if
you're like especially if you're washing
your hands right you you wash your hands
and there's kind of the the two Hand
stall thing where it's one mirror and
the do little soap squirties and yours
doesn't work so you have to go lean over
and use his excuse me but the way you
say excuse me it depends on what he
looks like which brings me to my point
if he's got like big ass shoulders like
all right respect little waist respect
but then you look at his arms and
they're not big like fuck this clown bro
hey the fuck out of my way little tiny
armed little bitch I'mma take your soap
I'm gonna take everything bro where's
your girl at I'm gonna take her too he's
like I'm actually gay you're like I'm
gonna take your boy I don't give a fuck
because he doesn't have big arms but if
you look over and he's like washing like
this he's said fuck yeah he ripped off
the soap he's drinking the shit you're
like oh fuck that's my new king you take
a knee in a bathroom and Olive Garden
front of another man the thing is if he
has big arms he'll understand why it's
happening he's like my fair subject you
may rise a member of my kingdom and he
fucking flexes the bicep at you and
you're like sir please big arms are
fucking King there's no argument if you
have a guy who's Big in every other
respect but doesn't have big arms is he
really actually big I submit that the
answer is no number three you got big
delt check you got big arms check you're
well on your way but something is
missing and that something is actually
two things in the very front and top of
your body it is your chest the armor
plate look you get from big ass packs it
cannot be replicated it cannot be faked
it's the real deal and with guys and how
they size up each other if you see a guy
with big dels you're like all right
respect and you see that he has big arms
you're like okay fucking respect but
he's got like a bony rib cage like man I
would punch that motherfucker to goddamn
Mars fuck him pussy your big ass fucking
arms and delts aren't going to do shit
those are cosmetic muscles you got a guy
that benches four 500 or some shit like
that his pecs look different they have a
hang to them and they come out way too
far it's like phone book shit you guys
know what a phone book is you fucking
ticktockers don't know what that is it's
when you go on your phone and there's a
fucking picture of a book in any case
big pecs first thought I have is dude if
I punch that guy I would hurt my hand
fuck that that again Olive Garden
bathroom go to a knee find your new king
you guys already know the drill big pecs
are super fucking important now if you
have big pecs but you got little
delts are those boobs what are those no
one's going to notice if you have big
pecs and you got little arms again
little arms sorry no go but if you have
impressive shoulders and big arms and
big pecs as far as Frat Boys are
concerned you ready jacked as can be so
you fucking won you did it and the rest
is really just bonus points I don't
really mean that but I really mean that
shoulders arms and chest in that order
is how you fucking get jacked and look
jacked in close or without close Point
number four fourth muscle group that we
want to Train sometimes this very
awkward thing happens where you have big
ass shoulders big ass arms and big chest
and unfortunately make a critical
mistake of whoever it is you're trying
to impress by just being in front of him
like this you unfortunately get turned
around and then they see you're behind
and then they see that your back is like
as jacked as like an open bird cage
where there's one dead parrot in it one
flew away it seems like something's
missing shouldn't the parrots be in
there uh rapping to each other and
saying unfortunate things that they
learned elsewhere shouldn't there be
some life back there and if your back is
really small it's kind of like oh and
people who are not that they matter
because there's so few of us people who
are actually jacked and actually strong
if you have a tiny weak back they judge
the fuck out of you and then they're
like dude Rob's pretty big like fuck Rob
and like dude he's right there be like
Rob come here fuck you and Rob's like
like I'm not going to do anything about
it because I don't have a big strong
back with which to support my manhood
rob it doesn't matter how much he
benches tiny back Irrelevant in the
grand scheme of life like hey I want to
be president one day turn around nope
your back's too small I out of here
that's how that shit works so for the
hardcore and for people that happen to
be behind you instead of in front of you
if you get a big back if you get a wide
back with big ass lats what it does is
it exaggerates that V taper even more
and then you wear suits you wear fitted
shirts you look fucking ridiculous like
you get a guy turn around and you see
his lats through his fucking dress shirt
at a wedding you're like do I want to
marry that guy maybe not marry but
certainly I could go to the bathroom and
please him orally it's the least I could
do I mean what are weddings for anyway
so big back is a big deal and with or
without clothes it establishes that
fucking presence big
back plus big shoulders is like Super
Mario if the shit grows they bonus
points that is really a fucking look now
you can't cheat your way to that look
with little tiny arms and little bird
pecs that's not going to happen but a
big back big shoulders is a real good
way to start it again if you have small
shoulders in a big back something looks
missing that's why it's not rank one but
if you have all the other stuff a big
back really closes it out in a really
really awesome way and if you want to
look big to normal people that's all you
need is lat width if if you want to look
big to big people thickness front to
back like you guys have maybe been on
social media seen pictures of my spinal
Erectors you've also been on only fans
and seen pictures of my other erect
things and they're never quite as erect
as I want thickness is just like you're
fucking strong there's no way around it
and it has this like really masculine
energy to it where like if you're a
pretty boy physique model and you have
like wide lats people like oh cool you
you look awesome but if you if you have
front to back thickness to your back
people who know things and who really
give a shit about being jacked like all
of us watching this channel they're like
holy fuck that's for real you can't deny
that shit the problem with thickness is
that in clothes it just looks like
you're fat you can't tell aart fat in
muscle without clothes at the beach at
the gym at picking up your kids from
kindergarten wherever you choose to be
naked you end up having the situation
where someone sees a thick back and they
know what they're looking for they're
like and and your girlfriend's like does
that guy big or like what you're like
yes he baby shut up he'll hear you yes
he's fucking huge I want to be like him
I wish I was him I hate myself she's
like holy fuck but it's true big backs
count training for muscle
growth is never going to be the same
bonus that's really it guys it's four
things don't worry I'll talk about your
favorite muscle groups in just a second
bonus traps I do that backwards traps
and
forearms traps and forearms
why here's the thing by themselves they
don't do much if you just have big traps
but the rest of you skinny it looks
confusing or it looks like you have some
congenital disorder and your neck turned
out weird if you have big traps in
addition to some big ass arms and shit
like that it gives you that Tom Hardy
brick thick yolked look Tom Hardy is not
only incredibly handsome but incredibly
talented actor is also I just want to
meet him I just want to be around him I
wonder how he smells do you guys ever
think things like that I don't that's
sinful if you want that Tom Hardy look
traps don't lie and but they have to
compliment a great beer with a super
awesome fry foam amazing foam just by
itself in a cup you're like what the
fuck did you just what is this foam
drink this is dumb I paid money for this
just the same way traps complement an
already good physique and really
accentuated they don't make the physique
so don't start doing shrugs first
because you look fucking ridiculous what
about
forearms forearms say one of a few
things about you if they're really big
chronic masturbator with serious
problems definitely me but also
big forearms first of all it's kind of
disconcerting to you you're like oh my
God I'm not really a man and if you're a
woman I'm going to pretend I know what
you think I have no idea when you see a
man with big forearms don't you just
think like I wonder if he could
consensually consensually I wonder if he
could grab me with those I mean not
literally with his forearms that would
be weird but using his forearm
musculature to restrain me I could just
I don't even know what I do with myself
except have 50 trillion orgasms because
big forearms are hot that's you and you
know it big forarms are dope and they
have a huge advantage of like if you're
just wearing a shirt and they can't see
the rest of your body maybe they can
always see your fucking forearms and if
you're wearing a sweatshirt and somehow
the forarm part is tight holy fucking
shit people are like what the hell is up
with that guy big forarms are again like
traps they really complement an awesome
physique and if you have big arms but
really uh big upper arms but really kind
of skinny forearms it looks cool but
it's something's off something's missing
if you have big arms and your forearms
are also huge oh boy you really do have
big fucking arms in the classic sense so
forarms cool but again enhancers so once
you're well on your way to being jacked
and the rest of you that matters
training your forarms a bit training
your traps a bit can go a long way to
giving you that extra special look
whereas you were just jacked before now
you're like that one guy that your
girlfriend wants to have sex with I
think
Mike you forgot
legs no I didn't you guys know me on
social media my legs look at times kind
of absurd there's like four of them and
they're supposed to be two they're quite
large I'm fairly confident saying that
at least compared to the rest of my body
I have big fucking legs the thing is
nobody gives a shit I've never been in a
situation you know there's always and I
know you bitch I know you you about to
comment fact look for it once we publish
the video and it's out for at least an
hour there's going to be at least one
girl in the comments at least one
there's always one that says I don't
like guys with big upper bodies and I
actually look at legs like if a guy has
big bitch shut the fuck up where have
you been my whole life to get me laid
nowhere but Dr Mike you were not always
famous and wealthy and you're really
short and ugly yeah I know God damn it
but that whole I like lower bodies
bullshit is a fucking lie and look it's
not a lie it's just statistical
irregularity most women like the big
jacked upper body if they like muscles
at all and the legs they they don't care
enough about now it's weird for girls to
have your peg leg weird stick thin ass
folding over in and itself dying in the
lower body look and nobody likes that so
you look athletic in the lower body but
most people look athletic in lower body
anyway just walking around and moving
and being young and healthy and they do
a few squats here and there a few leg
presses that it just doesn't fucking
matter because nobody ever fucking not
nobody 99% of people including women
ever fucking look at your legs to judge
how jacked you are it's just not a thing
that happens like if it happened holy
fuck and the thing is bodybuilders and
powerlifters and strong men they look at
how Jack someone is and if they find
that the person makes them uncomfortable
because of how Jack they on their upper
body The Last Resort is look down with
their legs and when they see that your
legs are small they go ah fuck it that
guy's a clown and they're not wrong but
most people don't ever get to that part
you get to that part because you've been
in the strength sport game for too
fucking long just like me most people
almost everyone it's upper body only
nobody gives a flying fuck about your
legs and guys listen if I was some
skinny leg weirdo it would be of course
Dr Mike saying this you guys know me I I
fucking got legs bro and no one cares I
care you might Care thank you but we're
tiny lonely people that no one talks to
upper body is the only thing that
matters but Dr Mike you now say so by
the way if you're that girl in the
comments this is yeah I like legs and
not upperbody spare us just kidding get
in the comments and comment so we can
fucking ridicule you just kidding we're
not going to really kill you but just
know you're irregular you're
unusual which I've been told I am before
by Liars neck what about the neck Dr
Mike what about a thick fucking neck I
hear you neck is like traps and forearms
if you have a thick neck and the rest of
you skinny people suspect that something
zigged when it should have zagged in
development if you have a thick neck
when everything else is jacked it looks
fucking sweet but here's the kicker when
you train your traps hard and your back
hard and your shoulders really hard the
cross activation you guys know when
you're lifting hard and going it
actually does absolutely utilize your
neck when you're squatting really heavy
you're doing this and this and that your
neck gets a ton of exposure to growth
stimulus indirectly and thus if the rest
of you is jacked news flash your neck is
automatically jacked like you know what
I'm saying your boy here I got a pretty
fucking big neck and I've never trained
neck in my life and I don't plan on it
now I grapple too so that's plenty of
neck training but my neck would be like
maybe half an inch smaller if I didn't
grapple it still be fucking enormous
like my neck is maybe like wider than my
head I don't know people say I look like
a thumb it's not a nice thing to say to
someone who cries a lot at home but it's
nonetheless true I never fucking trained
my neck and if you want your neck to be
bigger even though the rest of you is
jacked dope train your neck but I got to
be honest no one's really looking I've
never seen anyone with really big ass
shoulders Chris bump Chris Bumstead does
not have a thick neck that's part of the
classic physique look is a normal-ish
looking neck and big everything else you
ever see you see Chris bump sit on the
street and someone's like wow he's not
really that jacked like what do you got
fucking mind he's one of the most jacked
people on planet Earth in in a sense the
most jacked nobody cares about your neck
if you care about your neck dope go to
Jeff nippard he'll CH you he'll teach
you all about how to get a thick neck
what I'm saying to you is if you think
neck is like number rank one or two or
three it's not you just get the rest of
you jacked your neck comes up anyway and
if your neck doesn't come up it doesn't
doesn't fucking matter because no very
few people care about how big your neck
is and ratio your neck uh to your size
again shoulders arms chest back and the
rest is bonus or irrelevant if you're
curious about but Dr Mike this is nice
but I don't have any of these things how
do I get more jacked there is a link in
the description to the RP hypertrophy
app where you can do pre-loaded programs
to get you jacked in every way that we
just talked about or customize your own
or even mix and match and you can do
this for oh geez like a dollar a day and
the program Auto regulates and adapts to
need and has all these other great
things and I made it so it's got to
maybe not suck a little anyway guys
girls let me know what you think oh and
if you want us to do a video about what
muscles make the female look the most
jacked is that what they're going for
fuck it let us know in the comments will
make that video too all right time to
get canceled see you next
[Music]
time