what is going on everyone it is Saturday
August 18th today I want to do a
slightly different style of video I
don't know if I've ever done just like a
motivational training workout but I said
to her Sean it's been forever since
we've incorporated a edit in a vlog
that's what we're going to do today I'm
gonna go hit a backhand shoulder workout
which I'll probably talk about a little
bit at the gym but really what I want to
show you guys is this right here
so my Instagram probably already knows
this this is my new signature
pre-workout product if you can see it
there so we've got the Kiwi lime flavor
well it's something that I've been
working on with PE science for the last
like three or four months I think it's
been longer than that it has been
probably at least half a year we've been
working on this I wanted to get
something that kind of had like a
citrusy taste but you can also notice
that the Kiwi in it really quickly what
I'll probably do is just put a list
right here of all the ingredients in
prolific if you guys want to have a look
I also have some articles linked down
below if you want to read more about the
ingredients list supplement science
explain and and I did a video explaining
all the science behind my favorite
supplements like a year ago so I'll link
that down below as well and this is the
caffeine free pump product high volume
the same flavor but this one has no
caffeine anyway my official pre-workout
is now what I can content that it's
delicious it's my favorite flavor so far
it's delicious
[Applause]
so good like you can definitely taste
the Kiwi and then like I said it kind of
has that like Gatorade lemon-lime
citrusy flavor super then it's so good
it tastes like a sports drink that you'd
want to just sip on chug for Sean's on
its way over and we're gonna go to the
gym and crush it back and shoulder
workout so check in with you guys in a
minute
quick stop storage looks gray but it's
actually from smoke smoke from the fires
yeah there's been so many fires in
British Columbia the last you would
normally be able to see mountains here
so that's how smoky it is like oh you
can tell now it's too bad Steph sister
is coming to visit us smoke looks like a
sandstorm Hey look the limes are right
next to the Kiwis you're gonna get so
many that we're gonna have to do another
eating challenge this is gonna be an
expensive photo op we delicious man do
some kind of photo off with this for
Instagram you know it's just another day
in the life yeah so we're gonna switch
over to that Yammer I'll see you guys in
three two all right we live mm-hmm so I
have this is a quick little creek I just
want to say that I had a white chocolate
raspberry subway cookie and I was like
this is just like a pea sized protein
bars I'm actually gonna take this on the
way to the gym and then we're gonna get
into it all right guys today we're doing
a back and shoulder workout and I
current split it's kind of a hybrid of
I'm gonna say an upper lower split so
early in the week say Monday and Tuesday
I'll do upper body and lower body and
those are very strength focused workouts
I get a lot of my power lifting on those
and then the other three days so then
I'll rest and then the rest of the three
days I would normally do a push-pull
legs but I've been getting a little bit
bored of that up and running it for a
while so what I'm actually doing now is
I'll do chest and arms and then I'll do
legs and any back and shoulders a little
bit more of a different pairing but it's
very similar to the push-pull leg setup
I'm just separated slightly differently
anyway so today is back with shoulders
we're gonna be kicking it off with some
neck work so you guys have been roasting
me about my neck training and I feel
like every video I put up someone last
week how's the neck training going
people call me out about it I have been
hitting my neck but when you cut
everything shrinks it it just does by
definition so as you trim the fat off of
the muscle the actual size of that body
part is gonna get smaller so your arms
legs everything for the most part and
that includes the neck so I've found it
actually pretty tough throughout a cut
to maintain the size of my neck because
this area above my face tends to lean
out first for me so anyway that's just
the way it is but I'm gonna be staying
accountable I'm gonna be hitting neck at
the beginning of my upper-body workout
and this back workouts from you hitting
it twice a week and we're doing it while
I'm fresh so I don't forget it and so I
don't just like tack it on at the end
we're gonna kick it off with a few net
curls and then neck extension and I'll
just show you guys what it is I mean
yeah when I was in Germany one of the
subscribers who I met there gave me gave
me this hat so it says yes I'm doing
that krause because people always will
be rid of those looks doing this just
gonna do like 15 to 20 body weight or
head weight
[Music]
do you take away these extensions
so it's still part of my warm-up 25
pound plate probably you above 15 reps
for this
after that I'm gonna do a few just like
side to side kind of stretches do a few
head circles and then I'm gonna hop into
three sets of 20 reps with the 45 pound
plate and I think that a big thing
that's been suffering with my neck
training is that I have been hitting it
consistently twice a week but I haven't
had a real strict focus on progressive
overload and I know that that is the
most important thing for continued
growth and I've basically gotten to the
point where I'll do a 45 pound plate for
three sets of 20 but I haven't really
been increasing it much from there
because I'm kind of limited by what I
can hold on to so it gets a little bit
awkward after you move past a 45-pound
plate but I do know there are a few ways
around that and then also I've been kind
of slacking on my extensions a little
bit today I'm gonna bust out the head
harness and if you guys are interested
in training your neck you don't have one
of these I really recommend that you get
one because you're really going to be
limited by how in terms of how much
weight you can do by loading it just a
plate on the back your head so this
becomes really really important one
thing you want to really keep in mind is
also not to use your hands for so much
assistance keep your legs locked in on
the bench you really want to have a mind
muscle connection with your neck
and if you're totally just like lost and
don't know what this is all about I'll
link a video in the description
explaining that training and all that
[Music]
superset the curls with some extension
he's just been a second time
set up the head harness this part goes
on the back of your head
I'd like to tuck my ears in well that
way strap it up on the bottom here
probably looks ridiculous I like to move
but I like to warm up in a similar way
to the to the curb rashon is dying left
I like walk into a gym this is it this
isn't my normal gym so like people don't
know me here we've got the camera the
head harness we just go straight to it
man so what I like to do with this
actually let go brace up against
something so I'll just hold on to this
for now and let the weight
and straight down and I'll go forward
like this and then just extend up
okay there's 20 20 reps with the 25
should be stronger and extension than
you are in question and I think I am but
I haven't been using the harness much
and I find that if I go over 35 pounds
I feel this strain on the back of my
neck so that's gonna be my next goal is
to really get my extension strength kiss
slack on the next ring people will roast
you on YouTube so I did a collab with
Ben carpenter who's the PD science
marketing manager in the UK he said he's
been youtubing for like four or five
years he's never gotten a comment about
his neck since he's done the collab with
me he's like every video I post now I
get like five comments about how I need
to turn my neck and I'm like I'm sorry
man they're like my subscribers are a
bunch of neck fetishists I swear set
number two here I'm gonna really try to
slow down the eccentric curl kind of
tuck my chin in toward my chest I'm
gonna overload this a little bit more
I'm gonna go for twenty two reps
[Music]
sometimes I'll do that after I knock out
like 20 or so reps with the plate I'll
knock out a few extra head weight only
reps I'm not gonna go for a 45 probably
go for 6 to 8 reps
that's pretty good
Alfa destiny hi my friend Alex just
collabed with him on the channel before
I think he does three 45 pound plates
per rest on the extension it's freakin
not easy to do I guess now at this point
I'm just gonna get right into it so I'm
gonna hit back first then shoulders
after and what shawne's gonna do
something really cool with the Edit on
this one so we're gonna get ready to
that workout right now tell me are you
blaming there
ready to put it down started the bottom
already forgotten but they don't forgive
me now you barely get ready now do a
dish in the crab Richard I just look
around
[Music]
Khemi
stop and just look around
[Music]