so if you are super muscular but you
also have plenty of fat you're like a
strongman powerlifter okay obviously
these clearly mostly jokes but you the
archetypes sort of work if you have a
ton of fat but not a ton of muscle which
is the bottom right hand corner you're
probably a virgin and you'll be dreaming
about sex the rest of your life that's
where I am on that and then if you have
not so much muscle but also not so much
fat you're probably Emo or goth and
you're going to concerts with your
friends uh and you know painting your
face and shit like that and then of
course if you have a shitload of muscle
and very little fat you're a Chad you're
the guy the party that's a hey baby and
she's like you know that I assume that's
how parties are correct me in the
comments if I'm wrong what are parties
like