[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks dr. Mike here for our P
strengths video number one in our series
to make sure the exercises we're doing
are optimized for muscle growth is the
leg press let's get to it we're gonna go
through mistakes and how to fix every
single one of them so you can make sure
the light press is safe and effective
for the only job that it has which is to
build your quads let's get to it
all right mistake number one in the leg
press not really meeting the most
important mistake but a super common one
the first one we're gonna go through is
putting your feet way too high on the
platform here like Brandon is doing okay
how do we fix this so why is feet too
high a problem Brandon give a repetition
a shot here so we're gonna do nice full
range of motion rep and it's gonna come
all the way down and first of all his
lower back is rounding which is not that
great and second of all you can see get
all the way down again Brandon the
amount of total knee flexion he's
getting is decent but it's like just a
below parallel squat nothing terribly
targeted to the quads go ahead and rack
so putting your feet up high is awesome
so to speak because you can use a ton of
weight but remember the only purpose of
the leg press is to target the quads so
we're gonna want to put our feet lower
and that's the solution to target more
quads a lot of leg presses have this
double slant pattern and if you put it
on the bottom one you're usually good to
go so all Brandon did was put his legs
lower let's try another repetition real
quick so he's gonna go all the way down
just like normal and then look at the
depth we're getting there all of a
sudden no lower back rounding way bigger
knee angle go ahead and go right back up
perfect one more rep just for the camera
you can go ahead and grab the handles
out they're perfect and they're just one
more time all the way down yep and then
all the way up there's no rounding it
looks really really good now super quick
don't rack it just yet what is
to low whose ago I don't know exactly
where to put my feet you want to put
them as low as you can until you lose
force distribution through your heel or
fancy way of saying that you start
coming up on your toes because you don't
have the flexibility so Brandon can you
put your feet like way lower and then
when you go down do an example of the
coming up on tippy toes thing so come
down and then people come up on their
tippy toes and they see that their heels
are leaving no good you want to go as
low as you can on the platform but only
so low that your heels are still pushing
through with tons of force awesome
mistake number two in the leg press
that's super common is having the pad at
too high of an angle if you have the pad
at a really high angle it does allow you
to shorten the range of motion and
actually expose your quads less which
means you can use more weight but often
times you can't hear your quads as well
because you don't get as much flexion
and it tends to round your lower back at
the bottom so bran and go ahead and give
that a shot so he's sitting in a very
high angle right now he's got his feet
in a good position he's gonna go down
you're gonna notice it's kind of stuffy
down there and if hips end up rotating
under one more time so you're gonna go
all the way down and those hips are
gonna rotate not great because that
round your lower back a little bit takes
the stress away from their quads go
ahead and rack this is the easiest fix
in the world almost always for most
people of even extreme flexibility the
best results on almost every leg press
is to tilt the pad as far back as it
goes it's all we're gonna do is walk up
behind it
pull and however that works on your leg
press all the way down to the bottom rug
now when Brandon does this go ahead
notice he's lean back more watch his
hips and the amount of knee flexion that
he gets super deep super awesome
stimulus for the quads and there's no
rounding of the lower back everything's
safe super effective interesting thing
he won't be able to use as much weight
but who cares
the purpose is stimulating the quads
mistake number three in the leg press is
not going deep enough in the leg press
itself to maximize tension through a
full range of motion on the quads if you
do partial ranges of motion on average
you'll see less growth but at the same
time you have to use more weight to get
the same rep ranges so it's more fatigue
specifically more joint stress and less
muscle growth we don't need any of that
stuff we're going to go as deep as we
possibly can
while maintaining tension on the quads
and while it's safe which really means
full knee flexion as low as you can go
in almost every instance here's the
thing partial range of motion go ahead
Brannon show us what that looks like
it's a lot of people leg pressing is
what it is you know you go down you feel
a little bit uncomfortable a fat you go
back up one more rep for us nice partial
and it's kind of most people stop in an
arbitrary place go ahead and rack that's
really good and not a whole lot gets
done now you will get a stimulus you
will grow but not your best and not the
most sustainably because your joints
will get beat up here's the thing how do
we solve this problem we've already done
the first two mistakes of bringing the
feet down and leaving the pad back if
that sets you up for solving mostly this
entire problem the rest is just down to
willpower okay the reason you partial
ROM is because you just don't want the
pain and shame of using less weight and
having your muscles really rip and tear
all the way at the bottom which is the
whole point of leg press so at this
point we're just gonna ask Brannon to do
a full range of motion wrap and the only
reason he's gonna be able to fix it is
because he's already set up well for
it's just time to commit to full depth
go ahead and hit it show us what full
depth looks like you get used to it as
all I'll say it's never gonna be easy
but the pump and the burn and the
tension through the quads and the
disruption is going to be crazy for the
amount of effort you're
putting in full depth leg presses or
where it's at all you have to do at the
end tilt the bar pad back push your feet
lower and commit that's it last tip for
making sure that we're getting full
range of motion for the quads on the
right press is to get yourself a pair of
weightlifting shoes first of all they're
super hard which means that you can
transmit force them really well sneaker
sometimes jostle a little bit and that
reduces forced transmission might
increase in your wrists tiny bit with
these really do super well though is
they have a heel which means you can
push through your heel get excellent
excellent cron recruitment everything
feels safe super effective you're strong
if you haven't squatted and leg pressed
and weightlifting shoes try it
so mistake number four is keeping the
feet too close to each other and the
knees as well
a lot of folks think this targets the
quads better that's not really true full
range of motion through knee flexion
no matter the angle really targets the
quads super well you don't want to go so
wide that you only feel your adductors
but as long as you're going nice and
deep the depth is enhanced if you allow
your midsection to poke through your
knees instead of running your knees into
it with too close to the stance Branden
give us a demonstration and what that
looks like so he could hypothetically go
super low but when I was up happening is
he keeps his knees super close together
runs into his midsection you see some
background there and he won't go any
lower and it's his stomach that's
stopping him the way to fix this is
simply to put the feet out a little bit
so he's gonna put his feet out how wide
is the question the answer is as long as
you feel your quads really well and you
can get outside of your torso you'll see
in a sec what we mean by that you're
good to go it can be super wide it can
be pretty wide it can be relatively
narrow as long as it's wider than your
actual tummy at the bottom Brandon go
ahead and hit a rep you're gonna notice
that when he goes down that his knees
come out making room for his midsection
at the bottom and now he can go that
much deeper with a tight lower back one
more up for us
perfect so the théâtre a little bit
wider toes pointed slightly out then
these come out just enough to make room
for his tummy all the way back up
perfect
so mistake number five and the leg press
is when the lower back rounds we don't
want to lower back to round because that
exposes it probably to a slightly
enhanced and your risk but if you're
using a lot of weight on the leg press
and your lower back is rounding a lot
that ends up being a lot of ins your
risks summed up over time and it's
nothing we want to do in addition to
that usually when your lower back rounds
your quads get less stimulus because the
knee flexion decreases so how do we fix
this problem two ways one
well three one is all of the changes are
you already made putting on weight
lifting shoes taking the feet down
lowering the pad if we've made those
we're well on our way to fixing that
problem the second way is just awareness
so Brandon go ahead and do the the wrong
one with the lower back rounding and yep
perfect right there
excellent you'll notice Brandon's head
is tilted forward and when he comes down
he lets his lower back round so tip
number two of how to fix this is
awareness and fixing of body position
it's a really straight forward so
Brandon is gonna lead his chest
up more he's gonna lean his head back
and he's gonna actively make sure that
his hips don't go into flexion you're
just keeping them a little bit more
stable go ahead now that he's got a
connection to that he's purposefully
keeping his hip stable that means he's
purposely keeping his back tight when
you go down on a leg press you should
think of two things
am I getting low enough and is my back
still tight if you're thinking of both
those and checking them you're super
good to go
the third fix is to actually put some
kind of pad underneath the hips it
raises up the surface and allows them to
stay stable while executing the movement
we're gonna demo that right now the only
concern with a pad is how thick should
the pad be should it be about this thick
thicker thinner what's the answer the
answer is whatever gets your lower back
to stop coming off well at the same time
isn't such a high angle that it shoots
you out of the machine at the bottom so
it has to be comfortable you have to be
leveraged well and your hips aren't
coming off there's no one-size-fits-all
some people just have a little bit of
that butt wink in just half an inch like
this can solve the problem some other
folks need three four five six inches
off
plotting in order to do the job right
whatever it is for you that's what you
have to find mistake number six in the
leg press isn't so much a technical
mistake but a loading mistake it's so
common we had to throw it in its using
weight that is either mostly too heavy
or too light too heavy or too light for
what well the answer is to make sure the
quads are getting a huge stimulus tons
of tension through them and they are the
limiting factor in the leg press not
something else what would that something
else be well if you go SuperDuper heavy
and light press for some people it works
but some people stop feeling their quads
they stop feeling tension through the
muscle and start just trying to survive
generate a ton of intra-abdominal
pressure which is fine but your entire
focus becomes I'm lifting the weight the
better way to do that is usually through
more compound movements like squats
they're much more ideal for the 5 to 10
rep range you can load press on that
range that it's probably better to like
press from the 10 to 20 range especially
for reps on your first set what's too
light well the 20 to 30 range is
productive for a bunch of lifting it's
fine to do with like presses but
sometimes you run out of air you
essentially gas out before your quads
really take a hit it messes your quads
up but you could get more reps if you
had a bigger gas tank it's probably
better for those 20 to 30 rep range
exercises to use something like lunges
leg extensions they're lighter they're
less centrally taxing you could hit the
local muscle without the lungs becoming
a limiting factor so the big
recommendation here is you usually stick
to the 10 to 20 range for leg press it's
okay to go lower and higher as long as
you feel your quads a lot either through
tension or metabolite burn and the quads
are the limiting factor not your lungs
and not your ability to lift super heavy
weight
mistake number seven in the leg press
the last mistake we're going to cover
today is using too forceful a lack out
of the knees potentially and doing a
lockout and resting in the middle of a
set not so much a mistake for either one
but there's good ways of doing it and
maybe not so great ways of doing Brandon
go ahead and show us what a little bit
too forceful of a lockout looks like so
he's gonna unrack he's gonna do a full
range rep super good so far so good and
then on the way up he's gonna shoot the
weight up and really kind of violently
hyper extend right so this is I mean
it's not hyperextension it's just
extension it's fine
but what you don't want to do is enter
that position excessively rapidly it's
fine even to enter it quickly but you
want to be in control as long as you're
in control and you know just snapping
your legs like someone you know
completely out of it
you are gonna be completely safe it's
fine to lock out your knees just when
you start reaching lockout Brandon go
ahead and show so that looks like when
he starts reaching laughs out he slows
down just a bit so it's a big press and
then and the lockout and then all the
way back down and all the way back up
and just full lockout yep except it's
under control that's point number one
point number two is sometimes Brandon's
gonna do a bunch of reps let's say ten
and he's gonna stop and he's gonna let
his quad lactic acid come out a little
bit he's gonna breathe a few while he's
locked out all the tension is
essentially through the bones and
connective tissues his quads aren't even
active that lets his quads rest so he
can do another mini set right after okay
maybe another few so you might rest for
three or four seconds and then do some
more reps come out lockout rest before
racking the weight is that a bad thing
it's not it's totally fine it actually
works really really well to get close to
failure multiple times and get lots of
growth some ated to rules you have to
use about that one plan how many of
these you're gonna do don't just do as
many as it takes because a lot of times
you can just keep going just say to
yourself I'm gonna do a total of I'm not
sure how many reps I'm gonna do two reps
from fail on each one of the mini sets
I'm gonna do three mini sets which means
the first one might be eight reps the
next one after a couple seconds break is
going to be five and the next one
might be three or something like that as
long as you know how many of those many
sets you're doing before you can
objectively keep track of performance
and the second one is standardized the
rest break don't just rest as long as it
takes for you to feel God knows what
pick a number of seconds or number of
breaths is even better that you feel
relatively good just when the lactic
acid is cleared for long enough to for
you to feel relatively no pain then it's
time to go again so Brandon would do
maybe eight it would lock out and he
says okay usually for me two to three
seconds is what it takes so he's gonna
standardize there three and instead of
seconds we're just gonna use breaths so
he's gonna you know let's say he's
locked out he's gonna go to three and
then he's gonna go every single time on
that third breath he goes so what's
standardized he plans how many mini sets
he does and he plans how many breaths he
takes what ends up happening is he
pushes his quads that much further that
much longer now if you just want to do
straight sets and do no mini breaks
that's 100% fine pick what you're gonna
do ahead of time stick to it for the
rest of your mesocycle here's the deal I
hope use all of these tips to get the
most you can on the leg press but
there's some things that are just gonna
have to be adapted to your personal
technique because I can't give all the
tips for everyone people are built
differently people get a little bit more
other quads put in their feet wider or
narrower angling their toes at various
angles there's a ton of specification
here of individualization you have to
employ in order to get the most out of
leg press how do you do that it's the
same for all exercises you seek a
technique over time between sets you can
change your technique a little between
sessions you can change your technique
between mesocycles and slowly but surely
you want to find a technique on the leg
press that does a couple things for you
one it gives you an awesome mind muscle
connection not just you feeling the
muscles work but a combination of
extreme tension through the target
muscle right so if you're doing leg
press for quads but you feel it a ton of
your glutes and not a ton of your quads
you're not checking that box very well
so you
on a big mind-muscle connection feel the
tension and for higher reps feel a burn
in the target muscle which means that
when you're doing leg presses for quads
if you feel a burning your hamstrings
before your quads or in your glutes or
your adductors your quads are not the
limiting factor there they could be
better targeted so that's point number
one
point number two is make sure you into
getting a nice pump especially with high
reps and multiple sets if you're not
getting great pumps change your
technique change your position to get
pumps in your quads not your adductors
not your hamstrings so on and so forth
the last one is muscle disruption in it
during and especially after the workout
your quads should be very fatigued
should be weak after the session heal
perturb just feel weird you guys know
what it feels like to walk down or up
the stairs after a nice quad session and
probably get a little bit sore they
don't have to get Dom's or get sore for
days but they should be messed up
somehow and other muscles from the leg
press shouldn't be terribly messed up if
you do the leg press and your hamstrings
get sore but your quads feel like
completely golden the next day oh you
could change the technique so that's a
cheat sheet for you guys to use as you
pursue your best leg press technique and
slowly Whittle everything to get your
best technique and make sure that it's
checking all of those boxes and if it is
it's probably a really good technique
just lastly you want the fatigue to be
as low as possible so any of those
combinations that make your joints and
connective tissues hurt or feel weird
more than others probably not a good
idea if one of the setups feels just
very difficult to execute your rating of
perceived exertion is super high that
you're not getting super great pumps or
whatever meaning that's not the best way
to do it so you're not supposed to train
as hard as possible perceptively your
muscles need to get the hardest possible
training that's the most important thing
to take away from this kind of training
you want to modify everything you can to
fit your exact needs to make sure that
your stimulus is as high as possible
your fatigue is not super high and
you're getting great workouts over and
over and over again
lastly folks if all this sounds super
confusing don't worry about it keep it
simple full range of motion make sure
your hips are tight your back sit
rounding make sure
feeling it plenty in the quads not a ton
of your joints and you're good to go and
the rest is individualization and it's
just not super important stick to the
basics get strong overtime in your
golden folks if you have questions ask
them in the comments below comment on
what other technique videos you want to
see and hey if you have some of the
answers to the question YouTube
community help answer for those that are
asking thank you so much and we'll see
you next time from the next technique
video
[Music]