hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today we are going to
talk about the five rules of app train
now it might also help if you think of
these not so much as hard rules you have
to go by but really really helpful tips
and hints to consider doing in your own
training so here we go rule number one
normal repetition ranges apply exactly
as well to abdominal training to make
your abs bigger and stronger and pop out
more and give you more function as these
training ranges do for every other
muscle group you ask anyone in the gym
hey I want a better chest what do I do
so that's 10 man I want a better back so
that's 15 to 20 whatever anything
between sets of five and sets of 30
repetitions grows the most muscle for
how much fatigue it imposes and you'll
be doing sets of three to six gives you
the most strength and then when people
go to abs for some reason they get in
you just need to do planks for like two
minutes at a time or like a thousand
crunches sometimes more realistically
they'll say What's 100 crunches reps of
a hundred exactly what is it that I'm
after some kind of weird non-sport
specific
you know strength endurance for it
doesn't make any sense almost everyone
trains their abs so they pop out more
that they have ravioli ABS sets of
anywhere between five and 30 repetitions
and I'll even simplify it more anything
in the 10 to 15 rep range
just like you would for normal lifting
works best for abs no weird rap ranges
are required next Rule full range of
motion for some reason tons of people in
the gym curl like this they do leg
extensions with the full range of motion
need to tricep extensions and when it
comes to ABS they'll do
somebody's going to mean that one for
sure I'll make it easy for you
all right you do that
I don't know why the ABS have a huge
range of motion from your hips all the
way back behind you and your chest Arch
like this all the way to your chest
crunched in your hips all the way tucked
in a huge full range of motion sit up
and even a full range of motion crunch
there's a lot of ROM there you don't
have to do these little weird mini
crunches if you big time stretch the ABS
out and you big time contract you are
going to get more muscle growth and more
of exactly what it is you're looking for
from the ABS in addition to that through
a full range of motion and really good
strengthening the ABS end up making you
more resistant to injury through more of
your daily life and any sports that you
do so people say hey man you need to
strengthen the ABS to get injury proof
I'm going to do this strengthen them
through the whole range of motion you'll
get way better results next
huge tip to try as far as exercise types
is the hanging knee or leg raise okay so
you hang maybe with some straps reverses
or something or you do one of these
things where it's one of those ab
machines where you have a handle handle
and you're on the pads and what you do
is you take your knees and curling your
lower back you bring your knees up
towards cheese as close to your face as
you could get them they might just come
up to here at first after you are able
to do multiple repetitions will you
bring the knees up close to your face
and control The Eccentric back down for
sets of ten which or more which you
might want to start doing is extending
your legs out a little bit more if you
give me somebody who in one of those
hanging machines
can take their legs completely
straighten them lift them all the way
from dead hang to all the way up
pointing themselves in a V towards the
sky and slowly control that descent for
10 reps that person has Gigantor ravioli
abs rule number four eccentric control
or death I don't really mean death what
is essential control once let's say you
bring your feet up in a hanging leg
raise if you just let them fall back
down okay cool you get some good muscle
growth and strength benefits from just
raising them up but you get even more
benefit dare I say something like double
the benefit from slowly lowering them
back down The Eccentric lengthening
phase of muscle contraction is probably
more growth promoting than even the
concentric that you got to bring it up
now we are usually in the gym really
interested in check marking things and
Counting reps I'm gonna go one rep two
rep three rep and the way down at some
level we don't care about and at some
level like well I do want the bar to go
fast on the way down so I have more
energy
to go on the way up same applies to
abdominal work and it's wrong if you can
quickly or at whatever speed go into the
concentric portion of the exercise if
you slowly under control lower The
Eccentric it's going to cause first of
all more delayed onset muscle soreness
which is a good sign of muscle growth
anyway and it's going to cause more
muscle growth over time more strength
adaptations over time and evenness
especially more injury resistance over
time because controlling eccentrics a
lot of times how your body prevents
injury to begin with
so if you slowly lower every single time
as well as coming up athletically you
get all of the benefits that you could
do not skimp on that big rule let me
tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy
app with over 28 preset programs already
in the app you can choose to make your
own you can modify an existing program
or you can just run the programs exactly
as they were written by me personally
this app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the adjust
to your unique parameters with every
single input we have over 250 exercises
in the app with detailed video tutorial
links to every single one you never have
to be confused about technique or form
ever again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
lastly
it's totally cool to do planks and holds
in all those calisthenics mostly to get
good at them and for fun and it will
also train your abs pretty well but if
you're very serious about training your
abs as hard as possible and as
effectively as possible abdominal
machines that can be loaded
progressively
probably better than calisthenics for
example if you do like planks where you
you know you get your feet behind you
you're on the ground like this and
you're on your elbows is that good for
your abs sure of course but what's
probably better in most cases is an
abdominal crunch machine where you can
set the selector to 100 pounds full
range of motion big crunch pause slowly
lower Big Stretch and again for 12 reps
the next week you might do 13 reps the
week after that you might start going to
105 pounds 110 pounds it's that
progression it's a standardized render
motion it's the tracking it's the fact
that it's a dynamic movement has a
concentric and eccentric phase is not
just isometric all of those things are
big advantages and remember when we want
big pecs
almost no one goes and holds push-ups
halfway down for a minute and be like
that's it man Peck planks like what but
I thought the chest machine and the
bench press in the dumbbells were more
effective they are so if you want bigger
ABS stronger ABS more injury resistant
ABS apps that pop out of your T-shirt to
have the ladies go oh my God what's up
with his abs
right my lady impression came out more
of a uh a gay man impression which you
know it's a good impression nonetheless
I think I'm good at Impressions damn it
it in any case if that's what you want
you stuff that works progressively
loaded implements that can be done
through a standardized full range of
motion four repetitions that you can
count instead of like a time which you
could count the time and definitely with
loadable increments so you can make it
more heavy over time get the best abs of
your life and finally go back in time go
back to high school ask the girl of your
dreams to prom and she's still like dude
it was never about your abs
I just hate your face
getting into the time machine again
feels really weird
see you never 1982
anyway see you guys