hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization weekly tip number 18
don't
cheat on your diet
i know it sounds kind of lame like i
think people kind of know that but do
they
cheat meals
some plus sides god damn they taste so
good
oh
i was falling asleep last night i'm in
the middle of cutting right now and i'm
actually not like having a ton of
cravings or hunger or anything like that
which is sweet because i'm getting
pretty lean and i feel fucking awesome
so you know uh that's really going well
but like
right before i actually fall asleep i
was like
chinese food
damn
how do they make it taste so good i know
the answer is msg
so feel free to still slide that into
the comments but in any case oh
oh
where's italian guy mike
fucking cheat meal forget the chinese
real italian oh
gobble ghoul or whatever shit i heard on
the sopranos i don't even know if that
is in any case cheat meals they taste
super great i mean they really do and
that's a plus it makes your makes you
happier you know for the five minutes
that you're actually wolfing it down
and they can re-energize you for like at
least the day after and it'll kind of
make you feel like you're revamped in
your dieting efforts like i got my cheat
meal i'm good i can do another bit a few
days or weeks or whatever grinding until
i get another cheat meal
maybe however there is a darker side
that i think more people encounter than
not encounter
first cheat meals can make you gain tons
of water weight
it's temporary doesn't mean anything
but it can you go to the gym or you look
at your physique remember you're in the
middle of cut it's otherwise not called
a cheat meal it's just you're having a
fun meal
uh gee whiz it does like really not
great things to your motivation if
you're like looking lean lean lean you
take a cheat meal you wake up the next
day you're like oh my god i'm a bloated
mess like it's tough right it can be
really tough
and worse there's worse cheat meals in
many people not all people
have this weird effect where
they have an en enhancing effect on your
cravings
you would think
that a cheat meal would just stamp of
approval cravings are good you sort of
uh checked that box and you're good for
a while and in many people that does
happen they eat their pizza or half
pizza or whatever and they're like man
i'm over pizza i can diet for another
three weeks no problem
for many people they're so hungry and so
sort of strung out
that they have their cheat meal
and even towards the end of the cheat
meal like the last two slices they start
to eat them slower they're like this is
so pleasurable i don't want it to end
and then as soon as it ends like jesus
when do i get my next cheat meal they're
so excited for this incredibly amazing
food
that
it
does a few really bad things it makes
the rest of the diet until you get your
next cheap
cheat meal miserable by comparison
it also makes you literally rebound more
cravings and hunger so the next few days
after the cheat meal your hunger was
worse than before you got the cheat meal
which is like if we're using the cheat
meal to make the diet easier and then
the diet is harder because the cheat
meal are we kind of shooting ourselves
in the foot like isn't that really
stupid and you can end up in the cycle
where
you
have the cheat meal and you're for the
first half of the cheat meal elated
super happy the last half of physically
eating the food you get nervous they're
like oh shit like this is it you know
it's like um if you ever have like fun
with your friends when you're a little
kid and your parents were gonna pick you
up and take you home the sleepover was
over like the last half hour of playing
you were like god dang it like uh it's
about to be over i'm having the time in
my life and then your your mom shows up
like okay billy time to go home you're
like no you cry i don't know that was
how my childhood was i'm just kidding i
never had any childhood friends the
robots that designed me make sure i had
those simulations uploaded so i feel
like you
in any case kind of a similar idea here
you finish your cheat meal or as you're
finishing it you're like oh my god like
after this there's no more happiness for
the foreseeable future and then worst
problem
if you have scheduled cheat meals or you
take one every few days or a few weeks
or something you spend a lot of time
looking forward to the cheat meal and
contemplating and sort of really
accepting your misery of not having a
current cheat meal like your next cheat
meals on friday night dude thursday's a
long fucking day of like damn it can i
just teleport to friday i hate this i
hate this i hate this
interestingly enough and i don't want to
put too fine a point on this
but
the
promise of something
really good in the future
and the temporary relief of stress
is a is a tool that intelligence
agencies around the world use to
actually break people and get
information out of them if they just
beat the shit especially at a really
trained spies they just beat the shit
out of you and blair loud music and pour
water all over you a lot of people who
are well trained and just hearty
individuals genetically to begin with
they just harden up and like fucking
kill me i don't care you're not getting
shit
more clever than that usually the
intelligence agencies what they'll do
is they'll torture the fuck out of you
or whatever psychological torture same
same and you harden up and then just as
you're almost too hard to crack they
come in they sit down hey here's a drink
here's some food relax it's okay we're
on your side it's fine eat the food
relax turn off the loud blaring music
whatever can you guys tell i've seen one
too many spy movies but but legit this
is how it works and then
when you relax
and maybe you talk to them a little bit
and then you're civil
they explicitly tell you hey listen
anytime you want to like
break us off with the secrets and let us
know what you know we're just literally
never going to torture again it'll just
be like you're good we might even let
you go like just just tell us what we
needed this doesn't have to continue
here's more food have more drink it's
okay like you want a cigarette here's a
cigarette and all the spy movies they
all smoke cigarettes i don't know if i
was getting beat to death maybe i'd try
a cigarette too
in any case
that
promise of better that promise of relief
they say hey do you want to tell stuff
you're like no fuck you guys they get
right to beating you again and you don't
sleep for a while but then you have it
in your head that
if you give anything the relief will
come and i know it's a stretch and none
of us are warriors or spies maybe some
of you are but i sure as well i'm not
most people watching this channel
probably just trying to get jacked that
mini mini teeny teeny tiny way smaller
version of that really does happen in
the human mind if you do cheat meals not
to everyone most people i think or many
people it's totally fine they have their
pizza they feel great they move on if
you're one of those people this whole
lecture just like in one ear out the
other but if you feel me you know what
i'm talking about you look forward to
this cheat meal and it actually just
makes you
miserable ninety-five percent of the
diet and five percent which is the first
half of the physical time that you're
eating the food you're like oh my god
i'm in paradise because that's a shitty
trade-off and if that's a shitty
trade-off for you stop flying
icarus-like into the sun and stop doing
this to yourself it's a nasty cycle and
you have to break the cycle in order to
actually get away from it and breaking
the cycle is tough because you have to
say you know what i'm just not doing any
cheat meals
here's a better idea because we can't
all grind in and diet forever sometimes
you have a 16 week diet if you just cut
the calories all the time you're just
going to fatigue right out and you're
just going to fail so if you need to
reduce fatigue you don't actually have
to do it with cheat meals here's my
better recommendation
you're cutting everything's going super
well and you get super fatigued super
flat super depleted you need a break no
worries you take your normal diet all
your protein carbs fats you take your
carbs and your fats and you bring up
those calories so that you're at
maintenance you're at maintenance
calories for three to four days i know
it's a long time but it's all clean food
it's all diet food just more and here's
the thing when you're really fucking
hungry on a crazy diet uh yeah you're
gonna like
more brown rice holy shit somebody throw
a fucking parade but three or four days
of that means you get over the novelty
after a while and your glycogen stores
really fill up and your brain chemistry
really changes to one of like oh like
i'm feeling pretty good your fatigue
starts to fall and now you're having
great training you feel really like
you've pushed really hard on this diet
to get the fat off and then you sort of
pull away and let everything refill and
reset and then three or four days later
you introduce more low days again more
regular diet days pull out the carbs and
fats like you're supposed to or anyway a
bunch of them get into that deficit
again and grind out for another anywhere
between three or four days to two weeks
depending on how you're doing things two
or three weeks or something and then
another three or four days of refeed i
don't like cheat meals i'm not a big fan
of daily work once a day or sorry like a
day at a time refeed but three or four
days geez it really reduces the fatigue
the the direct analogy here is kind of
like a d load slightly different time
scale but like a d load is not one
fucking light day a deal is a whole week
of easy lifting and after a deload like
after one light day if you're really
fatigued and from the from gym training
you're like all right i feel a little
better i guess but someone's like
alright sweet you know heavy lifting
tomorrow like fucking christ i'm still
like barely under like barely above
water here
if you take a week of deloading man you
feel like a trillion bucks and you can
grind for another one to two months no
problem a similar thing works here three
or four days back to maintenance clean
food only so there's not that like
addictive like oh my god i want as many
cheetos as possible
i swear to god it works give it a shot a
lot of top bodybuilders use this already
whether they know it or not whether it's
intentional not it's like the push pull
system it works really well give it some
thought and listen last thing i'll say
if you're at a cia black site
if you're getting tortured
do like a few dr mike blinks the weird
ones that i do
and i can tell through like quantum
tunneling of the universe if you're
doing that i'll come through i'll rescue
you or get pizza together see you next
week
you