if you still can't see your abs this
might be why while losing some fat
around your midsection by being in a
calorie deficit is the main way to make
your abs more visible there is another
way it turns out the ABS or the Reus
abdominis are just like any other muscle
when you train them they get larger and
even if you're at a somewhat higher body
fat percentage by training your abs you
may just make them quite a bit more
visible how do you train your abs well
just like any other muscle group train
them 2 to four times a week with maybe
about 10 to 20 sets or more if you're
really trying to grow them with about 5
to 50 reps per set generally you'll want
to emphasize that length in position so
picking exercises like a dragon flag or
an AB wheel roll out will be great
options if you still can't see your abs
even though you've lost a bunch of fat
try training your abs directly you may
just find but it it makes your abs more
visible