okay what's going on guys in this video
I'm going to be taking you through six
lower body exercises that'll Target the
quads hamstrings glutes and calves plus
one exercise for the ABS at the end as
always we're kicking things off with a
five to ten minute warm-up on the
treadmill or StairMaster followed by
some quick lower body specific Dynamic
stretching to get the knees and hips
mobile and ready to lift from there
we're jumping into our first exercise of
the day which is a deadlift for just one
heavy top set of five reps and of course
before hitting that top set we'll do our
typical warm-up pyramid gradually
building up in weight first now if you
don't like to deadlift you can feel free
to replace it with a trap bar deadlift
which will keep the back more upright
and emphasize the quads a bit more or
you can do a barbell hip thrust as a
more glute dominant substitution or you
can do Bulgarian split squats as a more
quad dominant substitution still
emphasizing that forward lean a little
more than usual so that some of that
emphasis will be shifted to the glutes
and hamstrings alright so the deadlift
top set should be taken to an rpe of
eight or nine meaning you're leaving no
more than one or two reps in the tank
and since the volume is lower here it's
important that we compensate by pushing
the set closer to failure still since we
don't want this strength work to
interfere with the remaining leg volume
to follow in this workout we don't want
the set to be cripplingly difficult
either if you're more interested in
increasing your deadlift strength over
the coming weeks you can drop one rep
each week as you simultaneously add
weight this is called linear
periodization which is when the rep
volume decreases as the weight on the
bar increases so you do five reps in
week one four reps in week two three
reps in week three two reps in week four
one rep max and week five adding weight
each week and then take a deload in week
six by hitting four reps at a lighter
load if you don't care about strength at
all and you're only concerned with
hypertrophy I'd say to just stick with
five reps the whole way through and aim
to either increase the weight or improve
some aspect of your Technique from week
to week alright after that heavy top set
we're going to strip the weight back and
do two sets of eight reps on the
stiff-legged deadlift for these I'll
usually drop from something in the range
of 405 pounds on my top set down to 225
pounds for the stiff leg pulls so
something around 50 to 60 percent of
your working weight is probably in the
right ball power for your back offsets
and you want to think of these as
essentially just a normal conventional
deadlift except with higher hips so
instead of dropping your hips down as
you bend your knees during the normal
deadlift setup with a stiff leg deadlift
you want to keep your hips High keep
your knees more straight and then
initiate the pull by just hinging at
your hips these can be a bit awkward if
you haven't done them before so make
sure you start light and don't push them
too close to failure until you feel
fully comfortable with the technique
okay next we're moving on to four sets
of 10 to 12 reps on the leg press now
since the deadlifts will be much more
hamstring and glute dominant we're
focusing on smashing the quads here with
some high volume leg press for these I
take a medium stance width on the
platform and focus on hitting quality
depth at the bottom of each and every
rep you want to go as deep as you
comfortably can without allowing your
lower back to round noticeably I also
find that even though locking out the
knees at the top isn't actually
dangerous and I can link a great video
from Dr Mike Israel on that down below I
do find that I can feel my quads a lot
better if I maintain a slight knee Bend
at the top so I'm using more of a
constant tension approach here by not
locking the weight out at the top and
not pausing in between reps just getting
all the way to 10 to 12 reps with a
smooth consistent Cadence I should also
note that you should really try to
adhere to a maximum of two minutes of
rest in between sets here that isn't
because it's any better or worse for
gains but simply because if you rest too
long on these the workout will most
likely start to feel really dragged out
and you may start to lose focus by set
three or four so keep the pace of the
workout going and don't stall or waste
time in between sets Okay after that
we're hitting three sets of eight to ten
reps on the glute ham raise now I'm
using this ghr machine at my gym which I
love because you can use a
counterbalance weight to reduce the
loading this helps me control the
movement better than I could with body
weight alone however if you don't have a
machine like this you can easily set up
glued ham raises on the back of a lap
pull-down machine and you can use a
stick or a broom handle as a
counterweight or you can use a lap pull
down bar if that works or if you find
that awkward you can have a partner pin
down your ankles and do Nordic ham curls
controlling the negative as much as you
can and then using your hands to push
you up at the bottom on these I try to
stay in the so-called active range
because there's zero tension on the
hamstrings at the top so I just cut out
that top quarter of the movement this
isn't a huge deal but I just find it
helps me keep the focus on my hamstrings
better okay next we're moving on to
three sets of eight to ten reps on the
slow eccentric leg extension even though
we already hit the quads on the leg
press and that will be enough to trigger
growth remember that the big rectus
femoris head of the quads isn't hit very
well on leg presses that's because the
rectus femoris is the only head of the
quads that crosses both the knee joint
and the hip joint so it never really
reaches its full contractile potential
with compound movements this is actually
even worse on the squat because the hips
get to full extension at the top so for
this reason I try to include leg
extensions at least once per week
allowing that rectus femora's head to
reach Peak contraction we're also using
a three second count on the negative of
every rep here this will accomplish two
things first The Eccentric is likely
more hypertrophic than the concentric so
ensuring high levels of tension on The
Eccentric is very important and secondly
slowing down the negative will force you
to use lighter loads which should put
less strain on the knees without
compromising the hypertrophic stimulus
of the set alright after that we're
doing four sets of 15 to 20 reps on the
seated calf raise even though I'm a bit
more on the fence about seated calf
raises these days than I was in the past
I still think that if you have access to
both a seated machine and a standing
machine it does make sense to include
both so do one calf exercise with a
straight knee and one calf exercise with
a bent knee for maximum calf development
the reason I say I'm more on the fence
about them these days is because a bunch
of Studies have come out showing that
the soleus muscle which is the muscle
people try to Target with seated calf
raises is substantially less responsive
to training than the gastroc is this
2020 study found that the Soleus
responds quite poorly to both High rep
and low rep training so the idea that
you can Target the slow twitch dominant
Soleus with higher reps seems to be
outdated in light of this new evidence
so you could argue that whatever volume
you're doing trying to Target the Soleus
on the seated calf raise you'd be better
off doing that volume with a straight
leg to get the gastroc more involved
this makes sense to me and if you want
to replace your seated calf work with
standing calf work I think that's fairly
reasonable however I'd really like to
see a long-term hypertrophy study
directly comparing Soleus growth and
gastroc growth on the seated calf raise
versus the standing calf raise before
jumping to that conclusion if it turns
out that the standing calf raise is in
fact better for gastroc growth and
Soleus growth then I'd say we might as
well throw the seated calf raise out but
until we have that study I still think
including both is probably slightly
better for most people however if you
don't have access to a seated calf raise
machine you probably aren't missing out
on much if anything and even though High
Reps or low reps doesn't seem to matter
for the Cavs all that much I'm still
doing higher reps on these just for
variety and since we did relatively
lower reps on the first leg day of the
week alright and to finish off the
workout we're doing three sets of 10 to
20 reps on the Roman Chair leg raise the
reason I'm saying 10 to 20 reps is
because for some people 10 reps will be
close to failure for others they won't
be pushing it very hard until they're
closer to 20 reps so the specific rep
count doesn't matter here as long as
you're pushing yourself close to failure
once you can no longer get your legs up
to your chest level without excessive
swinging you can terminate the set and
as you do these you want to think about
curling your low lower back and
squeezing your abs not just lifting your
legs up also if you can't get to at
least 10 reps with straight legs in good
form I'd suggest using a more bent knee
first and then over time you can
transition to straight leg raises as you
build up more core strength and then on
the Other Extreme if 20 reps feels too
easy you should slow down the negative
on each rep down to a two to three
second count and then if that's still
too easy for you it may be time to move
on to a new YouTube channel maybe
something like six-pack shortcuts and
that's a wrap for the six part push-pull
leg series as I've been saying
throughout the series if you're looking
to put all this information together
into a complete training routine so you
have everything you need in one place
I'd recommend checking out my 12-week
push-pull legs hypertrophy system over
on jeffnipper.com if you'd like to learn
more about that program and to see if
it's right for you and your goals I'll
leave a link to it in the description
box down below so that's it for this one
guys thanks so much for watching don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up if you
enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one