[Music]
all right welcome everyone to the new
myth-busting day series on this channel
basically what I want to do with this
series is every Monday we'll take some
common fitness or nutrition myth and
look at where it was that that myth
started and why it's actually wrong
based on an objective look at the
scientific literature so I figured we'd
kick it off this week with a look at the
claim that high-protein diets are bad
for your bones and your kidneys and
let's start with the bones first so
where did this myth come from well way
back in 1920 the paper was published in
the Journal of biological chemistry
suggesting that increasing protein in
the diet led to increased calcium
excretion in the urine about 50 years
later in the 1970s and 80s the group of
metabolic balance studies found that
even when dietary calcium intake was
controlled for dietary protein intake
wasn't affecting intestinal absorption
of calcium but yet still piles of other
research dating all the way back to the
1920s have been showing repeatedly that
increased dietary protein leads to
increased urinary excretion of calcium
so the reasoning went that sense more
calcium wasn't being absorbed into the
blood from the intestine that extra
calcium being seen in the urine had to
be coming from somewhere and that
somewhere was probably from the bones
this eventually developed into the so
called acid ash hypothesis which for our
purposes states that the extra amino
acids from an increase in dietary
protein lead to a state of acidosis in
the body and the body tries to
compensate and buffer that acidity by
releasing alkaline stores in the bones
leading to a loss of calcium and
eventual osteoporosis okay so far it
seems pretty legit so where did it go
wrong well the key error was in the old
studies from the 1970s and 80s and they
were simply mistaken about their claim
that increased dietary protein wasn't
affecting intestinal calcium absorption
and according to a 2007 teen systematic
review from the National Osteoporosis
foundation improved dietary intervention
studies have revealed using dual stable
calcium isotopes increasing dietary
protein was associated with a
significant increase in intestinal
calcium absorption such that nearly the
entire increase in the urinary calcium
could be accounted for by improved
calcium absorption and that in a
short-term there is no increase in
skeletal catabolism so basically taking
in more protein in the diet simply
led to more calcium being absorbed in
the intestines which led to more calcium
in the blood and then eventually more
calcium in the urine so most of that
increase in urinary calcium excretion
was just coming from the diet to begin
with so the entire acid ash hypothesis
at least in the context of a higher
protein diet
causing bone loss is based on an
outdated and erroneous finding now even
if the acid ash hypothesis were true
even if protein induced acidosis were
causing bone mineral loss more recent
studies have shown that these acid based
concerns are minor when compared to the
alkalizing effects of eating more fruits
and vegetables so I think more focus
should be placed on eating more fruits
and vegetables and less focus should be
placed on eating less protein now as one
final nail in the coffin here the
National Osteoporosis foundation notes
that 50% of bone by volume is protein
anyway and they conclude that current
evidence shows no adverse effects of
higher protein intakes and that there
were actually some positive trends
between bone mineral density and dietary
protein at most bone sites especially
the lumbar vertebrae okay so with that
myth busted isn't protein still bad for
the kidneys first of all where does this
myth come from so the kidney myth is
based on the correct idea that
increasing dietary protein in patients
that have pre-existing kidney
dysfunction contributes to a further
deterioration of kidney function and
this is a common move I think we'll see
in a lot of these nutrition based myths
it's assumed that because something is
bad for people who already have a
certain disease that that thing must
somehow contribute to the cause of that
disease it's similar to the argument
that because diabetics need to monitor
and regulate their sugar intake the
sugar must play a central causative role
in the development of diabetes but
that's a topic for another video for
2015 review paper published in the
Journal of applied physiology nutrition
and metabolism concluded that the belief
that higher protein intakes lead to
renal failure has no foundation and in
fact the response to an increase in
dietary protein intake in those with
normal renal function is actually an
increasing glomerular filtration rate or
GFR sign of improved kidney function
furthermore in 2007 the world
Health Organisation agreed that while
there is clear evidence that high
protein intakes by patients with kidney
disease does contribute to the
deterioration of kidney function the
idea that the decline of GFR that occurs
with advancing age and healthy subjects
can be attenuated by reducing protein
and the diet
appears to have no foundation okay so
that's two myths busted it doesn't seem
to be the case that a high protein diet
puts you at a greater risk of bone loss
or kidney dysfunction or renal failure
and in fact it seems like a high protein
diet may actually help with these things
and not only that but also decrease
rates of age-related sarcopenia and help
with body composition improve weight
management and appetite control okay so
guys let me know by commenting below if
you'd like to see me cover in a future
video how much protein you really need
to eat in a day and how much is too much
and feel free to comment below if there
are any myths you'd like to hear me
cover in a future myth busted Monday I'm
really excited to keep moving forward
with this series in the new year and see
how it develops and grows so if you did
like it and you'd like to see more of
these leave me a thumbs up don't forget
to subscribe and I will see you guys all
next Monday