chilled water absolutely makes you burn
more calories because you are a mammal
most of you watching anyway uh lizard
people hello Scot are vampires
technically mammals when you consume
cold things because you're a mammal and
your body likes to keep its temperature
roughly exactly in one place it must
burn more calories and ramp up your
metabolism in order to get your body
heat going unless you are profoundly and
uncomfortably cold and shivering all the
fucking time the amount of energy you
burn in excess from drinking cold water
even with ice cubes in it is so fucking
teeny tiny you would never a million
years notice it in your daily life after
weeks and even months of dieting it's
profoundly tiny this is not a hack so
yes technically true you burn more
calories but it's such a teeny amount of
calories