okay so this video is gonna be a
conversation that I had with dr. Brett
Contreras I'm just here looking at the
about me page on his website now and his
bio is pretty impressive to say the
least he has a PhD in sport science from
a UT University a master's degree CSCS
specialist distinction he's a co-founder
of several research reviews and has
authored many books which I've read many
women they're really fantastic regular
viewers of the channel will be familiar
with Brett because I reference his
research all the time and I think he's
just the perfect example of someone
who's not only doing active research in
the field but is also out there in the
trenches coaching athletes at a very
high level so I have a tremendous amount
of respect for Brett and the work that
he's doing and I think that we had a
really good conversation I think it's
one that you guys are really going to
enjoy most of you will probably know him
as the glue guy but as I say in our
conversation his work really extends far
beyond just the glutes so rather than
really focus in on the glutes what we've
done here is kind of take a head-on
approach to some of the most
controversial and what I would consider
to be hot topics in exercise science
right now and we do you know share our
perspectives on glute training and how
it applies throughout but I wouldn't say
that this is a glute interview per se
but I really think that those of you who
are interested in more of the
nitty-gritty and specifics when it comes
to the research you guys are really
gonna enjoy this one and as always I'll
have all the timestamps to all the
different topics that we touch in the
description box and in the comments for
those of you on mobile and I know many
of you aren't aware of this but I do
have a podcast it's just called the Jeff
Nippert podcast so whenever I upload
these interviews to YouTube they'll also
be uploaded to iTunes and stitcher
where you can listen on the go so anyway
without further ado I hope you guys
really enjoy this conversation with dr.
Brett Contreras okay guys so I'm here
with Brett Contreras Brett thanks for
coming on the channel in the podcast man
you have me on for sure I've been a huge
fan of your work for so long now man
I can't believe I've taken this long to
get you on here for an interview no
you're always mentioning new YouTube
videos for like writing me like Jeff
gave you a shout out so thank you very
much for that oh man the pleasure is all
mine I think it's amazing what you've
contributed to the field so I can't help
but share it I've also seen that you're
starting to do a little bit more on
YouTube yourself you uploaded a couple
of videos this week or last week so
that's awesome
I hired a video person because I don't
know what I'm doing it's it's
interesting he's like trying to teach me
how to vlog and I have no clue so we'll
see I don't expect to become some
YouTube sensation I'm 42 years old and
my life is boring I'm researching all
the time and I'm in the gym all the time
I don't go do fun things and I don't
even watch people but people like blogs
but people tell me a lot of it's
lifestyle now and it's like I work all
day so my life's not that cool I'm
excited to just show a little more about
I mean he'll just you know we just
filmed a day in the life and I'm excited
to show people like hell unless you're
like the lucky like these types of guys
that are just shredded and built up
these huge followings I'm just an
average dude that you know I look decent
from lifting weights but I'm not some
Greek god I've gotten popular from my
content in my scientific knowledge and
my work ethic and that's what most of
the general public are gonna have to do
if they ever want to get to the top
mm-hmm well I I really think I mean from
my perspective that YouTube needs more
guys like you who are actively doing
research in the field because as far as
I can tell there's almost really no one
on YouTube I mean there are people like
myself who talk about the research but
to have someone who's actually out there
doing it creating content I feel like is
something that's really much needed so
if you're able to share you know some of
the behind-the-scenes of what you're up
to then that's gonna be great there's
you do such a good job with summarizing
the research and you take your craft
seriously and it's so much more effort
required to going into those type of
YouTube videos where you're essentially
reviewing the research on a topic and
trying to summarize it succinctly
compared to just some of the stuff I see
with some of these guys on YouTube
that'll just make stuff up and think of
like you know the three exercise you
should never do and those types of
things you know yeah there's a lot of
fear-mongering on YouTube and it just
captures so much attention and it's
tempting to go down that route but I
mean there's nothing to be scared of for
the most part anyway one video that I
watched actually just before we hopped
on the call here was your eight-week
experiment which I thought was really
cool so maybe you can tell people about
that but before I feel like most people
listening will be familiar with you as
the glue guy but just give us a quick
summary of kind of what you're up to
right now because I know your work
extends far beyond just the the glute
stuff - right so so that's you know it's
it's a it's a double-edged sword going
with the whole glute guy thing because
I'm known as you know the glute expert
but I have a lot of confidence in my
knowledge with everything sports science
related I've been lifting weights since
I was 15 and I've done not some
powerlifting freak but I've done three
competitions
I've studied bodybuilding half my life
of trained competitors I I know I'm
almost as into every muscle group as I
am the glutes I love the you name it
delts pecs lats I like it all and quads
and I think about training all day long
it's just how my mind works and so I
don't like I don't always like just
being thought of as just this guy who
knows about glutes and nothing else
because I I mean I got my PhD and study
biomechanics extensively and I know a
ton about the squat and the deadlift and
I put myself up there with the top five
experts in the world in swati looking up
there with some of these other guys I
respect but you gotta it's like it's
it's like how do you stand out these
days you got to have a niche so I do
like the gluten itch
because I would never want to be like
the the hamstrung guy or the Claude
could but glutes are interesting because
they have such a role for aesthetics
especially with women and like bikini
training but also role with sports and
everything functional the glutes are
kind of if you think like of a muscular
Anatomy picture you know the glutes are
kind of like that Keystone that
centerpiece that kind of ties everything
together so they do have a lot of
implications for function and physical
therapy too it's like if the glutes you
know and you learn this training people
with my methods you hear it every day
from people I used to have anterior hip
pain I used to have low back pain I used
to have knee pain and I started doing
your training your way and that all went
away so but you you met you asked me
what I'm what I'm doing now so I moved
to San Diego and I have a gym here
called glute lab so I do a lot of stuff
out of the glute lab but what I like
about my life is yes I work long hours
but it's different for example I just I
had to call you and tell you I'm running
a few minutes late because I was working
with a client I'm working with very high
level people athletes and and
competitors and that's fun for me to
work with like advanced you know
everyone wants to work with the advanced
people but most have to make our living
training you know local everyday Joes
and Janes but I'm lucky enough now to
get to work with a lot of high-level
people but then I do podcasts like what
I'm doing now I lift weights I have
training partners I work with my staff I
hired some people now and I'm in at
night on reading research and then
trying to answer as millions of Indian
emails that I get and it's it's enough
everything's there like every couple
hours are different so it's enough if I
was in a cubicle 12 hours a day I would
want to commit suicide instead enough to
be different enough every few hours are
different so I'm not just
beating my head against the wall going
oh man I'm bored to death I'm also
working on a book that's going to be
called glute lab as well and it's God we
me and my co-author Glencore doze that
he wrote supple leopard with Kelly
Starrett and he's really good and we've
been working on this for over a year so
we want it to be fully comprehensive and
I'm excited about that but yes to talk
about what you mentioned the YouTube
video just watched I did an eight-week I
like doing these eight-week experiments
it's actually really hard to stick to an
experiment for eight weeks in one last
year where I wanted to know how okay
everyone says the Smith machine is
totally useless and that annoys that out
of me because you can do Smith machine
squats where you put your feet forward
and do it more like a hack squat where
it's more quad dominant but you can also
set up just like your regular squat and
kind of put your feet back and lean over
it more and then you can make it to
where you're not pushing you're not
really using this Smith machine because
it's mostly all vertical forces and it's
not against the you know you're not
pushing horizontally at all so I did an
eight-week experiment like a year and a
half ago where I wanted to see what if I
do eight weeks of just machines and so
and I want to see what does that do to
your squat deadlift and hip thrusts
train so instead of doing barbell hip
dust I did Smith Machine hip thrusts
instead of doing barbell squats I did
Smith Machine squats I also did hack
squats and leg press and instead of
doing deadlifts I did Smith Machine
dadless which I don't like that much yes
tell us off the Hammer Strength shrug
machine and I wanted to see what does
that do to my strength well
interestingly I built my squat strength
my free weight loss strength went up
during that time and it's because I was
hammering Smith machine squats but I did
him just like my regular squats and then
also you know doing a lot of quad stuff
and but my daugther strength went down
so my squat went up about 20 pounds but
my deadlift and hip thrust both went
like forty forty to sixty pounds that
mike but doesn't that may indicate that
you need that's miss much smith machine
squats transfer well if you mimic your
same stance but smith machine douglas
don't as much uh and smith machine hip
thrusts don't as much but anyway that
was a cool experiment and then recently
I just was like man I'm 42 years old my
my knees have been hurting well every
time I squat my low back feels you know
a little achy that the next couple days
after I deadlift and it's just not fun
when you're always having these nagging
little you know nagging pain and so I
decide hey what if I just completely do
away with squats and deadlifts for two
months for eight weeks and what if I
just do hip thrusts either in the Smith
machine or this Nautilus glute Drive
machine and the reason why I chose those
is they I go deeper on them when I use
my bench or my hip thruster I don't go
like my my hip flexion angle might be
you know ninety degrees whereas with the
with the Smith machine your glute Drive
I go deep I go just as deep as I would
with a squat Wow so I thought maybe this
will help me keep my deep hip flexion
like my hip extension straight in deep
hip flexion so I'll keep more of my
squat and deadlift strength but all I
did twice a week on Mondays and
Thursdays I do four sets of hip thrusts
but I would do four really hard sets
like really pushing them and I do either
the glute drive or the Smith machine and
then I do four sets of leg extensions
and then I do four sets of either Nordic
ham crows because I have a device from
sore necks here that lets me do the
Nordics right but if I was if I was
traveling I do leg curls either lying
leg curls or seated leg curls it's like
you basically 16 sets sorry twelve sets
for four and for twelve sets twice a
week but I really hit him hard
now during those eight weeks my hip
thrust strength went up I set numerous
like volume PRS on my hip thrust and god
I got so strong on the smith machine was
crazy then i my leg crap my my leg
extension strength and leg extensions
don't hurt my knees at all
so I was able to finally train my quads
at full capacity without hurting and I
got to where I was doing 200 pounds for
like three sets of 15 to doing 240
pounds for three sets of 15 the whole
stack so I went way up on leg extensions
during those eight weeks and my Nordics
got better as evidenced by like how hard
how fast you fall I was able to control
myself
all the way to the bottom mm-hmm and but
think about it never was I really doing
anything axial loaded or vertic vertical
like hip extension and never did I do I
didn't do the squat movement pattern on
it it wasn't doing job spots or anything
I never did anything with a wide stance
with a sumo stance and I never really
strengthen my erector as much did hammer
my glutes I felt like my glutes grew a
little bit during those eight weeks and
I also feel like my quads got a little
bit bigger from hammering the leg
extension so hard so I went back after
the eight weeks tested my squat and
deadlift and I do like ass to grass
squats and I hit 405 but it felt here's
what did you see it so it felt so
uncoordinated and up it felt like I'd
never squatted before and I was like
shifting to the right a little bit too
but nevertheless I hit 405 and I think I
probably could have hit 425 and then I
did sumo deadlifts and I did 565 I
probably could have pulled 585 I might
around it a little bit if I did but
anyway I I just stopped at 565 pulled it
pretty fast and I was really that blew
me away because I went that's what I was
that's what I was doing before this they
thinks so I think I can attribute a lot
of it to just getting out of pain
because when you're when something's not
feeling right so your shoulder is iffy
and you're trying to bench pain shuts
down muscle activation you're never
gonna build optimal amounts of muscle if
you're not feeling good if your joints
are hurting our muscle is hurting so I
think a lot of it was just because god
it's like I eat after the eight weeks I
felt good I had no pain anywhere and I'm
squatting and I'm like oh my god this
feels so good it's like you release them
it's like you're trying to drive with a
parking brake on
it's like you're releasing that parking
brake yet and I think a lot of what's
getting out of pain but a lot of it too
is I feel like I just trained that hip
extension pattern is so hard and the
knee extension pattern is so hard that
it transferred to my squats a little bit
and then I even think Nordics because
Nordics I was doing like I do like three
sets of three or four sets of three and
when you get good at Nordics you do
three reps and afterwards you kind of
feel like it like you do after a
deadlift like you're wiped out get
really good at Nordics to where it feels
like some like max effort thing so I do
think that transfers over to deadlift so
anyway what the reason why this is an
important experiment is it seems like
it's easier if I would have just taken
eight weeks off I lose strength faster
than anyone I've ever known and me and
my twin brother like if we take a week
off of a lift I'm already 20 pounds
weaker at it and it feels
I feel so uncoordinated I've never met
someone who loses strength with me if I
would have taken eight weeks off a
lifting I bet you I would have lost a
hundred pounds off of my squat and my my
deadlift but if you push it hard and I
bet you I could have done the same thing
I want to do a future experiment with
single leg like what if I don't do any
squats or deadlifts what I do be stance
squats and deadlifts or lunges or
Bulgarian split squats or like you know
pistols or and like single leg already
else I bet you I could retain most of my
strength that way too
so my point is you don't always have to
be doing so I mean think about it
what are we gonna do progressive
overload on squats and dentist for 30
years you know you should have times
where you unload the body a little bit
and focus on building your hip extension
strength or your single leg strengthen
and this way you maintain your your
squat and demonstrate but you give your
body a break from them sometimes if you
take a step backwards you might take two
steps forward yeah I thought I thought
it was a really interesting experiment
and I've seen that over the years you've
done so many of these like people don't
even realize like I remember old tee
nation articles where you would hook the
EMG up to like your delts and do a bunch
of different exercises as years ago and
it's really interesting to see that even
if it is just a case study I mean it may
only apply to you but I feel like it can
give us clues as to what exercises are
probably better or worse for most people
but I think that your point about pain
is really an interesting one because I
even noticed this myself even apart
aside from the muscle activation thing
even just from a psychological
perspective like if you're anticipating
pain I'm still like this from a previous
injury like I'm always anticipating oh
I'm gonna get that I'm gonna get that
feeling that needles in my lower back I
know I'm gonna feel it in the squat and
you're anticipating it so you don't
descend with as much confidence as you
might otherwise would and that can
really just hold you back strength wise
as well so I actually found that really
interesting so you were basically able
to maintain your strength over eight
weeks on the squat and deadlift without
squatting and dead lifting but you did
train the main core movement patterns
hip extension the extension etc it would
be more impressive to me if you were
less trained I mean like since you've
been doing the squat and deadlift for
like 25 years I just wonder how long it
takes those neural adaptations to kind
of subside I mean like it's not it is
super it is a surprising result to me
because you hear specificity preached so
much in power things like got a squat
you got a deadlift and if you take a
week off or something to DLO then you
know you might lose strength which
obviously you've shown is probably not
realistic but still I feel like maybe if
you had only had maybe a year or two of
training and you were to take eight
weeks and just do the hip extension do
you think you'd still see strength
maintenance in that case I do and it's
funny though cuz it's like really we I
learned so much from the powerlifting
community back in the day but you know I
also think a lot of them do like it's
funny we based a lot of what we do on I
mean we all follow these high level
power lifters and we pay attention and
yes specificity specificity my number
one doopy got popular I I've never had
so many clients injured from teeth it's
just I mean you're just getting greedy
it's like yes okay I squat twice a week
for like 15 years and never had any knee
pain
well then I tried DUP and I try
squatting five days a week and I get
knee pain for the first time in my
entire life and like same with deadlift
I can't dead lift heavy twice a week
anymore I used to be okay now I can I'm
older I'm stronger but sometimes we
learn bad things from power lifters um
because our goals aren't the same I know
my friend Ben Bruno
he doesn't do squats or deadlifts but
he's always training single leg really
really hard
he does his heel he's like is he's too
strong for his connective tissue with
stuff you know so yes you do mostly seem
like stuff but you know he weighs like
185 and at any point in time can can
probably put on a he could probably bust
out a four oh five pound front squat for
several reps just from doing single leg
stuff and I think that you know a lot of
these power lifters um the reason why
they get so strong is because they're so
hyper focused on the big list but I will
tell you I'm waiting to make a post on
this for another month because I
actually think this has never been done
before we've had no injuries in 11
months at my gym and I trained a couple
hundred people out of here every month
and I don't think that's ever been done
like we have girls and but I'll tell you
why why we quit my last gym that I had
in Phoenix I pushed squad sudeva so hard
and girls were always in a little bit of
pain now you can I didn't I don't think
I had any big injuries but they were
always just you know oh my hips hurting
my low back isn't feeling good today
well we don't push barbell squats in
Dallas we have a lever machine the the
lever squat machine that we do squats
and lunges off of we have a the hammer
strain deadlift it's the squat lunge but
it's really a deadlift machine that we
use we use we do kettlebell deadlift and
I have you know updates riveted Reap on
kettlebells we do goblet squats for
higher reps and and and we do straddle
lifts which is I have my belt squat unit
my pit chart
but imagine taking a seated row handle
and just doing deadlifts with them and
then doing real deed and kind of doing a
blend between a squat and deadlift but
the weights traveling in between your
legs it's like yes you're bending your
torso but you're also going deep so
you're getting real deep hip flexion but
none of the girls hurt themselves and we
push hip thrusts like crazy we push leg
press like crazy we do tons of abduction
work we do those straddle it's heavy but
we never we don't do a lot of heavy
barbell squats until this because here's
why not only are they dangerous because
you have heavy load and if the bar gets
out in front of you during a deadlift or
a few but wing too much on a squat or
shoot the hips up and turning it a good
morning so the the mechanics of it can
be dangerous but you could if you just
cared about the mind muscle connection
and weren't trying to go for anything
spectacular weren't trying to set pr's
you could actually squat and other to
find year-round the problem is our
mental attachment to these strengths for
example I've dead lifted for 95 sorry
five hundred pounds for ten I've
deadlift at 405 420 I've pulled 620 for
a single I don't feel good if I do like
315 pretend I feel like I'm being a I'm
counting out or when I run I don't feel
like I'm really training my all and so
it's hard to go backwards on a lift it's
hard to just be like okay I'm going for
this this is what feels good I'm gonna
stick to this and so every one of us has
done this in hindsight's always 20/20
you go in and especially if you're
following an actual program a
progressive overload protocol where
you're like I want to put you know I
really want to hit these numbers and you
go and you did everything right you you
slept well you ate well you rested over
the weekend and now it's Monday and you
come in and you have it in your head I'm
gonna squat this or I'm going to dead
with this I'm gonna pull 500 four five
reps and you're warming up and you're
like you expect 405 the 405 on warm-up
to fly up and it feels like five
pounds and you're like okay alright
no you know it's hard to just go look
I'm having a bad day I'm actually not
gonna dead lit today or I'm just gonna
stick to like 3:15 and deucey or I'm
just gonna do our deals or something
know what most of us will do is say I'm
gonna throw 500 on anyway and I'm just
gonna like you know crank up the music
pace around get my mind set and I'm
pulling that 500 pounds for five reps
and what you'll find is you know you
round your back on rep two and three and
four and five and sometimes you're okay
with that you just did bring it wasn't
you didn't really get stronger you just
used brute force to pretend you got
stronger you let your form slide a
little bit maybe you get away with it
that week and then what happens the next
week when you're supposed to hit you
know five oh five four five reps or five
ten / fibers then the next week you do
the same thing and eventually you hurt
yourself and nobody does that with get
about their list cuz you don't care you
know what goblets what you don't care
you're not like a goddess what this so
by doing them we still do the movements
but we we pushed them we pushed the
movements hardest that you know that our
safest and we've no one ever hurts
themselves if you do hip thrusts
correctly like press can be dangerous if
you lock it out or if you allow your you
know buck too much but wing boat that's
easy to teach not to do that and so
anyway we've had a lot of success and I
really think that you should learn from
everyone we should learn from body
builders power lifters you name it
strongman weight Olympic weightlifters
CrossFitters gymnast every we got to
learn from everyone but the other day
you do what's as a personal trainer you
do what's best for your clients goals
and what's gonna help them achieve the
results most efficiently and most safely
mm-hmm
this is an interesting topic and I'm
actually planning to do a video on it I
think before I post this one so I will
have said my opinion on it but it you
think maybe unless I'm getting this
wrong it may be the squat and deadlift
may not be inherently more injurious
maybe they are then
some exercises but in and of themselves
they might not be extremely injurious
but it's just the fact that we're so
attached to certain numbers on those
lifts that we just tend to push our
limits and then we tend to do that so
often and for so long that you get run
into all these like overuse injuries
from the same patterns so in your case
you take eight weeks off from doing
those exercises but train the same
movement patterns you actually see
better glute growth and maintain your
strength so it's like best of both
worlds there right and it's this is
mental attachment to these lifts what
more street cred Jeff when you post a
video of you going ham on squats or
deadlifts don't doesn't that you look at
the comments it's reinforcing it's like
it especially if you use bumper plates
you're like oh my god you're like
Hercules because it just it goes all the
way off the bar hey it's 3:15 it looks
like 595 like wow it's like a classical
conditioning when I post a heavy set of
squats or deadlifts I get a lot of
attention I'm gonna do it again and it's
gives you street cred and then that just
no one cares no one ever hurts
themselves on seated rows because no one
cares about that you can see the rope I
granted rows are an inherently safer
movement but it has a lot it has a lot
to do with the attachments to it in the
emotional side of things yeah you
mentioned the mind muscle connection
there I did want to talk about this how
important do you think that is because a
lot of science-based practitioners will
really sweep that under the rug as bro
science but I noticed that you tend to
speak about it a nice bit what do you
think about the mind muscle connection
okay so as far as I'm concerned it's no
longer bro science it's actual science
we published a study Bradshaw and Phil
and I published the first study so here
here was the let me just frame it for
people so if you grew up reading muscle
magazines like I did my whole life that
every bodybuilder talked about it they'd
say you know I never grew my pecs that
well with benchpress
until I figure out how to really start
using my pecs I had to develop that
mind-muscle connection they all said it
so I grew up just knowing this is a
thing
but then I realize I start blogging and
getting out there in the community I
realize some people act like it's
pseudoscience or like it's bro science
or act like it's a joke and she's you
should just focus on the wait and not
ever focus on the muscles and I'm like
what these people don't lift because I
can do my hip thrusts did not feel my
glutes much I can you know I can I can
do bench press using like powerlifting
form using all my muscles or like a
bodybuilder using a lot more pecs and so
there are EMG studies showing that when
you focus on the muscle you do activate
you have higher EMG focusing on the
muscle than not here's the problem
some researchers started accurately
pointing out that you see better results
when you use an external attentional
focus compared to an intern on what that
means is if you focus on the environment
instead of on the internal on the body
and the muscles you see better results
when it comes to strength force accuracy
distance in a jump or something like
that golfing darts and there's a there's
probably over a hundred studies now
showing this if you want is its
performance related you don't focus on
the muscle and that's common sense
you'd never I'd never be like alright
Jeff you gotta hit bullseye here I
playing darts this is it you gotta hit
bullseye and we win I want you to focus
on your tricep bicep exactly at the
right moment to hit that bullseye you'd
want to focus on the dartboard
maybe you hone in on the bullseye maybe
you there's some other cue that you use
well but you don't focus on the muscle
when it comes to performance you
wouldn't focus on a muscle when it comes
to jumping and you one rep max if you're
smack C on a squat you wouldn't go I
want you to feel use your glutes just
come on use your glutes you you'd have
some other cue to get you psyched up and
you wouldn't want to be thinking out
from the muscles because when you carry
out a lift you're when you're trying to
go for performance you're gonna activate
the right motor units at the
timing sequence to carry out the lift if
you're focusing on the muscle you'll use
too much motor units and you'll it's a
wasted it's inefficient it's wasted
energy and it'll decrease performance
but their talk they're confusing
performance with muscular growth so if
you focus on the muscle you do have
greater EMG but it's less efficient for
performance but you watch a guy like Kai
Greene doing curls with 30 pounds you
know he could use 70 pounds he's using
third knees squeezing well that way is
safer on the on the muscles and the
joints but he's also getting developing
a lot of tension throughout the motion
getting a lot of metabolic stress and
then that theoretically leads to better
results with just with bodybuilding and
with hypertrophy but there was always
just EMG studies and I carried out who
you mentioned that I've always been
doing these experiments I carried out a
really pretty extensive experiment just
with me and my two interns like this was
play five years ago and we did a bunch
of movements this was on a tee nation
article and we did a bunch of movements
trying to focus on the muscle and then
not focusing on the muscle and even
trying to focus on not using the muscle
at all try to do a squat or a deadlift
or a hip thrust or a back extension
where you don't use your glutes or were
you trying to use all quad that's the
way we showed
big time with EMG that what you focus on
matters so much especially with a back
extension you could do a back extension
using like no glutes like six percent of
glute active MB I see four glute
activation versus like 32% when you
tried to use your glutes just with a
bodyweight back extension now Brad Sean
thought and I might book my my best
blood Brad he just did a study like we
published like a year ago and it showed
when you focused on the muscle you know
this was the first training study to
actually show this and we you know
interestingly it worked for the biceps
very well the biceps grew way better
when he focused on the the muscle but
the leg though during the leg extension
it didn't matter with quads it's funny
because last night I was doing I thought
it I said
Schneider his boot and leg extensions
and I wanted to do the stack for 20 reps
and I got to 15 and I'm like oh my god
five more I hit 20 and I actually
couldn't do another set I burned so bad
I had to immediately get off the machine
and I was limping around now my quads
are burning still dead and I wanted to
squat today so I was like I'm actually
not gonna do another set but my the
whole walk back to my gym I did it at
crunch which is right by my gym walk
back to my gym glute lab and I was
hobbling the whole way home from one set
I wasn't focusing on the muscles I was
just trying to get 20 reps but my quads
burn so bad that that's not the same
with every lift though you know
so that's might have been why you
explain those results with engines
you're gonna eat what else are you gonna
use but with other lifts you might be
able to use a lot of other muscles so as
far as I'm concerned that's nail in the
coffin
you absolutely should use the mind
muscle can you put everyone always goes
this pendulum swings all in one
direction another I always say your
first lift of the day you should try
maybe one or two lists of the day you're
going for progressive overload you're
trying to be what you know not say an
all-time PR but be what you did the
previous session you know and then later
in the workout that's when you you know
what are you gonna try to go for
progressive overload on lateral raises
every time you do it oh you're up to 120
pound dumbbells by six months you you
sometimes just you know the later
movements of the workout just focus on
feeling the muscle doing the work and
not really trying to do quality over
quantity gotcha
there's a there's a lot in there I want
to talk about well it's on my mind I've
read this paper you're referring to that
you and Brad published and talked about
it a bit this could have came up in the
discussion but I was thinking also maybe
why you saw a better results for the
biceps than the quads could be because
the subjects that you had weren't quite
that advanced and they might have just
been easier for them to think about
squeezing their biceps rather than
legs because people tend to have better
like control and coordination with the
upper extremities so but if let's say
you took a more advanced bodybuilder or
someone maybe with like a little bit
more athletic ability they might have
been able to get that mind-muscle
connection with their quads better and
see you might have seen a result there
what do you think about that so that's
what we wrote the end of pert and that's
what Brad thinks and I it doesn't sit
well with me but in the discussion
section you have to you have to try to
explain stuff yes that's what we went
with but that's not but Brad would Brad
would be nodding his head in agreement I
and I just sit there why would it be
easier to focus on biceps than quads you
squat and but this is why it's so
important to not just base things off
yourself when I do a leg extension in
fact I thought this last night there's
nothing no exercise that causes any
muscle to burn more than what I do like
extensions I get this such an intense
quad burn it is insane more than when I
do calves raises for my calves more than
what I do anything and so maybe that's
just my body and other people are
different so that's why I always hate
when you see some dude who's never
trained anyone and it's just telling
people what to do based on themselves
it's so important to work with such a
large variety of people with different
ages genders
you know the anthropometry athletic
abilities and everything so you very
well could be right about that mm-hmm
because I've kind of found myself that
you know it I wouldn't want to and I
know that you you're the same way like I
wouldn't want to exclude like take the
results of that study and then form the
conclusion that oh well the mind muscle
connection might only work for the upper
body right so but I don't think that
that's true because like you said
yourself you could do a hip thrusts
where you're trying to activate your
glutes and not and see totally different
levels of activation there and I feel
like the quads might not be any
different so it might have just not
popped up in that study but yet it still
could be meaningful for some people
right I'm glad to hear you think that
way because you should never just it's
like okay we have like tradition and
this is what how we lift weights and
then you you
you have the way you tweak it for your
own training the way you treat it for
your clients training and you've got a
system a lot of trainers don't even have
a system and those are the people you
see a commercial gyms and you're just
shaking your head but if you've got a
system you don't change it radically
overnight that's if you don't go oh this
study came out and I'm yeah this revamps
everything what you do is you go okay
and you pay attention that and you've
okay
sometimes you you you're going wow
that's really interesting I'm gonna wait
for another study to come out before I
really you know you got to be patient
but you you start incorporating on your
own training and they need to experiment
a couple of clients and then you do this
and what you find is you'll always just
find that these work well for this
client this doesn't work well for this
client but this does and it's always
when you train yourself and train others
it's all an N equals one experiment and
when you carry out studies you know
maybe on the quads you had one subjects
the way better results with the mind
muscle connection and then others that
did you see a lot of individual
differences which people don't tend to
talk about so I like you and you think
that way right of course
I guess the counter-argument against it
would be you know that you'll hear power
lifters make this argument that if
you're moving the weight from point A to
B and you've got the muscles acting on
these levers then they're gonna be
activating so you should just focus on
moving the weight right and I'm sure I'm
sure you've you've heard this and I feel
like personally I think that that can
have some application if you're like
especially loading in a higher or a
lower rep zone and maybe with more
compound type movements but I don't
think that would apply quite as much to
isolation movements how I guess what I'm
asking it how would you respond to that
sort of a criticism okay so let me
answer this in a few parts first you
said with higher rap and compound so the
research on EMG activity shows that like
there's one on benchpress and once you
get to like you don't know if there's 85
or 90 percent or one max you can't
affect the EMG whether you're trying to
focus on the muscle or not you're giving
it your all you know with everything so
it is more for lighter weight
now with that said like I can think of a
hip thrust and I hit an eight hundred
and fifteen pound hip thrust I mean I
was like training the hip that was hard
for a whole year
and it was the form looks good
look it was good good enough for
Instagram to go wow you're awesome
you're crazy
but I know my hamstrings were cramping
up what I did it like locked it out and
I'm like oh my god my hamstrings my
hammies and I put it down if I wanted to
feel glutes I'd probably have to use 675
like I seriously 140 pounds lighter and
really make sure my chest doesn't pop up
and I keep my ribs down so even with one
rep max as it can for advanced people
like us but um but you know I agree with
both sides and here's why I have so many
like I just started training I have my
glutes quad here that's like 20 bikini
competitors that train with me and then
I also well I just started training
their upper bodies because so I have
Tuesday's now I'm doing it the upper
body squad they don't like that name so
I call them the delt squad all right but
I start training upper body with them
because I'm like they're not strong they
don't yeah without me they won't do
they'll you know up those they're there
these are bikini cam bears you do
fitness for the lives and they can do
one chin up when they do military press
with 45 pounds for five reps they do the
bar for five reps and I'm gonna I want
you to doing 65 pounds for ten I want
you doing ten chin-ups and so they don't
know they won't push themselves without
me and I'm trying to tell them and I
don't focus on any muscles if you can
get to where you're doing a 65 pound for
10 rep military press and ten chin-ups
and you know and you're squatting a lot
and deadlifting a lot hip dressing a lot
you're gonna have you're gonna have good
muscular development unless you just
have really poor muscle building
genetics but the thing is that alone
doesn't suffice any if you've ever been
to any of my seminars I always say this
over and over there are two roads to
hypertrophy one is the progressive
overload track and the other is the mind
muscle connection track and one without
the other is insufficient for maximum
muscle growth we can all talk about a
guy who is just strong as hell
like some larry wheels type guy who just
is freakishly strong and look he's got
all these muscles and he doesn't train
for the mind muscle connection he
trained for performance we can also all
name if you've been to powerlifting
meets local ones got a local
powerlifting meets you can see plenty of
people who look like they don't even
lived and they're doing passing training
four days a week and they don't you know
especially glutes you're going they're
doing squats and deadlifts four times a
week and you look at them and they're
singling they have no glute develop at
all it's like my girls have better glute
development they're not nearly as strong
but they they're they're not as strong
as squats and dads but they will out
abduction and out hip thrust these girls
any day of the week so and then also you
can see that guy in the gym who just his
weak as can be but he reps out and he's
always focusing on the mind muscle
connection doing falling for his arms
his arms are huge and he's using
lightweight and you're going so but then
you can see a guy who does that and
doesn't have big arms so just common
sense and just say yes we should be
utilizing progressive overload and focus
and when you do squats you should just
be trying to feel and and by the way I
got decent glutes never trying to focus
on my glutes that much I was trying to
squat a lot of weight and deadlift a lot
of weight and I got nice pecs I wasn't
trying to feel my pecs I just got good
at push-ups and bench press so yes you
can absolutely see good results but can
you maximize your results and a lot of
these people the second they learn how
to feel the muscle their growth takes
off I know like I taught a guy lateral
raises he didn't do him because he he
just they didn't feel right to him and I
showed him a different way to do them
and he had only done military press he
started doing lateral raises three
months later his delts were yoked and he
said and I'm so glad I listened to you
so that's why when you've been training
people for 20 years I've been training
people were 22 years and it's like I can
tell you a story with everything so you
you I can see some validity to what the
power lifters say but they're not the
most muscular people in the world the
bodybuilders are and they need to listen
to bodybuilders and when you see like a
guy like Dave Tate who is a powerlifting
for long
and then he wanted to get jacked he
started utilizing the mind muscle
connection using different implements
not just relying on the barbell and he
his growth took off so typically when
power lifters actually you know say when
they retire and they just want to see
how good they can look they will borrow
a lot more from the bodybuilders so
right I feel like just picking a person
out of the crowd like say Allari wheels
and looking at what he's doing and then
saying well look at how good he looks
and look what he does is not a good
heuristic for figuring out what's going
to work best anyway right I think that
your approach obviously makes much more
sense where you kind of have you know
you're boring from the literature over
here and kind of integrating that
approach with what you've done with
clients and with yourself over time and
combining that with self experimentation
and and so on and so forth but I think
it's interesting and that is kind of the
approach that I take you've got your
couple of core movements maybe for the
day where you're not going to try to
activate specific muscles more so focus
on you know external cueing how your
body is moving and so forth moving the
weight progressively adding more weight
when you can and then with the rest of
the stuff you can really focus on
squeezing activating and pumping and
that sort of thing I would say and
another another counter-argument against
the the muscle connection thing that
you've been referencing here more in
relation to the actual data would be the
validity of EMG in general so you might
have some people who are skeptical of
what what does what does first of all
what does the EMG matter maybe that
doesn't actually show more activation
and then what does activation matter if
it's tension that we're after so maybe
address some of those criticisms from
the EMG perspective great question so I
think you know I talked about how the
pendulum swings back and forth I think
it was like me coming out with a ton of
EMG data and then Brad Schoenfeld was
doing a ton of EMG studies and this the
industry kind of fought back a little
bit it's like okay does EMG really mean
everything and I think they got
annoyed because it's like I think
everyone deep down knows there's
obviously because I get annoyed right
now where someone will be like Yugi
doesn't mean shoot really okay so let me
see you grow your biceps without
activating them you know good luck on
that so people know that that activation
is important but is it related to muscle
growth can you say this this exercise
gets you higher mg therefore it grows
your muscles better can you infer more
hypertrophy Kanyon for more motor unit
recruitment so the guy who came became
really an expert about this as andrew
Vygotsky he's my former intern and he
published two letters of the editor and
a review paper on EMG and he basically
spelled out what you can and cannot
claim and he's very scientific he's like
the most scientific guy I've ever met in
my life all about the research and
literature and I'm always like well
Andrew let's use common sense okay so do
I need a publish like a proof-of-concept
study showing like that we think EMG is
related to hypertrophy so we're gonna
have we're gonna have two groups one
group is gonna do biceps curls and the
other group is gonna do calf raises
biceps both their account growth and we
saw that when you do biceps curls your
biceps activation goes sky-high but your
cab activation does not and we did a
training so first we did an EMG study
and then we did a training study and we
found that in fact the group that did
biceps curls and had high biceps
activation grew their biceps and the
group that but not but no calves growth
and the group that did calves raises and
had high calves activation grew their
calves significantly but didn't have any
biceps growth like obviously that's
obvious it's when you learn muscle
physiology you learn you know you you
have you need to put tension on the
muscle there's two ways to develop
tension through passive and active means
and if passive tension were the best way
to grow muscle then yog Yogi's would
have the most would be the most muscular
people so stretching
there are studies showing that like
loaded stretching can grow muscle but
it's not nearly obviously it's not
nearly as much as active tension and
active tension is through contracting
the muscle but here's the problem with
EMG you you don't just need high
activation you need a slow enough
control this is due to the force
velocity relationship if you do a
plyometric action say you just drop off
of a 10-foot thing ten foot tall bench
and you land your quad activation goes
through the roof is that the best way to
grow muscle no it's not here's why that
landing might have been a tenth of a
second and during that tenth of a second
you didn't have time to develop
sufficient tension the muscle yes you
got this real high spike in EMG activity
but as for actual tension on the muscle
that requires time that is why heavy
lifts have always built muscle well and
that is why if you do high reps the
first few reps it's like you're wrapping
out too fast it's the later reps where
you're grinding it and the the rep is
drawn out because you're fighting and
fighting it really making it a slower
contraction to have enough time to have
high activation and slower contraction
speed and this is something Chris
Beardsley's been talking about a lot you
need two of those components in order
maximize hypertrophy and you can have
high activation but too quick at times
that's not a can grow the muscle or you
can have slow contraction speeds with
low activation you're not gonna grow
active if you grow muscle much so that's
why you know that helps explain like I
can get on all fours and do a quadruped
at hip extension and just kick one the
bent leg back up and down and but it's
too fast I'm not grinding anything it's
not I'm not gonna burn and like really
grinding it out so therefore I'm not
gonna maximize tension on the muscle in
car in contrast you can have a squat
where the squat doesn't maximize glooty
objectivity but you are grinding it out
so in theory you'd want an exercise that
does both you
really grinding it fighting it and but
having high activation at the same time
which is why I like the hip thrust so
much hip thrusts there is no exercise
that like I can find a hip dose
variation for everyone I can find a
squat variation for everyone but not not
everyone does barbell squats not in my
gym actually I just already said most
people don't but not everyone does
barbell hip thrust some people like the
Smith machine more some people like
bands more some people we do double
banded you put a banner on the hip
spinner on their knees some people like
seeing a leg a few students it's just
all different you gotta find the right
variations for the right people right
right yeah I've read those papers that
Vygotsky published and it's kind of
interesting because I feel like he's
he's kind of done a 180 on this because
I remember back in around maybe 2014 or
something like that when he was an
intern for you actually he was doing all
kinds of EMG experiments on himself and
with you and and so forth and but I
think that what what I took away from
the papers was that it you know you
wanna be cautious in terms of like
extrapolating EMG findings to actual
exercise prescription just be cautious
and you also also kind of encouraged me
to for a while to stop using the term
activation said say EMG amplitude
because there are these examples where
they can kind of dissociate right and
it's like I did that for a couple videos
and then I was like people don't know
what I'm talking about when I say EMG
amplitude but they can register
activation right away so from a science
communication perspective it's like can
we set these obscure scenarios aside
where they dissociate and just say
activation right so I don't know I mean
that was kind of my opinion like you
said he's really in the books guy and
probably the smartest guy I know too
when it comes to this stuff but I do
find he can be a bit contrarian in the
sense that like he want almost wants to
cut against what is mainstream at the
moment right agree not to take his name
in vain if he was here I'd say the same
thing because the same arguments with
activation was amplitude the reason why
he says that is because active he's a
he's a he's telling studying musculus
modeling and activation for them means
like like when they do modeling
musculoskeletal modeling studies
activation is like the full activation
of the muscle and it's not just EMG
activation it's like it's like getting
your highest output and EMG it's better
to say amplitude because it's the the
level the amplitude and I always say to
me Andrew you just say activation people
understand it like I'm the same way so
I'm trying to communicate it but he's
not contrarian or contradicting himself
it's he's those papers are published
with the intent to basically caution
people to quit quit inferring motor unit
recruitment or hypertrophy from a few
readings and just be more cautious with
what you claim he also says we don't
know at what point it's like okay let's
say we do a back squat and a front squat
and the front squat gets you slightly
higher glooty objectivity does it matter
we don't know what does it matter for
muscle growth at what point does it
matter you need first of all you need
the same range of motion the same tempo
and to be able to rule those two factors
out if you have the same range of motion
the same tempo and the same like percent
the same loads like it's relative loads
and then you do these two different
exercises
well what point doesn't matter if one
gets you higher EMG so maybe it you need
like and and over how long of a time
period so maybe you need 12 weeks with
an exercise that has 30% more EMG than
the other to really be able to detect
differences significant differences so
that's why when you see an exercise that
has four percent more EMG activity than
another it's probably not going to
matter much but he's just a true
scientist he was never doing well one
way or there that's like just be
cautious because EMG output can be
affected by fatigue and you know you can
get motor unit cycling if it's a longer
set and you can have like different
types of ions and you know fatigue
related chemicals that can affect the
EMG signal too
and this helps explain why you can have
like brown and I did a leg press study
and it showed you would set it like a I
think it was we used 70 percent of one
rep max and thirty percent of one rep
max then we had them rep to failure and
we looked at their EMG and the means and
peaks of the higher reps that never got
as high because in theory EMG activity
goes up throughout the set due to
fatigue but it never got as high as the
70% that said you never the peaks never
got nearly as high so you could say well
you're not getting peak activation when
you use light or lowest but here's the
here's the thing remember it's tension
on the muscle so because it was a 30 rep
set or whatever maybe during though that
30 rep set at some point every motor
unit got activated to the fullest degree
at some point you had a lot of cycling
going on but during that 30 upset every
motor gonna did get activated and you
did have sufficient tension on the
muscle you had you know any tie he would
tie together like Hanuman size principle
and the all-or-nothing principle like
you're gonna get maximum tension on
every individual fiber throughout that
set and that's why the high rep sets
give you just as much
hypertrophy as the low rep sense so you
can't use the especially can't you zfg
with lot of different loads to say well
this heavy loads are better because they
have higher EMG activity because that
doesn't mean higher tension on the
muscles throughout the whole set and a
better mechanic Meccano transduction or
like signaling for muscle growth you
know I feel like at this point I should
clarify just for everyone who's totally
lost
EMG because I'll put a definition for
the video viewers but it's
electromyography basically you hook
electrodes up to the muscle and measure
electrical impulse in the muscle which
is kind of like an upstream signal for
activation overall I think yeah oh yeah
yeah and I feel like you know some of
these criticisms where like you know you
can see significant hypertrophy in the
absence of
say hi EMG activation like if you
stretch the muscle or in cases of motor
unit cycling like you said we could
grant all of those exceptions as
legitimate counter examples and then
still say that under normal training
conditions the way we usually train
under tension and with reasonably high
exertions more activate like you said
with the bicep and calf muscle more
activation commonsensical ii will lead
to more hypertrophy in that muscle over
time right so I feel like it doesn't
always necessarily apply but where it
most often applies it probably is useful
let me let me give one more example of
why I'm a huge fan of EMG okay we talked
earlier about significant differences
and how everyone's so different but I I
owned my own I'm like one of the few
strength coaches or personal trainers
that ever bought my own e of g-unit you
know I bought one and I would hook them
up to my clients muscles and I'd have
them do 20 exercises op you know with
with with electrodes with their glutes
or whatever and you know we do hip
thrusts with different loads with
different stances we do squats different
types of squats different types of
deadlifts abduction work band work back
extensions cannibals dumbbells barbells
bodyweight band hip circle all these
different implements and everyone was
very different I mean my clients a me
she got way higher glute activation
doing goblet squats than doing way
heavier about barbell back squats
she got heavier glute activation doing
kettlebell devis than going way heavier
on barbell Devi's she got higher glute
activation as she went heavier and
heavier and heavier all the way up to
where she's maxing out on the hip thrust
where as Andrew Vygotsky and my client
Aaron they did the same thing and they
topped out in glute activation around
50% on one rep max for hip thrust so
think about it if you don't go up in
glute activity you're just gonna go up
in like hamstring and a doctor and maybe
change your form a little bit and you're
you're then why would you do heavy
weights if your activation doesn't go up
and you can get way more reps with the
same act activation
it's a comp common sense so I would use
that to say okay and then this client
Aaron that I was talking about she got
the highest EMG activity I've ever seen
with seated hip abductions so I was like
I to the point where I thought something
was like the electrodes were bad or
something i rechecked him and I'm like
wow you she with every rep of a seated
hip production it's like she's getting
as high of activation as a one rep max
squat now again we can't say that that's
better than doing a max flow but of what
at my point was if I ever do this and I
ever do like a hundred reps a day of
these you know how many reps of a max
squat can you do a week how many reps
have bands seated hip abductions can you
do week so I used that to tailor that to
individualize the clients program so
with Sammy I had her going heavy on hip
thrusts I had her using kettlebells for
Devi's dumbbells for goblet squats I had
her training infrequently because she
was doing heavy lifts and beating
herself up a lot whereas were there and
I had her training inference are very
frequently in doing tons of band work
tonnes of abduction and I can show you
this is where science meets practice I
have their actual before and after
pictures I can show you that both of
them probably doubled their glute size
I'm not joking they probably doubled
their glute size after working with me
for a year and so that to me I look at
all these other guys what waxing
philosophical and talking about theory
it's like I've used this look at the
results you have one picture of any
client showing results like this if you
do great if you don't then you're full
of it you know like move out of the way
and let the people who are actually
doing the work
preach the truth you know that Jeff is
that you know you can't go in like I
mean like how cool it'd be if I worked
with you and we did we did one one day
we did pecs and another day we did delts
and another day we lats and I did seven
days in a row and measured all your
muscle groups have put you through 20
exercise and I had I had them on all the
different regions in the muscle - like
your lower lats your upper lats you're
three different heads your
Peck's your lower pecs your different
quadriceps your different hamstrings
your upper gluteus maximus your lower
blue distracted all these exercise we
said look these are the best exercises
for you
that doesn't mean you only do those it
just means do these more the time and
prioritize them and you would see better
results that way well man we might just
have to make that happen for science
you're not that far all right for
science though I feel like that would
actually be really cool I feel like my
if we did do something like that
I could I could swing down and we could
do a little experiment but one thing I
wanted to touch on I'm gonna leave the
EMG stuff there because it's it's such a
controversial issue but I feel like we
both fall in the same same side of it
and I like all the stuff that you guys
continue to put out with in terms of the
EMG research is amazing you mentioned
earlier you're doing leg extensions you
did 20 reps and at the end you were
limping I couldn't do anything else I
find this really interesting because I
speak to a lot of you guys who tend to
speak at the same conferences and this
sort of thing and I feel like this is
something a lot of you disagree on so I
recently interviewed Mike Israel and he
it was surprisingly to me really anti
training to failure I feel like Eric
Helms tends to fall more or less on the
same side of this but he has like a
little rule where you can do it at the
you know as a last set or something for
a body part once a week or something but
Mike was pretty hard-nosed about never
training to failure unless you're at
like the end of the eat week Musil cycle
or something like that
so what is your stance on training to
failure how hard should you be pushing
your sets how important is that for
hypertrophy and so forth so I should
mention up front like mike is my
colleague Eric films is my colleague and
you're right we all speak a lot of the
same conferences and it's you can
disagree with someone and still have the
utmost respect for them and like it's
funny
Eric Helms is a good friend of mine and
I disagree with him on political issues
ethical issues training issues and like
scientific issues but no one gets me to
think more than him because I don't like
it when I disagree with someone I highly
respect and he gets me to think of
things totally differently and Mike the
same thing I trained with Mike the last
at the last conference I was at with
with him and he trains like an animal
and he's doing tons of like Myo reps and
drop sets and he trains hard as hell I
and and I like that and I like there I
like that there how can I explain this
there they're out there doing the hard
there that are giving broad
recommendations about you know
MRV and those are so it's such
low-hanging fruit to pick apart but it's
so valuable what they're doing they're
the first guys really talking about you
know RPE and how many sets you should be
doing and and and a lot of things with
program design and periodization and my
hats off to them for that it's a hard
road to go down because you can always
find examples and they'll always have to
clarify that by saying here's a starting
point or so but anyway I with training
of failure I do think we should train a
failure my thing is I don't do nearly as
much volume as other people in my
programs well I should clarify that I
have my program design business where I
write programs for people and I do it
how they want their you're the boss you
tell me what you want at all write it
how you want it but I'll probably do it
better than you could because I've been
doing this for so many years but I will
have some women say I want I want six
days full-body and then I'll write it
for them they're like um I'm used to
doing Morissette so I'm like I'm giving
you 60 sets of gluts and it's funny
because just before our call I just
trained genron ZD she's she got second
place two years ago at the bikini
Olympia sixth place last year she's won
the top five physiques in the world as
far as I'm concerned and I gave her ten
sets but you should see these ten sets
we did a hip thrust drops that we did
is brutal there Shen brutal sets and in
till you can either train you know high
effort but not as much volume or a lot
of volume not as much effort or a mix of
the two
those two are inversely related and so
uh but here's the thing we always talk
so when my seminars always talk about
how every variable is interrelated and
these variables I'm not gonna remember
them all but there's exercise selection
exercise order there's load
there's effort there's frequency there's
volume there's rest periods there's
tempo and cadence there's and then
there's periodization and I think you
put that all together and fluctuate
things and it's like it's a it's a
there's a many ways that can lead to
Rome but here's what I think okay let's
say that you and I did deadlifts and we
did three sets to complete failure and
we did that three times a week you'd
spin your wheels and I hate not being
able to say we'd over train because
people go over training means who take
you six months to recover you know you
know what I mean
you'd overdo it you'd spin your wheels
and we'd go backwards we'd be getting
sick we'd be getting injured you get
sinus infections whatever you can't
train three sets to utter failure three
times a week and see good results but
could you do that with prone rear delt
raises yes no it wouldn't even affect us
if we did three sets of prone rear delt
raises too so so when do you say this
thing on what exercise are you talking
about an exercise that works you hard in
a stretch that works a lot of muscle
mass or a exercise that works you more
at in range not in a stretch because
those don't get you a sore those don't
create as much muscle damage are we
talking about your last set or on all
four sets that you do how many times a
week are you performing the lift because
these all matter so I absolutely think
people should train a failure just you
have to there's more to it you should
train a failure on movements that don't
beat you up as much and you should you
you know do it on your last set and only
when you're not but not when you're
training
so very frequently mon-sol but it's just
everything's in context everything
affects everything and I don't like
black and right rules I embrace the gray
area but I highly respect Mike and Eric
they're so smart so witty I love
listening to them and I I don't mean to
disagree with them to be contrarian it's
just that we all have our different
opinions and that's what makes going to
these conferences interesting you hear
different approaches and it's like you
identify with some people over the other
yeah for sure and it when you hear these
different perspectives it allows you to
pick out what might be best for your
particular scenario because like you
said you guys will often speak in
generalities and like you mentioned here
you could have 20 different clients and
they may you may have different exertion
and volume prescriptions for every one
of them depending on what their goals
are and their advancement level at
genetics so on and so forth so I just
find it interesting to hear someone
because I feel like most most people who
are really in the science-based crowd
are kind of anti failure at the moment
because you know you do have this
research showing that you know as long
as volume is matched you can see really
similar hypertrophy between saying are
PE 7 and there's some kind of effort
threshold but you do see those similar
hypertrophy so why go to failure if you
could you know reserve that injury risk
but then as you said there's a strong
interplay between that injury risk in
terms of not only effort but also how
much volume you're doing and then also
what type of exercise it is so I feel
like those are important caveats
we'll probably wrap it up here soon but
I really wanted to touch on the
three-pronged model of hypertrophy so
you have obviously mechanical tension
muscle damage and metabolic stress and
so Brad Sean Feld published that paper I
don't know if several almost decade ago
now right probably about how those three
things kind of collectively signal and
drive for hypertrophy but very recently
people have gotten more critical of the
the final two so damage and stress
what's your current opinion on that
model so I hope that they're right
it would make training so much more
simple if it's just mechanical tension
um but uh I defer to Brad in a lot
because he's read a lot more papers and
I have but I actually have been studying
Makino transduction from mechanical
tension and then different possibilities
with metabolic stress and muscle damage
but Brad and some of his colleagues
recently published an awesome paper
it's Journal of applied physiology and
the name of it is stimuli and sensors
that initiate skeletal muscle
hypertrophy following resistance
exercise and the lead author is Henning
wacker edge and then Brad's a second
author Lee Hamilton and then a guy named
Letty and a guy named cool me anyway
they spelled everything out here
this article answers your entire
question and it basically it's like they
here's what we know here's what we don't
know we really don't know much about
muscle growth it could just be all
mechanical tension and I hope that's
right and you know why I hope that's
right I always feel like soreness is a
slippery slope because if you train a
muscle frequently and you get too sore
it impairs your you'd impedes our
progress but I always feel like I need
to feel a little bit of soreness because
it's probably closely related to muscle
damage and that's why I still include
lunges and stuff because I they get my
lower gluteus maximus very sore I hope
they do I hope that's not necessary
and then I can quit feeling guilty if I
don't do lunges I also feel like cell
swelling can help the pump and Brad now
to written papers on that I hope I'm
wrong because it would make training way
more simple I hope I never have to do
instead of you know a hundred frog pumps
and then eighty frog once and then sixty
frog pumps all with a minute rest and
feel this crazy burn to my glutes
because I hope that's not necessary we
don't know for sure we've got theory
right now and there are some interesting
papers on lactate and stuff like this
and metabolic chambers to indicate the
training and like it's not matter about
she's um hypoxic chambers that indicate
that metabolic stress can be helpful
there's there's some research with
muscle damage
and and especially as it pertains to
satellite so activity and stuff like
that but it could just be redundant or
unnecessary and we need more research to
show this and there the nail is not in
the coffin like some authors clamp like
some guys I really respect like Chris
Beardsley meadow Hansel means they they
really feel they're strong and it's for
just this single single model on tension
I just don't think it's we we have
enough to say that I hope they're right
but for now I use the shotgun approach
in my training because what if Brad's
model is correct and I am you know I'm
robbing people of maximum gains because
I'm not giving them this stimulus when
but I but I always know that mechanical
tension is the big piece of the puzzle
so you should always be prioritizing
that and then make sure you sprinkle
these things in and I'm happy to change
my mind over time as we learn more I'm
trying to think of how you would design
even a study to really test for this
because it's tough to dissociate say
metabolic stress from tension like you
can't I mean I guess with blood flow
restriction maybe you could create some
of the same metabolites buildup in there
but then you tend to see hypertrophy
anyway it's really hard to tease apart
tension and stress and then it's really
hard to tease apart tension and damage
so it could be easily be the case that
you know stress and damage are kind of
feeding into tension maybe through
different paths and then it's the
tension that's kind of the main thing
driving it or something along those
lines but from my perspective I just
feel like there are other reasons to
think and I feel like other data that
suggests that loading the muscle in a
stretch position at long muscle lengths
is probably a good idea for some muscles
anyway so even if maybe we can't like
prove that damage is driving hypertrophy
per se it might still be a good idea to
do some exercises that would be more
damaging like Romanian deadlifts and and
so forth and then from a stress
perspective like even just I don't know
if the pump necessarily signals for
growth but it does make training really
enjoyable for sure and even if it turns
out to be true that tension was the only
thing driving hypertrophy I'd probably
still include pump training in my
program anyway
so I don't know if a lot is at stake
here for me personally but it's an
interesting theoretical question for
sure
now so first of all to address what you
said on a difficulty I feel like we've
got to get creative to try to get to the
bottom of this because in their paper
that I mentioned we don't even know the
sensors and the signals that we gotta
get we got to figure those out but in
terms of I feel like we're gonna need to
figure out those like those
physiological studies to figure that out
and then we'll have to do like it's
gonna be a mixture of like yeah you know
in vitro type studies looking at like
maybe animals are some of them also
training studies where you know you're
gonna get you can't have you know cuz
you're gonna have tension you have to
have some tension to get muscle damage
you have to have some tension to get
metabolic stress for example but you
can't eliminate those but you can bias
it in one direction so you can get way
more like you can Union I could develop
a program that had way more muscle
damage then or it was like leaning on a
muscle damage side leaning on a
metabolic stress I lean on a mechanical
tension side and then see is there a big
difference
but yeah it's you're absolutely right
it's really hard to figure this out and
but I totally agree with what you said
like training it long muscle lanes we've
always done that
that's bodybuilding tradition here I
hope they're wrong cuz the only we don't
have to do eccentric we just have to do
the concentric phase like double the
volume but just do concentric and you
don't even have to train in a long
muscle length you could train in shorter
muscle lengths which is way easier the
idea that doesn't sound right to me
now there could be more reasons why
training it along muscle length it's not
it brings in two other motor units that
recruit it gets different hyper tree of
different subdivisions or regions or
stuff like but I agree with you it's
like and it may depend on the muscle
maybe like the EMG angle curve of that
muscle if you get high activation at
long lengths versus short lengths but
to me that's why I use the shotgun
approach I make sure I do I try to hit
all the vectors in the angles I tried to
give out lots of mechanical tension and
metabolic stress and sprinkling the
right amount of muscle damage but there
are a lot of moving parts and that's
what all bodybuilders have always done
you know that they in it that's where
science meets practice it's like yes
we're gonna learn more in ten years
we're gonna know a lot more but it the
other day no what no bodybuilder just
just one exercise for a part we've used
variety and then you like for biceps
doing a lying dump like a lying dumbbell
curl to get the stretch in your in your
biceps and you like doing it's like an
EZ bar curl to go heavier and then you
like doing that concentration curl and
squeezing the top for the squeeze and
you won't ones more stretch related once
more squeeze related once going heavier
ones you know and you do hammer curls to
hit hit the brachialis more and like
it's like you know how it is it's just
you use variety and it just you use
common sense and you use a little bit of
chakra which until we can laser in more
on exactly what you need yeah I totally
agree it almost seems like even if the
data did come out that showed that it
was really only tension that was driving
it I just feel like damage and stress
could very easily just be secondary
factors because like especially with
regard to stress I remember in that
original paper that Brad wrote there was
a pretty strong mechanistic case for why
cellular swelling EPOXI etc and you have
all this BFRO research now showing that
it could be valuable as well it just
seems like there's already and then you
have this history of bodybuilders you
know chasing the pump and so on and so
forth it just seems like there's already
too strong of a case to just push it to
the side that quickly you know so I'm
not totally sympathetic to the
skepticism from like the tension only
crowd personally maybe maybe from the
damage perspective more so because if
you create too much damage then that's
just going to interfere with your
subsequent training right so that makes
sense but too much of a good thing could
be a bad thing also right so
and also maybe our methods don't change
it's just our understanding of how it
works changes like yes during the high
reps work getting the pump worked but it
was just through tension it wasn't
through the metabolic stress or the self
swelling component you would have to
change your training up quite as much if
you didn't want to
it's just our understand how things work
but I know your last question had to do
with volume correct there's a study that
spies this together with too much damage
that I want to discuss if you're gonna
ask that last question yeah the last
question I was gonna ask you was about
the the new volume paper you were an
author on that one everybody's talking
about so if we want to wade into that we
can yeah because I have a counter paper
to that okay okay if you have pulled up
as well so we can discuss this so go
ahead and ask that catching yeah so I'll
just introduce it here so this was a
little earlier this year you guys put
out a paper where I'm just gonna quickly
do my best to give the cliff notes here
so it was a eight-week training study
you had subjects split into three groups
a low volume group medium volume group
and a high volume group they trained for
eight weeks and as it turns out the high
volume group got the most growth and
they were doing a pretty crazy high
volume so it was 30 to 45 sets per body
part while the low volume group was only
doing six to nine sets per body part and
I think that this research was kind of
on the back of that earlier work from
Brad and James and and some other people
suggesting that you know we know that
doing more than 10 sets per week is
better for hypertrophy but where that
upper limit of where it starts to
plateau and then decrease we're not
really sure of where it is yet so there
was this study that you guys put out and
now we're seeing 30 to 45 sets
better growth and now a lot of people
have taken that and run with it and said
well look we're gonna do this super high
volume training protocol and then the
other hand you have a lot of pushback
from other people who are saying I don't
know in practice it seems like 10 to 20
sets per week is probably a sweet spot
and you run into issues past that so
that kind of sets the stage for this
this study we can talk about
okay so excellent question and I love
that you did such a good job of like
doing your homework part of this podcast
and asking these really high-level
questions so thank you for that now this
study it did I mean basically it just I
mean made us think Brad and I and James
all figured more that there would be a
u-shaped curve where you see less
results with really low volumes best
results in the middle and unless results
with too much volume and we didn't see
that but it's like what are we gonna do
you got to report the findings and try
to come up with some practical
applications and discussion points and
we we were cautious in that paper we
don't go think if we got accused by some
people I'm sure he read he went crazy
lost their minds acting like we know I
don't like if if Brad or like James were
trying to profit off that they were to
launch their ebook the max 48 set you
know probably hypertrophy plan and they
would have piggybacked off this read you
say none of you are doing enough volume
but they're they didn't change their
recommendations from this they just it's
you know you do a study
sometimes you you're you're sometimes it
falls right in line with what you think
and other times you go huh interesting
maybe we can do more but it was like
maybe you can do more when you were you
know these are mostly college-age males
and for eight weeks at a time does this
mean you should push it that hard for 52
weeks out of the year heck no so maybe
we should to be doing bursts but these
guys weren't as much as they were doing
I think they were training three days a
week for like an hour I it wasn't like
Jeff you and I train more than this so
the these people saying it's just this
crazy amount it wasn't crazy but
interestingly um I want to tell you what
my general recommendation is for glutes
and and my philosophy on glutes is and
then I'll talk about this new study that
brings into play what we were just
talking about about damaging things like
that so my I have this what I call the
rule of three
and it's for glute training specifically
and it's like okay for three different
things you're gonna do one third one
third one third so first with your
exercise selection for glutes make a
third of your exercises well real quick
I should say I like around 36 sets a
week for glutes and most people like
mike is right tell Micah whoa whoa whoa
but then if I explained he'd be like no
ten ten to 20 but if I explained it to
him he'd likely agree with me and here's
why
yes out of those 36 sets okay 130 your
sets are gonna come from vertical
vertically loaded exercises actually
loaded these are your squats or
deadlifts your lunges these beat you up
the most because they're not only
systemically hard but they're also they
stretch the muscle you you have to lower
them slowly you don't dive on those
lifts you lower them slowly so they have
greater eccentric component training
along late they create more muscle
damage okay 12 your sets are gonna be
horizontally loaded this is
anteroposterior and you're these ones
load you more in the contracted position
you don't go look get loaded in his deep
of a stretch and these ones don't lead
to as much muscle soreness but they have
high levels of tension high levels of
activation but they're a little better
tolerated and then finally a third of
your exercise should be lateral rotary
in nature these are your abduction
exercise your lateral band walks all
those type of movements and those mostly
train you with short muscle weights you
don't even get into a stretch when you
do a lot of these and so to me that's
what I call like penalty-free volume you
can just add them in they don't beat you
up they don't add your total stress too
much now also one third of your
exercises of your sets should be heavy
one-third moderate one-third light when
it just it's just different stimuli and
then finally 1:30 or sets should be to
fail like like you know to failure or
one or like one rep Shia failure a 30 or
set should be two to three reps or like
maybe two to five reps Shia failure and
then another third should be nowhere
close to failure you could call them
work warm-up sets but really when you do
lateral band walkthrough
really ever going to failure if someone
had a gun to your head and said do 10
more don't you think you could do really
do 10 more but that's the case with
deadlifts deadlifts you couldn't do 10
more you'd be like kill me but because I
have that rule a third system for gluts
we can get away with 36 sets if you did
36 sets of lunges to failure it would be
different you can do that but the wheat
that's how I balance it up ok now we
just talked about the study with Brad
Schoenfeld and Krieger now let's talk
about another study and this one's so
fascinating this one is titled it's this
one is published ahead of print in
medicine and science and sports and
exercise bar below is the first author
but some guys that I know of James
Steele James Fisher Paolo genteel yeah
and I'm familiar with those guys yeah
and this study is crazy because they
trained if memory serves me right I
think Monday was upper body pushing
Wednesday was upper body pulling and
Friday was legs and you're just training
legs one day a week with these three
exercises squats leg press and stiff leg
dead lifts ok and you could do five sets
a week 10 sets a week 15 sets a week or
20 sets a week now what's interesting
about this study is the training study
was 6 months long like when you have a
six month long training that's rare
so that's cool they and they paralyze
their training and it's six months long
ok so what do you think would see the
best results if you're only training
legs one day a week the 20 set group the
15 the 10 or the 5 I mean I I've based
on the state of the current literature I
would say that the 20 set would lead to
the most results I would say the high to
high volume yet well here's the caveat
if you know James Steele and Fisher
they're like terminologies zealots like
they hate the abuse a to failure it's to
actual failure but actually fail right
it's different when you actually go to
real failure ok here's what they find I
want to predict the twenty third group
as well because we just brought
Schoenfeld
in my study and you know it's like what
do all bodybuilders do they do Tour they
train legs one day a week and they do
20-plus sets well here's what they found
they measured strength and muscle
thickness so hyper trophy and they had
strength on like you know five different
exercises and like muscle thickness on
say ten different muscles they went all
out here and what they found was in
general the ten set group per week saw
the best results followed by like the
ten that group was like here when the
five set group was pretty close to it
and then the 15 set group was down low
and then at twenty was alone amazing so
here's what's so fascinating about that
paper it's like what 26 got the worst
results you're getting tension you're
getting metabolic stress you're getting
muscle damage what's the problem what
why would you get less results it's not
just that the results were stalled out
you got worse results doing 20 sets so
all that I can think of and I actually
talked to your accountants about this I
talked to Brad about this I chopped it
James Krieger about this and it's like
okay if then maybe if you do too much
volume to failure you get too much
damage you can't recover but you think
you could recover by seven days later or
maybe it decreases central drive and you
but we you know then but then you think
that would be recovered by the next time
around and Chris Beardsley pointed out
that there's you weight training doesn't
cause too much decrease in central drive
it's more muscle soreness related while
you're weaker like the next day so what
is it what is the mechanism through this
and why do you get such worse man you
got worse strength results and muscle
growth results so it just so this is why
you if you worship research you you
always be changing a lot you gotta have
your backbone you gotta have foundation
this is what I know works for me it
works for majority of my clients and
when these new studies come out you try
some things you try them on certain
clients and I can tell you my friend
boydle she's a machine she can handle so
much volume it's crazy you know and in
in you know and I work with lots of
other women who can't handle that I know
my clients and me that I talked about
earlier who I think doubled her glute
growth she would do one set of six
exercises twice a week so she did 12
sets a week and then that client Aaron
that I talked about that trained glutes
daily she'd start training her glutes
six days a week with bands she would
train 5 minutes to 1 hour 6 days a week
but it wasn't a failure so there's two
completely different systems that
probably matched those people's
physiology well so you gotta experiment
you got to learn and people don't
experiment enough it's like have you
ever tried just doing one set of eight
exercises and do that three times a week
have you ever tried doing high-volume
really high-volume not not with with low
RPE have you ever tried doing it's like
try a lot of different things try
different splits try bodybuilding splits
training muscle one day a week try upper
lower splits try push-pull try full body
training try what I call compound bro
training where you do heavy full body
like full body like compound exercises
Monday Wednesday Friday and then Tuesday
Thursday maybe Saturday you're just
doing some bro isolation high rep
movements that don't beat you up too
much you know are these different things
and then see what works best where you
try them with your clients and it's just
fascinating though but this is what we
don't know the answer is and so it's the
art and the science of how and we've got
it we've got to follow both of them and
be willing to adapt yeah that's well
said on that point of trying a weird
thing so I was I had a flight I forgot I
was going out down to the States and I
wanted to get a quick workout in so I
literally had 12 minutes to Train and I
wanted to get an arm pump naturally so I
had 12 minutes and I super setted biceps
with triceps on the machines super high
rep sets all taken to failure no breaks
in between I was a 12-minute arm work I
sounds like something you'd see in a
crazy blog post or something but
anyway my arm with my arms were sore for
like three days it was like a crazy and
then it'll being a crazy workout and if
I thought I could have got like a crazy
arm workout in 12 minutes
I would think I'm I'm kind of crazy but
sometimes you can do stuff like that
right if you are willing to experiment
so I was visiting my friend Ben Bruno I
had I had exactly 12 minutes to work out
I remember yeah I wanted to Train
tonight I'll just do arms and I super
scented like dumbbell dumbbell curls
like either or either either supinated
or hammer curls with tricep extensions
on them and I just did walk back-to-back
one two one and it got to the point
where I had to hold the 20s and I could
barely curl the 20s but I did twelve
minutes in my arms were sore for three
straight days they I did the exact same
thing as you well man we need to launch
an e-book on this the twelfth arm
workout and I have everyone question our
integrity so I want to quickly comment
on this and then we'll wrap it up so I
actually have to read this study this
new Fisher and steel study you know I've
been familiar with their work for a
while actually reached out to one of
them for a debate with I think it was
Brad I wanted to put them up against but
some of their I know they never wanted
they didn't end up wanting to do it but
we had some email correspondence and
some of their papers are just they cut
so much against a lot of what you see in
other areas of Exercise Science in terms
of they're very struck they're very
strong proponent of low volume training
to failure and they put exertion
intensity of effort very highly on the
order of priority when it comes which I
feel like is very different from a lot
of people you see more in like the
public sphere in this area so I find
that really interesting if there was a
lab where I would expect to see lower
volume high effort work do well though
it would be out of their lab because
they've had these results before I don't
attribute that to any ill intention but
it's just like if there was a group that
was going to find this they'd probably
be them right but in any case the fact
that it's
one study I feel like is really
interesting so I I think that maybe what
you guys have been talking about how
when you're going to true failure that
could be a part of the reason why you
see better is just they just probably
ran into recovery issues but also I
think that in the Schoenfeld paper what
was counting as a set for the biceps and
it was the arms that hypertrophy was
measured in was like rows pull-ups curls
and everything so like everything that
was using elbow flexion counted as a
bicep set right whereas I feel like in
practice at one of people here 30 to 45
sets for the arms they're thinking
thirty or forty five sets of curls and
they don't tend to count that that
overlap which it it was counted that way
in the study if I remember so those
there are definitely those those caveats
but I appreciate you bring in that new
study to attention I'm sure I'll hear
more about it in the next while but yep
I I agree and you know what's important
is that we respect each other and don't
suspect each other of you know like oh
that they advocated the results or
something you know yes and because it's
easy to do that and that's why I like
conducting my own studies because it's
like when you do it you're like I know I
did it right you know I know I do these
things but yeah I think we need to be
you know these camps and it's like this
push-pull like where yeah we balance
each other out well because it's very
easy for the for guys like us who love
lifting to be like yeah you need to do
you know thirty like you trained six to
maximize your muscle growth you need to
Train six day like five days a week and
be in the gym for an hour and a half and
do all these sets and do hit ever hit
all this and then you have guys who
rightfully point out there you can see
unbelievable results doing one set to
failure like you know training like two
to three days a week and you can see
really good results yeah probably if I
had to guess you could probably see like
85% of your results that way
now guys like us are interested in that
last 15% but that lasted getting to that
last 15% requires triple the effort you
know and it that's why I like about
those guys as they point out like like
look you don't have you can see great
results like and they're there they're
thinking of the masses that are afraid
to go to the gym and if they only knew
how good a results you could see not
having to be in the gym all day long
more people would work out and so it's
just different they're thinking of
different things as we are and we need
to respect each other's side and you
know and and see the big picture on
everything and there are a lot of steno
James Krieger and Brad do the meta
analyses but you see a lot of individual
studies where it's like you look one set
tide what four sets did and it's like
you can't ignore that stuff and it's
like so I think a lot of people do do
too much volume I know I when I trained
my actual clients in real life we don't
do it nearly as much volume as people as
everyone else is doing so anyway it's
been a great interview us some amazing
questions I know we've been going for an
hour over an hour and a half here so we
should wrap okay yeah well I really
appreciate your time and I'll just
signal everybody who's made it this far
over to your channel I'll have your blog
link below I'll have all the papers we
talked about linked below and make sure
you go over subscribe to his channel
brett is doing cool experiments and and
vlogging now also so there's plenty to
see and learn from over there if you
enjoyed the show please leave us a
thumbs up Brett was very gracious with
his time so I really appreciate it and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
video
[Music]