next a sufficient number of calories
what is a sufficient number of calories
don't don't even bother Googling don't
stop typing to chat GPT don't even ask
if you are gaining something like half a
pound to a pound of weight on average
every week to few weeks consistently
you're eating enough calories to supply
all the raw materials that you need to
get jacked but if you've been training
for the last 6 months let's say and you
started you were 132 lb and now you're 1
31.6 how the fuck are you supposed to be
getting bigger you are just not putting
in enough raw materials to get bigger
it's like trying to add an addition to
your house if I wanted to add another
Castle to my property and I hired all
the fucking Builders and the designers
and engineers and they were like we're
ready and I was like yeah by the way uh
here's like you know three planks of
wood and like one little bucket of
concrete you go go go they're going to
be like look The Mansions are made of
slightly more stuff if I don't Supply
them with the raw materials how the fuck
is that going to work where are they
supposed to grow it from so if you are
gaining weight steadily then you know
your calories are straight