[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna be looking at how to maximize
development of the triceps by modifying
our shoulder position in two ways you
guys will remember that in my last video
on the triceps we discussed the skull
crusher explaining that because it puts
the shoulder in a highly flexed position
the long head is placed under a large
degree of stretch now we can contrast
this with an exercise like the bench
press where the shoulder is only flexed
to 90 degrees which according to the
strength & Conditioning calm database
may actually be the ideal shoulder
position for optimizing activation of
the long head so of course the bench
press will be a staple for overall
triceps development and I'd recommend
watching my benchpress technique Tuesday
video for more on that but here I want
to cover two other triceps exercises
that are going to hit the triceps from a
more extended and even hyper extended
shoulder position and the reason
shoulder position matters is that it's
going to vary how much contribution is
coming from the long head versus the
lateral head the long head sits on the
inside of the arm and it's responsible
for making your arms look much bigger
from the back while a well-developed
lateral head is going to give your arm
that horseshoe shape from the side
because the long head is a bi articular
muscle meaning it crosses both the elbow
joint and the shoulder joint if you
modify the shoulder position you can
adjust how much the long head gets
involved as you extend the elbow and
while biomechanical reasoning would
suggest that the long head should be
more active with the shoulder in a more
flexed position such as with a skull
crusher and the lateral head should be
more active in a more extended position
such as a tricep press down EMG results
are mixed meaning the most sensible
advice is to use a variety of different
shoulder positions to maximize overall
triceps development so because we've
already covered the Flex position I want
to start here with an extended shoulder
position using the tricep press down now
first my preferred attachment for these
is a straight bar or EZ bar
whichever you find to be more
comfortable on your wrists and I like
the bar over a rope simply because it
allows you to overload more heavily
because the Rope isn't as stable as the
metal bar most people simply won't be
able to load it as heavily resulting in
less overall tension on the triceps now
on the flip side of one of the
advantages
of the rope is that it does seem to
queue people to squeeze their triceps
better at the bottom which might help
them reach a stronger peak contraction
in my muscle connection so I'd say that
as long as you control the movement
squeezing at the bottom you should be
able to get this same effect from the
bar as well another option that I really
like is the single arm press down where
you grasp the cable head itself allowing
you to focus on one tricep at a time
which can be helpful for preventing
strength and size asymmetries also
unlike the straight bar this way you can
slightly extend to the shoulder at the
bottom to get an extremely strong peak
tricep contraction but for now let's
just roll with the basic
bread-and-butter EZ bar tricep press
down so you want to set the cable up so
that the bar hangs at about eye level
setting it up to low can prevent you
from reaching a full range of motion at
the top and setting it up to high can
make getting the bar into that starting
position more difficult than necessary
wasting energy for no reason you want to
grab the bar using an overhand grip and
the common error is to use an underhand
or reverse grip unlike the biceps the
triceps can't contribute to supination
so taking an underhand grip is only
going to reduce the amount of weight you
can use lessening tension on the triceps
with no advantage so using a roughly
shoulder-width grip you want to pin your
elbows in against your side's which is
going to help prevent the pecs from
taking over pull the bar down into
position at which point your forearm
should be making contact against your
biceps in this starting position so your
elbow is fully flexed take a step back
from the cable machine and hinge your
hips forward you're gonna keep your hips
from getting in the way of full lockout
at the bottom and think about squeezing
your triceps to move the way down as you
pull your elbows slightly back as well
because the long head contributes to
shoulder extension allowing the elbows
to move slightly forward and backward
it's going to get the long head more
involved now obviously you don't want to
exaggerate this cue to the point that
you start using your lats more than your
triceps but slight elbow travel is fine
if it helps you engage the long head
more once you reach the bottom position
actively squeeze your triceps and then
reverse the motion under control
allowing the bar to come up and slightly
forward the elbows should only move a
few inches forward and only if you find
that cue to be helpful otherwise they
can stay perfectly locked into position
at your sides for easy bar press downs I
prefer to use more moderate weight
something in the 6 to 12 rep range
whereas for rope and single arm press
downs
because they're more my muscle
connection focused I like to use higher
reps more on the 10 to 20 reps own now I
would say the most common error that I
see with the press down is turning it
into too much of a full upper body press
that's common to see people get over top
of the bar and use the pecs and front
delts to literally benchpress the weight
down and while this will allow you to
move more weight overall it's simply
going to shift emphasis away from the
triceps and onto the other pressing
muscles which can be better targeted
through a better exercise like the bench
press for example that's also common to
see people stay too upright here which
is not only going to limit tension on
the triceps at the top but also reduce
range of motion at the bottom I'm so
rather than standing perfectly upright
you want to hinge slightly forward at
the hips so you can press the bar all
the way down completing the full range
of motion so we've covered the flexed
and extended shoulder positions now I
want to cover the hyper extended
shoulder position where the arm is
placed back behind the torso and you can
try this out for yourself here if you
take your arm from out in front of you
and bring it back behind you
you should feel at your long head
contract and get quite hard as you hyper
extend so while the kickback won't place
the long head under a high degree of
stretch at any point in the range of
motion it will reach the strongest
possible contraction at full extension
and if you perform it properly the
contraction should be so strong it's
almost painful now well you can do
kickbacks with dumbbells and that works
fine because of the circular resistance
path your triceps will experience
maximum tension at the top which will
then decrease until there's zero tension
at the bottom and you can contrast this
with cables where there's more
consistent tension throughout the range
of motion and you can use a D handle
here or one end of a rope but I prefer
to just grip the cable head itself from
more stable feel grab the handle and
pull it into position by your side so
that your elbow is locked at about a 90
degree angle and from here you want to
simultaneously squeeze your triceps to
move the weight back as you
simultaneously move your elbow back
forcing your shoulder into that more
hyper extended position so that at the
top you can see that your arm has
extended back behind your torso this is
going to force the long head to contract
through an active range of motion at the
elbow and at the shoulder at the same
time once you reach the top reverse the
motion under control allowing the elbow
to Bend as the shoulder comes
we forward you can also do these
standing with a more upright torso as
long as you're putting the shoulder in
that hyper extended position at the
bottom the tension curve may be slightly
worse for the triceps here that some
trainees may find it to be much more
comfortable and here I like to use
slightly higher reps as well something
more on the 10 to 20 reps own and
because it's more of a concentric
focused movement without as much of a
stretch
it's ideal for intensity techniques like
drop sets and mile reps as delayed onset
muscle soreness shouldn't be too much of
a recovery concern now I would say the
most common error that I see with the
kickback is actually not hyper extending
the shoulder turning it into just a
standard tricep extension you want to
remember that what makes the kickback
unique is the fact that you're placing
the shoulder behind the torso providing
the strongest possible contraction at
the top if your shoulder is just staying
in line with your torso and you're
basically just doing a standard press
down just fine but defeats the entire
purpose of the kickback so guys that is
all that I have for the press down and
the kickback I hope you guys found it to
be helpful
if you're looking for a way to make all
this a little bit more actionable and
you want to take your bicep and tricep
training up a notch you can check out my
eight-week arm hypertrophy
program at the first link in the
description box below or by clicking the
button over here next to my head now
this is actually my most popular
specialization program and the feedback
from you guys over the last couple years
has been amazing I really appreciate
that and if you're interested in
checking it out you can grab it at Jeff
nipper comm I'm sure you guys enjoyed
the video don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up subscribe if you haven't
already and I'll see you guys all here
in the next one
haha
[Music]
I got a couple rounds