let me use my height deficiency I'm by
the way for those of you asking I'm 4
11/2 how do I get up to this thing
well o oh my God I can see the Wild what
are the options super wide absolutely a
fine grip especially if it feels okay in
your shoulder standard wide grip which
is usually on the crease a grip just in
here and you guessed it every single
fist or even two finger increment on the
way in up until you're over here and
then it's narrow grip and this is a
perfectly viable grip so all of these
grips will change the movement slightly
for example if we are gripping Ultra
wide and we're doing a lat pull down at
the very bottom you might not be able to
Arch anymore you might have to roll your
shoulders over a little bit to touch
whereas if you have a more narrow grip
you might be able to pull down and stay
strict the entire time