so you technically can build muscle at
maintenance or even in a deficit but
that's only going to be possible to a
significant degree in select cases and
if you're currently within a lower to
moderate body fat level and your primary
goal is to add overall size and strength
make no mistake you need a calorie
Surplus to maximize your results and if
you have a higher daily energy
expenditure or a smaller appetite that's
not always easy to do however by the end
of this video it will be you'll know
exactly how to hit your daily calories
for muscle growth without having to
force feed revolve your entire life
around your diet or feel bloated and
uncomfortable 24 7. so let's jump into
it alright tip number one which has to
be mentioned up front before going into
any of the specific dietary strategies
and that's to consider whether you
actually need to be eating more calories
than you currently are so many people
out there have the wrong idea about
bulking and think it means cramming
their face 24 7 all day long until it
hurts both physically and mentally and
that more food always equals more gains
but that's definitely not the case this
is a big fat sloppy mistake I personally
made in the past as well pun intended
and it's very important to keep in mind
that your body can only divert a
relatively small amount of protein and
calories toward muscle growth in a given
day a and Beyond around two to three
hundred calories above maintenance the
majority of what you take in beyond that
point is just going to be stored as fat
building quality muscle is a long-term
game of very small increases gradually
stacked up over time usually no more
than a couple pounds of additional body
weight per month if you're going at a
proper pace and so don't assume that
just because you aren't seeing
significant changes on the scalar in the
mirror every single week that you need
to immediately go and increase your
calories it's entirely possible that
your current intake is just fine and
that you simply need to be more patient
but if your results truly have stagnated
the scale hasn't moved at all for
several weeks your strength is plateaued
here are a few helpful options if you do
need to bump your calories up but you're
struggling with appetite so tip number
two is to increase your fat intake a lot
of people make the mistake of thinking
that since the goal is to build more
muscle that means they should just eat
more protein not only is muscle growth
going to be already maxed out at around
0.8 grams of protein per pound of body
weight daily but protein is also the
most satiating of the three
macronutrients and it has the highest
thermic effect we're up to 35 percent of
its total calories are burned through
digestion alone as long as your total
calories are within the proper range and
you're getting enough protein to
optimize hypertrophy the rest of your
macronutrient distribution really just
comes down to personal preference and
since fats contain nine calories per
gram which is more than double that of
protein in carbs that's going to be the
easiest and most efficient way to hit
your Surplus with a smaller volume of
food nuts nut Butters seeds oils
chocolate avocado coconut milk fatty
fish these are all great sources to
consider one handful of almonds is
around 200 calories right there a
tablespoon of olive oil is 100 calories
just 50 grams of dark chocolate is 300
one cup of coconut milk is over 500.
there's no need to be afraid of fat as
long as you don't go overboard and
adding in just one or two of these
sources might be all you need tip number
three is to eat more junk food
okay I know some people are immediately
going to lose their mind on that one so
let me rephrase it to say it's okay to
consume a controlled amount of higher
calorie processed food assuming the
majority of your diet is still coming
from nutrient dense minimally processed
Whole Foods if you're otherwise healthy
and active your total calorie intake is
at the proper level and it contains
around 80 plus of clean food adding in
some higher fat higher sugar treat food
to make up the other 20 that's not going
to hurt you and it's one helpful way to
get into a consistent calorie Surplus
since those Foods pack a lot more
calories into a smaller volume if you've
been brainwashed into this old school
bodybuilding 24 7 clean eating mentality
all sugar is bad all processed food is
evil and it's going to cause you to
shrivel up and die on the spot and
you're trying to cram down nothing but
chicken breast brown rice and broccoli
all day long that's going to make it a
lot harder especially if you have a
small appetite so whether it's a few
cookies or a chocolate bar some ice
cream pizza burger whatever that's okay
in moderation to bump your total
calories up and because it's just
enjoyable in general tip number four is
to consume more of your calories in
liquid form it's really not that
difficult to whip up a homemade Shake in
the 800 to 1200 calorie plus range and
this was something I used to do quite
often myself back when I was really
trying to maximize my gains the go-to
base combo was milk Blended up with oats
banana peanut butter and protein powder
and then from there you can easily make
this a lot higher calorie if you want by
increasing the fat content or by adding
in some treat food like we just talked
about two tablespoons of olive oil added
in which is like this much extra liquid
that'll be 200 easy calories right there
and you won't even taste it again you
can swap out regular milk for coconut
milk toss in some nuts dark chocolate
avocado or on the emptier calorie side
there's also higher sugar yogurts a bit
of ice cream maybe some cereal plenty of
options there as far as commercial
weight gain powders go I'm generally not
a big fan of those since they're usually
just a mix of whey protein and simple
sugar usually maltodextrin so you're
really not getting much of anything in
the way of micronutrients and fiber if
possible I'd recommend making a homemade
version since it'll be a lot more
nutrient dense and it'll taste better
too but again if it's just being
consumed in a controlled amount as a
minority percentage of your total
calorie series then you could optionally
use a weight gain powder here and there
if it's convenient and you need
something on the go and finally tip
number five along with adding high
calorie dense foods into your diet
there's also the option to reduce your
consumption of low calorie dense foods
or at least swap them out for higher
calorie Alternatives if you naturally
have a small appetite and you're loading
up on salads and low sugar fruits and
super lean proteins you're going to feel
a lot Fuller for a smaller number of
calories so for example if your
vegetable intake is quite high right now
you could optionally reduce that a bit
at least temporarily while you're
bulking I'm obviously not saying don't
eat vegetables but you could just lower
the quantity slightly when it comes to
fruit rather than low sugar options like
let's say berries or watermelon which
are very low in calories and high in
water content you can go with denser
higher sugar options like bananas or
mangoes or even dried fruits like
raisins or apricots when it comes to
protein rather than eating nothing but
chicken breast you could add some
chicken thighs into the mix instead of
white fish which has next to zero fat
you could offer something like salmon
you could go with fattier cuts of red
meat rather than skim milk or skim
yogurt use some higher fat options you
get the idea here it really just comes
down to properly managing your food
volume to calorie ratio when you're
cutting you typically want maximum food
volume for fewer calories and when
you're bulking if appetite is an issue
then you want to do the opposite if you
want some more help getting your overall
fitness program onto the right track not
just on the nutrition side but training
as well make sure to visit shawnell.com
custom just fill out the short form on
that page and I'll send you back a free
step-by-step plan based on your current
condition and your goals the link for
that is in the description here are two
more videos I'd recommend watching now
don't forget to subscribe to the channel
to stay up to date on future videos
thanks for watching guys and I'll talk
to you again soon