essentially under 60 seconds did reduce
hypertrophy going from 60 seconds to 1
to 2 minutes instead so resting for a
little bit longer closer to 1 to 2
minutes increased hypertrophy and
actually if you went past 2 minutes
generally hypertrophy decreased a little
bit so going past 2 minutes you didn't
really see a benefit in terms of
hypertrophy way way way way
way folks Dr Mike here for RP strength
and I am treated elated
ear different channel to have World
ranked expert in all things hypertrophy
doctor Milo wolf and believe it or not
via the miracle of time travel was the
artistic rendering inspiration for
Captain Morgan the rum guy yes yes so
other than a distinguished beard Milo
knows things it's Dr Milo to you
motherfuckers and today he comes with a
bounty a cornucopia dare I say
the Satchel is a metaanalysis but the
contents are how many studies again nine
studies nine studies on how long you
should rest between sets for happiness
no hypertrophy same thing Milo enough of
me giving the world's longest dumbest
intro tell us things that we need to
know so that we can get more jacked and
is rest stupid or do we need a lot of it
hit me let me break it down first of all
thank you for having me here we very
very recently and by very recently I
mean as of this
morning that's right we're doing science
out here got the results and wrote up
the manuscript for a met analysis on
rest times for
hypertrophy we looked at all of the
studies out there looking at the effects
of different rest times between sets on
muscle hypertrophy we looked for studies
that were equated for volume meaning
both the shorter rest time group and the
longer rest time group were doing the
same number of sets mhm or they were
equating for volume load so if for
example one group was Westing for 3
minutes and one group for one minute
between sets the one minute group would
do additional sets to end up doing the
same sets times reps times weight across
the whole session okay and so the good
thing about that is the internal
validity and that's the Deep theoretical
conclusions we can draw stronger but the
downside is the eological validity is a
bit weaker so like in real life you
could interpret this in a slightly
different way exact but it's always good
to start with deep Theory first yes and
so I'll discuss the overall results of
the Met analysis first because most of
the studies I I think seven or eight of
them were just set equated so same
number of sets just different rest times
and the final one or two were equated
for volume
load let me break it down across these
nine studies we looked at a variety of
muscle groups including lower body arms
whole body assessments when it came to
rest times we broke things down in a
variety of ways I think the most
analysis we broke rest times down into
under 60 seconds so short rest times
between 60 seconds and 120 seconds so 1
to two minutes more intermediate rest
times long rest times of 2 to 3 minutes
and very long rest times of over 3
minutes because we had sufficient data
in each of these brackets to make
comparisons and say which of these seems
to be best for hypertrophy that's nice
that's a lot of differentiation correct
to make a long story short when you just
looked at how much hypertophy was seen
in each bracket all of them led to hyper
so no matter your rest time you will
likely see hypertrophy if you train rest
time isn't one of those make or break
variables that's going to literally kill
your gains or create all the gains in
the world the rest time that's killing
your gains that you don't want your
doctor to know children to your dog you
got the rest thumbnail to know about you
get the idea um at any
point generally all rest times led to
hypertrophy however when it came to the
large just hypertrophy which is
ultimately what we care about on average
correct on average and obviously there
are differences between upper and lower
body potentially and all that different
mus ET correct but similar hypertrophy
was seen across different rest timeses
but there were benefits to certain rest
times over others these were relatively
marginal there weren't huge differences
but the best hypertrophy or muscle
growth was seen between one or two
minutes essentially under 60 seconds did
reduce hypertrophy going from 60 seconds
to 1 to 2 minutes instead so resting for
a little bit longer closer to 1 to 2
minutes increased hypertrophy and
actually if you went past 2 minutes
obviously these studies didn't often
feature super trained participants or a
lot of compound High rep work generally
hypertophy decreased a little bit so
going past two minutes you didn't really
see a benefit in terms of hypertrophy
wait wait wait wait wait I got to be
very specific here
yep the groups that lasted for 2 minutes
a lower hypertrophy no more additional
hypertrophy less but equally I would say
take this with some caution just because
we have most studies comparing rest
times of 30 seconds to like 1 minute or
2 minutes so that's where we have the
most data and the most confidence but
the limited data with not so much
confidence says that it is possible to
rest too long correct not much
confidence are you lasting too long
linol bio killing your gains rest is
killing your gains that's great so what
I'd say with some confidence is not
resting for long enough say under a
minute is likely going to harm your
muscle building if you want to maximize
your growth depending on the exercise
depending on the muscle groups involved
between one or two minutes is going to
be a great starting Place starting Place
correct then there's ways to Auto
regulate that based on the exercise the
rep range a variety of factors but then
if you go much past two minutes you may
on average not see any additional muscle
growth on a per set basis versus just
resting one to two minutes m on average
if you don't consider the exercise etc
etc so as a good starting place if you
haven't thought about anything else 1 to
2 minutes might be the recommendation to
for quick question very speculative so
please guys go right now to your kitchen
eat a pound of
salt grain of salt big
grain swallow it that's right you're
used to swallowing big things I'm sure
in your spare time is there
some place in your mind my where there
is a hypothetical that resting for
longer than as optimal is somehow the
worst possible tangential indirect ink
of evidence inkling of evidence for the
metabolite sequestration hypothesis
because they did the same amount of work
right mechanical tension looking F FRFR
busing RN did I say that right shaking
RN what do you think I think there might
be some evidence there I think think it
may more so just be cuz the differen is
between 1 to 2 minutes and two to 3
minutes and 3 plus minutes they weren't
super large yes there was a bit less
hypertrophy but it wasn't large enough
for me to say for sure look this is a
real difference it may just be and this
is kind of my interpretation on average
depending on the excise and so forth and
so forth going past two minutes just
doesn't really benefit you in terms of
how much growth you get per set so that
we can pretty confidently say but we
can't confidently say that the the
decline in hypertrophy long AR rest
times correct is so tenuous based on so
few studies and is so small to begin
with it just is more likely to be
statistical artifact than it is likely
to be a true difference that's what I
would say and I would say that if you're
resting more than 2 minutes just know
that you're not getting less hypertrophy
per set in a likelihood but you're also
not getting anything additional so
you're just kind of pissing away time at
Point what if you hate the rest of your
life outside of the gym and you just
want to be around the gym longer in that
case like do you I know pal who were in
the gym for 5 hours for a session which
strength different to different topic so
this is you probably hate your life too
if you're power oh yeah it's just true I
used to be a power lifter a lot of
hatred yeah
yeah okay any insight on the studies
that equated for volume yes ver okay hit
there is one recent study by longling
colleagues from
2022 and as far as any single study on
rest times goes I think it's the most
informative
one there's other bodies of research
we'll discuss later in the video that in
light of this make a lot more sense now
I actually was involved in a amateur
adult film called bodies of research
once it was quite good not my body I was
an executive on YouTube
no different kind of tube I can't say it
out loud because I'll kabash us for that
let's both do that starts with a letter
X and ends with the letter X please
continue anyhow um so this study by long
colleagues I think was the only one of a
couple maybe that equated for volume
load essentially they split up
participants all of them did the like
press but they did like press with a
single leg at a time so volume load sets
times reps times weight correct and
function equivalent to the other one so
it doesn't matter how you get there you
could do uh three sets of 10 or six sets
of five with the same load it would be
the same thing got it okay they kept
load the same in both the right leg and
the left leg so the shorter rest leg and
the longer rest leg they randomiz weight
used same weight used but the
essentially there were four conditions
right so the leg was being trained in
one of four ways with one leg they would
train with one minute of rest between
sets and do a fixed number of sets m in
the second condition they would do a
fixed number of sets as well but rest
for three minutes between sets and the
remaining two conditions so number three
and four they also rested for one or 3
minutes between sets but they matched
volume Lo with the opposite condition in
terms of rest time so they would do
fewer or more sets to match for it so
you had a one minute group that did more
sets to get to the same overall volume
load as the three-minute condition and
you had a three-minute condition that
did fewer sets to arrive at the same
total volume load as the one minute
condition right and because the
distances moved are the same we can say
volume load in this case is a direct
proxy for work yes tension yeah and
tension so basically like oh because the
load is the same so the work and tension
are the same one condition just did like
uh more reps per set and thus fewer sets
one condition did more sets but fewer
reps per set because they were Le tired
as the French say because of the short
breaks correct got it okay so there were
actually two comparisons in this study
yeah yeah there was a comparison of on a
set equated basis between condition one
and two if you just rest one versus 3
minutes is there a difference in
hypertrophy but do but you have to do
the same number of sets correct yeah and
the second comparison is if you do rest
1 minute versus 3 minutes but you do
more or fewer sets to equate for overall
volume load is there a difference sys of
hypertrophy so two comparisons using a
within participant design you know
different leges differently which gives
you a lot more accuracy in your findings
because you're equating for things like
genetics every single experiential
variable of the trainee training age
what they ate that morning unless one
leg ate more than the other no that
doesn't make any sense so huge so this
is guys from an internal validity
perspective of what can we conclude how
confident can we be this is gold
standard like whoo whoa like uh that's
really awesome okay so tell us what what
they found study design 101 if you're
looking for internal validity you do it
within participant design you get more
power you can have more accuracy in how
big the effect is but you're trading it
off for ecological validity yeah cuz who
the fuck does one leg time ex and uses
one leg with a short rest time and the
other leg long rest in an isokinetic
dynamometry leg exion set up right in a
laboratory with people it's a great
study design for finding out is there an
effect yes and uh effects Direct effects
uh theoretical effects and deep
mechanisms that's what we learn and then
that's the kind of stuff we can base
Real World Gym experience on yep correct
anyhow in this one study what they found
was if you rested 3 minutes two three I
can't count PhD in sport Science doesn't
mean much you know I don't know what
numbers mean doctors please continue
when they rested for 3 minutes versus
one minute between sets they did see
more hypertrophy of the quads when
resting 3
minutes however when the one minute
condition did more sets to get the same
overall volume load as when they rested
for 3 minutes between sets they saw the
same hypertrophy which does suggest that
when it comes to your rest times the
overall performance outcome the overall
volume load or tension you're applying
to your muscle across how much work you
did basically correct how much tension
you're ultimately imposing upon your
muscle is a factor right because
otherwise you wouldn't see a big factor
oh for sure huge Factor the biggest
Factor
probably um so it tells us two things
one if you're times are 60 seconds or
potentially lower as we can see from the
overall met analysis you're probably
limiting hypertrophy a little bit but
two if you are resting less than a
minute or about a minute you can do more
sets and potentially get to the same
hypertrophy on average correct on
average now importantly this was one of
only I think one or two studies included
that matched for volume load and if you
look at the overall result of met
analysis even when you just match for
number of sets resting for 1 to 2
minutes seems to be best so you don't
need to rest for 3 minutes as the study
would suggest 1 to 2 minutes may be
sufficient on average across exercises
Etc and this actually does make sense in
a few ways if you look at the drop set
research we have a metanalysis by
Coleman and colleagues that came out a
year ago we have another one by another
group of researchers that found the
exact same thing on the same literature
so it's a replicated finding drop sets
in the studies we have I think we have
about seven six to eight studies there
that's nice seem to lead to similar
hypertrophy as traditional training now
these studies are pretty inconsistent in
whether or not they match for volume and
they match for volume in different ways
just like the rest time research so I
wouldn't say for sure that hey do three
sets of drop sets it would be the same
hypertrophy as three traditional
straight sets with regular rest time
intervals but it does suggest that hey
even if your rest between sets isn't
huge it's not going to make or break
your hypertrophy short rest times in
certain training techniques may have
their place I think if your rest times
are much below like 45 or seconds you
will likely need to do more sets to make
up for it but one they're still
effective and you may not need to do a
ton of additional sets and two if your
rest times are between 1 to two minutes
it seems like you might be optimizing
hypertrophy on average M but certainly
even short rest times still appear
effective and you may see less of a
benefit going from like 30 seconds to 90
seconds than we previously thought
sure there is another another video on
your channel where we dig into a method
that so this is the empirical
theoretical science-based real type of
shit in uh a video which you and I did
for your channel and should be out or
could be out or might be out go check
out his channel um we talk about uh my
method for in real life practically
examining should I do another say have I
rested a long time enough and that's
going to be a big deal because this
entire time I was very good as the uh
the penultimate scientist is saying on
average it's there is not a world in
which you need just as much rest time
for your forearms as you do for your
quads right it's funny you should say
that because we actually there's a few
things I want to mention about the exact
analysis approach we took first we took
a basian framework approach which means
that we were able to make conclusions or
inferences that are a bit more intuitive
than what you frequent frequently see
with frequentist approaches where you
simply usually diiz results into sign
ific or not significant it's a bit
silly at least in my opinion um because
we took aan approach there's a few
things we can say about the results for
example we actually were able to find
likelihoods that there was a benefit to
Long rest times an actual likelihoods
that we could have as an output of our
analysis it's not just we're making it
up it's an actual mathematical
result and when it comes to longer rest
times creating more hypertrophy there
was around a 7 to 80% chance of that
being the case so of there being a
benefit so there's like 20 to 30% chance
that there isn't a benefit but it's more
likely than not but a decent margin that
longer rest times of say 60 seconds or
more are better than shorter rest times
so that we can say with some decent
confidence right have a chest up and say
yeah longer rest times to an extent or
good better to guess longer rest times
in that case than than it doesn't work
correct so it's essentially there's a
positive effect in favor of longer rest
time so it's above zero there's also
likelihoods of it being a small effect
size or medium effect size large effect
size and those obv di as you get larger
and larger differences but as far as it
being AI effect so an increase in muscle
growth from long rest times there's
about a 70 to 80% chance importantly we
also did a subgroup analysis by which
muscle groups were being
trained we looked at Arms thighs and
whole body I think for our purposes here
because you mentioned that the muscle
group being trained being relevant the
comparison of the arms and thighs is
most relevant M and specifically it's
not a huge difference but if you look
the odds of long rest times being
Superior to Shorter rest times are a
little bit higher in the legs versus the
arms CU it zaps you more and you need
more rest correct likely your overall
walk load is higher during most compound
leg training especially than upper body
training the muscle mass involved is
greater and so your cardiovascular
demands are greater which means often
times you'll probably need longer rest
between sets to maximize the odds of
your target muscle being the limiting
factor being the thing that gives out
when you end the set because the target
muscle cannot produce the requisite
Force to Nal rep M and so that lens
Credence to in the other video on rest
times that we did together earlier on my
channel that lens Credence the idea that
for different muscle groups there is
likely a benefit to individualizing rest
times more so longer for lower body
movements potentially longer for
compound movements versus upper body
movements or more isolation sty
movements sure and that's if you want
extra credit RP super optimizing
bullshit if you just want great
training my view Milo please correct me
if I'm wrong is like whenever you're not
psychotically out of breath and you're
pretty fucking ready to do another set
jam and everything will take care of
itself for sure and ultimately if you
feel like you're getting close to
failure at the end of the set and what
gave out was your muscle yes there's a
good chance you're really close to
maximizing hypertrophy as long as you're
not taking the piss with how long you're
resting if you're resting 10 seconds
between sets and that's all you have a
train like yeah you need to do a lot
more sets or you're not growing your
best yeah um importantly what I want to
mention is this metanalysis actually
closely mirrors the results of a
systematic review I think in 2017 by G
and colleagues on rest times as well the
reason for that is relatively clear
which is many of the same studies were
included in that one as we did now and
there have been some more recent studies
like the longo study I just mentioned
that added more evidence that we could
consider but it was in the same
direction corre findings were at the
time um generally short and long rest
times so under 60 seconds versus over 60
seconds lead to hypertrophy but novel
findings in trained participants
indicate there might be a benefit to
over 60 seconds and I think that's
essentially what this metasis found but
more specifically with the granularity
of more quantitative approach we're also
to detect that hey maybe there isn't
really a benefit to going past two
minutes on average etc etc but if you're
training with more compound movements
potentially higher rep ranges
potentially with more lower body
movements if you're more trained and
therefore able to lift more weight and
have a higher work output and therefore
a greater cardiovascular demand all of
those things will probably steer you in
the direction of longer rest times being
better for hypertrophy conversely if all
those factors are switched around
shorter rest times might be better and
so I think around 1 to two maybe 3
minutes or a bit more for lower body
movements is a good rough framework I
would go closer to say 1 to 1 and a half
minutes for more upper body isolation
style movements and maybe closer to 1
and a half to 3 minutes at the very top
end for more compound St
movements on average but there are ways
to Auto regulate your rest times based
on your situation the movement you're
performing etc etc we'll cover that in
the other video awesome any any other
particular insights that jumped out at
you from
this well you don't have to say yes yes
there there was one so when when I got
these results I instantly jumped onto a
call with uh my good friend Dr Pac was
who was also involved on the paper who
probably informed you that the wire
transfer from Big rest time cleared and
now you speak about it publicly yes um
Brad CHF was also involved on this paper
but I course he was he's everywhere I
can't stand I don't know about it I
don't know about it he's too too
familiar he's too involved yes you say
anything wrong about hypertrophy he just
shows up
hypertrophies he autoc
constructs anyhow the one thing that I
spoke about with pack that I think is
worth it raing in this video is this is
really good news like if you're busy and
you're already employing some of
techniques like paired super sets like
super setting some chest work with back
work bicep with tricep Etc to save time
you're using a lot of really time
efficient exercises like compound
movements making sure that they're stack
loaded so you can just plug and play
right this is even more good news you
don't to spend a ton of time in the gym
to get a lot of your hypertrophy in and
that's sweet like I and I think it may
or may not somewhat reduce the emphasis
on only doing a set when you feel like
your performance is going to be
maximized right right A lot of people
are into that like I'm not feeling 100%
like you can feel 80% and get great
results and if you just do another extra
set on top of that you get the best
possible results exactly like these
studies and met analysis were mostly set
equated so if you're resting for one or
two minutes between sets by definition
for a lot of people your performance
won't be quite maximized and yet the
best hypertrophy was seen between 1 or
two minutes Y and so even if performance
isn't maximized that may not be the
whole picture does that in your mind
detract a little bit from the hypothesis
that the faster fibers completely switch
off and those last three reps are the
only thing that's important and if we're
not maximally rested then we're just
going through the motions that takes a
hit that it does I do think with one or
two minutes you'll probably still get a
large amount of motor improvment I think
especially with two minutes for most
exercises most of the time you should
still be able to recruit them to a
meaningful extent okay because most of
the researchers on set equated and thus
we can surmise or I'm sure you guys
formalize this in literature but the
longer rest times groups did on average
do more physical work corre and that's
impose more mechanical tension but they
got uh I guess identical results in most
cases or under statistically results but
with meaningful differences in tension
does this in your mind poke a little bit
of a hole in the its only tension that
determines hypertrophy result correct I
think you essentially have two factors
of play one is the interpretation of a
lot of research in the sole
interpretation of overall tension or
volume lootus proxy thereof in when
you're using the same exercises and so
forth on the other hand on the other
side you have an interpret of results
that's based purely on effective reps so
essentially all that matters is you're
getting effective reps in whether you
did five effective reps or 20 reps in
the whole set right the last the last
three to five reps are the only ones
that matter right I think this meth
analysis shifts the needle slightly
towards it's not just volume load
effective reps are a little bit more
important potentially than we gave them
credit for is it just effective reps by
no means no for because otherwise you
know like you could do just my reps all
the time and you get the same results I
don't think that's true but it does
shift the need a little bit from look we
need to maximize volume Lo across the
session at all times to as long as you
have a good balance of volume load so
your performance across the whole
session you're resting sufficiently to
get a good level of performance and
you're thereby also getting a good
number of effective reps in you're in a
really good spot I love
it last question refractory periods cuz
your boy you know what I'm saying I'm
out here right but not always you feel
me and she's like yo what's up and I'm
like girl she back in you're know out oh
yeah I'm not I mean to be honest I'm not
even out there at all is it in I can't
never
tell guys Milo is a brilliant young man
and has his own YouTube channel where he
posts very regularly with all kinds of
science stuff I would say he's a
considerably more in tune with the
research smarter taller more handsome
and and uh dare I say definitely almost
certainly larger genital version of me
Scot the video guy shut the fuck up now
we get him laughing pervert I would
check out his channel I would consider
at least checking out a few videos you
may like where he's coming from he also
writes regularly for Stronger by science
I would also check out their YouTube
channel and I would actually check out
their website and get on their email
list because it's one of the most
awesome places for in-depth super nerd
science on training hypertrophy and
strength and Recovery you'll find
anywhere on the internet give those a
look and um you got anything else to
plug you greedy motherfucker if you like
going deep into science what is your
point to me is it okay fine I like going
deep into science my I've been lubed up
for science hey man if you like it check
out my channel check out Strong by
science I think you'll like our stuff
boom see you guys next time
[Music]