some people say okay we can't turn fat
into muscle technically but can't we do
recomposition will we gain muscle loose
fat at the same time lean out but not
really change our body weight or our
body size beginners can do this
relatively well but for more advanced
individuals or if you really want to put
your best foot forward and lose as much
fat as you can recomposition is not
something to gamble on because it's a
very inefficient process as you get more
and more advanced as you get leaner
recomposition is worse and worse and
worse and at some point just takes an
almost infinite amount of time so it's
better to have dedicated phases a fat
loss where you know muscle growth won't
be that great and then dedicated phases
of muscle gain where we know could gain
a little bit of extra fat alternate
those that's the best way forward as
opposed to trying to sort of do
everything at the same time