okay what is going on everyone welcome
to a new episode of the science applied
series I'm so in this video we're gonna
cover the second pull workout for the
week and when our push-pull legs split
will be hitting the back so the lats and
the traps and also the rear delts and
the biceps for the second time in this
training week since most of the recent
literature shows that hitting each body
part at least twice per week is optimal
for growth but frequencies higher than
two may not be any better if volume is
the same I'm so just like the last
workout and I like to kick things off
with two light sets of lat pull ins for
15 to 20 light reps and I more or less
count these as just part of the warm-up
so these sets don't really count as true
working sets now they're just a way to
sort of get the lats loosened up
increase blood flow and just get
everything firing back there so our
first actual exercise is going to be an
eccentric accentuated lat pulldown for
three sets of eight to ten reps and
remember that since the research tends
to show no significant differences in
lat activation between the pulldown and
the pull-up I think it makes most
practical sense to use both if you can
now so do the pull-up on the first
workout where you're focusing more on
basic strength focused movements and
then the pull down on this workout where
our focus is going to be more on
mindfully activating the muscles of the
back and harvesting a strong mind muscle
connection in slightly higher rep ranges
but anyway the main goal here is to
really focus on the eccentric
contraction or the negative portion of
the movement and this is because
according to one 2011 and a see a report
by dr. Brad Schoenfeld a significant
body of research shows that the
eccentric exercise elicits greater gains
in lean muscle compared with concentric
and isometric contractions now the same
report also notes that eccentric
strength is generally 20 to 50 percent
greater than concentric strength so to
take advantage of these two principles
we're going to be using a three to four
second lowering phase on every rep the
concentric will be just a standard speed
but you want to really focus on drawing
your elbows down in
in on the positive and then on the
negative actively engage your lats as
they stretch so a way to visualize this
is to think about being too weak to
perform the concentric as you're doing
the negative so in other words think
about the eccentric as being a sort of
failed concentric where you're not just
letting the weight go but actively
resisting on the way up so don't just
slowly lower the weight now you want to
contract your lats as hard as possible
as they're stretching during the
negative and this is important because
as I mentioned in a few videos now the
mind muscle connection is accumulating
empirical support in the scientific
literature as an effective strategy for
enhancing muscle hypertrophy this is
especially the case for simple movements
where less of the whole body is involved
and you're trying to isolate specific
body parts so up next is a chest
supported t-bar row and we're gonna be
using a band here and we're doing these
for three sets of ten to twelve reps and
of course rows are great for targeting
both the traps of the mid-back and the
lats
so you really want to think about rowing
as the sort of bread-and-butter of your
back routine and really get into the
zone here and just bring your absolute
best to this movement also since you
don't accrue the same lower back fatigue
as you would with a free-standing row I
think a chest supported row like this
really makes a lot of sense from a
fatigue management perspective and your
lower back should be getting plenty of
work from the squatting and other lower
body compound lifts in this program
anyway so the idea behind the band has
essentially to alter the resistance
curve to make the movement more trap or
mid-back dominant and my rationale here
is basically that since the lats can't
hyper extend the shoulder meaning they
can't bring the arm back behind the
torso the traps are forced to perform
this scapula retraction that you see at
the top of the row however not many
people realize that unlike other rowing
movements now the t-bar row actually has
a pretty unique resistance curve where
the most difficult part of the movement
is actually in the mid range of motion
that's right here and pass this mid
range the movement actually gets easier
as the machine moves through a pendulum
motion while the force of gravity only
acts straight down so by adding the band
you basically make the top portion where
hyperextension happens more difficult
forcing the traps to
you more work at the top an apart from
this research has shown support for
combining elastic resistance with free
weight resistance for developing
strength better than just training with
free weights alone now still the
long-term effects aren't clear but I
think this is at the very least a novel
way to challenge the back musculature
through a different loading pattern than
what you'd normally do ok so up next
we're doing two sets of 12 to 15 reps on
the machine Jairo and the idea here is
to squeeze in a bit more total back
volume while focusing on contracting
each slat individually which is great
for fixing any left to right imbalances
or asymmetries and you'll want to start
with your smaller or weaker side now
usually it's the same side as your
non-dominant hand but not always and
you'll really want to focus on
stretching your lats at the top of each
rep and then driving your elbows down
while trying to maintain a more or less
constant elbow Bend throughout the whole
range of motion even though obviously
you will have to flex the elbow to some
degree to get a full range of this and
as a so-called finisher for the back
we're gonna be doing 3 sets of 15 to 20
reps on the kneeling or half kneeling
cable pullover but we're gonna be
modifying the exercise to force the lats
through the largest range of motion
possible and so you'll want to use the
longest rope that you have available or
like I did for this workout just use two
ropes sort of using each individually as
its own handle and even though this is
an isolation exercise it does take the
last through a huge range of motion just
about a hundred and eighty degrees
so you want to pull the rope all the way
back and if you can actually hyper
extend the shoulder at the bottom end
and this will help get the traps a
little bit more involved as well and one
thing I've been doing lately is starting
the movement at the bottom with about a
65 degree forward lean and then as I
complete the movement I bring my posture
more upright which I find both stretches
the lats to a greater degree at the
bottom and then improves their strength
curve at the top and it's normal if you
feel some tricep involvement
now since the long head of the triceps
does also contribute to shoulder
extension and so sort of can't help but
assist the lats now with this movement
alright our next exercise is really
going to target the upper traps so we're
doing three sets have 12 to 15 reps on
the
snatch grip shrug and since the upper
traps perform both scapular elevation
shrugging your shoulders up like in a
standard shrug and upward scapular
rotation so like what you do in a
lateral raise the two times shoulder
width snatch grip is going to hit the
upper traps through both of these muscle
actions to a greater degree also related
research from pisar Ian's colleagues
found that a dumbbell shrug performed at
30 degrees abduction with a wider grip
was more effective at activating the
upper trap fibers than the traditional
shrug so moving on to rear delts we're
gonna be doing a reverse PEC deck
superset which can be thought of as a
sort of mechanical drop set where for
the first 12 reps we'll be doing a rear
delt dominant reverse fly so you'll keep
your shoulder blades protracted as much
as possible meaning your upper back will
be slightly rounded forward so just
think about the opposite of squeezing
your shoulder blades together and sit
back as far as you can on the pad now
with a slight forward lean into the
chest pad and then you want to think
about driving the handles straight out
instead of straight back which will
prevent the traps from taking over and
of course keep a solid mind muscle
connection with the rear delts
throughout this whole range of motion
then with only a few seconds rest in
between we're gonna switch to doing the
exact opposite cueing get the traps more
involved so they can extend the set and
allow the rear delts to perform more
work than they'd be able to do while
isolate it now so this time you want to
squeeze your shoulder blades together
while pulling the way both out and back
on the concentric and then protract your
shoulder blades on the eccentric and you
also want to sit up a little more
straight with your arms parallel to the
floor so to round out this workout we're
gonna be doing two exercises for the
biceps up first is an enhanced eccentric
EZ bar curl for three sets of ten to
twelve reps and so this will be similar
to the lat pull-downs
now so pick a weight slightly lighter
than what you'd normally use and
completely concentric yourself but have
a training partner push down on the
center of the bar during the negative
and if you train solo simply just double
the length of your normal eccentric to
sort of mimic this increased exertion
and for good measure
there have been associations between
these enhanced eccentric and increased
work capacity and muscle activation in
the scientific literature however
similar increases in muscle mass
occurred in both intervention groups
have it that could perhaps be because
the study only lasted ten weeks and
finally we're gonna be finishing off the
workout with a dumbbell curl try set for
two sets of each movement so up first is
12 reps of a reverse grip dumbbell curl
then we're gonna switch to a hammer grip
and do another ten reps and then switch
to a supinated traditional dumbbell curl
for the final eight reps and then we'll
repeat that sequence again for the
second set after a minute or two of rest
and the rationale here is to pre-exhaust
all the elbow flexors except the biceps
as much as possible first most people
actually go about pre-exhaustion the
wrong way the most common method is to
pre-exhaust the target muscle first with
an isolation movement before doing a
compound movement to supposedly increase
its activation but the scientific
literature suggests the exact opposite
occurs when you isolate the target
muscle first you actually cause that
muscle to fatigue so secondary movers
take over and the target muscle becomes
less active in the compound exercise
time so for example doing leg extensions
before leg presses will cause the quads
to be less active not more active on the
leg press also here we're taking
advantage of this principle by fatiguing
all of the other elbow flexors like the
brachioradialis the brachialis and the
supinator z' of the forearm by doing
reverse grip curls and hammer curls
first in theory leaving the biceps
comparatively more fresh and capable of
contributing to the supinated curl I'm
so anyway with the reverse grip curl and
the hammer curl you want to think about
gripping the dumbbell as hard as you can
to further involve and fatigue the
forearm musculature and then for the
supinated curl you can try thinking
about touching your pinky to the outside
of your delt and this seems to work for
improving the biceps mind muscle
connection for some people and you also
want to think about curling the weight
out in front of you in an arc not just
straight up which I think will at least
in concept increase the moment arm of
the dumbbell and increase tension on the
biceps okay so that's gonna conclude
this pull workout guys and the full week
of pull workouts so let's just quickly
tally up the volume here for both of
these workouts and I'll just put this up
here quickly on the screen as you guys
can pause and read for more on volume
but just to keep it brief I think this
should be the volume sweet spot
for most intermediate level lifters more
advanced guys may want to add one or two
more sets or even one or two more
exercises and more beginner level
lifters they want to slash one or two
sets especially when just starting this
new program but for most lifters this
should be just about right and before we
go I want to thank hims for supporting
another science applied video hims is a
men's wellness brand offering
science-based hair and sexual health
products for men and they've got skin
care products on the way a little later
this year as well and I really like hims
because sometimes it can be a little
awkward or even inconvenient to have to
go into an actual medical clinic for
some issues like hair loss and edie now
so with hims you can get quality medical
recommendations from actual licensed
doctors and have medical grade products
sent discreetly to your own home and for
viewers of this channel hims is offering
a virtual visit with a licensed doctor
and a month trial of the complete hair
kit for just five bucks so if you go to
for hims com forward slash Nippert or
click the first link in the description
box below you can get started with your
first complete hair kit today and of
course hims respects your privacy so all
interactions will be kept confidential
and like I said all their treatments are
backed by quality scientific evidence so
thank you hims for sponsoring the video
thank you guys so much for watching
please leave me a like if you enjoyed
the video don't forget to subscribe to
the channel if you happen to be new and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
video