[Music]
hey folks dr. micha turtle here for
Renaissance period ization RP diet book
2.0 Grand Tour
the last chapter chapter 17 is on fads
and fallacies in diet and boy are there
a lot of them we filmed this a little
while ago so here's that footage now
fads and fallacies and body composition
and performance dieting so basically
things people do wrong or ideas they
have that are totally inaccurate how
many of them are there
well that chapter is really big because
there's over 50 in that chapter alone
separate distinct fallacies and errors
the thing is for sure without a shadow
of a doubt by the time that you see this
video there will be multiple other fads
and fallacies that are popular we
couldn't include in the book because
they hadn't been invented yet invented
as a very charitable term stumbled upon
all right so fads and fallacies will
always come and go your critical
thinking skills are gonna be number one
and dealing with them to make sure that
you don't fall for them but if you read
this chapter and you don't watch this
video we can give you some basic tools
to make sure that even if you don't know
about a diet strategy you can kind of
filter it to see if it's a fad or a
fallacy there's a couple of big general
trends in which fads and fallacies fall
into I'm gonna talk about him real quick
and give a couple of examples if you
want more details the book is your guide
first general trend of how fads and
fallacies and diet tend to operate is
the naturalistic fallacy the assumption
that because something is natural it is
good for you that it has to be good for
you that it has to be good for your body
that it has to be good for your health
that it has to enhance performance can
natural things be good totally whole
grains fruits veggies the whole nine
yards awesome stuff but just because
something is natural doesn't mean it's
great for you no absolutely not Gatorade
is as artificial as it comes and
enhances performance in certain
instances whey protein outperforms most
meats as far as quality of protein it's
made in a factory with machines and
everything right does that mean
artificial stuff is necessarily better
no way there's tons of processed junk
food that's really not great for you
performance
you name it it's socks but that
basically means that the naturalistic
fallacy is a fallacy because we can't
use it as a dependable rule right
sometimes it's right sometimes it's
wrong so it's just really kind of
worthless if a food is natural okay
let's look at the science of and and the
reason and logic of how it affects our
bodies to see if it's a good idea to eat
at a certain time or if a diet is
designed in a certain way if it's the
most artificial diet ever that's not
necessarily great if it's the most
natural diet ever that doesn't really
tell us much right there's a couple of
big fallacies so we describe that length
in the book that fall under this one
artificial sweetners some folks think
there's just the worst thing in the
world because they're artificial they're
not the worst things in the world
they've got some downsides a little tiny
downsides and they got plenty of upsides
and mostly they're just inert for the
most part and this don't do a whole lot
of anything except taste sweet right so
they've been studying super extensively
but some folks you just can't convince
them that they're really relatively
harmless because they know they're
artificial they're just gonna kill
everyone right it's just clearly not the
case with artificial sweeteners so some
logic would be a really good thing
they're genetically modified foods as of
the recording of this video and timeless
writing there are zero instances of GMO
foods in some systematic way causing
problems for health performance body
copy you name it except people hate them
from no conceivable reason whatsoever
except for the naturalistic fallacy
almost a pure exception or a pure
demonstration of that fallacy lastly
organic food organic food has one
empirically confirmed difference from
conventional food it's not health it's
not nutrient content it's not safety and
it's not even how the food tastes it's
price it's almost always more expensive
now some organic food is better some
conventional food is better in the end
it all pretty much washes out if you
want more details on that the book has
tons tons of discussion loads of
scientific references next big category
of fads and fallacies so how do you use
these by the way if you notice that
you've never a fad a fallacy that
doesn't even appear in the book that you
hear for the first time follows one of
these trends it might still be true but
keep a skeptical eye out if it hits one
of these here's this next one food group
exclude
that means that you basically cut out an
entire food group because it's evil or
bad it's almost never the case every
single macronutrient has been through
this right there have been folks there
saying too much protein is super bad for
you you don't need it doesn't enhance
performance doesn't add health it
subtracts from your health so on and so
forth
there are huge anti carbs outlets that
think carbs just caused you to be fat
it just we just caused all kinds of
disease and if you just lower them or
reduce them you'll be great that's also
false
anti fat back in the 80s and 90s fat was
like the demon nutrient like if you
ordered a steak at a restaurant in front
of other well-meaning people and it had
like a glob of f√°tima you ate that fat
people thought you were in some kind of
suicidal mission or something like that
it turns out that in moderation and more
particularly in within certain
boundaries and in a caloric balance with
physical activity there really are no
demon foods some foods have their time
and place some foods aren't average
better than others but there's really no
categorical way to singles there's food
ingredient is just straight-up awful
right especially with food groups so if
you hear someone saying I don't know
about fruits they're probably wrong I
don't know about meats they're probably
wrong right so watch out for diets that
say well there's this real one bad thing
and if you just avoid it you'll be great
almost certainly be s last big category
as soon as I say this a lot if you were
gonna be like duh right magic foods
shortcuts and tax all in one category if
a diet basically presents itself as like
all you got to do is this one simple
trick it's probably lying to you right a
weird old thing that you got to do like
just eat you know sir cumin or something
like that
herb it's just gonna solve all your
problems that's just probably not the
case so if you come by a diet that's not
even in our 50-plus index of fads and
fallacies in this book chapter if you
come across a new diet and it hits a
couple of those points geez watch out if
it hits even one start to be skeptical
go to the diet logic if you've read this
book or if you've watched these videos
you already know a lot about diet if it
violates nutrient timing a lot or for
violates macros or especially for
violates calories it's probably
be wrong and if it's bad for adherence
it's almost definitely a bad way to go
so as soon as the night is presented
filter it through these little general
categories if it passes all of them
maybe it works right maybe it doesn't if
it hits a couple of them that's not
great got to get real skeptical make
sure the science is there to support it
and to diet logic is there to support it
lastly we're gonna be done with these
videos after this last point there are a
lot of folks out there looking to make a
buck or defending a diet ideology that
are portraying diet cleverness as diet
wisdom right kind of little gotcha
moments like what did you know that the
real reason people are overweight did
you know you could enhance your
performance by just doing this nah
there's no time for that stuff diet
wisdom is calculated it's calm it
requires a lot of knowledge maybe the
help of an expert coach maybe do it
yourself it's gonna be constructed based
on principles that you can learn in a
book like ours or through these videos I
don't know number of other
scientifically based authorities around
it's gonna be calm and calculated it's
gonna take time it's gonna give you
marginally better results and if you do
that over the long-term you're gonna get
great results but if someone comes in
there and tries to zazz you and say hey
you know what you we can just solve this
whole diet problem with this quick
little thing here did you know that it's
probably not right it's probably not
true save your money for accounts be
logical be scientific do the right thing
do it over the long-term
enjoy be happy be fit and have a good
time die - see you guys next time
[Music]