going to the pyramids today yeah excited
yes Steph and I actually got a little
bit sick Steph woke up yesterday morning
I think with a really sore throat and
I've just had really bad stomach pains
for the last 2 days I don't know if it
was something we ate probably Steph also
thinks it might have been our driver um
he was like coughing the whole time we
were going around old Cairo so we
probably picked up something I feel
quite a bit better today I didn't Vlog
yesterday we kind of just had a relaxing
day we went for a massage and now today
we're going to see the pyramids
hopefully getting outdoors and seeing
something as magnificent as the pyramids
will help us feel a bit
better my
eye hey good to see again Magie no yeah
everything is good we we're a little bit
sick yesterday like stomach sick but
we're feeling better I do I do oh St you
go ahead thank you very
much good morning
morning nice to see you again I miss you
a lot oh you missed us we missed you too
we asked we were like we had to make
sure thank you I I I yesterday you told
me like that thank you for help thank
you for your kind thank you much of
course oh of course yes we uh changed
the day we were coming to the pyramids
just so we can have you I have a nice
day but today a little bit hot oh it's
hot okay good I haven't found it to be
like really really hot yet like I found
it to be it's a little bit overcast or
whatever but today I think 4142 I think
4142 that's pretty hot look at this
guy's arms
holy enough I know it seems like most
places don't take part so we have to be
constantly taking out Egyptian pounds
but we don't want to take out too much
cuz we don't want to leave with Egyptian
pounds when I get the
street Bo
2000 thank
you right
cashm
count I need to get FR about the
B this is the first setting in the per
of one of the pyramids right over here I
don't know if you can see it that's
crazy Jes can just see the peaks of them
right over
here right
ahead
boom mag what are these first two that
we're seeing here of King kufu okay call
it kufu kufu then cine then behind it
Kingus we're going to see father son and
Grandson ah okay all of them were built
during the for dynasty
2551 BC okay that's a while
ago on your right hand side the oldest
tot in Egypt for expensive to stay there
or is it you can't stay there anymore if
you stay in your room you'll see the
pyramid you'll touch the pyramid yeah
it's amazing by night so you can still
stay there of course yes is it expensive
it's for tourism yes a little bit yes
yeah uh me house or fantastic one time
when we came to again you have to walk
at least one night
here
Fant wow it's right there that's crazy
you ready for house Lords let's do it
ready oh my goodness I have to put on my
game
face okay thank you can you keep in your
pockets
yes oh look at this camel over here what
up
bro look at the great perid wow 1 minute
like every time 1 minute just 1 minute
60 seconds look at the and tell me
what's in your mind and what's your
impression about that you have one
minute okay it's very big I don't know
if you can get perspective but this is a
human and then this is how high it goes
up but you it's also so broad it's very
wide thick mag was just saying that this
pyramid only took this is the Great
Pyramid made by the order of King
they've actually never found his mummy
inside the pyramid it still hasn't been
found there's a bunch of like
researchers from all over still looking
for it and this took only 20 years to
build I was shocked to hear that I would
have thought it was way way more than
that there are over 2 million stones in
the whole pyramid that make 2 million
and 300,000 each one weighs two tons he
says that it wasn't built by aliens it
wasn't built by slaves but it was built
by recruiting farmers who when they were
like undergoing a drought they didn't
have any work to do so King k who sort
of like recruited and hired them to help
build the pyramids it shrunk over time
so me shorter than it it was there's
like a thing way up there I don't know
if you can see it but way up at the top
there's a little Rod sticking up that
signifies it's like original height were
there other mummies buried in the
pyramids other than the king no the
pyramid was built just individual for
the king who said that he built this
pyramid for eternity originally the
pyramids were completely smooth uh and
you can see it right over here that's
the only remaining part of that so they
used a different type of limestone to
sort of whsh color Limestone right it
was a whitish color of limestone that
they used to sort of inclose the pyramid
but they just used this regular
Limestone that's around here to actually
build the stones in it in the 9th
century some guy was like let's take
that thing down they Ed it to build
their own right and they yeah yeah yeah
so they used the whitish colored
Limestone to build other buildings but
now you see all these steps but
originally it was completely smooth do
they know what buildings that are made
of the
pyramid yeah of
course so they could someone could say
my house this is made of
pyramid the from outside is very easy
but from inside is very complicated one
is a stone one this is one so big wow
this is one so we're going to go up
there oh 1:00 so it's not open
yet thank you for busy he's in the
shower lunch
[Music]
now I think it would be cool to get a
pick with a camel camel's
everywhere no thank
you
crazy now we're going into the Great
Pyramid not allowed to film in here so
we have to be discreet
yes wow it's cold
almost
wow Magie told us when we get to the
portion where you can see the tunnels
the east and west tunnel to take a
moment and
just wow look at this oh wow here bab I
didn't it didn't seem obious
okay that's crazy I want eat the k oh
wow look at how high up it goes that's
crazy you have to be like physically fit
to do this Cal
muscles hard it's a good glute Burn yeah
this is
nuts wow actually pretty
crazy w yeah it just keeps going up this
is where this is very so they just have
lights on the side a hand railing and
then you're stepping on wood planks and
you don't get any cell phone service
inside of
Aid you know this is so high
up hey so these little tunnels that lead
to different uh rooms in the pyramid
oh
wow oh wow this is this is it yeah I
just remember that they said that they
made two fake unfinished tombs they
excavated it and they were LED falsely
so they're still looking they still
don't know where it is they still don't
know where this is kufu King kuf Fu's
pyramid the Great Pyramid and they still
don't know where his tomb is so people
still look for it but this is a fake one
we going now uh second so we just walked
up in this guy up to the top it's one of
the Seven Wonders of the World it was
crazy to walk up there like it was kind
of
spooky oh this is the one where they
changed angles on the way up this is the
bent pyramid so it's 52 1/ 12°
angulation vertically going up this side
and then up at the top it's
43° magdi is the covering on this one
still at the top is that the covering
it's another we put it C with the
pyramid the water of the pyramid yeah
the calf I don't know cap
oh
bro obstructing my
view Son Grand ah son grandson the
grandson King MOS built his pyramid very
small 66 M 66 M that's it little baby
thing did the grandson ever come into
power or was he just
nobody or was he just nobody no come to
power he came into Power yes okay why
was his pyramid so small was his par his
father and grandfather they spent all
sorts of money in building their own
params during this time the state was in
cor crisis for this reason he built
small permid but he wanted to make it
beautiful more than the others by
covering his bmid with granite so they
moved those blocks of granite all the
way up here to by ships ships yes oh
okay okay this is the Nile River going
up here and they would they would
transfer it up the Nile look behind you
can another s oh yeah what are theyes
Queens wives wives for the
Queens
hello magdi is oh you won't be able to
hear it but I'll try magd is trying to
get Jeff to pick up the
pyramid something like American
20050
100 welcome Mr hello welcome nice to see
you nice to see you hi
hi we are on camels this is crazy this
is so much higher than I thought it was
going to be they were this big neither
did I cuz they're just sitting they just
they just chill
there we're going inside the Shinx now
there lots of money down there I gave
you Tim right yes would you give me a
back sure
inant look at this statue of King k on a
throne and yeah this one displayed now
in Egyptian museum this one was founded
here 1935 1936 that's where the statue
excavated yeah in this P considered one
of the master pieces of our Egyptian
museum made out of theide a very hard
Stone it's so hard more than G more than
Mar so we called master of Ouran
Museum thank
you it's a bit small compared to the
pyramid it's quite
small
okay
[Music]