soreness doesn't tell you about how
effective your walkout was here's a
study by nosaka and colleagues from 2002
they induced muscle damage within the
participants using an Ecentric protocol
then asked participants how soore they
were in a variety of conditions and they
also measured muscle damage in a variety
of ways first the participants soreness
ratings when they rated soreness in very
similar circumstances twice their
ratings weren't consistent the
measurements of sorness weren't even
reliable with a correlation of only 0.33
to 0.66 second most correlations between
assessments of soreness and assessments
of muscle damage didn't even correlate
and when they did the strength of that
correlation was usually below about 0.3
which is considered a negligible
correlation so not only is soreness not
a reliable metric but it also doesn't
actually tell you about muscle damage in
fact soreness maybe more indicative of
your body's Remodeling and Repair
response than of actual current damage
so you shouldn't be using soreness as a
means to determine whether one exercise
works better for you than another and
that's why