[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of mythbust monday where every monday
we're going to take a look at some
popular fitness or nutrition idea look
at where that idea got started and then
figure out whether it's true or false
based on the most recent scientific
evidence so this week we're going to be
looking at the idea that foam rolling
enhances recovery from training so first
where did this idea come from well i
think it's important to first note that
foam rolling is itself a form of manual
therapy
you can sort of think of it like a self
massage and while some forms of manual
therapy have their roots in ancient
india and china the practice of foam
rolling itself is somewhat more recent
in the 1980s practitioners of the
so-called feldenkrais method and in my
opinion now debunked form of physical
therapy started using foam rollers to
increase body awareness through the late
1980s and 1990s the secret of foam
rolling got out mostly thanks to the
broadway star jerome robbins who started
using it on ballet dancers he was
overseeing and it wasn't until the late
1990s that word got out to the
weightlifting community when physical
therapist mike clark began writing about
the benefits of foam rolling which
eventually were put together in his 2001
text integrated training for the new
millennium three years later in 2004 the
first foam roller patent was filed by
los angeles-based physical therapist
stacey barrows and shortly thereafter it
started showing up in the scientific
literature which is where we're going to
start in this video um so what does the
scientific research have to say about
foam rolling and recovery well i think
before we can answer that question it's
important to first understand what it is
we mean by recovery in this context a
2010 article on overtraining defines it
as a multi-level process in time for
re-establishment of performance
abilities so basically recovery time
just refers to how long it takes your
body to sort of get back to normal after
a training session and there are a bunch
of different ways that researchers try
to measure this one popular way is to
simply assess levels of muscle soreness
which they usually use a visual analog
scale to do basically they have a 10
centimeter line and subjects are asked
to make a mark anywhere along that line
indicating their soreness levels and
some studies in my opinion have kind of
botched this one 2017 study instead
asked subjects to rank their soreness on
a scale of one to seven where each
number corresponds to a rating of either
say sore very sore or very very sore and
so while this study did find that foam
rolling reduced average soreness scores
in soccer players from a 5.6 to a 4.8
average honestly i don't personally see
the practical significance here it just
seems a little bit too subjective to me
to have subjects try to discriminate
between say very sore or very very sore
so while i wouldn't necessarily write
off the results of the study altogether
i would probably take them with somewhat
of a grain of salt however an earlier
2014 study from mcdonald and colleagues
out of memorial university of
newfoundland found that when subjects
performed 10 sets of 10 reps on the
squat and then either receive 20 minutes
of foam rolling or no treatment after
the training session ratings of muscle
soreness gauged on a scale of 1 to 10
were lower at 24 48 and 72 hours post
training for the foam rolling group this
led the authors to conclude that foam
rolling was beneficial in attenuating
muscle soreness the same basic study
design was replicated a year later in
2015 by the same research group except
this time using the perhaps slightly
more objective pressure pain threshold
method rather than the one to 10 rating
scale where this time the researcher
would apply pressure to the muscle using
a calibrated device that measures force
and the subject would just say yes the
moment they started to feel pain instead
of just pressure so a higher force
reading would correspond with lower
soreness in this case and again 20
minutes of foam rolling post exercise
was shown to reduce soreness at all time
points after training not only that the
study also boasted improvements in some
performance measures including improved
30 meter sprint time which may further
suggest enhanced recovery from foam
rolling but before we take these results
and run with them i'd like to take a
look at a more recent 2017 study
investigating the effect of foam rolling
on recovery from high volume sprint
training using a 0 to 100 scale they
assessed muscle soreness and in contrast
to the previous studies they found no
significant differences between the
groups and the authors of this study
speculated that the differences between
this present study and the earlier
research that we just looked at could be
due to the presence or absence of a
dynamic warm-up routine they noted that
measurements of muscle soreness in the
recovery period of the present study
were always preceded by a warm-up
whereas those earlier studies assess
perceptions of muscle soreness upon
entry to the lab prior to any activity
the warm-up period utilized in the
present study may have served to reduce
soreness in both groups and possibly
offset any further influence that foam
rolling exerted so perhaps a five to ten
minute dynamic warm-up with a focus on
just increasing body temperature
improving blood flow to the muscles and
taking the joints through their full
range of motion
may be just as effective as a foam
rolling routine
however in
my personal opinion as a strength and
physique athlete i think i'd put a
little bit more stock in those earlier
studies i used the 10 sets of 10 on the
squat rather than
40 bouts of 15 meter sprints or 30 meter
sprints
just because that sort of resembles my
own training a little bit better so i
think it's a little bit more applicable
to those of us who are doing more
highly damaging high volume resistance
training another purported benefit of
foam rolling is that it improves
mobility and improves range of motion
and in fact in support of this a 2015
systematic review analyzing 14 studies
found that self myofascial release with
a foam roller or roller massager appears
to have short-term effects on increasing
joint range of motion without negatively
affecting muscle performance and i think
this is important because the other
really popular method of improving
mobility and flexibility namely
prolonged static stretching has been
shown to decrease strength and decrease
performance if done before training so
with foam rolling you basically get the
benefit of potentially improving range
of motion without the drawback of
decreasing your strength but even here
the jury still seems to be out with
regard to mobility and range of motion
as in 2015 a paper from vygotsky and
colleagues concluded that it's unlikely
that foam rolling will do much for
improving range of motion if performed
in combination with dynamic stretching
um so then pulling all of these results
together i think that what we're left
with is the question of whether or not
foam rolling is effective
and if it is effective is it more
effective than what it may be
potentially replacing
so things like a general warm-up dynamic
stretching and an effective cooldown and
from my scan of the literature i'm
thinking probably not it seems to be the
case that just a good warm-up a dynamic
stretching routine and a good cool down
is probably enough on its own for
preventing injury and improving recovery
from the training session um but that
isn't to say that foam rolling doesn't
have its place or can't have its place
i think it can actually be helpful for
improving range of motion and mobility
especially before certain exercises
so what i would say is to focus on
specific areas especially tight areas
that you might have perhaps rather than
just rolling out your whole body
if anything if nothing else just for the
sake of time
but with that said if you were to roll
out your whole body um there doesn't
seem to be any real detriment to foam
rolling so you don't really have that
much to lose
other than potentially your time if it
gets to be somewhat lengthy and
potentially your energy if it just goes
on for too long um so bringing this full
circle my personal experience with foam
rolling has actually been quite positive
i found that if i go into a session and
i'm feeling a little bit sore just foam
rolling out that area does help to
reduce that a bit so i can train a
little bit more comfortably
and i just find it helps to sort of like
loosen me up before a training session
and of course i do do that foam rolling
in addition to my normal dynamic warm-up
and dynamic stretching routine and also
when i'm doing exercises that require a
greater range of motion at the hips like
say a sumo deadlift i find that foam
rolling my inner thighs and glutes can
really help me get into a better
position for that lift and similarly i
found doing some foam rolling in my
upper back before bench pressing that
helps me get a better arch and just set
up the lift more comfortably and
personally i spend no more than say five
minutes on a foam rolling per workout
and i prefer to do it before training
rather than after however you'll want to
keep in mind that the studies showing a
positive effect on soreness reduction
did do it after training so if you are
convinced by that research
you may want to make it a part of your
cooldown as well okay so with all that
said i would say that the idea that foam
rolling improves recovery is not busted
um it does seem to be the case that foam
rolling could reduce muscle soreness
after training and it might actually
improve range of motion without
hindering performance which could
actually be quite beneficial in some
training instances with that said i'm
not convinced that there's any real
additional or any special benefit to
foam rolling that goes above and beyond
that of a simple dynamic stretching or
dynamic warm-up routine but i think that
we just need more high-quality research
in order to fully answer that question
um so in terms of practical
recommendation i would say not to waste
too much time or not to spend too much
time on foam rolling
if like me you find that it can help to
sort of work out specific tight areas
and maybe reduce
soreness acutely before a training
session then i would go ahead and try it
out and just be your own scientist on
this one and see what works best for you
so that's going to conclude this week's
myth bust monday guys i hope that you
really liked it
i want to give a huge shout out to this
website there's a blog article that i
really borrowed a lot from
physicalculturestudy.com
and that was really helpful for helping
me out with the historical information
in this video and i also want to shout
out mass or monthly applications in
strength sport which you guys probably
heard me talk about before
but basically it's this huge research
review very comprehensive and very up to
date that covers all of the the most
recent scientific evidence to do with
strength training especially stuff
that's pertinent to coaches
physique athletes and strength athletes
i get asked all the time where it is
that i find all this information and
honestly i think mass is just one of the
best resources out there for condensing
all of the research that's published
every month down to what i think you
really need to know as a physique
athlete or a strength athlete
or a coach so i've got a link down there
in the description if you guys would
like to check it out and there's a new
issue released every month and this is
what i'm reading every month um so if
you'd like to support me and at the same
time i really increase your knowledge
base and then i'd strongly recommend
checking out the link um so thank you
guys so much for watching if you liked
the video please leave me a thumbs up if
you happen to be new don't forget to
subscribe to the channel and i will see
you guys all here next monday