[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike Gesell here for
Renaissance period ization hypertrophy
made simple video number 11 check out
the rest of the series already been
posted if you want more details the
hypertrophy guide central hub on our
website is a really good resource and in
addition to that all the other YouTube
videos we have on this channel much more
long-form much more in-depth here's the
deal how should you be planning training
phases a little bit more advanced this
is a real first hint of periodization
that we're gonna talk about first let's
define some terms you want to make each
week harder and if you want to know how
to do that for progression check out
video number 9 in this series that's
called the accumulation phase phase of
training that makes stuff harder and
harder and harder then from video number
10 we learned how to deal owed at the
end of each of accumulation phase
there's the D load phase the entire
accumulation plus d load is called a
mesocycle of training it's like four to
eight weeks long on average here's the
new term for periodization is a block of
training is usually about three of those
massive cycles stuck one after another
after another okay so it's a progression
of three mesocycles in a row how should
we structure that well here's the deal
in the beginning of each training block
like the first massive cycle for example
you probably want to bias more of your
training in the heavy range lots of sets
of five to ten reps not as many in the
ten to twenty or twenty to thirty range
you also want to do lower frequency per
muscle group and overall maybe two or
three sessions per muscle group per week
not four or five or six like you can do
probably later with each successive
mezzo through a block from s a one to
two and two to three you probably want
to consider adding sessions alright
something like one session at most per
mesocycles so for example heated biceps
twice a week in the first mezzo then
three times per week in the second and
four times per week in the third is a
really really good idea don't go up any
faster than that because you'll burn
yourself out in addition when you add
the session
you probably want to add higher rep
ranges so if you started with biceps
being two sessions of both five to ten
reps relatively heavy in the first
mesocycle when you add another session
it should probably be in the 10 to 20
range and you add another session leader
for that third muscle cycle it should
probably be in the 20 to 30 rep range
you don't want to add heavy work that's
gonna get a little crazy it's gonna beat
you up like wild for the exercises that
you add every single time you add a
session you should probably be adding a
session by new exercises so if you're
doing barbell curls and then dumbbell
curls and then you add a new exercise
you should probably like cable curls or
machine curls you can double up on
exercises but it's probably good to use
fresh exercises and those should be
concordant to the rep range so if you
add an exercise in the 20 to 30 rep
range something like cable curls are
super awesome because it works really
well in that rep range you don't want to
add something that doesn't make sense if
you're adding a quad exercise you don't
add barbell squats in the 20 to 30 rep
range because that won't be limited by
your quads from one of our earlier
videos you can look into that so make
sure adding intelligent exercises that
fit those higher rep ranges every single
time now here's the deal after a whole
block of increasing frequency and adding
tons of volume essentially and adding
new exercises you are gonna be toast
there's no way you're gonna do a fourth
or fifth mesocycle of progression it's
just not gonna happen your muscles need
a break your whole body needs a break
and your mind needs a break to heal and
resent eyes and begin that process over
again you have two options here for
phases option one is a low volume
maintenance phase this is roughly three
to four weeks long you do only sets of 5
to 10 reps with very low repetitions
only train each muscle at most twice a
week one to two times a week in fact
works really well and you do one third
of the total weekly sets so for example
if you were doing 15 sets on average in
mesocycle 2 of the progression the
middle one okay 15 sets of of chest a
week in your low volume Amiens phase
you're only gonna do 5 sets of chest you
think oh my god I'll never grow like
that the point isn't to grow is to
maintain muscle which is very easy while
you recover so very very little training
very low volume at the end you take a
deal oh just like normal and then you
start another block of
rushon going up and up the alternative
is to take an active rest phase it's
shorter only two or three weeks and it's
almost no lifting you can go in the gym
and mess around a little bit but really
what you want to do is just have a lot
of fun be active not too active relax a
lot sleep a lot
eat plenty and just enjoy your life take
all of that gym craziness out of your
system and maybe you do two sessions in
the gym literally sessions not per
muscle group maximum less than 50% of
normal weight and reps and sets 10 reps
and reserve on each set like you barely
even trying you're going around just to
mess around after that's over you begin
another incrementally more difficult and
more difficult or more difficult block
of roughly 3 meses of training folks
that's it for this time see you for the
next video