women do gain as much muscle and
strength as men do at least relatively
speaking a recent metanalysis by raan
colleagues found that when hypertrophy
or muscle growth was expressed as a
percentage of Baseline women and men
actually gain a similar amount of muscle
similarly an old metanalysis by Robinson
colleagues found that women if anything
actually gain a bit more strength than
men all as being equal specifically in
their upper body again when strength is
expressed relatively however when
they're untrained on average men do
start out with more muscle and strength
than women so while their relative rates
of muscle growth and strength gains
might be similar simply because men have
a higher starting point on average
they'll see greater absolute increases
in muscle mass and strength but that
doesn't mean that women have a lower
ability to gain muscle and strength than
men it simply depends on starting point
and as far as strength goes as I
mentioned earlier if anything the gap
between men and women tends to shrink as
they become more trained and that's why