walking out in the morning is killing
your gains your body has a biological
clock called the Circadian rhythm and
your body is read to train or
performance fluctuates throughout the
day indeed a 2005 study by Gatten
colleagues actually found that
participants have the greatest strength
when tested at 6:00 p.m. versus 6:00
a.m. 10: a.m. 2: p.m. or 10: p.m. so
does this mean you should be training at
600 p.m. to maximize your results
fortunately no a metanalysis by grick
and colleagues found no difference in
muscle growth whether participants
trained more so in the morning or more
so in the evening however they did find
that strength in the evening increased
more if you trained in the evening as
opposed to training in the morning so if
you're an athlete who's competing
routinely in the evenings try aligning
your training times to also be in the
evenings for your best performance do
you think