if you're looking to maximize muscle
growth avoid these seven protein
mistakes welcome back Dr mil wolf today
PhD in sports science distant relative
of Albert Einstein with whom I have
three things in common first we're both
obsessed with physiques two great hair
and three we're both scientists without
further Ado let me explain some of the
most common protein mistakes I see being
made and how to fix them first and this
is a common mistake more so in beginner
is just not having enough protein
there's a lot of confusion out there
around how much protein you need and I
think a lot of beginners are reluctant
initially to get their protein in and
how much protein do you need well a met
regression on the effects of protein
intake and people who lift and how it
impacts their hypertrophy was published
by Morton and colleagues when looking at
a variety of studies this was the
optimal protein intake 1.6 g of protein
per kilogram of body weight per day so
if you're currently having less protein
than this there's a good chance you'll
see more muscle growth by getting your
protein intake up to 1.6 g of protein
per kilogram of body weight per day the
next big mistake that is still super
common in the fitness industry is
thinking that your body can only use so
much protein in a single meal for muscle
growth and this leads to people thinking
they need to have at least four meals
per day with a lot of protein each to
maximize muscle growth because if they
sit down and have too much protein all
at once your body just wastes it and and
that's just not true in fact a recent
study by trolin and colleagues actually
compared having 25 g of protein to
having 100 g of protein right after a
lifting session and how your body uses
that protein and in contrast to what a
lot of people think when consuming a 100
g of protein in a single meal after a
training session your body actually used
that protein for muscle growth for at
least 12 hours after that meal and if
you look at how much of that protein
your body just oxidized or essentially
burnt off it wasn't very much so don't
approach your protein intake with this
All or Nothing mentality just because
you can't have three or four meals per
day with lots of protein in it still try
to hit your total daily protein intake
even if that means having one or two
really large protein feedings that is
still going to be better for muscle
growth than falling short of your total
daily protein goal and don't think that
your body can only use so much protein
in a single meal for muscle growth that
threshold for how much protein your body
can use at once for muscle growth is
going to be higher than anything you'll
ever practically actually do that is
unless you fast for like 5 days of the
week which I wouldn't recommend for
muscle growth and since we're talking
about fasting let me give you mistake
number three and that's having your last
meal within the day very early so we
just spoke about a study by Trine
colleagues where they looked at the time
course of muscle growth after having 100
grams of protein at once and indeed it
seemed like your body uses protein for
at least 12 hours after a big meal after
a training session in this case for
muscle growth and so when might this be
useful well when you're sleeping right
because you're asleep you're not having
any additional meals and so by having a
bigger protein feeding as late as
possible in the day you may actually see
more muscle growth by essentially
growing in your sleep and while there's
not a ton of evidence out there yet I
think it's a kind of neutral to positive
effect strategy where as long as you're
hitting your total daily protein intake
I think having a larger protein feeding
later in the day and just making sure
that it's happening ideally as close to
sleep as you can get away with without
it impacting your sleep is at the very
least not going to harm your muscle
growth and I suspect may actually cause
you to grow more muscle so try having a
larger protein feeding say between 40
and 60 G for most people as close to
bedtime as possible the next mistake is
a big one in beginners and that's a lack
of consistency in getting your protein
in dayto day alongside insufficient
focus on getting your daily protein
intake high enough I see a lot of
beginners not have a ton of consistency
in making sure that each of your meals
has a protein source for most people
unless you specifically focus on having
a protein Source in each of your meals
say one for breakfast one for lunch one
for dinner it can get quite challenging
to get sufficient protein in each meal
to be optimal for muscle growth for
example for breakfast you might want to
use milk and weigh protein as part of
your overnight oats maybe for lunch you
use chicken and made for dinner you use
some beef just thinking about how to get
protein in whether you're a vegan you're
an omnivore you're anything else is
helpful in making sure that you get
protein in day-to-day consistently and
if you struggle one huge thing beginers
don't do that they may want to consider
is just making certain meals of the day
more consistent day-to-day for example
starting every morning off with
overnight oats ultimately just like with
exercise it's all about consistency just
because you have a lot of protein in one
day doesn't mean much if the rest of the
week you're not being consistent next up
is a mistake that used to be huge in the
fitness industry and that was being
obsessed with the anabolic window the
anabolic window was essentially the idea
that your muscles are very responsive to
protein intake around the training
session and that this will boost muscle
growth tremendously well what does the
evidence actually say about the anabolic
window the idea that you need to have
protein close to a session or even
immediately after a session to maximize
muscle growth well a review paper by
show fing colleagues said the following
based on current evidence it appears
clear that any effect of protein timing
on muscle hypertrophy if in fact there
is one is relatively small total daily
protein intake is by far the most
important factor in promoting exercise
induced muscle development research
shows that the anabolic effect of an
individual mixed meal lasts up to 6
hours and in fact like I just mentioned
that study by trollman colleagues shows
it can actually last longer than that
thus provided that such a meal is
consumed within about 3 to 4 hours prior
to a workout or possibly even longer
depending on the size of the meal the
need for immediate post exercise
nutrient consumption is Abit to make a
long story short as long as you're not
training fasted in the morning and not
having protein for hour hours afterwards
and you've had some protein in the past
few hours before a session or you're
having some protein in the past couple
hours after the session you likely don't
need to worry about the anabolic window
whatsoever the next protein mistake is a
really common one and that's having more
protein than you actually need now this
is an odd one because having more
protein than you actually need isn't
really going to cost you much muscle
growth however it is going to cost you
in terms of how much money you spend and
potentially cause a bit more pollution
than might be warranted the reason this
is common is because people use for
example the 1 g of protein per pound
rule this is actually quite a bit higher
than the protein requirement for maximum
muscle growth I mentioned earlier in
this video 1 G per pound is about 2.2 G
per kilog versus 1.6 being ideal so
there's a whole 0.6 g of protein per
kilogram of body weight between those
two that isn't necessarily helping with
muscle growth so while the 1 G per pound
rule is certainly convenient it is
actually causing you to consume more
protein than is beneficial
and might be costing you in terms of
your wallet there is also a slight
downside to having more protein than you
need to in the sense that if you're
having more protein you're having fewer
carbs and fats and a lot of carb sources
especially have a lot of fiber like for
example fruits vegetables Etc they also
bring you a lot of phytonutrients
vitamins minerals antioxidants all of
which do contribute positively towards
your health in the meantime these
protein sources when you're already
having this much protein they don't
really do anything positive or negative
for your health and so you're missing
out on the opportunity cost of having
more fruits and vegetables in your diet
so between costing you more and making
you miss out on having more nutritious
Foods within your diet I think having
too much protein is probably a mistake
and the final myth and this is still
somewhat common more so in the general
population is thinking that peanut
butter for example is really a protein
Source now in the strictest way it is a
protein Source it does have some protein
it has more protein than many other
foods but if you actually look look at
the protein to calorie ratio it's pretty
poor for example for you to get 40 g of
protein from peanut butter in a single
Meal which 40 G is something you might
want to aim for in a lot of meals for
protein intake that would take you over
1,000 calories for most people they
can't afford to have 1,000 plus calories
in a meal without that making them go
substantially over their daily calorie
intake goal can you enjoy peanut butter
in your diet absolutely but just be
clear that it's not the best protein
source of all time and by the way this
applies to other Foods too for example
Le why fat-free Greek yogurt can be a
great protein source with a good protein
to energy ratio a full fat yogurt on the
other hand often has a far worse protein
to energy ratio so always try and stay
mindful of how many calories does this
food have versus how much protein it
gives you this is especially important
during a cut and maybe less so important
during a bulk those are seven mistakes I
commonly see being made when it comes to
protein intake guys if you enjoyed the
video please comment like subscribe if
you want to see me break down any more
myths or talk about any more research
leave a comment down below and I'll get
to it in the meantime if you want
coaching consider checking out my
website somewhere above here for me to
coach you in your training and diet
thank you for your time I hope you
enjoyed the video and I'll will see you
next time peace