is the seated calf ra a waste of time
well maybe the first study comparing a
standing calf ra to a seated calf ra
just came out that actually looked at
hypertrophy previous studies comparing
seed calf raises to St calf raises had
focused entirely on EMG or other markers
in this recent study they found that the
standing cafes led to substantially more
gastrous growth interestingly though
when it came to Solus growth the muscle
that doesn't cross the knee and thus
doesn't get impacted by knee position
growth was similar as you'd expect
broadly speaking this study aligns with
other studies finding that longer muscle
length training is beneficial for muscle
growth so to optimally Target your
gastroc nemus that both flexes the knee
and planter flexes the ankle try doing
standing calf raises by extending the
knees you're lengthening the gas Ro to a
greater extent seated calf raises aren't
useless if your goal is to specifically
Target the Solus however for most people
standing calf raises should be your
bread and butter as they also train the
gastrus very well