[Music]
what are you even doing there bro what
is this that's not working your bicep
you got to point this up point this
there all right let's go up now no no no
no keep keep it out keep it out slower
slower slower slower slower okay and now
control it control it point point it
point it point no the other way leave
[Music]
it what are you even doing here man what
is that even doing what is this how can
you be pulling with your thumb on the
the thing SL there pull way too far pull
the thing there to no that's way too
close Point your hair for was happening
with the thumb here not that way you're
not even using
your leave
[Music]
it
we are back in the gym ladies and
gentlemen real Dr pack here today we're
going to be talking about optimal
exercise technique for muscle
hypertrophy whenever you start lifting
and you join a gym even if you don't
directly join a gym if you start looking
into lifting you watch videos you read
books you read guides the one thing that
you hear about is how important lifting
technique is but what is technique and
how can you actually optimize it for
muscle growth despite what many of you
may think or may have heard things are
not as complicated obviously there are
educated bets that you can make when
adjusting training technique in order to
maximize hypertrophy and we'll get to
those in a second but in general
technique can be very very simple we
recently and by we I mean the good
people over at the applied muscle
development lab in New York our research
team featuring Jeff nippard because he
had the idea of doing a study on whether
strict versus more lenient training
technique matters we decided to look at
the current literature and look at how
you can manipulate each different
variable of exercise technique in order
to optimize muscle hypertrophy we'll get
to the specifics in a second but a
studies out there looking at body
positioning manipulations and any sort
of kinematic manipulations uh on
exercise technique and their effects on
muscle growth so for example let's say
you're in the gym and you see a personal
trainer telling you make sure that you
keep your chest up on a particular
exercise because that will activate
whatever muscle more or that you need to
point your elbow or your whatever to a
certain side or to a certain angle in
order to increase muscle growth further
as it stands we only have one study
looking specifically at the calves and
whether you point your foot outward or
Inward and how that affects muscle
hypertrophy but besides that we have
literally nothing exercises were created
based on extrapolations from applied
Anatomy as well as biomechanical
principles and then they were just
somewhat refined over time keep in mind
at some point some guy was like okay I'm
going to bend my knees and I'm going to
squat down and this is what the first
iteration of the back squat actually
looked like it was called the I think it
was called the knee Bend where all
emphasis was placed on kneeling forward
so the whole weight was placed on the
front of the foot and then that slowly
became the back squat that we know but
it's not like exercises were developed
in a lab by scientists or a bunch of
just sat down and said okay we're going
to create the best exercise to increase
muscle growth for the quads and then
they came up with a squad they looked at
applied anatomy biomechanics and then
they came up with exercises that then
sort of became popular via bodybuilding
magazines Fitness magazines and so on
and so forth even more interestingly the
squat specifically was named as a bad
exercise for your knees by a scientist
named kleene in 1961 when he performed a
study which was meth theologically not
the best study and found that oh there's
x amount of forces going through your
knees when you squat below a certain
depth below parallel so squatting to
depth or squatting low back in the day
was actually promoted as something very
bad for your knees and that was a stance
that was adopted by the military by a
lot of medical professions and so on and
so forth why am I telling you all this
to exercise specific kinematics so how
you point your toes during a squad how
you place the width of your grip and and
so on and so forth all those details
have not been extensively investigated
by science we have some evidence looking
at muscle activation for example when
using different rip widths on bench
press but as we've seen from the
literature muscle activation is not
really a good predictor of muscle
hypertrophy all that said and all the
uncertainty outside here's what you can
do to optimize muscle technique when
muscle growth is the main outcome of
Interest let's go
[Music]
all right so when looking at the current
literature a couple of key variables
that we identified as part of exercise
technique are range of motion and
lifting
Tempo the current literature on range of
motion and I'll demonstrate in a second
shows that it is very important to
emphasize the stretch position of a
muscle to train at long muscle lengths
I.E when the muscle is fully stretched
as far as Tempo goes things are even
more simple with a repetition range of 2
to 8 seconds for the entirety of the
repetition being more than enough for
you to maximize muscle hypertrophy
although you may hear that you need to
spend x amount of seconds like usually 4
seconds is a number that we hear often 4
seconds of the accentric part of a lift
and really control that negative um or x
amount of seconds on the concentric part
there's even Advocates out there for
example super slow train training where
they tell you that you have to go 10
seconds and then 10 seconds down as far
as the current literature goes as long
as your whole repetition is anywhere
between 2 to 8 seconds and there's some
entry control you're covered so we have
range of motion emphasizing long muscle
length now it may be that skipping the
lockout actually offers us a bit more of
a benefit by spending more time along
long muscle lengths and other potential
mechanisms but more research is needed
so as long as you're emphasizing that
stretch position you don't really need
to overly stress about the lockout but
we're not at the stage where I would say
completely skip it on everything forever
but just make sure you're getting the
stretch let's see what those two
components look like when performing an
exercise and we will talk about an
obvious component of training technique
that we haven't touched on in a second
so take this machine for example because
we want to emphasize the stretch and
long muscle lengths what I will do here
is I will specifically adjust the seat
so it comes forward so I can get a bit
more of a stretch now notice how if I
keep it if I keep it here that will
limit my stretch and my range of motion
at the at the length and position which
I care about so if we're talking about
optimal technique for muscle hypertrophy
this slight adjustment may be getting
you a few more gains uh that you're
missing out obviously like keep in mind
we're talking about maximizing musle
hypertrophy it's unlikely that this will
make a make or break difference for the
average individual who wants to gain
muscle but if you're in the gym and you
can make those small adjustments and get
a bit more out of your sets why not do
them all right so first things first
we've moved the seat we've made sure
we've gotten um a good stretch now
obviously you can slightly emphasize the
stretch a bit more although that won't
make a huge difference cuz as you can
see it's it's impossible for me to re
really slouch
here I'm going to lift the weight
control the
Ecentric press the weight up control the
Ecentric press the weight up control the
Ecentric and do so until I reach failure
or get very close to failure as you can
see the Ecentric duration is about 1 to
2 seconds there is some accentric
control but we don't need to really
focus on spending four or five or how
many ever seconds unless that feels
really comfortable for me specifically I
like to slow down the Ecentric a bit
more to really feel the stretch and then
launch the weight back up but you can
choose any Ecentric and concentric Tempo
that suits your needs based on the Range
that we provided stay between 2 to 8
seconds for your whole repetition
duration and you're covered going to
failure will be much more important than
whether you spend two or 3 seconds on
the Ecentric the literature on that is
still very mixed um and we need more
evidence to really understand understand
whether prolonging either the the
concentric or the Ecentric offers a
clear benefit for hypertrophy so again
this is a very easy example of how I
adjusted this exercise by moving the
seat forward bringing my chest up to
emphasize the
stretch control
Tempo and that's it like this is an
example of how training technique for
this particular exercise is optimized
now weather I slightly move my elbows
forward or inward or lift my pinkies or
whatever micro adjustment we have zero
data on any of this if you follow people
like coach CM for example he and his
whole education platform focuses a lot
around making subtle changes or
modifying exercise specific techniques
so how you perform the exercise how you
stand where you place your hand in order
to really optimize hypertrophy although
again no direct evidence on whether
those changes actually make a difference
if that's something you enjoy and at the
end of the day makes your training nicer
there may be something to it feel free
to do it it's not like you will take
away from your Gams at the same time you
don't need to overly worry about Minor
Details but look we are lifter we are
people who dedicate a lot of time in the
gym to lifting heavy circles there's
nothing wrong with wanting to optimize
or at least make an educated bet and
optimize or try to optimize it's totally
fine just don't lose your mind over it
so an example of appropriate tempos
could be
one or you could go super slow on the
Ecentric if that helps you and then
slightly faster on the concentric you
could also go slightly slower in the
Ecentric slightly faster in the
concentric as long as overall repetition
Tempo is between 2 to 8 seconds things
seem to be fine keep in mind that reps
should be slowing down as your set is
getting closer to failure
cuz it's inevitable that the weight will
slow down let's go to a different
exercise so I can demonstrate something
that we haven't talked about yet follow
me or rest you need
[Music]
this make
you so the one thing that we often hear
being important about training technique
is the use of external momentum so
whenever you're taught to do an exercise
let's say bicep curl you're taught to
keep things strict keep elbows close to
your body and avoid the use of external
momentum by using other muscle groups so
extremely common to see people telling
you hey avoid using your legs or
swinging your hips and keep things very
strict when performing an exercise
surprisingly there is literally no
direct study looking at whether external
momentum so me doing this versus doing
this actually has an effect on
hypertrophy we are going to be doing a
study on exactly that later this year to
hopefully shine some light on this quite
interesting topic now I personally think
that it probably doesn't make a huge
difference as long as you're still
taking the range of motion and Tempo
components we talked about and as long
as you're going to failure so if I'm
here and I'm doing this and I actually
reach the point where my biceps are
unable to curl the weight up I don't
think that I'm losing much as far as
hypertrophy goes we don't know yet
though but as a general recommendation
as it stands it's good to keep things
relatively strict just to make sure so
again we have a bicep curl you may often
see people start lifting from a
non-stretch position so of somewhere
around here and sort of staying within
that middle range as we said it's
important to get a full stretch so the
only thing I'll do here is adjust the
exercise accordingly get a full stretch
on my biceps curl the way up curl the
way down now if I was to stop short like
somewhere here instead of fully locking
out the bar it's likely that I wouldn't
be missing out on a lot of gains so
again long muscle lengths emphasize the
stretch control the accentric stretch
Ecentric stretch try your best to
minimize the external momentum but if
during your last reps you reach the
point where you're like and there's some
slight involvement from other muscle
groups and Joints it is not the end of
the world especially if you hit failure
all right time to put this back in this
position usually there are exercises
where we're taught to really emphasize
on short muscle length range of motion
by being told to focus on the squeeze so
one of those exercises is machine flies
for example notice how this is a machine
where you can also adjust it for rear
delts so you can sit the opposite way
and train your rear delts but based on
the current literature and the variables
that we discussed we want to get a bit
more of a stretch so we want to
emphasize long muscle length so what I'm
going to do here is adjust the machine
and actually move this to the rear delt
setting now what you'll see people do on
this often and I'll demonstrate with
baby weight and then I'll use a working
weight just so we're not being made fun
of you'll see that they will stop right
where the machine limits them which is
here and they will really focus on
touching these together so they will
come here there's they're still getting
a good stretch don't get me wrong this
is still fine for muscle growth but then
they will overly focus on just
completing those reps and getting that
final range of motion in now I'm not
saying that that's bad but when you can
adjust the machine and actually get more
of a stretch it's probably best if you
do so for muscle growth up to a certain
extent let's now demonstrate this with
working weight I mean the only
appropriate working weight on any
machine and by working weight I mean the
only appropriate working weight I.E the
full stack all
[Music]
right so full stretch notice how how
much of a stretch I can get
here I'm going to come almost all the
way up emphasize on the stretch all the
way up control the Ecentric nothing too
slow
and another great example of how you can
slightly change an exercise in the way
that it's usually prescribed and maybe
get a bit more out of it as far as
hypertrophy is
concerned all righty so the one thing
that a lot of people talk about when
they talk about exercise technique is
safety now it's very difficult to touch
on safety specifically because we do not
have any direct evidence on manipulating
exercise technique and safety any sort
of comments you hear on exercise
technique and safety are not really
based on any direct evidence sure we can
make certain small adjustments to
minimize the risk of injury but even
there we do not really know if those
make a big difference I'm obviously not
advocating for you to do anything super
silly and there are cases where being
more efficient with the way you set up
can make you better at a lift and
potentially reduce the risk of injury
I.E on a deadlift having the bar closer
to your body so you're going actually be
more efficient on lifting the bar versus
having it very far away from your but
what I would say is take the general
exercise specific technique guidelines
that we have for example how to perform
a
have your feet whatever the guidelines
are have your feet slightly wider than
uh shoulder width keep an upright
posture and as you let your knees follow
the direction of your toes sit down
don't let your lower back round heavily
and so on and so forth follow those
General guidelines but adapt them to the
key variables that we went over namely
range of motion and tempo as long as you
do that you're totally fine keep in mind
exercise technique and risk of injury is
a very understudied area we do not have
any direct evidence on exercise
technique and risk of injury and some of
the evidence that we have is either
mechanistic or even based on human
cavers even nonhuman cavers and in
general is not super solid we're not
going to touch on injury risk and
exercise technique in this video cuz
that's beyond the scope of the video but
it's not something that you should be
overly worried about keep things
consistent stick to the universal uh
specific technique guidelines as far as
positioning body alignment and so on and
so forth go but do not be afraid of
slight deviations here and there that's
it we've covered everything get in the
gym and make optimal hypertrophy gains
now with these never heard before
technique adjustments that are nothing
major but still may help you and the
next time you hear somebody tell you
that you have to slightly rotate your
finger inwards to better activate your
bicep or that you should do a 5-second
Ecentric because that's much better than
a 3second Ecentric slap them take their
phone take their wallet make sure to not
actually do that and if you do do not
refer to me legal disclaimer you thought
you could sue
me don't forget to like subscribe
notification icon and pay your $12.99
optimal technique subscription fee
because we have officially defined
optimal exercise technique for
hypertrophy and your reliable to pay if
you do not pay myself and my lawyers AKA
my cats and myself will see you in court
and we will take your money AKA we will
not take anything cuz they will not
allow me in court with a couple of cats
but at least it will make for a fun reel
and a couple of fun stories I'll see you
guys on the next
video what is this even worth you're not
even working your biceps at the moment
hip thrust well that was mostly your
quals doing the work might as well go do
leg bro horrible get out of here you
you're wasting your
time I hate
Tak all right let's start again