I want a personal trainer that looks
pretty good but bled and died and worked
for that shit and had to figure
everything out because they don't have
good genetics versus a personal trainer
or Fitness coach or online coach or
inspirational person who was just like
that's just sort of what God made him
look like it was a little extra drop of
trend into their primordial soup and
boom they come out just with cap delts
for no reason if you do have cap delts
for no reason and you want to impress
somebody put in the consistent work and
stop bragging about how little you do
because then you can actually become
truly great not just some guy with
really cool looking delts at a random
24-Hour Fitness in Pomona California uh
sorry if that's a human being you know
and then tell him to start trying