what do you recommend to get cold it's
not that complicated take off a jacket
take off a shirt what but it's cold
outside you dumb asshole not all of us
are on 400 micrograms of T4 youing liar
drug using piece of shit and then when
you get really cold and you're shivering
you've created the stimulus to create a
response to create an adaptation to be
stronger to be better because you did it
no motherfucker you just get cold and
then if you're used to being cold a lot
you handle being cold better the result
of that is what exactly don't say stress
if you need more stress in your life
you're not working hard enough at your
job working hard enough in your
relationships and sure shit not working
hard enough in the gym just taking off
your clothes and getting uncomfortably
cold which he's not by the way is just
just Peak fing bullshit it's just make
belief I can't believe we're doing this
on the channel Scott sacrifice my body
after this but do it primally please
with liver or something