hey folks Dr Mike here from Renaissance
periodization today's video is to figure
out if you have been bulking for too
long and then what to do about it
so
there are nine signs of excessive
bulking that I can think of just nine
miraculous planets aligned sort of
situation only I guess there's eight
planets now whatever
here we go none of these by themselves
for sure tell you you are over bulked
all of them in their own little way
combine to build an argument for the
fact that maybe you're overbought so
here they are
no particular order they all matter
first
you have lower energy than usual
often due to a higher body weight and by
energy I mean the ability to spring up
and bounce around and get stuff done
if you normally have to take out your
mail and go drive to work and do this
and do that walk the dog if you're
huffing and puffing and you're dragging
your feet because you weigh so much more
than you used to and you're kind of fat
I'm out of shape that's a sign that gee
whiz it's any time to pull back on the
bulk yes as you grow over the years you
will get a little bit less mobile and a
little bit less energy but it's a sign
that you've been bulking way too long in
the past little bit because you've
gained so much weight that it's
physically slowing you down in a big big
way now just a little bit feeling your
heavier weight but like holy shit I'm
not ready for this lower back is
cramping my calves are cramping I can't
barely walk around it's too much
next one this is a big one it's tough to
get even very tasty food down let alone
be hungry I've gone through periods of
massing where for eight weeks straight I
don't remember what hunger felt like I
don't wake up hungry I don't go to bed
hungry every single meal occurs before
hunger signalings is telling me that I
need to eat the next meal I don't even
know what hunger is like that's okay for
getting all your food down and
everything's going great but if
someone's like hey do you want to eat
pizza and you're like well I'll talk
about pizza and that happens all the
time or like put pizzas they're super
tasty what the hell are you gonna be
hungry for and interested in if it's not
the tastiest food in the world if your
normal foods that you have and pizzas of
course just one of them but if normal
foods that you love let's say you love
sushi or you love burritos you love ice
cream or you love you know sugar candy
you know kids junk food and all of a
sudden you're so massed out of your mind
that you don't even like those things
anymore
feel like we're cramming a whole lot of
nutrients down your gullet that you
might not be processing super well so
that's another sign that maybe it's a
bit too far
number three
if you back off and just eat like a
protein sparing modified fast diet like
protein and veggies for a few meals a
day for basically like a day or a few
days you instantly lose like five to ten
pounds of body water ASAP that means
you're normally stuffing yourself so
much your body is kind of in like a
chronic slightly systemically inflamed
State holding onto a crapload of water
and as soon as you pull back on that you
lose a shitload of water weight all the
same time that means you're pushing it
really hard which means
maybe time to slow it down a bit and
to that end
when you do pull back and you eat very
little typically let's say you're in the
middle of a diet fat loss diet
you pull back to just protein and
veggies
like a thousand calories a day
you're not gonna feel better after two
days You're Gonna feel way worse but you
can tell if you're over masked or just
bulking for too long if you pull back to
just like some veggies and some lean
meats for a few days and you're like at
the end of those few days you're like I
feel so incredible I feel so great I
don't feel bloated I don't feel tired I
feel free and fresh food tastes like
food again
that means you probably have overdone it
if like basically a protein spraying
modified fast fuels are better than not
you might be overdoing the bulk
next all of your daily meals you're
trying to get in you are so full when
you're trying to fall asleep at night
from your last meal and the one before
that stacked under it the one before
that stacked under it in your GI tract
that you have a tough time falling
asleep or that sleep is Disturbed you
wake up super hot at night for example
actively digesting your food which
siphons off heat or sorry puts out Heat
that's a sign that
if you have to keep gaining weight what
the fuck are you supposed to do where do
you add more food you're already like if
we do the analogy of filling up your gas
tank in the car there's already fuel
coming out of the fucking spigot where
you put it in you're like
there's nowhere left there's nowhere
left to put any more food so much that
I'm eating so much food that even by the
time I'm supposed to be going to sleep
I'm having trouble adjusting it and it's
interfering with my sleep that's kind of
a hint to you like maybe you're fine but
maybe it's time to do a fat loss face or
something to get rid of some of that
excess weight so that you can eat a
little less food and still successfully
bulk
Point number five you are hot all the
time by itself not a super concerned but
a point you can combine with the others
to sort of put in there and be like okay
in the context of all this it makes
sense for example
um if you are uh so other phenomena that
are not by themselves instructive of
anything but in context are if you are
in uh you know a warehouse or something
and there's a real serial killer on the
loose then you hear a female blood
curdling scream oh yeah it probably
means that someone's dying and either
run towards them with a weapon or run or
your bare hands or as fast as you can or
run away from the scene as fast as you
can so you assess the probability of you
being the next person dies higher than
you winning that confrontational serial
killer however if you're in a haunted
house on Halloween and you hear a blood
curdling scream if you run away or try
to kill someone one of those it's
embarrassing and you're an idiot and two
you're almost certainly going to get
tried and convicted of assault and go to
jail because nobody that scream doesn't
mean anything it means that you're in a
haunted house and that's just something
they turn on with the audio file and
it's a woman screaming it's fake so if
you're just getting hot in general that
doesn't mean anything but if all these
other things are lower energy than usual
because you're fat as fuck uh the
protein only stuff makes you feel
amazing and you're also just running
super hot where you're wearing like no
clothes at all you're in shorts in the
winter and you're like holy shit it's so
hot outside people like it's 35 degrees
or you're on your mind that shows you
your metabolism is operating at a sky
high level which is cool
unless you want to gain more weight and
you have to operate Sky High and need
even more food on top of that but if
Point number four is true that you have
to eat so much food that you can't even
fall asleep with too full of stomach
yeah that's not a great sign and it
means you're probably towards the end of
your bulking phase
another one is this is a big one you
look at your body and you kind of forget
you're into physique training or other
people look at your body and they're
like oh so you're like a power lifter
and you're like bodybuilder and they're
like oh yeah
yeah sure you are I'm not sure you have
muscles underneath
that what
underneath what no fat titties and fat
forearms just kidding but like you're
starting to look
pretty uh
ballooned out let's put it this way
there's no more clear Abs if he ever
used to have them and you're actually
pinching off some like stuff
where it's all psychological at this
point it turns out that physiologically
even up to about 25 body fat for males
at 30 for females you were hormonally in
a totally fine place to gain muscle and
thus bulk but aesthetically if you're
losing
touch with anything that feels great to
look at
it's probably tough to keep massing you
should probably back off for example
there's a situation where of course we
don't always want to look our contest
best that's crazy that's an insane
person but like there's
Peak Mass where you don't have any
striations or details you don't have any
veins showing clearly but your physique
looks round and bubbly and full you
still have a decent shape your abs are a
little blurry but your outline looks
good and you're like fuck yeah I'm a
fucking mass monster like that's totally
cool this is one level beyond that where
you're like do I lift weights or am I
just a fat piece of shit if you're
getting to that point you for sure
overbooked why do I bring this up a lot
of people do the dreamer bulk when they
just start out where they eat a ton of
cookies and chocolate milk which is all
good but they get so fat they lose their
passion for physique or just become to a
point where they hate their bodies you
want to stop well before that you want
to stop your muscle gain phase when
you're like all right I'm a little pudgy
and this is the furthest I go that's
totally fine that's the end of the road
number seven you get plateaus and
lifting performance on anti-gravity
exercises uh in which you have to
support your load Against Gravity as
well as do the thing deadlifts squats
bent rows why because usually your lungs
will give out or your lower back will
give out because you're a fat out of
shake piece of shit and you gain weight
way too fast now you're too fat and your
body can't do that stuff anymore it this
is a big one if your training
performance is starting to suffer you
are too fat you are over bulked you got
there way too quick you need to slow
down how fast you get there or recycle
back to get more fat off of your body
in your quest for bulking you are not
trying to get onto my 600 pound Life TV
show you are always and everywhere a
performance athlete you're a bodybuilder
you're a powerlift you're a strong man
you're a recreational trainee who goes
to the fucking gym and declares war on
shit you are not a person who is a yeah
I would have done more but my lower back
like what do you look some kind of
fucking accountant as your first day at
the gym what are you talking about it's
you're too out of shape to train but the
reason you got out of shape is because
you're bulking to make your training
better
doesn't add up you went too far and it's
time to come back
number eight on average if you've been
bulking longer than 16 weeks at a time
all of these things are just a highly
likelihood or higher likelihood of
happening so if you've been bulking for
four weeks at a reasonable rate half a
percent a week uh or a quarter for
anywhere between a quarter of a percent
of your body weight added to half a
percent a week so if you weigh 200
pounds anywhere between you know uh half
a pound all the way up to a pound per
week of tissue gained if you've been
doing that for like four weeks of
gaining and you like some of these
you're like yeah number six man I I
don't feel like my physique's is great I
gotta cut it back shut up you're just
being fucking weird you have like
whatever body dysmorphia and you need to
nut up and just fucking stick to the
masses the only way you build muscle is
long extended periods of a surplus
you're not going to four weeks at a time
this is going to be a bad way to do the
thing you're just freaking out for no
reason
but if you've been bulking longer than
16 weeks you know for sure you've at
least been doing it long enough at that
minimum end and then if all these other
points are coming up okay yeah I
probably have been bulking for too long
because I know at least I've gone 16
weeks if you've gone four weeks and you
think you've got these things maybe
there's something there but maybe you're
just losing your fucking mind lastly
because you're in such poor shape and
because you've been bulking and training
hard for 16 or 20 or 24 weeks straight
your body's training systems are so
desensitized to hypertrophy that now
you're doing tons of work
and you're eating well but your
perceived pumps your tension in the
Target muscle the Mind muscle Connection
in general the burn it just all feels
blah and like you're burned out of
training
the critical element to continuing to
bulk is the training itself is of a high
quality if the training itself is
fucking great and your body looks and
performs normally
you can continue to bulk but if you are
so tired of hard training overreached
that you cannot continue anymore with
high quality training why would you want
to use low quality training and bulk off
of that unless it was to make your life
more difficult for no reason and also
just get fatter because if the training
is low quality the amount of stimulus
for hypertrophy it pushes in is less but
if the total calories coming in are
still the same the fraction of muscle
built declines the fraction of fat built
grows you don't want that sort of thing
you don't want to have to answer the
question of like hey how's your mask
going you're like yeah man
shitty fucking training lately but at
least I'm getting fatter
okay what did I hear that right you
don't want to be that person so if your
training is going like shit and all
those other things are going off it's
time to peel it back
which means you fix it which asks the
question of how and it's really quite
simple
first
my big recommendation is to take an
active rest phase after for about two
weeks
okay
if you need longer you can take a four
week low volume phase where you train at
one third the volume you normally do
either way you line it up at the end of
that process whether it's two weeks or
four you have to take your training
fatigue and drop it super low
because you need to train hard for this
next phase that's coming up
and you can't just transition to
completely beat to shit on a muscle gain
phase
transition to a fat loss phase where you
get rid of the fat but you're still beat
to shit we need to cool off is taking an
active rest when you're fat fun no
because then at the end of two weeks
you're at a gas station and someone's
like
hey you ever think of training and
you're like yes I train like really
when's the last time you trained you're
like
two weeks ago and they're like oh so you
quit like no fuck they're well it looks
like you don't train you're like I don't
have time so I don't train that's why
I'm doing this active rest so that I can
get rid of the fatigue that I can get a
fat loss diet going so that I can look
like I train so then come back in this
gas station and throw one of them
fucking patties off that roll of shit
right to your face motherfucker and
they're like oh
oh wow you're really jacked you're like
success that's what you want so you have
to take a step back before you take them
forward
try doing this another way or you're
super fatigued on training you just keep
training through a cut it will lead to
not good things you will get too
fatigued you get hurt your muscles get
smaller all this other bad stuff so once
you have reduced with a two to four week
low volume phase
all of your training fatigue the next
thing is you take 8 to 12 weeks and go
into fat loss mode
fat loss dieting now I'm not saying mini
cut why mini cut is not for when you are
excessively over bulked many cut is when
you've had a good string of bulking but
the sensitivity is getting a little low
then you shed some weight resensitize
and go again this is when you've just
had enough bulking no bulking for the
foreseeable future because you're really
way too fat really not hungry enough
it's nothing a mini cut can solve
so to give it this way a mini Cuts Like
a weekend and this thing we're doing now
the real cut is like a two-week vacation
one of them simply refreshes you at a
much deeper level
eight to twelve weeks in a fat loss
phase that could be enough to where
you're lean enough and sensitive enough
to where like yes fuck yes I'm hungry
again I'm excited about training in my
pumps are fucking awesome again as soon
as I get these carbs in it's great at
the end of that fat loss phase you maybe
take two weeks of active rest again or
just get right back into bulky you'll be
good for a while
could be though
after that eight to twelve weeks of fat
loss you check to see if you're hungry
and excited to mass again and if you
look good again and you're like honestly
no no and no no worries take four weeks
of Maintenance training and maintenance
eating to really bring down the fatigue
even just a two-week active rest can
work and then another eight to twelve
weeks of fat loss dieting towards the
end of that second phase and maybe I'll
take a third and maybe I'll take a
fourth unlikely one or two of those
eight to twelve week phases will drop
you down by jeez five to ten percent
body fat
you're going to feel leaner you're going
to feel excited to eat again you're
going to feel excited to bulk again
you'll be an amazing cardio shape and
then you can start your next bulk butt
in order to minimize the chance that you
get yourself overboxed again please
follow a couple of suggestions from me
I've done this all wrong a bunch I've
also done it right let me share with you
what I think is the right way
a slower gain rate is probably better I
used to say fast gain rates were great I
was wrong
on the margins of course there are some
people that gain a really Oddball super
low rates like one percent per year
that's impossible to measure it's
impossible to do but I would say half a
percent of your body weight per week is
a great slow gain rate that means if you
diet for 12 weeks if you muscle gain
phase bulk for 12 weeks
you might gain like
six pounds that's nothing but if three
or four of those are muscle hey that's
fucking money in the bank then you can
do a mini cut take care of all that
three or four pounds of fat no problem
restart with zero added fat and just go
up again and up again and up again
and that slow gain will allow your
nutrient partitioning to be excellent it
allow for you to eat healthier it allows
for you to gain weight seamlessly
without any frustration and allow you to
do this without overheating and sure as
hell you will stay in amazing shape and
never get out of shape with lower back
will get pumped casual get pumped you
start throwing up from squats for sets
of five that doesn't have to happen
because you're going up slow so it's a
slower is better especially if you're in
a situation where you've over welcomed
before try the slower approach
if needed try more mini cuts
after eight weeks you're feeling a
little sluggish mini cut for four
after another eight weeks mini cut for
four or six
after another eight weeks maintenance
active rest long cut restart the process
you don't have to bulk for 32 weeks
straight
with a surplus to gain muscle if you do
it for as little as eight weeks straight
you get a ton of muscle mini cut won't
touch your muscle it'll burn off all the
fat you gain and you just restart and
Rego that doesn't mean you need to mini
cut every two or three weeks that's
insanity but every eight weeks or every
12 weeks you're fucking good to go you
don't need to go half a year or a whole
year straight bulking people sometimes
do this to themselves I don't really
know why maybe it's psychological but
yeah man I'm gonna do a bulk just the
next 12 months bro like really you
expect to train hard for 12 months
without a break so no I'll take breaks
whether you're going to mass through
those breaks well no I'll eat it
maintenance so then it's not a bulk that
lasts fucking 12 months you're a fucking
liar you said that wrong at the very
very best so definitely give that some
shot more uh give us some thought more
mini Cuts you don't need to just bulk
forever
and if you are close to a bodyweight
goal but your body is really fatigued
the training is starting to really break
you down just cut the goal short
take some active rest take it easy come
back and hit that goal for example I've
seen guys get up to 197 pounds
and when they get up to 197 they're
already they're training his dog shit
they're in such a crazy high fatigue
State they can barely put the food down
their sleep is total shit it's a shitty
environment for muscle gain
and they go fuck man I'm so close to
200.
[Music]
Leonardo DiCaprio let me just touch 300
real quick sorry 300 200. let me just
get to 200 and they stuff their face and
stuff their faces stuff their face for
the last two weeks while training is
total dog shit so they add a fuck load
of body fat that last three weeks barely
any muscle at all if any
and then it's like hey what'd you do the
last three weeks like well I got you 200
pounds bro they're like all right yeah
how'd it go they're like that's awful I
got only fat
guys if you want to get fat
any weight is reasonable to get to
people on my 600 pound Life TV show get
to 600 fucking pounds just eat only fast
food and desserts you will get as fat as
you like you're not trying to do that
if you're at 197 your training has been
amazing you've gotten all the way from
185 to 197 over a period of multiple
weeks and at 197 you thought okay I was
going to get to 200 you're starting to
really experience High training fatigue
you're starting to really have trouble
with eating not in a way that you can
fix
just cut it off take another week train
hard finish up you finish your 197 198
you do a mini cut back down to the you
know low 190s and think ah fuck
but I fuck what 200 is arbitrary
remember the pound is an arbitrary unit
of measure it just happens to be a
standard so just get what your body can
get out Cut and Run reconstitute come
back these artificial goals of 200 225
250 I've made them myself I told myself
that I was going to get to a drug free
270 and I sure did but I was fat as fuck
and I'm still dealing with that excess
skin now and I all that bad times I had
so make sure you gain on the slower end
when you start regaining after all these
fat loss phases fix your massing problem
make sure you use mini Cuts
intelligently if you need to you don't
have to mask for a year straight and
make sure that when it gets time that
your body is really starting to break
down and you can't hold it anymore don't
try to meet arbitrary another three
another five another ten pounds of
weight gain in this phase because that
is kind of a goal to Nowhere you know uh
it's just you know it's it's uh give you
another super quick analogy it's like if
you're a military is your command in
general with military
and it's about to run through a city
that's pretty heavily defended the idea
isn't that you just run through and take
the city look that's nice that's the
goal yes but the implied goal is you
take the city with still most of your
military hardware and your best combat
troops intact to once you have that City
you secure it you go on and take the
rest of the country if you're like hey
like we can take the city but it's going
to cost us half our military
we can rethink the shit right which is
what Vladimir Putin did after he
couldn't take Kiev but he never taken
that shit
cause he's a piece of shit scumbag
dictator sorry sorry I went a little
political I'll see you Russian trolls
and the troll farms in the comments see
you next time