I have tried to do
better over the years I have
tried to change
myself so that I'm somebody else but
unfortunately despite my best efforts
I'm still Dr M gardol for Renaissance
sportization and let's talk about the
effects of the mirror on your Technique
that's right does looking into the
mirror while you train improve your
Technique or does it degrade your
Technique unfortunately
this video is by definition
discriminatory and I'll be straight up
guys it's 2023 maybe when you see this
2024 even and everyone is equal except
for one group of people vampires I know
that you can't see yourselves in the
mirror and so unfortunately this whole
video just does not apply to you uh on
the plus side you have pale
skin and an ability set you sometimes
confus for real power
anyway Dragon Ball Z references aside is
it okay to look in the mirror at my
technique I get asked this all the time
by random people even in the grocery
store on the other hand there are other
people that seem quite convinced that
looking in the mirror when you're
altering your Technique or trying to
modify it is a very very bad idea and it
turns out that both have a little bit of
the truth in their pockets so let's look
at the downsides and upsides of using
the mirror while you train mirror mirror
on the wall who's the jackest of them
big Ramy uh oh fuck I had a fucking
you're supposed to say I bought you off
a magician and you're supposed to say
shit that makes me feel nice no no no
it's Scott what the fairy tale is that
from uh Little Red Riding Hood no Snow
White Snow White Sleeping Beauty Snow
White Snow
White that's an honest fucking mirror do
you want to be lifting in front of Snow
White's mirror that'd be dope because
you'd be like hey like uh that mirror is
kind of like a GPT like can you critique
my technique and I was like yeah yeah
sure like you got to put your knees out
more so in any case unless your mirror
talks to you which is dope is using the
mirror a good idea well there are
downsides there are distinct downsides
for using the mirror for your lifting
one is that yes you can use the mirror
to reinforce your Technique like when
you're squatting in a Smith machine you
look at the mirror you can make sure
you're keeping your chest up knees out
blah blah blah you can only dependably
have your Assurance of using your best
technique when you have a mirror around
because you're used to lifting with a
mirror and then you like traveling or
something you go to a gym with great
Smith machine or happens to be actually
the same Smith machine use it home but
it's not next to a mirror and there are
no mirrors around and you you
hyperventilate a little
bit okay I'm going to be okay just do
just do what you remember and you
realize you don't remember anything
because you start squatting like my
fucking God I have no idea where my body
is in space definitely a
possibility and because of the fact that
you now need the mirror in some uh
respect to have your best best best
technique even if you could do great
technique without it the idea that you
become reliant on the mirror to some
extent is true and thus competition
lifters especially as they approach the
competition powerlifting for example
strong man weightlifting definitely
weightlifting the mirror is a
non-starter so a lot of times I train
with my wife and she was a competitive
powerlifter at the time I would squat
into the mirror she would just turn
around and squat away from the mirror I
was like well this is a really good idea
in addition to that another downside of
training with the mirror is that you
might focus on the wrong stuff what do I
mean by that the mirror typically allows
you or emphasizes you're focusing on
external visual cues what are my knees
doing what is my chest doing what is my
back doing what are my wrists looking
like but if you over focus on external
cues when they really are the things
that are lagging amazing it fixes a lot
of stuff but if you have some internal
queuing problems like am I using my
glutes like I'm supposed to be am I
feeling this in my quads am I standing
and pressing really through my whole
foot versus just my toes just the balls
of my feet those kinds of questions airr
actually can't help you with and because
your cognitive bandwidth is a roughly
given amount um any cognitive bandwidth
eaten up by you staring yourself in the
mirror and addressing maybe even not
deficient external cues to your benefit
there's a certain amount of cognitive
bandwidth that you just can no longer
use to address internal queuing and
sometimes when internal queuing is the
limiting factor or is the main problem
then yeah you might like be great at
lifting externally but someone's like do
you feel that on your quads you're like
not really just like all my knees I
think but I look in the mirror and my my
technique looks great aha but looks
aren't everything as many A teacher told
me when I went to the prom by myself uh
every
year you know but luckily I met a lot of
no one at the prom and no one danced
with me if you could go back in time and
be my prom date would would you be I
promise I'd brush my teeth and say
polite
things in any case those are the
downsides what are the upsides first you
can check your Technique midet and
adjust on the Fly pretty fucking dope
you're doing Smith machine squats your
chest starts to sink down
AR up and fix it right there in the
middle of the thing and point number two
is you can play with different fixes
right there during the set instead of
looking to video review because a lot of
us now record everything that we do on
our video cameras on our phones
specifically our lifting I have a
distinct number of lifts that go to
Instagram as you may if you follow me on
Instagram see and also if you're like oh
Dr Mike doesn't seem to post all of us
training like forearms curls I'll never
post almost ever post why because that's
only fans content motherfuckers you got
to pay for that shit but either way it's
getting videotaped the thing with
checking your Technique with videotape
is it's an incredible incredible tool
but it's delayed so while you are
training and let's say incline benching
if you could see yourself in the mirror
you could correct technique after like
one or two reps and the rest of the
technical execution is very good because
you looked in the mirror JK that touched
in the wrong spot on that one but if you
go to video review after a set you
already have one whole whole set of two
things one doing the movement
potentially wrong which is like that
sucks it's not ideal for your joints not
ideal for your muscles no big deal but
not great and two the way motor Learning
Works is every time you do a certain
kind of technique even if it's the wrong
one you reinforce those neural patterns
and you're more likely to shift into
that technique later so you're actually
learning the shit wrong it's kind of
like if you're hanging out with somebody
who uh speaks English as a a second
language and they're making mistake
speaking to you let's say we're
videotaping the talk they could go back
later and be like ah I should have said
that other word that's wrong I was using
the wrong tense there that's fucking ah
shit I'm next time for later but as they
were speaking to you they were
practicing the conversation so they were
actually just learning to speak English
wrong whereas if you rudely interrupt
them halfway through the sentence and be
like you said that word wrong I want to
correct you it's in some context
insanely rude but in other context
insanely helpful but the neural network
shit is absolutely valid if airor allows
you to to catch yourself in the act so
to speak oh what was I doing in that
mirror the police come and arrest you I
know that was yesterday for me uh then
you can fix the Reps right away and then
you can just practice the Reps better
that means you're let's say you arch
your back better you get better feel for
your quads safer for your spine and
you're learning moving better the entire
time so that's really really really good
really really good and one of the
greatest benefits of having the mirror
is you pretend well there's actually two
benefits one of them is not on the
slides Scott are we doing slides yet or
do we have a major producer guy who's
going to make this all look even better
hopefully we'll see if you guys see
PowerPoint slides the producer guy
didn't work out so two benefits two more
benefits from looking in the mirror one
is you could
pretend to be looking at your Technique
but you're just getting lost in your own
eyes do you guys ever just like look at
the in the mirror and just look in your
own eyes and you're like Jesus Christ
what's the word I'm looking for
ravishing just scandalous who let you
out of the house looking like this you
fucking beautiful thing
you what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now and another benefit is you can
pretend to be looking at your Technique
but what you're doing in real life you
scuzz motherfucker you looking at hoes
cuz the gym is full of these you know
what I'm saying ticktockers
uh what's that brand of clothing they
wear the jym sharkers you know what I'm
saying girl if if you if you what's that
Scott young La young La yo what's up
what's up is Young La do females wear
that or
just you know what I'm saying I'm not
young and I don't live in LA but you
know what I'm saying girl what's up also
if you think you're a gym shark what
does that make me Japanese don't they
kill a bunch of sharks no whales
H they got to kill some sharks too
anyway you can scuz on people but then
when they look at you through the mirror
they got that sight they know you're
fucking looking instantly avert your
gaze and look embarrassed girls love
that if you don't have the confidence to
continue to look them in the eye they
just can't help themselves you're going
to be getting a lot of dates I know this
to be true from personal experience uh
Scott how many dates have I been on in
my life negative number I have more
rejections than
acceptances who counts the
rejections my ego does
over for
500 all
right recommendations tldr Mike shut the
fuck up this video should have been 10
times shorter can I just get information
from you stop with the jokes you're not
a comedian you're not a standup comedian
you're sitting down and you're gesy
hairy shut up and tell me things okay
great you're right competition strength
athletes I just wouldn't look in the
mirror and if you insist on looking in
the mirror for your assistance work in
the offseason like one to three months
before competition definitely for your
competition lifts lowbar squat uh well
obviously I have no idea how the fuck
you would look in the mirror on a bench
that would be quite quite quite clever
deadlift and shit like that do not look
in the mirror when you have your comp
set up it needs to be like replicating
the the reality of the actual
competition no mirror looking there when
you are looking in the mirror what I
would say is looking straight on is a
really good idea but a lot of weird shit
happens when you look to the side and
maybe um not so safe things for the
spine probably a bit uh I'm I'm
overvaluing how dangerous this is but
I've heard some horror stories and also
aligning your body to move really well
while you're pivoting because everything
kind of follows your head the other way
is it's really gnarly like I've seen
people like do stiff-legged deadlifts
and they'll check your Technique from
the side like dude just save that shit
man if there's a mirror in front of you
you can check to see if your chest is up
but to see if your knees are back far
enough and if you're pushing your butt
back just put your fucking phone camera
on the shit you'll see it you know one
set later I'd say like turning to the
side always wigs me out personal
preference and maybe some anatomical
rationale I just wouldn't look to the
side so in front cool right next
definitely try to focus on internal cues
too don't become one of these mirror
people that all you look for is external
cues are my elbows where they should be
chest where they should be knees where
they should be great then I'm doing the
lift correctly you don't want to just
replace all of your queueing with a
mirror you augment it with the mirror
the mirror is like a really uh awesome
magnifying glass on external cues but
that doesn't mean internal cues go away
so definitely have distinct things to
look for don't just kind of soak it up
like a lot of people will just like
they're fans of their own lifting you
know like you look look pretty cool when
you're lifting you're kind of at your
best and then just kind of like watch
the mirror to be like yeah yeah I'm the
fucking man look at me everyone of the
gyms fucking looking at me I the fucking
man like that's cool and all and you can
do that but it's better to to look for
specific cues and that's kind of hard
when the set gets really going and
you're making facial expressions you're
just kind of Jing yourself in the mirror
I think it's probably better to be like
okay what am I looking for specifically
chest if my chest starts to go down then
I I I raise it up because sometimes
people look in the mirror and their
technique still sucks and I'm just like
what what what is it that you're looking
for because I can tell you it all
fucking blows clearly you're not seeing
the same shit I am and maybe they're a
vampire and they just have no idea you
imagine someone's doing the shit in the
mirror and then they turn to you they're
like how was it what you saw they're
like uh yeah of course I of course they
did my sunscreen's coming off you're
like sunscreen it's midnight they're uh
I got to go turn into a
bat we're recording this close to
Halloween time
so lastly just try it see if it improves
your Technique look for specific things
try to change them don't forget your
internal cues use the mirror for a month
on a lift um and see if it if it helps
you and if you just find it like
annoying and stupid and wrong and it
doesn't do anything for you fuck it
abandon in the mirror and um if you
really love the mirror just walk right
through it into the mirror Dimension we
will finally have friends and happiness
which I have read about in picture books
see you guys next
[Music]
time