[Music]
it is Friday July the 15th and we're
here at the hotel got in super late last
night had a horrible night's sleep so
still super tired today I'm doing a
photo shoot at 1:00 p.m. uh so this is
what I've got for breakfast just to fill
out a little bit before that I'm
actually not really hungry again to be
honest um whole grain toast some kind of
sausage and one of these little muffins
I put some peanut butter jam on the to
put on some of this it's just a it's
just like a tan cream so you can pick
this up it's like 20 bucks at like a
drugstore it doesn't have like a really
competition tan look it's like kind of
natural guess you just kind of cut it on
like a nice kind it's kind of like
reddish darkish brown how's this looking
it's actually looking good yeah oh yeah
it does man like you notice how big of a
difference it makes like just AED like
so guys this is how Pat is looking one
day out I'm recording on my phone so I
can't really get the whole shot legs
look crazy
man see a front double
bicep boom um I don't know how asleep I
was in the last clip but I felt pretty
damn tired uh so it's Friday July 15th
the show is tomorrow Pat is looking
absolutely freaky like I'm just going to
take the just
look really really
shredded
hey man There You Go sir good to go take
care perfect I appreciate it future
thanks
again so this is Sony Alpha 5100 so yeah
super excited about this I got it for a
good price it's actually um it's
actually secondhand so um yeah now it's
time to go to the photo shoot grab some
Gatorade maybe a couple snacks just
before the photo shoot 12:30 now so
we're going to be shooting in about a
half an hour I want a protein bar oh
wait they have Quest here a quest I also
want an energy drink but I want some
carbs in it so I'm not going to get the
diet think I'm just going to get this
lime lime drink that sounds really good
that's in half a can
so 60 64 G of carbs these are better so
as you can see we've made it to the gym
I it's crazy I just find it so hard to
believe that it was 2 years ago here
training for the first time and uh that
was when I won my Pro card and I was
just saying to Pat like it feels like it
was so long ago and yet at the same time
like not long ago I don't know it's it's
really weird but it's definitely really
cool to be back here and I'm super
excited to train here today you see
what's up my
[Music]
friend
[Music]
the
[Music]
I
we just finished up with the photo shoot
and I'm super super hungry uh I was
actually like if I had to be honest just
kind of like stressed out about the
shoot I haven't really done something
really quite like that before um so I
definitely feel good I feel like that's
the reason maybe why my appetite was
down the last couple of days so we're
here at
Denny's and we're going to grab some
good food I'm not going to go too crazy
cuz I kind of want to save that for
tomorrow night like after the show and
everyone's going crazy got the
vascularity on Pat like just hit me with
a Bice
Flex look at that man [ __ ] let's see the
tricep damn bro so we got our food uh
this is what Pat got pancakes egg whites
and bacon he's scared to eat it just
look at him he like thinks it's going
to got so it's just hot roast potatoes
thanks thank you um garlic bread I guess
and uh yeah gravy I'm so excited to eat
this
man
heav for whatever reason um after
Denny's I didn't actually finish my
mashed potatoes so um they were like a
little too buttery for me so for
whatever reason I was kind of craving
McDonald's so I
got crispy chicken burger fries and a
Diet Coke that's probably going to
finish off my eating for tonight Pat is
continuing with the carb blo so good
looks good man step back back okay and
then turn and face me there you go see
it front
relaxed stay on the legs front double
[Music]
bicep
nice nice
crazy boom guys just have a look at how
much Fuller Pat looks right now like
just look at the veins here and just
like the strian and then the legs are
just absolutely ridiculous like veins
everywhere in his legs and then like
just still like holding condition he's
had 600 G of carbs today all right guys
so that is the end of my photo shoot day
uh so I guess that kind of concludes uh
the miniseries I'm going to keep
vlogging uh we're headed to LA on Monday
um I might take the rest of the weekend
off I'm not totally sure but in any case
I hope you guys enjoyed the leadup to my
photo shoot um as the photos come out
I'll be posting them on my Instagram so
you can follow me there thank you once
again guys for watching like the video
if you liked it subscribe to the channel
if you haven't already see you guys
[Music]
later