hey folks dr mike here with renaissance
periodization gee whiz that's a hard two
words to say
weekly tip number six short fast to the
point and here it is
should you weigh your food
cooked or raw interesting i wonder which
way this plays out so
when you're counting macros
a lot of times cooked in raw have really
different macros when you're doing meats
veggies grains
for like you know whatever weight or 50
grams of rice it really depends on if
it's raw or dry and or cooked and the
messed up thing is is like actually
based on how you cook the rice like how
much water you pour in over the rice
line
that actually plays a big role in how
many macros even cooked has so while raw
is generally a very small amount of
macros cooked can be really variable so
what do you do
there's a couple of things you can do to
track properly the first method is track
only raw weights this is ultra accurate
if you're preparing for a show and
you're eating everything at home that's
probably your best bet it's super
accurate but it like doesn't work on the
go or with pre-made foods if you go to
chipotle you're trying to get some
amount of chicken you only know the raw
weight you're not gonna be like hey hey
guy back there in the kitchen can you uh
can you weigh the shit raw for me he's
like what the fuck is wrong with you no
we're not going to put raw anything on
the scale i don't even know if they have
a scale on the back of chipotle works
really well when you're really tight and
you want super precision but that means
you don't need out or anything else like
that method two is you track all your
stuff cooked that gives you a little bit
more flexibility and you can standardize
your cooking as much as possible so when
you make rice at home use like the
two-finger rule or whatever that much
water you cook the meat for a certain
amount of time because like the longer
you cook meat
the smaller it gets weight wise but the
the protein amount is the same so really
is is a huge mind fuck so the best thing
to do is to in this case if you're
choosing to track cooked food just try
to cook it more of a similar way all the
time you're accepting a higher level of
variance with method two but sometimes
it's worth it if you eat out a little
more often you eat at a friend's house
here and there you can still make more
sense out of stuff
here's the thing either method works or
both methods work
but don't do them at the same time pick
one and stick to it for the duration of
your diet and if it was really too much
work or a huge hassle or too much
precision or not enough you can change
to the other method next time right
the people get screwed up when they do
raw one meal cooked one meal raw when we
cook the next and then it's all over the
place truth be told though
at the end of the day probably zero
people have ever failed to accomplish
their goals on a diet or worse gotten
fat because they're like yeah man the
way i got to 600 pounds is i started
this diet and instead of weighing
everything cooked i did it raw man it
fucked me up no way you get that way
eating pizza and ice cream and all that
other stuff so if you're already eating
good foods and you're taking a remote
stab at an honest assessment of how much
food is in front of you you're going to
do just great if you're aiming for a
bodybuilding show peak physique super
striations then yeah you're probably
going to do one of these two methods
super super well and then it matters and
ideally do method number one we attract
only raw weights folks i've been dr mike
see you next time