you guys wanted to know and you asked us
what is the best possible exercise to
use to develop your abs according to
Science Now truthfully there is a
candidacy list of the best but there is
one specifically which we're going to
show you today which gee whiz if there
had to be the perfect one this would be
it and it's called modify the
candlestick
[Music]
the modified Candlestick is a very
interesting exercise only requires you
to be able to grab something behind you
that's solid and won't move or better
yet grab the back of a workout bench
that's all you need for this exercise
here's how it works the modified
Candlestick has you pulling your knees
and your feet up and then thrusting your
hips off of the bench vertically into
the air that part can be done
athletically and rapidly because what we
want is The Descent The Eccentric
controlled lowering phase when you lower
your legs back down hips first legs
second once you do that
that puts an unbelievable amount of
stress onto your abs and a lengthened
situation where they're being pulled
apart as they go down when that occurs
tons of muscle growth is potentiated
this is an incredibly hard exercise so
because it's hard there are a couple of
ways for you to cue yourself in to make
sure that it's reasonably possible for
you to even do this exercise and then
slowly over time you're going to be able
to make it harder and here's how
the beginner version of this exercise
has you taking your knees and tucking
them up as high as you can first that
shortens the lever arm of your legs and
allows you to lift your hips much easier
pointing your toes into the sky as you
come down you're going to retract your
feet back down towards you as the hips
lower and then you're gonna stretch your
legs out separately that's the easiest
way to do it and it's still tough the
second good way to do it which is harder
if you can do 10 solid repetitions or
more and the easy way you can move to
the snacks braid
the next way is when you start moving
you actually take your legs completely
straightened and you bring them up
without bending the knee at all then you
thrust your hips up come back down and
then completely straighten lowering your
leg that extends the lever arm and
challenges your abs much more the Third
Way is almost impossible for most people
to do pretty much only Elite gymnasts
and a few other folks can get away with
it if you can do 15 20 or 25 or more of
the second kind of technique you might
be able to do a few of the third that's
the actual Candlestick
the reason it's called a Candlestick is
it's completely solid and straight
that's when you have your feet totally
extended your hips completely straight
you pull back on the bench using only
your upper abs you are going to Crunch
your entire body like a zombie mortified
totally flat thing
all the way up in a semi-circular Arc
and then when you get to the top
pointing your toes you're going to come
all the way back down fully extended the
whole time
I sure can't do these I don't even
think Mr Nick Shaw our CEO who's going
to demo this for you is able to do these
we are going to really focus on cueing
the first variant I'm going to try the
second variant if you want to do the
third hardest variant that's up to you
[Music]
perfect
hold at the top for just a split second
longer
[Music]
excellent that's it rest
[Applause]
[Music]
good
[Music]
oh that was perfect excellent
two more
[Music]
good keep those legs straight on the
ascent
[Music]
yes oh that was a perfect one slow
slow
[Music]
that's it
modified Candlestick we got the easy
version we got the medium version we
have the impossible hard version It's
start out on the easy version the real
critical thing is to do a nice full
range of motion to really use your hips
to push yourself up and that second half
of the movement and then on The Descent
on The Eccentric phase when you're
lowering your hips back down when you're
lowering your legs back down go slow
that slowness is powered by your
abdominal muscles they're the only thing
that are able to make that go slow
they're resisting gravity they're
getting a ton of tension my last tip is
if you start using this exercise just
train ABS twice a week and start with
one set on Monday and then one set on
Thursday you will get crazy sore if you
don't increase to two sets next week you
want to never go higher than what it
takes to recover every single time so if
your abs get a little bit sore and then
by halfway through the week they get
good again you're doing the perfect
number of sets if your abs are never
getting sore do a few more sets if your
abs are getting crushed and you're not
recovering on Time Low or the sets
science is a real awesome thing sets of
500 crunches planks this and that wall
ball that's all nonsense it doesn't work
very well at all exercises like these
resistance loadable exercises tough
exercises ones which you go slow and
control The Eccentric you're a huge
range of motion they're the ones that
grow muscle the most and because this
exercise loads you the most when you're
at the very bottom of the movement it
actually loads your abs while they're
being stretched which is a bonus round
extra weighted roll muscle
do you have abs that are too big and is
it a problem for you probably not get on
this and do it we'll see you next time
with better abs
foreign
[Music]