[Music]
[Music]
folks we're still in quarantine but
weekly webinar is back answering your
questions
however dirty and infectious they are
dr. Michael Cohen and they are both and
the viral I might add
whoo let's get to it yes Luis Garza says
que onda dr. James Oh dr. Mike I'm
saying I don't speak Spanish but I feel
like that me is what up yeah I was a big
fantasy there but I yeah
all right he says let's get around here
blah I'd like to know your thoughts on
unilateral training how should we train
the weak side in general because of my
years of working out I'll do one arm
exercise with why would the left-sided
first performed them to failure note
down the amount of reps did the same
amount of reps on my stronger right side
this would be my strong side too or IR
in most cases however I've now read that
one two three or better for strength and
I per trophy which leads me to believe
that my right side grew and got stronger
relatively fast than my left side
scientifically speaking now if I state 1
2 3 are are my left side and perform the
same amount of reps on my right side
right side be around 5 to 6 re are
assumingly I would just be a better
approach hopefully this makes sense if
not then I'll show you more clear next
time it makes a lot of sense and I think
you're on the right track the other
question is is it worth doing any of
this and that's maybe for another time
for us to answer I am posted a video
today on my Instagram of me doing
upright rows and what my right shoulder
just hangs lower than my left it's it's
a thing that I was able to observe since
I was 11 so it's just just design just
straight up genetics and epigenetics the
way it came out so basically you know
what am i doing about it not shit
because it's I gonna you know there's so
many everyone has so many and different
limb balances fundamentally and I did a
lecture on this a while back believe
it's already Plus and if it's not that
it's on regular YouTube but the lecture
is how to bring up you know asymmetries
a weak muscle groups and really is the
fastest way to do it is put the whatever
you want to take a back seat you put
that on maintenance volume or minimum
effective long
no higher and then you put the other
thing between a VM RV until it catches
up and then you start to thread in the
training of the other one that wasn't
and sort of see if they don't you know
they could keep going side by sides but
sometimes I would recommend that's fine
to do I would recommend I'm taking that
too far and trying to balance everything
out too much because they need to become
sort of pretty preoccupied with
balancing not so much to develop
everything if I was worried about
balance a my right and left
I'd have trained really really weird and
my arms wouldn't have like doubled in
size over the last five years so I would
say just get really really jacked and
then when you start competing in
bodybuilding and or you're at your peak
then you can start to de-emphasize one
thing and emphasize another and another
thing is is this there's a really good
reason to de-emphasize the thing you
don't want to be as big instead of
emphasizing than you want to be the
biggest whatever it let's say your left
tricep is bigger than your right there's
no way your right is ever going to catch
up to your left because for whatever
reason your left is just bigger and it
could be fiber type it could be muscle
cell number it could be some other
reason and if there's a lot of those
reasons are there that probably are
probably getting rid of those reasons
then the left is always gonna be bigger
than the right so you almost by
definition have to be emphasize the left
or ever get the right to catch off
because if you take the logic out too
far be like we can just get again my
right to catch on okay and then your
left goes again it gets bigger they're
defending it my right to catch up like
then you just infinitely sized at some
point like whatever the ceiling is it's
probably gonna be the ceiling for the
better body part is higher than the
ceiling for the worst one so some point
just backing off on the one that is
bigger is probably the best solution
rather than accelerating training on the
one that is smaller if you really really
think it through and it sounds
unfortunate and it is so don't do it
until you're really really jacked that
you're okay
you're when you're once you're okay with
the size of your weaker muscle group
then it's time to pare down the stronger
one that's what I would say James yeah
that's that sound advice and I wish I
would have could talk to my younger self
because I had this problem forever
because I had my ACL reconstructed from
rugby and then I had one buff leg and
one tiny leg for quite a long time and I
did all sorts of stupid stuff one of the
things that I think kind of just
piggybacking off of what Mike said a lot
of times you can get stuck in this like
symmetry battle where you're spending a
lot of time just doing a bunch of
nonsense unilateral exercises
when the reality is this like both sides
are gonna get in the triceps example
what Mike was using earlier both sides
are going to get plenty of stimulation
doing something like a bench press or
you know close grip bench press or
something like that so it's probably in
your best interest to just use the same
good compound movements unless it's
something where like the bar is like
totally cockeyed and when your bench
pressing which would be like a clinical
level imbalance at that point right but
if you just have one that's a little
stronger than the other stick with those
good compound movements and then save a
little bit of your volume landmarks
resources to add some you know
unilateral stuff on your other side if
it needs a little bit more so at that
point you might be hitting like an MeV
stimulus on your strong side and more
like an nav MRV stimulus on your weak
side so do your normal stuff leave a
little bit of room in the tank and you
can add some direct work a unilateral
work if you want to on your wagging side
I think that's also a very reasonable
approach what I wouldn't do is
completely ignore it if it's bad like
just say okay well I'm just gonna do as
much bench presses I can fuck it right
because then it's just gonna it'll
slowly kind of even out but you'll still
always be a little bit asymmetrical over
time and I think also the other side it
where you're just like okay well I'm
only gonna do one arm stuff for every
movement of every exercise is also not
the way to go so somewhere in the middle
is probably the sweet spot yeah very
James West says hi guys whenever I back
so your exam Wally West
I get really severe Dom's and my a
doctors or at least that area of my leg
I have reduced the line so you forget I
still seem to get the same problem I
really can't diagnosis from a question
but is there process try to work out why
this is happening moment versus
overactive addict Resolute's or
something completely different so the
overactive thing that's actually in if
it's missing is an overactive or
underactive if the neurologist says
you're not dying i straight-up have this
problem every time I switch back to high
bar squats I think I even made a joke
about it a couple weeks ago you know
what it is is that your high bar squats
like we usually think of it as like this
really quad dominant exercise but it
hits those adductors like a motherfucker
and somehow that either there's nothing
wrong with that whereas something like
for me camber bar squats do not really
hit my abductors close stance high bar
squats do not really hit my adductors so
really what you just have is a muscle
that is for a lack of a better word
decondition to training stimuli and
you do you open up a movement which you
think is mostly gonna be on your quads
and ends up being on your quads and this
other muscle that hasn't really been
trained very much at least directly and
you just immediately exceed the capacity
in which you can tolerate and that's
something that I've kind of struggled
with too so if you have been doing other
squat variations and then you switch
back to high bar squats and you you
notice that you're having limitations on
your adductors it means you have to
start much lower than whatever you are
currently doing so that might mean just
doing like one or two sets the first
time you add it back yeah and also as
far as diagnosing you may just want to
retool your squat technique to place all
stress on a doctor's and place more on
quads and that's going to be a foot
position situation and the foot toe
angle so you can put your feet a little
bit more straight get your feet closer
together and I'll probably be training
hit the adductors less usually but would
you basically can do is try different
squat techniques that you think would
hit the adductors less see if they cost
the same a lot of soreness and if they
caused last year on to something and
then you can do more of them and less of
regular squatting if you really think
that that's limiting factor initiative
that some people just get a lot of
squatting for a lot of the auditors I
sure do which is why my supplementary
volume sometimes done before squatting
even comes from things like leg presses
or from things like hat squats in which
I can take and artificially close stance
and not really involved my adductors as
much so that's something to think about
don't just think you know high bar
squats like James says equal quads the
equal quads and a mattress and a bunch
of other stuff is overactive a doctor is
like what are you gonna do you take a
fucking neural silencing drug locally
delivered at this node that's not a
thing it's all comes down to technique
in my muscle connection so if you change
the technique be you especially with
foot positioning usually it gets rid of
most of the problem and sometimes other
exercises might be a good idea as well
yeah don't over diagnose it it's just
the same thing as if you look if you
didn't bench press for you know three
months and then you went back to bench
pressing you're like oh what's wrong
with my pecs something or is it my back
muscles it's like no your pecs to start
use the bench pressing right for active
texts yeah exactly
alright Khalid B says hi docs I have two
questions for you this week number one I
finished my metabolic phase and I hopped
straight into basic hypertrophy medicine
interesting prior to metabolite e2 to
hypertrophy mezzos but I took a two-week
break and was only doing bodyweight
stuff prior to my the tablet phase I was
ready for
woman so I figure reasons the solution
phase is not needed compared to the
metabolite phase the reps on the
selector phase are lower has to start
over about the same number of sets if
total volume in this measure was lower
than the metabolite face starting set
number lower reps lower ending sets at
the last week not reaching MRV does that
mean I'm not presenting overload or
other still grow that perhaps not as
much as a metabolite phase so you
absolutely presenting an overload if
you're challenging the system so for
conservatively challenging the
presenting overloads that's easy we're
all those not an absolute thing it's a
relative thing it's a range and the if
total volume in this measure was lower
etcetera etc that actually doesn't it's
all auto-regulatory like if you feel if
you're getting like a mega fucking sore
and you're barely recovering session to
session you're getting all the volume
you need and because you're back to suit
traditional hypertrophy range because
you've got really good equipment you
might not need as much volume so I
wouldn't really compare at-home
metabolite training or just metallic
training at all on the set numbers rep
numbers and all this other stuff I would
just compare it on total magnitude of
stimulus as perceived by essentially you
know if you go to RB plus or RP plus
there's a lecture I just did there's
been posted a while back like basically
proxying the stimulus and stimulus to
fatigue ratio if the stimulus is proxied
is very high there's tons of mine loss
of connection sounds of tension you get
a you know very very messed up from
training and there's a big pump then I
wouldn't worry about it and just do it
and it's gonna get you great results and
comparing what's better metabolite phase
or not is I think something that we
can't even really speculate about James
yeah it's really one of those apples to
oranges kind of things cuz it's like you
look at what you're doing for 30 reps
with a janky at-home metabolite workout
versus like doing something like up with
a barbell a the intensity so much higher
so per rep what the stimulus is gonna be
much more massive let alone even
considering SFR stuff like you're just
gonna get a huge magnitude difference
from whatever you're doing and they just
don't add up very well because like the
the style like doing the short rest and
the super high reps just it's not a
tit-for-tat kind of thing it's the same
general goal but it's it's really it
really is done about and it's such a
different way it's hard to compare so I
would just treat them as completely
different mesocycles and go back to some
of the old metal cycles you did that
were more similar to the one that you're
doing now and look at those is a
reference point rather than the
metabolite phase that you just did
I will say and I think Mike and I are
probably on the same
fused point as to why you went back to a
regular hypertrophy mezzo after the
metabolite mezzo we usually would say he
said he thought the active rest before
the metabolite as it was good enough but
we really do usually say after a
metabolite it's not to take after for us
not before I could you take one before
take another one after yeah as maybe
just a week exactly so I think what in
the future what might be a better course
of action if you're in a similar spot
would have been you take the active rest
then start a basic hypertrophy and then
go into a metabolite that would have
make more sense to me I think what
you're doing is okay but I think you're
the this meso is probably gonna be I
don't want to say a wash but it's not
gonna be the greatest meso you ever had
I think that's terrific
number two I'd really appreciate your
input into my current situation when I
was a teen I was chubby six feet 220 and
I dropped weight fast eating 1500
calories in a weight training the result
dropped me to one or fifty pounds but
still appearing fat without clothes
now I lifted for three years but first
two were inconsistent not optimal I
started weightlifting with a personal
trainer who was a drugged-out amateur
bodybuilder I was doing crazy high bone
as a beginner but a three time a week
bro split muscle group once I would also
go up go to failure all the time using
testing techniques and they were
progress session to session god I recap
my body in these three years not 165
probably 50% but strengthen still
lacking in the last five months I'm
training smarter using at Rp but I feel
still feel like I'm not progressing my
strength really progressed in my cycle
because I hold back and go a three hour
to I wanted cetera but after d load I
mean gain two or three reps and some
muscle groups but zero or maybe one for
chest my volume today at a regulated
based on cirno-san performance is pretty
much similar to what it was when I
started with a crazy amount of volume so
I have two theories maybe there's truth
to building a strength based thing
especially for national athletes
probably no truth to that and get back I
mean if their goal is to be stronger
like then maybe but yeah if for
hypertrophy no not as much yeah I was
constantly doing higher up so if I
volume to me I stop train does not lend
itself to strength maybe we'll get to
that massage I asked because even the
personal trainer despite his size
poverty 25/8 was still relatively weak
for a cisors max bench was 232 to 50
that's actually very weak and I know
lots of people who train only like this
for years and got really
strong so it's almost certainly genetics
is why he's not weak
the other theory hypothesis not theory
sorry we're here to educate really as
mean as that dude on all this volume as
a beginner my MRV a skyrocket and need
more sets to see some size to drink
though that's also not how it works I'm
not sure what to do the option one build
a strength-based and go on a
powerlifting program after this mezzo
option to keep pushing volume higher and
see where it takes me even doing 25 sets
of chests per week per week for instance
I can come back next week
and if I last week I did dumbbells for
fifty to twelve reps zero or an example
I can usually match it but not really
progress it
option three would be to go on a test
cycle with crazy volume and forget the
signs of concepts well you can go on a
test cycle with scientific concepts I
couldn't as I read that and I was like
does he mean like a a trial like a trial
what does he mean a testosterone size
lost while joking aside I did go on a
four-month TRT dose of test last year
when my training was an optimal
encouraged by the personal trainer
because a piece of shit function in the
face for him was little frequency super
high volume to failure and I gained
about 10 pounds weight stay the same
since I was cutting but drop ten pounds
of fat but it not particularly notice
strength progress just better or
capacity and pretty much training the
same now but with more frequency and
structure progression but the
differences night and day
makes me really wonder with whether
there isn't in fact a difference in our
drug Freeman has a athletes should train
no because you would have results are
you trained well and took tests but any
case lost it all once I stopped since
I'm also not going that road again
because I noticed a bit of hair loss and
acne as well anxiety despite the low
dose sure and in my vanity pyramid my
face in hair more important than gangsta
size so generally speaking there's I
think sort of two options here one is
you can try a much lower volume plan
with still very good frequency and
everything like that like a very
strength biased
lower rap biased hypertrophy plan lower
volume stay basically an MeV and see
maybe food and get better gains some
people just their recovery is really
limited and some people even a moderate
volume training sort of impedes and a
recovery so much or impedes sorry I'm
they're adaptive resources so much that
they really just get the best adaptation
at a lower end of recovery I think there
are genetic differences there were some
people
get their best results when they're
pushing it really close to the limits
some people get the best results when
they're staying away most people
somewhere in between so there is a
chance that you know even training
between MeV and MRV like closer to an RV
may not be productive for you so you can
hang around a TV for a while and
progress in load more than you progress
in volume and see if that actually
improves or muscularity and also gives
you more strength it could improve your
strength significantly but you won't
feel any bigger and then you're back to
square one but maybe it might work
that's option one option two is that you
know sort of genetically you're as big
and strong or the progression of your
size and strength is what it is and
short of changing into pile of freestyle
training to get stronger and which
probably won't make you bigger there's
really not much to do about it but just
do your best within the confines of
current hypertrophy approach those would
be my two options yeah and I think I
feel like we kind of get an iteration of
the same question a week to week and so
I'm just gonna reiterate the same point
that we usually make is are you training
for hypertrophy are you training for
strength you know what's what is your
your ultimate goal here it sounds like
you're doing a lot of hypertrophy
training and then kind of just not happy
with your strength progress right so if
that's the issue what would be in your
best interest is to just do like three
strength blocks after you're done with
your hypertrophy phase and then it will
allow you to manifest all that strength
that you have been accruing through more
muscle mass over time
remember strength is contextual it's a
skill it's like anything else you have
to actually practice the movements in
order to get really really good at them
and sometimes that means you have to
increase the intensity and drop the
volume quite a bit to express that level
of preparedness that you have been
building and building and building over
time so if you're if you're concerned
that you're not getting stronger in that
that's somehow is a bad reflection on
your programming the best way to figure
that out is like alright you will block
a six a block of four a block of twos
and threes see where you end up and if
you can say okay I definitely not
stronger which almost certainly you will
you got nothing to worry about but at
the same time also reconsider like why
are you actually training if you're
training for hypertrophy then this is
all new point you don't really have to
worry about this the strength has been
added but a bonus to good program I mean
like two things
the reason James and I are really sort
of dead set on making sure you
understand this dichotomy is that you
know for every
in many situations as a sort of cohort
of people that have the same kind of
experience in the same problem and they
go oh isn't this a solution and what
it's often not considered by people who
haven't thought this through and I'm
sure you've thought it through a while
but there's sort of a little bit of
ahead because we do this for a living is
there's another cohort of people than
the opposite end that will complain
about the opposite thing if you do it so
for example you know if you if you serve
you know steak and eggs at a restaurant
there's gonna be people that are like
there's definitely not enough steak here
too many eggs but if you change it to
their preferences guaranteed some
customers would be like dude this is way
too much steak and or is it you know way
too many eggs not have steak it's gonna
go the other way so the other way on
this is if we told you listen you're
probably gonna get great results if you
do sets of six and eight or else with a
little volume and really emphasize
strengths progress you know to every
person that we told that to maybe three
out of those ten people come back and be
like I've gotten a lot stronger but I
haven't gotten any bigger what the fuck
and we'd be like yes well actually this
is not remotely designed to make you
bigger so it's no surprise and maybe six
or seven out of ten people right now are
they're gonna be two or three out of ten
people that are like wow this actually
made me a lot bigger sure that's very
possible which is why I said you might
want to explore that sort of lower
volume although progress in formal
preparatory training let's totally fine
I just wouldn't expect you know these
huge results are you drained rows also
there's some of the stuff like you know
the difference between a training and an
enhanced training and stuff and like the
Maddie's need a strength base and
strength progression that's like
straight out along MacDonald's book you
just made that out people literally
whole cloth just made up the fact that
yeah enhanced can grow from volume but
Naturals only grow from strength
progression that's so strange because
Ronnie Coleman was they basically the
strongest body be on her planet was also
the biggest and he used drugs somebody
should have told him that didn't work
and all the way down the line
fundamentally people with good straight
genetics can train with really high
volumes and get super fucking strong
anyway there's guys in the IFV
that never do sets of two or three they
bench four or five on the incline four
sets of fifteen but the fact that happen
do they ever build a strength-based no
they started with Moreau training they
kept bro training they started taking
drugs the entire time they just fucking
what got stronger and stronger and
stronger some people get really really
strong but don't add a lot of size uh
what's his name the Captain America guy
on industry no no L so yeah we talking
about yeah he's a demon I shouldn't
forget his name he was one of the best
lifts
in the world he's like a 181 lift her
many legitimately looks like he doesn't
fuckin train like he is he literally is
out totaled everyone it 181 like
all-time world record and I believe he
just got on drugs that he's taking like
minimal amounts or something or like
he's drunk he was drug-free for forever
it was still out told me everyone
you look legitimately just looks like he
doesn't fuckin lift weights what the
fuck
like imagine his frustration if he was
like man I keep training and I just
can't gain sighs but I'm the strongest
person ever look what are you supposed
to tell him like there's only so much
but that battle effect and then you got
like you know you know other guys that
will train for powerlifting it's just I
know guys like this that never really
get to impressively strong too fucking
checked out of their minds and you're
just like look man that's the cards you
were dealt sometimes you don't really
choose that outside of the basic
generalities of James and I will tell
you like if you want strength training
for strength training if you want size
shape or size training outside of like
that after the cards fall where they may
and a lot of that's not really up to us
you know I actually transitioned to
bodybuilding for a number of reasons
most because I was more passionate about
it but for my muscle size I was never a
very impressive power lifter not nearly
but like for how not strong I am
I'm fucking really really jacked it like
I have a bigger chest that a bunch of
guys who bench over 500 pounds and I've
never been strong or 500 pounds now the
fuck does that work so it's it's
definitely something that a lot of times
it just comes down to genetics and you
just gotta let it yeah yeah I totally
agree so just don't do it don't get too
caught up on this like strength stuff my
friend it's it seems like it's holding
you back from maybe just really giving
it your best effort alright Karthik
Singh asks does heavy squat and deadlift
increased our weights
waist size uh you know probably my best
guess is it does to some extent probably
not by increasing organ size or
intra-abdominal fat size but increasing
the thickness of all the muscles around
there probably not a ton with some
extent in a natural athletes who are not
using growth hormone insulin and a
shitload of orals at the same time I
wouldn't expect really giant changes I
would worry about it that's really how
you grow your waist and when you're lean
your waist is gonna be very small anyway
um by the time that James took his super
cool Arpi transformation pictures when
he was super fucking lean he was dead
lifting 554 reps
and squatting 404 wraps and his waist
was fucking teeny-tiny you can look at
those pictures in RB actually his
James's waist was like small to the
extent it was like white nonsensical
would you'd have like under 30 inch
waist or something it had to be close to
30 years I don't remember I think it
disappeared I'm normally I hang out
around 34 36 and then threads that line
it was gone and and you do put a lot of
fat around your waist too and it's just
like when you got lean enough all that
squats and deadlifts didn't give you a
big waist so in natural folks it even a
drug-using folks that don't use a
shitload of insulin and growth and orals
especially just high doses of anabolics
waist size just really just has almost
nothing to when one person you can look
up to really concern Johnny Jackson
Johnny Jackson a Nike pro bodybuilder he
had a very awesome fucking streamline
waist and he has dead lifted over 804
wraps and his erectors are just thinking
that his erectors and traps together
just make no citizen register but his
actual waist is fairly small and he's
been under loads nobody else can fucking
tolerate Ronnie Coleman had a very small
waist relative to his size and was
squatting another finger over in her
pounds the way he got a bigger waist was
you know farming pharmaceutical use is
all too fucking shit and just getting
really really big so I would say it's
it's definitely a thing but it's almost
not a real-world concern jarred feather
this squad and hundreds of pounds
deadlift injured Stan lifted over six
squatted over five and his waist is like
27 inches in contest shape so it here's
another thing it hasn't gotten that it
hasn't gotten bigger over the years in
any visible way as his strength has
multiplied so I wouldn't worry about it
too much James yeah so like kind of the
TLDR version is like those things can
kind of increase front to back
thicknesses cuz your front abdominal
muscles and your erector muscles will
grow but once you're a kind of
intermediate it's not gonna really be a
thing anymore and frankly like it would
be a huge mistake to exclude those
movements purely for the sake of
avoiding growing your waist size because
they're so stimulative for a variety of
different muscles and for your legs
especially like Jesus Christ so I think
that would be a big mistake definitely
don't take them out if you're worried
about waist size cuz like Mike said it's
not a huge deal
all right Sam Schneider says doxa cute
quick questions would a jurist training
benefit from a similar reason Siddhas
Asian failures that often implemented in
hypertrophy training an endurance phase
of this sort might have a substantial
amount of high effort work with
decreased volume any mayor to this or am
I just not making sense so it actually
works the opposite way in endurance
training we're having a work capacity
phase also peppered with a lot of what
it's called stupidly LSD long slow just
of this long and distance actually
accomplish the same and the monikers
fucus they just want to say LSD so just
a very high distance low pace effort
endurance peers ation works
fundamentally like this phase one is a
lot of long distances without a lot of
rapid paces but oh you know all three of
these training types mix in but this one
first phase is dominated by the second
phase is dominated by a lot of repeat
interval work so you basically like get
really close surpassed your lactate
threshold back off past your lactate
threshold back off faster lactic there's
awful terrible terrible stuff which also
do a little bit of base or base building
or work capacity work long slow distance
work and you start to a little bit of
competition pace work during that time
and the last phase the pre-competitive
phase is where you do still two of those
other things but very little long slow
distance quite a bit but not as much of
the interval work and you do a ton a
more and more more competition pace work
we're used to competition replicate
competition conditions competition body
weight and start to get close to
competition basis sometimes over speed
sometimes under speed longer distance so
on and so forth so that is the model and
then after that you take an active rest
phase which endurance training can
sometimes be quite lengthy where what
you end up doing is you one is you do a
lot less work over the period of two to
four weeks because endurance training
fucks you up like especially running Fox
you like it fucks your joints and bones
up you got to take some time away from
that shit at a competitive level and to
what you can do is actually just
continue to exert yourself in slightly
different ways so for example if you're
a swimmer you do a little bit of running
work and cycling work if you're a
cyclist you do a bit of swing and a bit
of running
if you're a triathlete I fuck if I know
what you do if you're triathlete you
probably just take the traditional
active rascal you just stay the fuck
away from all kinds of other hard
training maybe you go on the elliptical
or something like that something that's
not a competitive so we do some rolling
right there you go that keeps your
central abilities up while reducing the
stress on your periphery and then after
that active recipes you go back into
building a work capacity so basically as
this is kind of interesting because the
way I'm touring ampk work as you train
with higher volumes you get more
hypertrophy
but mTOR activity starts to fall so you
need to reset citize there's actually
the cool thing about endurance training
is humans are a lot more designed for
endurance training the off restraint
training as you do more endurance
training in a PK goes up it actually
makes you better at doing more endurance
training and benefiting from training
the only thing that stops you is a crazy
amount of fatigue and then you have to
recycle to get rid of the fatigue and
then work your way back in so it's
actually no need for a truly
sensitization phase and endurance
training but there is a huge need bigger
need for something like an active
recovery phase to get rid of tons of
fatigue James so I'm gonna go slightly
different route I do think there is some
merit to every sensitization phase
because you know endurance training
operates under similar mechanisms I mean
we're still stimulating protein
synthesis for a mile Kandra mile
mitochondria by our ohio fuck I can't
say that word biogenesis and so there
does seem to be some limits in terms of
some of those big cellular regulators
like m Tornai and PK they do seem to
kind of peak out at some point we see
this more perfectly with strength
training and then things like mRNA
expression seems to kind of take over
this is something that doc stone I was
really really big on and talk to us
about so from that perspective I think
that there is some benefit there from
doing recents decision for endurance
training the time scale however for that
to occur at the muscle level is much
smaller and then the bigger issue and
this is where I totally agree with Mike
is the fatigue management side of like
joint stress wear and tear and that's
what just tends to take more time so
yeah I think there is covered by active
rest that small time scale so that
exactly so active rest hits both for the
most part so there is there is some I
think some merit therefore refer for
taking some time off of endurance
training but practically speaking it's
all covered back to rest so yeah yeah
very good point James thanks for coming
out and also because endurance training
is so heavily more capacity limited
after a recent
zatia phase for muscle growth a lot of
times right after you get your best
gains and muscle growth after recent
ization for endurance training it takes
you a while to get back to making great
gains and endurance because you have to
rebuild all those mechanisms yeah it's
the cool thing about doing endurance
training as mike already pointed out is
it's kind of self feeds it feeds itself
you just keep you more you do it the
better you keep getting right and so
it's there's a outside of your recovery
ability limitations so it's one of those
kind of interesting which is actually
interesting James now that on the
subject the more consistent you are the
better you get but at the same time it
also endurance in evolution occurs much
faster so the recession of gains occurs
much faster yes which actually like
really rewards overdoing it for
endurance folks cuz like if you're lazy
and strength training a lot of times
periods of laziness just potentiate that
looking to fuck out of you drop a ton of
fatigue and you get even better results
like sometimes the hardest-working
bodybuilders don't get much better
because they overdo it it's so easy to
overdo and and you know like what so
it's difficult to overdo but overdoing
it is a really bad um with endurance
folks I think under doing it is a lot of
times way worse so there's this bias to
be like man last time I took two days
off I felt fucking terrible I'm never
doing that again
and then all of a sudden you know
there's this level of like incredibly
high adaptation and fatigue that people
sustain for a long time which is like
not not only am I now in good enough
shape to really fuck myself up I just
always fucked up and it's it's really
tough to get endurance athletes
sometimes to back away from training to
really heal that fatigue the best are
really good at it and they know what
they're doing another thing is endurance
Trek runners are actually statistically
smarter than people who weight train
like literally they just score higher IQ
distribution for whatever reason there's
no cause and effect there that's neat
heads are fucking dumb to begin with and
this is great on average of course but a
lot of endurance folks really could buy
into periodization paradigms which work
they're almost universally accepted in
endurance training like an endurance
train you just go and start running
anyone who's serious about endurance
training is like so who's your coach
where's your plan and you're like what
plan like what the fuck is wrong with
you advising believe you just get Jack
just to insure yourself and endurance I
should does not fly anymore so endurance
folks a lot of times they will take
active press just because they know they
have to and that like old but I really
wanna is tempered by a big bigger
culture an endurance training of late
do what the fuck the program says cuz
you're not that smart yeah there's some
really interesting stuff on the tapering
literature too because with with
tapering for strength sports you see a
lot of really crazy stuff occurring at
the muscular level where like they can
look at muscle cells and they'll show
like force and power output even
velocity will go up which is great for
if you want to be a rugby player soccer
player gives you a big incentive and you
see bigger shifts towards type 2x muscle
fiber distribution stuff a lot of cool
stuff for the for endurance sport you
really don't see a ton of muscular stuff
but you see a ton of central stuff where
you just see like massive improvements
in some of their blood markers though on
vo2 max can sometimes go up heart rate
is hit or miss depending on how they did
the study so you see like a really cool
dichotomy word like the muscular level
not much going on on the taper for
endurance training but at the central
level like you see some massive changes
yeah very cool
next question from Samson Haider is I'm
coming back from a broken fibula hole
and recently started leg training again
my left quad a significantly atrophied
and I can achieve Dom's with only a few
sets kept very far away from for rir I
want to make sure my thought process
here is correct my quads and IVs reduced
unity training thus explaining although
the low volume yeah
that's taken much short of failure have
been known to elicit large hypertrophic
adaptations on Trader Joe's correct
essentially my quad is what is was my
quad my quad is right now true I'm also
assuming that because of the current
state of my quad I can continue to
progress was that's kept far away from
failure but still progressively more
difficult I don't want to push too hard
too soon yes abso-fucking-lutely
you know that actually just kidding Sam
what you should do is just to see the
quasi hundred percent just train it like
the other money
sets a session yeah and if the if he
can't lift the weight the other one can
you got a nut up just try harder bro no
you're on 100% the right track the and
James and I alike approve any eulogist
unbelief frustrated by this folks when
you are D trained you're coming back
you're getting the easiest fucking gains
of your life just shut up and take the
fucking easy games look oh I'm I'm
getting sore for are what does this mean
it means you're getting fucking gains a
four-hour who needs to go to failure you
don't have to do it here's when you want
to go to failure when you've done like
16 sets of 2 where I are you don't feel
a fucking thing the next day now it's
time to push really hard ok but you
don't have to do that yet and that's not
where you want to be either that's not
the
position you want to find or Soviet yeah
people like I want to be advanced Steve
Hall is a great you don't want to be
advanced trust me dude I was adding up
my numbers because I just wrapped up my
arm mass phase and I was looking at my
like my total like arm and shoulder
numbers and I was just like fuck me I do
like 40 sets of arms and shoulders every
day it blows yeah it takes it takes a
lot to progress when you get in betters
like what am i doing today 30 sets of
curls all right get to it you live in a
bro James shut up you live in a brony
Raqqah life I took me a long time to get
to the bro party but I'm loving hope and
he says James I very much enjoyed the
applied peers Asians so video so far
things no jeans have heard from other
people are very very good reviews thanks
you know it's funny those are all videos
I mean we recorded those what like feels
like four years ago or something and we
finally just leaking onto YouTube yeah
so it's funny I saw some I was like what
videos and I was like oh those ones you
know yeah and then he says Mike I like
critical thinking what is it good for
there's an article I recommended so if
you type in critical thinking what is it
good for in fact what is it you read
what I consider the single greatest
article on the internet enjoy
and he says I've also found Thomas so
let's see if a bigger to be a tree
individuals very cool me too
I'm sure you've probably read it but on
the off chance he haven't Frederick high
axe
Frederick Hayek or an article the use of
knowledge in society 1945 really enjoyed
reading it would recommend it to anyone
from what I've heard that's a great
article I haven't read it but I have
read Thomas Souls book knowledge and
decisions three times and I understood
about 2/3 of it it's an incredible book
that's essentially sort of dovetailed
off of that article but Thomas auld
basically does like 400 pages of the
most intense thinking URIs a if you ever
think you're smart
read knowledge and decisions by Thomas
ol and B be shamed into the stupidity
you are actually have compared to a true
Titan so yes thank you for those
recommendations to folks who understood
all right I can't get the like wha-what
is a looking at that title and I'm
trying to like spin it critical thinking
what is it good in fact what is it
that's not very critical examination all
right
Stephen says hi Doc's was wondering if
you have any thoughts nope
next question and and if so what they
are on fitness trackers that use heart
rate variability to measure hmm do
training stress and recovery loop is the
only one I'm aware of the idea is
reassuring to me but I honestly just
don't erst and the science behind it
don't worry either do the tracker people
just let James get to that but I
honestly just wonder stand the science
behind it and know to know if it's
worthwhile or not I've seen several
lifters on social media using them those
responds with people I'm just kidding
but they all seem to be expensive but
becomes a sort of red flag oops I guess
I was right is there any merit to them
could they be used tell poor individuals
volume landmarks for lifting or are they
more beneficial for OPIC activities
please forgive me she's talked about
this previously I'm still working
through the massive backlog webinars no
no never asked for that kind of
forgiveness James yeah so I actually had
the the fortune of using the whoop of
the whoop guy sent me one and I used it
for a long time I stopped using it hey
James when he sent it to you did you
respond on the email like whew there is
and he's like wow I've never heard that
you're like exactly I used it for a long
time I thought it was great
the thing that I the trouble that I ran
into it the whoop is that I found that
it weighed the heart rate variability
calculation too heavily in my opinion
because you would have days where you'd
have like phenomenal gym days and if
your heart rate variability had a bad
score it would be like whoa you need to
back off and it's like well I just did
this like amazing workout the gym what
do you mean like what do you buy you
know so I think for whatever whatever
calculation they had there it was not
quite where I would want it to be in
terms of like trying to tie it back to
the volume landmarks that being said I
think it's great I think it does a lot
of really interesting things it gives
you a lot of data that you could
feasibly just get yourself like you
don't need the whoop to get all that
data you could use a heart rate monitor
or in a sleep app or anything like that
but it really packages it in like a nice
user-friendly way well I feel like I'm
going about this a long-winded way but
ultimately my recommendation is this for
people who are in kind of traditional
sports not like you know barbell sports
bodybuilding type activities I think
whoops a really good secondary
confirmation of like systemic fatigue
indices right where if you're not sure
you think your athlete is maybe not
quite where they're supposed to be you
could go to the woop and the woop could
say like hey check out their HRV and
that would be that would fall in line
with our three-tiered model where we say
you need the performance and you to fizz
need a perceptive
that would be your fist and you say okay
heart rate variability is pinging I also
notice that my athlete had a bad day at
the office right now I got to that's
pretty good sign that something's not
quite right I think it's less applicable
for people where systemic fatigue is not
always the limiting factor so for me
like bodybuilding weightlifting
powerlifting systemic fatigue is an
issue but it's just not the issue more
often than not it's the local issue that
you're dealing with so I don't find it
to be quite as useful for those
populations as though it does give you a
lot of good information like especially
about like sleep and you know stuff like
that if you're not used to tracking your
sleep I think it presents it in like a
really awesome way if you're somebody
who's like an endurance athlete it's
like definitely I would definitely
consider using it if you're a team sport
or field sport athlete I would strongly
consider using it along with some other
things and then for like barbell
athletes I think it does give some cool
info but it's not like a hard sell so
heart rate variability again is going to
be sort of a lagging indicator of
systemic overreaching that's the science
behind it in a nutshell
so when your heart rate variability gets
really low it's kind of abnormally low
levels that's just generally an
indicator that you are systemically
overreached right and that means you
should probably consider it doing some
fatigue management not always but many
times so that's the idea damn those are
great answer James I'm glad you're here
with me how to get away worst answer
Declan Ward says hi Doc's why is it the
smaller muscles recover faster the
larger ones obviously there's more total
disruption and larger muscles but our
mention repairs occurring at a rate of a
single fiber at a time for my
understanding at virtue a few cycles are
going I wonder if this is the same
question but I see it might receive it
from my understanding of hypertrophy
cycles are going to cause large
adaptation in the Maya fiber whereas
trade cycles largely to adaptation is a
nervous system or connective tissue but
to strength and or peaking cycles lead
to okayed that two totally different
question eyes so let's offer answer the
first one I thought it was the next
mansion on the first one but it's
actually just different why is it the
smaller muscle your car fast and large
obviously there is more total disruption
in larger muscles but I don't imagine
repairs recording the rate of a single
fiber at a time so there could be a lot
of reasons one is that they don't
actually recover any faster but the
imposition of total stress is higher on
larger muscles so for example you know
how much force transduction can you
really put through the tendon you know
the muscle plus tendon of your biceps
well like you know you can do some
damage right then 20 sets of biceps does
some damage and that you know
distributed over all the myofibrils and
various parts of connective tissue
around them it's a lot right and then
you takes you let's say three days to
recover from that um on the other hand
what about your quads how much total
fuck-up in this can your quads power
because your quads are so big they can
they can generate so much force fucks
them up more right and number two there
is definitely a scaling of total tissue
size in amount of disruption with the
degree of healing okay so even if it's a
healing does occur at the cellular level
but look at it this way if you give a
mouse surgery the mouse recovers in like
minutes to hours humans recover in weeks
to months well how come every single
body process scales with body size
allometric me I might add but it
absolutely scales with body size flies
and shit like that undergo unbelievably
rapid transformations now regrow limbs
in like two fucking hours and I never
seen a fucking iguana do that shit you
know they have lose limbs that take some
weeks to regrow their shit so the total
amount of work that has to be done us
simply higher I'll put you this way
you're almost asking the same question
of okay if a tornado of the same size
goes through a neighborhood and it's a
small neighborhood and no fuck's up five
houses you know why is it different than
if a tornado goes and fucks up a huge
neighborhood of five hundred houses like
per house the amount of fixing is the
same time yeah totally but your body has
only so many resources and all of a
sudden it has to fix 500 fucking houses
instead of five walk man that can be a
really really big difference and also
because of this enforcement position is
higher the tornadoes bigger so it fucks
up a thousand instead of that so so with
those two things just by themselves you
get to start feeling that this is
another quick not even analogy I would
actually call this on for all of you
brainy foxes it's a homology it's the
same same type of process or anything
like that so if you have a small cut on
your hand how long's I take to heal not
long if you have a large cut collar to
take to heal like longer you think of it
but the processes that heal the cutter
the same fundamentally shouldn't they go
at the same speed well your body doesn't
have infinite resources and once damage
gets to a certain level there are some
structural elements that work
differently in recom positions for
example if a cut is big enough
connecting to two sides becomes really
tough and that process takes a long time
and they close in the distance takes a
long time if you fuck your quads up in a
way that's just not possible for you to
fuck your biceps up with the same number
of sets it could be a different kind of
healing like the structural damage could
be at a grade higher and then it just
takes longer like for example once Dom
sets in the whole cycle just takes a
long time who the fuck ever gets bicep
Dom's fucking nobody if you successfully
got bicep Dom's
your closing biceps probably heal at
about the same rate but you probably
don't so that so that next degree of
bicep damage probably takes double the
sets to do then quads would and then
you're back to square one so I'll put
you this way hilariously you get very
very similar rates of healing
even if muscle sizes are different if
you impose the same throughput of volume
load through your biceps or through your
quads but if you do the math on that
but James imagine doing a 5 by 20 leg
press workout then converting that's how
many bicep curls you have to do the same
work you'd be like wait a minute
that's a hundred and fifty cents of
biceps at mile an hour there's no way
that's gonna happen if it does sure but
here my social take pretty close to his
larger quads - yeah that was a really
good answer - I think one last thing
it's very much related to what dr. Mike
said I think there's also
vascularization differences in some of
those small muscles
compared compared not to say that I
don't wanna use the word capillary
density cuz that's what we usually use
because that kind of is more of a
endurance training adaptation kind of
discussion but essentially when you have
really really large muscles the density
at which the vascularization hits all
the muscle tissue is much lower versus a
smaller muscle you have that same size
artery or vein running through it hits a
huge percentage of a swath of that
actual tissue area so recoveries a
little bit easier enough very true
there's also the same thing with lymph
immune elements taken out by lymph is
just takes longer for larger muscles
it's it's just a thing man
in every level of size of every complex
system smaller systems get things done
faster how long does it take to pass a
law in New York City versus a law in
some little small town in suburban New
York fucking will a day versus a I'm on
thirty year or shit has to happen and
there's more moving parts clean and
simple and there's like James said
there's like a diffusion constant
problem right like if there's a reason
that spiders don't think fucking God
don't get bigger than a certain amount
because spiders are actually have lungs
they just absorb all of their oxygen
through their skin there's a certain
size they just can't get to to get
bigger size you have to have lungs then
that whole process of perfusion has it
requires a circulatory system it just
takes more time
so spider can breathe in in a
microsecond and get all of its oxygen
the spider can't hold its breath the
foodcourt unquote did that if you just
got rid of a lot so just shit would die
really quick you can hold your breath
for 30 seconds because there's still
oxygen going around that whole thing
takes longer to occur yes yes elephant's
giving birth that's all I'm gonna say
fucking spiders actually so hilarious
fact during one of the eras of evolution
this was prior to the dinosaurs earth
had way more oxygen than it does now and
a lot of insects were up to one meter
long including dragonflies that were one
meter oh that's clever trippy can you
imagine a reprogram of the time machine
accidentally getting out it's like it's
like the Cretaceous like 65 million BC
or like whatever I don't give a shit
give me an asteroid cloud on your give
me a dinosaur's giant fucking dragonfly
from rock these bugs hundred percent up
100 percent of that shit alright Hayden
Dunn says currently in a massive a is
hitting my metabolite block before
reloading you know I wish reloj eighties
was already do I don't think we tackled
the second question oh shit we forgot
the second one all together thanks James
alright firm and standing hypertrophy
cycles are going to cause largest
adaptations in the Maya fiber whereas
strain cycles largely lead to adaptation
is a nervous system connective tissue
but to strengthen repeating cycles lead
and sniff each changes in the Maya fiber
possibly changing the amount of
contractile proteins causing a shift
towards more fast rich proteins if I
don't cause a shift towards faster perch
proteins unless you did a phone
before they will but the reason they
cause of shift earning faster twitch
proteins is probably because you're
doing less volume of work and not the
specific type of work they're doing I
will say that you may see changes in the
alignment of muscle and myofibers so
that's actually neither connective
tissue nor nervous system that's
structural adaptation in the micro to
macro scale of the muscle James you
familiar with any actual muscle cell
adaptations to strength training I mean
there's the very the same hypertrophic
ones that we would see in many cases I
mean the intensity is high enough and if
you're if the volume is high enough
we'll definitely see some growth but
outside of that it is largely more of a
nervous system type issue I'm trying to
think of anything really specific but I
mean look like what Michael was saying
before you got guys who train like power
lifters and they get fucking huge right
that still is an overloading stimulus
for hypertrophy so the muscle cells will
actually grow outside of that I can't
think of any Aidan Dunn says currently
in a mast phase and he metabolite block
before D loading on vacation in four
weeks oh that's right
ah that's the guy who asked which way he
should go on taking dr. Mike's advice by
and ramping it up up the first week in
metabolites from normal and then burning
like the Sun for two weeks as he says
how does the first time I've ever done
full metabolite phase and obviously one
well massing this is my first real
productive launcher mass all the sudden
we're on the top two who tips you would
say I should keep in mind to make the
most of this phase thanks can't wait to
get after it I'll give one and then
James can give one my tip is even though
you're doing metabolites don't get too
focused on cranking out as many reps as
you can in the higher rep ranges and
with a shorter break still focus on the
mind muscle connection of contracting
and putting tons of tension through the
target muscle so a race call cross I
gotta get through this really slow down
me centric really feel it out and as the
burn fucks you up really refocus on the
triceps so that you get the ship where
you want your students to particular
shape that was good I noticed for this
is how I experienced it and maybe you'll
experience it differently but I noticed
for me on the metabolite stuff
the feeling of flatness is like a very
sharp drop you go what you'll do like
two sets three sets great four sets
great five sets great six set is awful
you just immediately get like no pump
nothing you're just like well this kind
of burn and just kind of fell
chomp ya no pump chump exactly and it
just kind of felt awful and I found that
like I used to use that feeling and a
combination of controlling my rep ranges
to know what's a reasonable cutoff point
is so sometimes you might like I mean
this last one I did there were some
exercises where I would do like seven
sets of something just just to keep it
going
but usually around for me like six or
seven sets after that would just be an
immediate like no pump it just feels
like shit and even if I'm still in my
rep range it was just like I could do
another set but I don't feel like I'm
gonna get what I want out of it so use
rep ranges and use that that flatness
kind of cut off if you feel flat after
doing like four or five sets that might
be a reasonable point to stop and maybe
choose a new exercise if you have more
volume to make up form it's a really
good idea James I just introduced an
interesting concept during a talk about
stimulus proxies and a webinar that I
did like a paid webinar or whatever
where I introduced a hypothesis that if
you or reach is this at the point in
your workout at which it's a pump no
longer improves set to set and your
performance is bottomed out as far as
performance you know like II like sets
in that light press of 2016 14 and then
ten ten nine eight eight eighty once you
get to the first part of that and
clearly nothing's changing I think your
workouts probably over I think you just
occurring damage at that point at least
that exercise is for sure done right for
sure and then maybe something else but I
totally agree with that
yeah and oftentimes it's not even just
that exercise yeah something most of the
time you probably just don't yeah all
right so that's a good point
[Applause]
you're serious about your goals and the
rpe diet app is here to help it creates
a diet for your specific needs lets you
choose your favorite foods and tells you
exactly how much of them to eat and when
expert system AI guides you along to
keep you on track to your goals for less
than 15 dollars a month you have one of
the most powerful diet coaches in
Wolcott
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today
Daniel hacker says I need a bit of
guidance on my my next step in my macro
cycle I'm just fucking with you you know
why that was funny let's read money I
have about 1.5 weeks left my maintenance
phase I'm scheduled so they do two
measures of massing obviously we don't
know what Gibbons are going to open
should I extend my maintenance phase a
couple of weeks more because gyms will
likely be open in the next month yeah I
think that's great let's see does he say
should I do my mass as scheduled
if gyms do open during my mezzo or just
do a mini D load recycle because
obviously my movements would change a
lot from what it would be since I only
have a barbell and plates and much
currently should I do my mass as
scheduled and if gyms do open during my
vessel just do a mini D load and recycle
yes either is fine you just have to make
an assessment Daniel of where the
political situation I don't want to
ghost you out and tell people where you
live I know where you live but I'm not
sure what the situation is there um I
had to take a guess I would say I have
no fucking clue ah he's in Florida right
and thanks for ghosting about James
knowledge yeah yeah floor is a big place
a good luck finding Daniel hacker but
yeah so he's in Florida Florida seems to
me on the sort of on the cusp of opening
but then again it's a very politically
controversial state it's getting a lot
of attention like Georgia open and
nobody gives a shit but Florida opened
his opening sequentially and a lot of
people seem to care because summer is
heating up and there's beaches and
there's all these new cases of kovin 18
which is gonna be anyway but people are
freaking out so I just I don't know if
I'd been in it I think a safe bet is to
do another one or two I'll tell you this
actually here's my best advice do
another one to two weeks tentatively of
maintenance and then within one or two
weeks you have the very least get a
sense of if the gyms are going to be
coming open soon or you'll get a sense
of like it looks like they're still
closed for a while and then you can make
your decision as to whether or not to
pass yeah I think that's solid
recommendation yeah if you get two weeks
in and it's like gyms are opening in a
week then you know you should continue
maintenance if you get two weeks in and
everyone's like dude there's been a
spike in cases we're back to more
lockdowns then clearly you just start
your past
I mean Florida just had a fucking UFC of
I'm pretty sure the gyms are gonna be
open not too long all right ingenious
says hello it's me against actually my
name is pronounced more like the
Russians do cool
denisa so this week's questions are Mike
said that doing no you said you said I
hope he misquote sue here that'll make
my daddy so sweet
Mike has said that doing the same
movement in a week is okay but it is
better to do two different reparations
yep I did say that
damnit so how much how much would you
think there is a difference and I
virtually been doing between doing
squats two times a week with the same
rep range five to ten and doing two
times a week with the different rate
just five ten and ten to 20 I would
actually say probably none or almost no
difference than ever to fee in the short
term however in the long term is a
fatigue management problems physically
with joint connective tissue problems
you may have all the insight in the
world to try to do two heavy squat
workouts a week but he got sufficiently
strong that becomes prohibitive because
your joints too fucked up
however she do heavy squats first say
Monday and Wednesday your lighter squats
you can do lighter squats and your
joints probably won't get fucked up much
more and let's say you'd like presses on
Friday by the time you come back to
squats again Monday you're fucking
golden but if you do heavy heavy a lot
of times not only does that really beat
up your joints but sometimes that second
workout just turns out to be not as
productive because you can't push as
close to failure because you're super
fucked up and also I would say that
second workout is a little bit more
injurious now like if you're a little
bit fucked up connective tissue as four
sets of five to ten sets of ten to
twenty probably aren't going to cause
any acute injury on the other hand if
you're fucked up in sets of five to ten
you five to ten again and you almost
certainly would try to hit another PR
like you did three hundred one day yeah
Monday and Wednesday I try three or five
man that's kind of like a sustaining a
pre injury to get ready he had a jerk so
I would I would be very wary about I
used to do a lot of that kind of like
five to ten on this day five to ten on
the next day and man I I wish I could
take that back for sure
alright next question if I wanted to be
better at squatting for eight reps would
it be better to do two times a week with
eight reps or eight reps and next time
ten reps or something like that I think
some variation is always optimal so I
think if you want to get better at
squatting for eight reps I would
actually recommend the following one
time week you squat for assets of like
roughly six heavier than you would for
eight and later in the week you squat
for roughly sets of ten to twelve right
and that way you're sort of around that
age and as both approve I promise you it
every bit of knowledge that I happen the
James has in his head your sets of eight
will go up see and then when you get
really ready to get as big a sense of
eight as possible to show off you do a
couple of workouts where we various
loading ranges and intensities relative
efforts and sets of actually eight to
practice the eight and I never get to go
yeah I totally agree and I think just
one thing to keep in mind like there's
probably should be a significant
differential in the in the rep ranges
that you're using and it's kind of hard
to put a fine point on that but like
eight on one day ten on the other day is
to me that's like the same general range
that you're operating in it and so kind
of going back to much recommendation
having one that's like kind of up into
that next rep range and we usually say
ten to twenty so you know something
maybe like ten to fifteen and then
another one that's a little bit heavier
like you know five to eight something
like that would be a nice spread whereas
like doing like eights and tens it's
like you're mostly doing the same thing
at that one yeah I would actually say
like if you really wanted a short-term
plan to maximize sets of a performance
probably a really good way to do it is
Monday Wednesday Friday squatting
program where you do like sets of four
to six on Monday sets of seven to nine
on Wednesday and sense of like ten to
fifteen on Friday and just get getting
stronger and all those rep ranges over
the course of multiple weeks and then
man your sets of eight are gonna
skyrocket and when you really want to
show off still show off on that
Wednesday when you do sets of eight but
that Monday instead of doing sets of
four to six heavy take a deal ode and
just do two sets of five but just like
with half the weight usually they do
you're gonna feel like a million bucks
and that Wednesday you're gonna a huge
PR for a set of eight yeah it's like a
small of squat program oh man in smaller
squat yes please perfect this names my
forgiving Denise is for sure the guy to
survive small off until yes alright I
also get a little bit confused and I was
listening about Auto regulation of
adding sense when you said that you can
add a set even if you recover on time
either train chest Monday Wednesday and
Friday do you aim to be soreness free
before you go to bed on Tuesday or by
the time you start training at Wednesday
uh by the time I start raining on
Wednesday and he pu them you can me
Trillian conjectures and do it
differently but I would say the hard
cutoff is by the time you're warming up
Wednesday should not have any soreness
if someone's like would it be better if
you sort of heal Tuesday night I'm
actually not sure maybe maybe there's
some a little bit more super healing you
oughta - well the soreness thing - James
and I is less of okay you recover Monday
then you didn't do enough like we don't
say that that's performance soreness is
a hard stop top and recovery cutoff so
if you're still overlapping sore you're
doing too much okay but if you get a
little less sore than that is it better
than even a less or than a little lesser
maybe maybe we have no idea but like if
you're Wednesday you're if you're still
sore and you're benching and warming up
then you did too much Monday and that's
just that's it yeah I totally agree but
I'm gonna throw reps in reserve got a
little bit of credit here because I
think sometimes people hear that and
they assume that that means that any
overlapping soreness is bad at all times
and then they train hyper conservatively
so what I would encourage you to think
about is like don't don't don't use it
as an excuse not to train hard really
it's kind of her point I'm trying to say
it's like yeah training you get sore
that's everybody fucking knows it it's
just a natural part of the process now
like Mike says we don't want it to be
overlapping all the time that's not a
good use of fatigue management but at
the same time if you're like well that
means I'm only gonna do one and a half
set meaning I do like one hard set in
like one set at like ten rir it's like
come on I do like it like a - like a -
trial to trial decision system let's say
I train chest Monday Wednesday you know
and also Friday which is Monday
Wednesday focus I do five sets on a
Monday and then Wednesday my chest is
still sore but like it's just a little
bit sore I think like you know
adaptation occurs really quickly so next
Monday I'm gonna try five sets again if
I get sore again and then still sore
through Wednesday then next week I'm
gonna do four but I'm not just gonna go
like oh my god I got overlapping
soreness down to two sets like nah
that's okay right you'll probably adapt
over time we really want to do and this
isn't the other again I should
algorithms we published online the self
regression algorithm if you're sore from
Monday on Wednesday don't go up next
Monday don't do that right right so you
can actually stay just make sure it's
something you can recover from the
longer term yeah alright next question I
usually get super sore in a doctor's
without my
they've got a clone he's got a brother
in this threat I usually get super sore
now doctors from coming back to squats
from only two sets already but my quads
could take more volume so the question
is when the gyms open should I ease in
with squats and do some additional quad
movements to reach everything on quads
or should I just raise squat sets to
have overlapping soars matters hopefully
get used to in later weeks I would say
the first option is much much better
especially in a doctor's my experience
with overlapping soreness is it just
causes a doctor injury after about three
sessions I've done it like a blood ship
also addict repairs can be really nasty
it's nothing you want for yourself so
don't overlapping sort of overlapping
sort of some biceps like money go tear
your biceps you'll be fine
adductors chest hamstrings overlapping
sort of not a good idea them shits snap
I was gonna say the same thing so
totally agree and that's just one like
and if you know if you're one of those
people like myself included and somebody
else earlier in this webinar like if you
get a lot of adductor on your high bar
squat then you just know that ahead of
time and then program in supplemental
quad work like some new extensions or
something on that day and because you
know that you're not hitting your quad
mev because you're limited by your
adductors all right next question if I
am doing a split where I have chest and
back on the same day and arms on another
day if I do two chest and back days and
two arm days is that basically biceps
and triceps frequency four times a week
right something like that I mean so it's
not an overloading frequency doesn't
certainly four times a week but you
probably get some kind of stimulus from
the chest and back days so I definitely
say you wouldn't technically count as
two times a week at the end of the day
whatever number of times a week you
count or write on your paper is
irrelevant to the physiology that is
actually going on so you know if you do
train chest and back and then arms and
chest back and then arms and someone
asks you they hey how many times a week
do you train biceps and triceps how you
answer that question is completely
irrelevant or what's actually going on
your body you could say I trained them
twice a week and it would be sort of
technically right you're gonna say you
train them four times a week it was
source hekawis right you can even say
well I guess sort of train them three
times a week if you add the two sessions
are you time so you can answer that
question however much you like at the
end of the day like you know it also
depends on who's counting like you know
James Krieger Bradshaw and felt myself
air calms James Hoffman we
those frequencies a slightly different
based on definitions like right
Schoenfeld uses all muscles involved
switch a team that would be I believe
four times a week I separate rise of
training James and I would say that for
most people are just direct work only so
they will for us would be twice a week
right but like fundamentally you still
getting a hit so just know that in the
back of your head when you're
programming and analyzing don't be like
men
so should I try a program with four
times a week bicep and tricep
that'll be crazy different for when I'm
doing that now won't be crazy different
cuz you're already sort of doing
basically three or if someone says like
harp Lodge gives you a new program and
there's three specific bicep and tricep
workout stuff but they're all clustered
so if there's no overlap with chest and
back if someone's like hey this is like
normal frequency that used to be like
yeah not really I'm kind of used to
something pretty similar so you could
just ease into that right whereas if it
was truly only twice a week just you did
chest and triceps one day two days a
week and then back and biceps two days a
week then it would really be two
sessions if someone was like hey here's
a four session plan you go that's
actually way more than I'm used to doing
so just as long as you know what you're
getting is something it's fine James
yeah and just to use the shitty sporting
analogy one thing that we run into in
the sport world wives will say okay
we're training legs twice a week but
we're also like running or sprinting
twice a week and so you go okay if I
squat one day and then I sprint the next
day and then I do another leg training
session the next day and then I sprint
again the next day like do I count those
all as legs and it's like well the
Sprint days aren't really stimulating
hypertrophy but there's still something
that you should at least be aware of
you're still training those muscles
every single day at that point so it's
kind of pick and choose your battles on
that but just be aware like yeah that's
gonna have some overlapping use and it
might cause wear and tear or fatigue
management considerations so yep all
right next question is a better day to
do tricep and chest in the same session
or separate that it really depends on
the rest of the structure of your
program so if you do a so ideally you do
them in different sessions but that
doesn't mean that you do your triceps
with back because it sort of depends on
which one whichever one you want to
progress the most you do first if you do
chest and triceps in the same session if
you whichever one you're doing first
gets the best progress on the other hand
if you were doing back and biceps in the
same session are sorry back and triceps
on the same session if you do triceps
first they still get the better benefit
if you do triceps after they still don't
do as well
there is something to be said for sort
of local to systemic fatigue ratio we've
talked about that elsewhere that maybe
is a good evidence for good reasoning
for doing triceps and chest in the same
session being a bit better but then
again you have to factor fatigue for
example if you train your chest and
triceps on the same session chest first
triceps second your performance on
triceps might be pretty low because
you're super fucked off from chest or it
might be potentiated from heavy pressing
and actually be quite good sometimes
your elbows are really warmed up on the
other hand if you do back in triceps if
you do back first it could potentially
your triceps or could really fatigue
them who knows you basically want a
situation in which you recover each
muscle group on time a muscle group does
not interfere with another muscle groups
training we'll get to that on your next
part of your question and also that you
get your really really good performances
and it for different situations
different folks different range Minh sit
we'll happen differently so for example
if you are doing someone said like hey
it's better to do back with triceps not
the other way around you're just getting
dogshit tricep workout so you try to do
with chest again you're getting amazing
tricep workouts then you have your
answer right and if everything is
healing on time then your fucking Super
Bowl so there's none a lot of it's trial
and error and kind of getting out of
like the like the the set kind of peace
approach where people are like chest and
triceps back and biceps like you can do
chest and triceps just because they kind
of are synergistic and line up well but
let's say you're training triceps three
times a week so one day you might do
chest and triceps another day you might
just do triceps and then a bunch of
other shit that have nothing to do with
each other and then on a third day you
might do triceps first and then chest
last like it doesn't you have to get out
of the mindset of like these are the
common things that and this is how it
clump them together and you start
thinking about okay I have a muscle
group that needs to be trained X number
of times per week what's the most
logical way of sequencing these things
together yeah all right ah here we go
next question if I have chest on Tuesday
is it better to do triceps on Monday or
Wednesday it actually is a very very
distinct clear answer to that depends on
which one you want to prioritize first
so if you're really pushing your triceps
ah to half priority then it's probably
better to train them on Monday because
then they won't be fatigued and you'll
get the most out of them and then yeah
your chest training will be as good but
who cares because your triceps are
priority on the other hand if you're
really prioritizing your chest did have
better refresh and so tricep training is
better going once
that's it grab which one and you could
also just like experiment and find out
like what frequency just tends to be
better all around like you might find
that one is like too interfering with
your chest ones just like not stimulated
enough for your triceps and maybe
there's something in between yep if
you're gonna train chest and triceps on
the same day and you train both at least
twice a week there's actually an easy
answer that trains them relatively
equivalently a Monday you do chest first
try some second Thursday you do triceps
first try second problem solved Wooyoung
they all sort of get an equivalent on
work last one I believe yeah I don't
know if this is an individual thing or
almost similar to everyone but in rep
range of 5 to 10 is going from absent
reserved to two reps in reserve usually
two point five kilograms over five
kilogram job until now is usually
training moving up two point five
kilograms however I always came to when
does your re at the end of a mental
cycle but I was wondering if maybe
starting to high and that I and that
what I thought was 3r I was Road to her
and I was going lowering my RR by 0.5
and not by one through the mezzo so you
know it really first of all it's just
really auto regulated it depends on pick
someone's strength level so if you're
squatting you know if you're if you're
leg pressing let's say 700 pounds which
is not unreasonable you could be making
10 kilogram jumps and that's 1 RR each
if you're doing lateral raises a 1.25
kilogram jump might be to our IR so it
really depends on the strength of the
exercise depends on the individuals
progression and budget afoot stuff what
we say is make a conservative effort
first just assume it's 2.5 and not 5 and
do a mesocycle but if at the end of the
mezzo you increased it for 4 weeks or 5
weeks by 2.5 you thought you were gonna
be a zero RER but really you're like a -
well they clearly it's a little more
than 2.5 so maybe some weeks you go up
2.5 other we should go up by 5
there's there's no you know your ideal
increase could be 3.75 what the fuck you
gonna do you're not gonna put 3 point 7
5 kilos on the bar say my to 2 point 5
and add a rep or you might do some weeks
2.5 some weeks 5 and so on and so forth
there's different ways to do it just as
long as you're honest each week about
what rir you really think you're hitting
like if last week was super fucking easy
you fucking know it was go up a little
more this next week if last week was
really fucking pretty tough go up a
little less when Charlie and I were just
actually just finishing our fat loss
cycle back when we were training at the
actual gym at the beginning because
a fat loss cycle we were training a
smith machine in which violence was an
issue
so Smith skull Crusher's we went up by
two point five pounds per side just on
one side a total per week right so
basically Lake it was one sixty one week
and then one sixty two point five the
next and 165 like an enormous guys
people cry like you fuckin kidding me
going up like to think exactly because
that is the progression that probably
gets a super one and sometimes we would
add an extra rep and sometimes it
wouldn't based on how that our er was
going that day or that week we'd always
hit a little mini PR but sometimes we
push it a little bit sometimes not the
answer your question is is it really
just comes down to auto regulation and
what works for you and fuck what
everyone else is doing
yeah I also consider that it might be
adding no weight and just doing more
reps to and that's all it's totally fine
that's people for some reason don't
think that's good but like if you're on
the low end of your goal rep range like
if you're getting like 665 it would be
completely reasonable to not add any
weight that next week and try and get
seven six five or like eight seven six
there's something like that and that
would be completely fine I had a whole
progression in the summer where I
started doing incline bench pressing on
the Smith machine and I started very low
I are sorry very high reps in reserve to
275 pounds or something like that and
and likes a first set of eight and all I
did over the next multiple weeks was ad
reps I stayed at 275 and I got up to do
it to 75 for like 16 or 17 reps there
then I started adding weight and
eventually the crack 300 barrier so on
and so forth so that's totally a thing
especially if you're adapting really
quickly and it's a low rep range adding
a whole Reavis a lot more stimulus but
sometimes you can do it it's just
fucking do it
yeah alright Kareem Salaam arene Sol la
Sol hi doctors question number one is
there a specific time to sleep in or get
more rest this a good question
Arina asked that on Instagram but a ring
thank god Ron here and I do prefer you
ask questions on here for the only
reason that we can way better job of
answering them than my one word bullshit
answers on Instagram hmm before it
literally like I'm not I can't it's a
fucking cell phone and I gotta type out
a fucking dissertation also that shit
disappears forever these things are here
for good so this great place to ask
questions so arene on the Instagram I
believe he asked like what's the deal
was sleeping in like he is it ever look
good
good sport science idea or is it just
more like emotional James the sort of
time I like sleeping is really just
really like warrant yeah so I mean there
are there are times where it could be
useful and that could be done kind of on
an auto regulated fashion usually the
the case you would make is when somebody
was like under slept for several days
leading up to that but normally my
recommendation is that consistency is
greater than accuracy in this case we're
maintaining your biorhythms like what
time you wake and what time you go to
bed is probably a bigger priority then
saying like should I sleep in today
because my workout was extra hard that
would be a poor use of the auto
regulated strategy in my opinion I could
be wrong on that but that's my opinion
so just because you feel you're feeling
it doesn't mean you should necessarily
sleep in if you had to catch a red-eye
flight and then had a really hard time
getting back to sleep for the last like
two days and you have a day where you
you don't have to rush off to work or
anything and you say you know I might
sleep in a few extra hours today because
I'm just I've been really fucked up from
lack of sleep I think that's perfectly
fine but I think it's a poor strategy
just because of making bad decisions in
the gym so like if you're so fatigued
all the time that you need to start
actually adding more sleep because
you're so fucked up it's probably a
fatigue management issue not I need more
sleep issue yeah also James correct me
if I'm wrong but like habits and sleep
are more important than try to make up
this and that here and there yeah
exactly the ideal amount of sleep
there's been system never need to sleep
in because you're always really well
rested yeah so consistency greater than
accuracy right whether it's whether or
not you needed if you always get ate and
today you actually needed eight point
seven hours like I would still say get
that eight wake up at the same time and
it seems to be more pressing evidence
that says like waking at the same time
seems to be more important than sleeping
or you're starting your sleep
opportunity at the same time so I would
say keeping that wakes is probably very
very important to be consistent and this
really is shitty because it requires
forethought and missing out on nighttime
activities but the honest-to-god the
adults way of getting the rest you need
if you're behind unrest is to go to bed
earlier
I know blows right my wife and I do it
every now and again and we always thank
God we fucking did it like and as we get
older I think we just can't sleep in
anymore because they're not children
well with enough enough growth hormone
you could sleep in however long what
that's it
try not to die sooner than later so
um the thing is is like at 9:00 a.m. ish
I'm just oh like it doesn't even matter
like a good about a three nine I'm like
and then so what ends up happening is a
little tired or behind the times said I
go to bed at like midnight we'll go to
bed at like 10:30 and at 6:00 super lame
because there's like still people
partying outside where we go to bed but
then we still sleep till 9:00 we get
extra like hour and a half sleep and
then we feel like karate keep in the
fucking world so definitely just go to
bed earlier man and it sucks but
sleeping in is worse than going about
earlier definitely agreed number two
from Irene can incline pressing a low
and maintain they didn't lower chest
size for beginners and early
intermediates yes for intermediates in
advanced no but maintaining lowered mid
chest size is really easy to do if you
just pepper in a tiny bit of volume from
flat pressing you don't have to do any
decline pressing so if you do incline
mostly incline work just 25% or even 50%
of our weekly volume like a couple of
sets a week a flat pressing will
maintain your lower and mid chest just
fine while you're in curricular Chester
grows your upper chest
however only increase the incline
pressing not a great idea if you want to
maintain middle or chest size if you're
more advanced and if you were dieting
for hypocaloric conditions and trying to
lose fat then I would say that's not the
wisest idea I agree and I think if the
goal is maintenance of overall chest
sized a flat bench variation if you're
if you were for report every reason you
were pressed and you could only pick one
I would pick a flat variation at that
point it would be an odd situation but
who knows
totally number three what does lose skin
how does it form loose skin is just skin
that is formed to enclose a formally
larger structure that is not smaller it
forms with the multiplication and thus
creation of new skin cells what can we
do about it
from my understanding of a surgery Jack
ship that's my understanding as well
number four
how can smoking affect muscle growth and
fat loss smoking enhances fat loss
because it actually increases your
metabolism and it makes you not hungry
however it sure as hell dampens muscle
growth there's been a few examinations
where nicotine itself is not great for
muscle growth and it actually causes
less of a pump it actually decreases
their vasodilation
effect to your local muscles you don't
get as good of pumps from training so
smoking cigarettes not great for muscle
growth probably not hugely impactful but
definitely not good and actually pretty
these are for fat loss but it does kill
you more reliably than almost anything
else we know so keep that in mind yeah
and not to mention the like the
long-term systemic limitations on how
much you can train like if you're a hat
totally more capacity less capacity goes
to the toilet number five what would be
the benefit of a little bit of salt 20
minutes before you work out this is one
of those funny questions like what do
you think the benefit is like yeah if
you're taking in very very low salt
levels because you're on anabolic
steroids and they make you very salt
retentive taking salt 20 minutes before
your workout gives you really cool
vascularity for like the first half of
your workout which is sweet for
photoshoots that is exclusively the
benefit of salt and also it'll enhance
your performance because you're actually
mildly hyponatremic but if you have
normal sodium intake and like you need
as much salt as you feel like eating
then it's gonna actually a little bit of
salt 20 minutes before your workout will
literally go completely unnoticed you
will have no idea that's the word that's
happening yeah like if you're doing a
lot of like heavy endurance training and
you're like a heavy sweater and it's hot
outside like it might be an okay idea to
do that but then you have just be eating
salt for the whole day before exactly
yes number six if I'm gonna deal ODE
next week
would it have any benefit if I
straight-up do as much work as I can do
that my workouts meaning you crazy
values week or do let no because you
could do non-functional overreaching you
create so much damage that the super
compensatory effect can't make up for
none that balance nearly as much as it
would and you'll get worst results so
what we say is just go a little bit over
MRV I should really really feel like she
in any way and then good enough this
last week of training is not oh washing
games last week of training is not a
psychological event for your
frustrations it is a calculated decision
by someone the no support science to
give us jacked as possible so don't do
as much as you can also it's a great way
to get hurt so no sound sitter a ream
that like if you're doing crazy volumes
that last week it's like what were you
doing before then but it probably means
that your program was maybe a
of disarray ahead of time right because
like by the time you get to your last
week you should already be like theory
so if you couldn't want to do crazy you
shouldn't want to do crazy stuff you
should be like I have to just kind of
get through this week and hope for the
best and then I get a break right if you
have that much gas in the tank where
you're like I'm gonna double what I have
been doing it's like okay well you were
just under training that whole time more
like this young number eight how many
reps percent is to load not to be
considered strength training and how
many reps is so high that the weight is
- yeah I hate that's backwards rad
shortfall studies I think it's between
five and forty but since you don't need
to go that high or that little media
range between eight to thirty reps so
anything about five reps has been shown
to enhance hypertrophy and anything for
sure below thirty reps the the sort of
sense of three four and five definitely
called hypertrophy but the stimulus to
fatigue ratio will probably is not great
and actually need more sets of three and
four almost for sure from all the
studies as then you set equivalence of
higher reps and I would also say sets of
five and six or suspect there - five six
seven I would say like if you're just
doing lots of those sets then hi honey
my wife has returned from the ICU so if
you're doing a lot of sets of like
anywhere between five and seven reps I
would say you'd probably working extra
hard on meeting every joints extra hard
for the same amount of hypertrophy and
and the other hand anything north of 30
reps is the Sinister fatigue ratio again
isn't that great so you have to do more
of those sets to get the same
temperature people I still work so
that's really five to thirty is really
probably the best answer but most of
your training should occur between I
would say between sets of eight most of
your training at all in sets of eight
and sets of twenty five eight to twenty
five is really the more golden range but
I would take that too much to heart or
someone's doing self of twenty nine
fucking idiot you know that's right no
it's a good answer and then lastly says
thanks for answering my questions here
in our Instagram sweet Irene stop asking
questions on Instagram legit no legit
like if it takes me nothing to ignore
your questions on there Joe and I love
you a thousand a thousand times but I
can't physically answer tons of
questions in mister Gramm and when I do
did you the answer suck
marek no yes 25 I don't want answers
like that to my questions so most people
don't know about our people off so they
haven't signed up for a you
motherfuckers out here getting answers
intricate answers to all your questions
you're lucky so don't tell anyone every
bus I just get it
tell your friends but let us and the
more you come out here the better
question answers it's for sure mark
Conway says I read my kid James Bond yes
but that's always good Jamaican accent
yeah since you guys internally read it
that way actually that's the only way we
want to think of you mark is Jamaican
remember James remember he m on Milan
yes where has he been
I don't know but we had an RP plus E
yeah Mon Mon yeah Mon my love and he was
like from Ireland but eventually he was
like hey the island breeze is great here
in Ireland all right I says I've
completed my modified version with
metabolite these from the five-day male
physique template I've just started a
recent cessation doesn't mean as
calories as mentioned I'm currently
sitting around 2025 % body fat I would
like to start cutting up to 200 super
socialisation however my trainees based
most exclusive your own 9 kilogram
dumbbells my questions are if my gym is
still closed after maybe sensitization
as oh would you recommend sharing your
cup with another metabolite phase yes
or would you instead recommend
maintaining or gaining I wouldn't gain I
would just maintain maintain yeah push
to push the cutback I've heerd shouldnt
the pros and cons of metabolite Ranger
and cot versus mean ants versus mass
metabolite rating is finder it cuz just
never sustainable so then the question
becomes what he do in the second mezzo
right you can do metabolite training
honestly for one mezzo and do what mezzo
of cutting and then hopefully that
clears up and then with hopefully the
gyms open by them and then you take a
short maintenance phase in the gym to
get used to the weight training workouts
and that mean this phase also clears the
diet fatigue from wake your six week
metabolite phase and then you just start
on like hypertrophy phase one and then
do cutting phase right there you can do
that but if the gyms don't open by that
I would just go after that after that
metabolite phase and the cutting I would
do maintenance and then maybe go into a
little bit of a mass for lack of
anything else to do
yeah I agree
it's a shitty situation it is and then
he said if I were to run over Tapley
phase 1 record deficit should I train
just as hard as I did preventing you
from fail and increasing volume as they
did during mass saying yeah yeah you'll
have to in order to keep the muscle on
especially with them tab light phase
especially with those tiny dumbbells man
you're gonna be fighting to keep the
muscle on the body yeah I'm you know
okay could you could get creative and
use like I I think he's just saying like
he's limited to those dumbbells you can
certainly do bodyweight stuff and some
other stuff that might be more helpful
but finally is it normal to experience
some lower back Dom's after squatting
yes I also find that in later weeks the
mess I collect chronically have some
degree versus your Aloe Blacc food stuff
Lucy episode why nothing paint floor
anything that impacts my performance
Hubbert assets just putting on my socks
are definitely more difficult the end of
mezzo ha this is always seemed clear
after a deal owed as expected it happens
to me every single Muslim what could
potentially be a sign that I'm Ronnie
metal or back at the bottom a squat no
that would be like Dom's type of stuff
they and and actually it would be like
if you're rounding was a problem it
would be shooting pain down her legs it
would be mobile day
thank you both in advance for your wise
tutelage I hope to both thriving in your
Corona Baalak time chambers you are
welcome my friend yeah yeah I think it's
totally normal alright good mark mana
cheeto mark mylow Chino whoa I like that
Manas that is either a guy who owns like
a cheese steak place down the block I
was gonna say a deli or he's like the
super stud wrestler you have to you have
to Russell he's from the battered high
school a queue comin up against like no
mom he knows why but they give the kid
like hates his dad his dad makes him
wrestle in he quits during the match you
get the girl rustling 80
what a story like was it Vision Quest
type of shit she's oh good
just there's something just oh not at
all yeah there was a good timeline for
movies amazing 1980s high school sports
dramas I wanna make my wife watch them
honey up she's taking a shower but
somewhere in the universe she knows
we're watching 80s high school sports
drama Jesus cavity and the dick later
for me gonna go through that shit
alright hi guys
says Marc Lana Chino I've been
since 2012 first five years powerlifting
not two years prioritizing effort Rafi
with dedicated mats and cutting business
nice I started taking creatine in 2012
stopped a couple of years ago because I
have a strong family history of male
pattern hair loss I know the link isn't
yet proven that there's a lot of
suggestive research out there the
creatine my promoter hair loss of
genetic acceptable guys unrelated I also
became vegan a few years ago I'm very
diligent overall in training nutrition
my progress has been good overall in two
years for purchase retraining but
recently in my usual bloodwork I noticed
that since late 2016 might creatinine is
steadily gone down from 114 to 77 still
with a normal range but lower end normal
I don't know what you I create Kranti
and I love the fact that Google says
it's a waste product from a creep
creatine breakdown in the muscles it's
one of those but it's not only that my
question is how much optimality do you
think I'm sacrificing by continuing to
avoid creatine so the link between
creatine and creatinine is actually very
very tiny creatinine is usually marker
for just kidney function in general it
could vary for 50 trillion reasons
regarding that have nothing to crete
enum take how much i'm familiar you
think i'm sacrificing to continue to
avoid creatine would you say it's still
no more than a usual quarter 5 percent
max benefit the general supplements can
offer my likely using an extra potential
gains even as a team with low
conformable grantee level same so every
contact I have to go do something real
quick and take a piss James if you want
to ask the Russell's question my initial
answer and actually James if you wanted
to get take start TJ you're in Casas
question after that I'll be right back
with you sir my initial answer to this
is it's probably more like the five to
seven percent you're losing as a vegan
who doesn't take creatine so I would say
you get a pretty decent kick out of
creatine if you took it and I'm not sure
how you trade that off yeah yeah I tend
to agree with dr. Mike on that one I
think given your situation it's probably
in your best interest to do the just to
use creatine normally like not some
crazy mega doses or anything just like
the kind of standard 5 grams per day I
don't I don't want to put like a
percentage on it like say like yo this
is how much you're losing out on I would
just say I think he would get a tangible
performance benefit from using the
creatine so if it's one of those things
where you start using it again you
notice like all your hair is falling out
then there you have a reason not to use
it but I don't think that'll be the case
I would say just go ahead and get
started I don't think you should put too
much stock into the connection between
the creatine supplementation and the
creatinine blood work that you're doing
like Mike said it could be here
for a thousand reasons all right TJ
Jankowski evening gents or afternoon or
we're never the fuck you read this
that's true they were all over the place
I just wanted to wait so that James
could celebrate Tony Ferguson's win and
whoops yeah I lost a few bucks on that
one Congrats to Justin gates you though
that was a doozy of a fight I did lose
money or some or biohacking it's not the
biohacking I think the word is fucking
ridiculous but here I was trying to ask
its where do they where do they pluck
the science from is it the rat studies
and these people just don't know the
real world I assume you would call these
people more marketers rather than
scientists yeah so sometimes they
actually pull it from from from animal
studies and that's that's someone coming
more often than not they pull it from
just a total nonsense they'll have like
unpublished like laboratory data from
whatever supplement company that they're
using that's not like peer-reviewed or
anything like that that's a very common
practice for them to do a lot of times
it's neither it's just some bullshit
that they made up and they're straight
up just like lying or making shit up I
know that sounds cynical but that is and
in the best case very often they're
pulling it for my rat and animal studies
and random animal studies are useful
they can provide some insight because we
share so many of the same mechanisms but
one that's really interesting and I'm
glad dr. Mike came out at this time is
uh if you look at the rat research on
leucine supplementation they thought
that was gonna be the next godsend for a
little while because rats and they
become Hulk rats right unfortunately
that just didn't turn out to be the case
in humans and actually just hitting
enough protein per day seems to be just
fine supplementing with a huge super
mega dose of Lucy doesn't seem to get
you any added benefit that the rats
actually saw so I don't know man this is
mostly an issue of people just being
charlatans I don't really think that we
have to give them much more credit than
that I wish it sounds very cynical on my
part but I think that's the truth is
that for a TV on Kowski is question one
yeah okay super yeah right on okay that
answer is the biohacking stuff right
yeah okay next one also would like your
thoughts of a success over the years of
DC
by the way DC stands for dog crap it
literally does not a joke very similar
to mire ups but a bit more regimented
with a 2x4 you can see heavier loads
overall but the sets even if you count
each full cycle is double a 60 15 cents
max per week for muscle group
very low volume I wouldn't say it's very
low volume say that's pretty moderate
moderate loads uh what was high
frequency is only really two times a
week which is really good so how has it
been so successful particularly for
advanced guys who would not who I would
assume already trained hard or is it
just not as successful so it's couple
reasons why DC training so first of all
it's pretty mixed we're successful it is
so thing people use people use shit
that's less successful all the time you
know p90x has used more than PC training
by probably 50 times the number of
people can't say it's more successful so
it is employed the appeal of DC training
it's twofold one it lets you have a
structure which is really rare in
bodybuilding training and it's a the the
auto-regulatory increase in intensity or
unloading is actually very simple it's
like if you need a certain rep range you
go up and wait that's it
and - and lets you train to failure
every set people like that because it
makes them feel manly and like their
tribe so that's its benefits
psychologically and those are really
good benefits why is it a pretty decent
way of training two times a week
frequency is often an increase in
frequency for my bros du which is one so
they're getting better results - because
it goes to failure it's really
unequivocal that you're working hard
enough in 3 a lot of times uses compound
movements and it emphasizes full range
of motion and emphasizes our role
religion progression emphasizes
progression in a systematic way that's
really awesome and that's why I can't
hate on DC train even though I don't
think it's optimal I think something
very similar to it is optimal DC
training is one the only forms of
training in which there's a legitimate
progression inscripted in the training
it's like when you hit these certain
reps then you go up and wait and if you
can't go up and wait then you whatever d
load and repeat that's it like DC
training is right on in my book because
of that so I would say that those are
its plus sides and I don't think we can
emphasize enough how much having an
actual structured program really does
contribute to having massive results I
mean how many people just go up to the
gym and just do whatever the fuck they
feel like do in that day right whereas
like being
program just forces you to follow kind
of a set pattern up restrictions which
naturally is just gonna cause you to
have a very strong progression so yeah
can't say good enough good things about
that
yeah and DC training does a great thing
of establishing a baseline and then
trying to match your PRS and rikka PRS
every week like you a lot of people
especially in bodybuilding like with
really good genetics they come in and
just sort of show off and when they're
going gets tough they don't try as hard
DC training puts your fucking nose to
the paper and says this is how hard you
have to go today at least this right
that's very similar to what we do at RP
which just set a minimum 3 RI our thing
and just keep going from there until you
hit failure DC goes to failure right
away but once you economic a rapper or
an extra couple of pounds every time
that's really really important it's a
lot of people think they're trying hard
and like wait a minute I have to squat
what for comedy reps and they do it
realize they can do it and then they can
do it next week and they do and they get
oh my god I'm getting all these games
when you've never actually progressed
before in your training whatever fatigue
grows a little bit you are I'm gonna go
and do this and this was 5 rir and way
less volume if you do that then you just
sort of Auto regulator out being a
little bitch of it it's first it sounds
very much likely five-three-one of
hypertrophy training
exactly exactly in absolutely James that
is exactly that that is wonderful DC is
the high five three out of every four
game and for the love God five Florin
was a revolution because before that
people are doing these programs it just
made no goddamn sense and there's no
program you know they were doing the
Westside super variation so you could
even track if you're getting stronger
like well I did this very at my PR but I
haven't done that six months over the
Buffalo bar good mornings to to to the
seat for one rep today max effort max
effort good morning that was like the
end of us I think fucking God
alright thoughts on rest pause in
general I'm going for a decent
time-saving strategy for someone who is
looking to eke out as much muscle growth
as possible you just miss out on some of
volume and massing which might lead to
more growth
anything I'm missing I mean like so rest
pausing works when the local factors are
limiting not systemic factors so if the
reason if you rest pause on a squat a
lot of times the only thing that happens
is the next couple of reps are just more
systemically limited by your long as you
just get nothing you're actually to the
muscle very far from our ER but if you
rest pause a cable bicep curl it's just
more very high
active reps so rest-pause can be used
very well in exercises that are not
systemic with limiting on exercises that
are systemically limiting rest-pause is
a giant waste of time and you better off
just taking nice long rest breaks and
doing higher qualities yeah so it's like
an intensification technique you can use
in conjunction with like your your basic
straight sets on many things and then
you can add it for supplemental things
you don't towards the end not a heat
rest-pause deadlift so I could see
someone try oh fuck that all right and
then he says finally thoughts on recent
studies that are coming showing superior
muscle preservation I don't think too
much showing growth from diets on
trainees using up to over 3 grams per
kilogram protein per bodyweight I still
need more time before we conclude
anything even longer now people are
devoting their scientific research to
stop this bloody quote magnetic when
will we be a research protein again damn
it yeah so you actually haven't seen
those new studies so I can't comment on
them I will say new studies recent
studies or bullshit you have to take the
balance of the evidence a couple more
studies can come out later showing
complete opposite I think my reading
literature so far is that for
individuals that are especially
drug-free especially very lean and have
been dieting for a long time Ferdie high
intakes of protein can be shown to be
that catabolic over lower it takes but
for individuals that are none of those
things you actually need very very
little protein to present i'm antique
anabolic stimulus been sufficient yeah
and i haven't seen those papers either
so i can't comment on those specifically
but let me just put this out there it's
not new research like we this is like
this comes and goes every couple of
years where it's like does more protein
matter and it it's just this cycle of i
don't know what to call it but it's the
violence paradox stone used to always
give a shit because we'd be like doc
stone what do you think about keto need
to be like everyone asks me this every
five years and then it comes back and
ago and he's right it's the same fucking
topics that just keep resurfacing it's
like do you need to eat a shitload of
protein it's like asked and answered
right it's been done so many times so i
would be surprised if they found
something new and interesting but like
Mike said we go the the the gross body
of what the literature of the current
state says there's probably not a huge
benefit there for most people yeah
outside of this eating more calories to
that's know there's always like there's
always weird shit
- you know control for some of these
studies where it's just like okay what
do they get
they're just a giant calorie surplus all
from protein and the other people did in
control calories at all you know it's
gets annoying hi Alyssa Alyssa alright
let's go to my my shit
YouTube Jews sharing going alright let's
see we got Greg to set we got Jeff
Nippert we got John Meadows Oh hopefully
I got a call I gotta call this guy out
so Tom I'm assuming you you pronounce
your name Tom when Tom win yeah he's
commented on combing my hair on at least
two videos now tom is earning his insel
stripes dude past let me just send a
straight up
I don't own a comb nor was like 10 when
you have a PhD get a free pass on crazy
hair I have like fan noise level free
pass on on my hair believe all humans
get a pass on crazy hair on the fact
that it's hair so I know you know I have
thick skin like it doesn't bother me but
also like do you want people to show up
to your job and make fun of how you look
you know yeah James get him talk that
shit head Tom gonna be gone with luck
you you're gone I'm not mad it's just
like you made it on to I was gonna let
it go but you made it on to videos homie
come on now this is what Tom wanted cuz
Tom now knows he's got him in and now
tom is gonna use the only tool he has an
insult toolbox he's gonna keep bringing
it up even after we don't look at it
anymore if this is gonna be the
highlight of what's going on for Tom Tom
we're just messing with you buddy come
on there does look ridiculous but sörman
know who gives a fuck not me otherwise I
would come I would comb it but I don't
want to comb Tom my James are cold it's
at least you could do he can't afford a
comb it all somebody else called me out
Steve and Turner if James I hope he
didn't put too much money on Tony I'd
lost
I put 25 down so I lost 25 on the night
I was like 75% on my picks but the way
the race of way the picks worked out I
basically like broke even on
I think I was like in the red letting a
couple bucks but oh yeah I know
shit happens fucking Vegas odds alright
so let's get some good questions this
one has to be first it's a fucking
amazing question this guy not a real
name can't pronounce his down numbers in
there was it fall and returns 1 1 3 is
brilliant
why are crackheads ripped as fuck
seriously how is that even possible
they definitely do not eat healthy or
enough their sleep was probably the only
thing that's what the normal maybe
above-normal rain just maybe depends on
it on the binge side of the piece of the
downside I'm pretty sure that isn't a
crackhead gym in the sewers well pretty
sure isn't totally sure that's with my
turtle strain yep
if there is would that be proof of ninja
turtles holy Shah crackhead Ninja
Turtles I would say the fact that
crackhead liquid stock is down mostly -
a great proof of the importance of
energy balance crackheads are moving all
the time and they don't really eat
because crack doesn't exactly make you
hungry so if you're a hypo collec and
you move a lot then you get really
fucking lean
that's it how the fuck are they supposed
to get fat and just remember like
looking lean always makes you look
deceivingly large right that's the like
the optical illusion so people see
somebody who's like really lean though
and well that guy's huge it's like he's
135 pounds yeah not to shit on people
but like you know what I mean the shit I
crack heads yeah it just makes you look
bigger than you then you actually yeah
alright Richard are for the last month I
have had significant outside elbow pain
quote unquote tennis elbow from lifting
or took ten days off from all activities
have used standard read rest ice
compression eyes expression elevate
procedure
rice I am sorry the starter was just
putting rice on your album but I was
wrong prior to first word into AK it was
almost pain-free
first I couldn't uh first workout
shoulders was only a tiny amount of
discomfort but biceps are impossible
with normal weight and I am taking
longer rest periods between sets of
using an elbow sleeve that is really not
helped there will be the best method of
fixing this thanks for the help and
in the excellent content James let's
your best shot at this one so the first
thing is you got to figure out which
movements are exacerbating the pain now
some movements are gonna have a little
indirect pain like you might bench press
or something in your like doesn't feel
great but that's really hurt either but
like that for example you said they uh
putting the five flips it's like almost
impossible you have to figure out which
bicep movements are directly causing
that pain and just eliminate them right
away right so you might find that like
doing a barbell curl is awful but like
doing a hammer curl or like a bent over
curl or something like that doesn't
actually seem to cause you any pain and
if that's the case you can you can still
train your biceps using those movements
but you also might find is that doing
any type of elbow flexion activity
regardless of the grip or dumbbell
barbell whatever just is causing
excruciating pain and there's only one
way to fix this homie and it's it's
terrible so if you if you an exercise
work around the only other option at
that point is to let it rest and you
have to give it time to not be inflamed
anymore because if it's inflamed and
everything causes it to be more inflamed
it's just gonna never heal it just gonna
be a problem that's gonna be bothering
you forever until you let it go so
you're gonna probably want to take a
meso off of any direct arm training at
that point see how you're going and the
next meso and what we would say is pick
up movement that you can do in a high
rep range pain-free so for example you
could do like a concentration curl for
sets of like maybe twenty to thirty reps
and if you can do that pain-free then
you can add that movement back in in the
next meso and just do it one or two days
per week and just see how that goes and
kind of follow a similar progression
from there on but once you have
tendinitis it doesn't go away until you
until you can do things pain-free yeah
it's that a chronic inflammatory cycle
just reinflates ah yeah exactly alright
last question for the day Gustavo Leone
Gomez oh yes finally I see one what
would you guys consider an aesthetic
physique and in that same line of
thought do you guys probably meant to
say think think that if there is such a
thing as traps too big for aesthetic or
something like that my first answer is
it depends on what you mean James and I
could have our own preferences and those
are very important to us
you can also have average preferences I
would say that depends on your goal for
aesthetics is is a to appeal to the
average is its appeal to average females
as its appeal to average males average
males usually prefer bigger traps
average females do not but there's a
huge variation there so I would say a
good movie illustration females would
probably tend to prefer a Chris Evans a
lot Captain America physique a little
bit more than the Tom Hardy physique but
males almost exclusively prefer the Tom
Hardy feels like if you saw Tom Hardy
and like warrior and Captain America in
Captain America movies you'd be like
fuck that Captain America guy I want Tom
Hardy's traps goddamn it but I think the
average female probably prefers the
Captain America physique and that again
there's a lot of non average females
that just they just want a huge muscle
bull like Tom Hardy god I would let Tom
Hardy do unspeakable things to me speak
the Lord the girls in America's okay the
girls on Jersey Shore used to always go
further they were just like I want a
gorilla I want a juicehead freak I want
a man with traits Jersey Shore reference
honey yeah my wife is like what the fuck
are you saying what are you talking
about crystal has seen too many episodes
of Jersey Shore she owes much you know
there's probably patients at her
practice they're like hey what's this
medical mystery she's like honestly I
would know how to not watch some West
Jersey Shore I love Jersey Shore it's
James what do you make of traps there is
a point of no return on traps in the
finally found it and it was because the
guy had like synthol traps and it just
looked like so resilient all traps guy
yes it was like one of those where I was
like no that's you've gone too far my
friend you died too far oh you know for
in terms of aesthetic physique it's hard
to say because everybody has their own
personal preferences on those things you
know I think like even like what you
think is cool-looking might not be the
actual aesthetic that you want you know
so for like for me I usually try and get
my clients to a point where when they do
it I will take in the mirror and they go
oh yeah like I'm feeling pretty good
about how I look right now in terms of
my likeliness and muscularity but
there's always that's the thing with
like the aesthetic there's always
somebody who's like leaner or more
cement
cool or larger than you so it's kind of
one of those things that's like a a
self-defeating kind of cycle because
there's always somebody bigger better
better-looking whatever so usually it
for me it's just like can you get
yourself to a point where like you look
in the mirror you give that nod like
yeah I feel pretty good about how I look
and how how I can how much of this I can
maintain like 75% of the year without a
whole lot of us that's usually what I'm
going for
yeah I would say there's some universals
of what does no aesthetic physique
people that win the met like the classic
physique category at the pro level
national level they're guys that have
physiques they're just awesome you know
but like are their physiques better than
the guys that were in like men's
physique with the board shorts no that's
just different you know like girls who
probably look at the board shorts guys
would be like wow that's hot body and
look at a classic does he cry to be like
that's a that much and then branch water
come out underwear men again there's
there's there's girls and guys that
around branch Warren are uncomfortable
this is so fucking hot going around a
male physique I'd be like fucking Lewis
train with weights you know so it really
just think it's funny he's like I prefer
my body to look like a war machine but
if I were into guys if I was dating a
guy I'd probably go for more like an
Eric alumns type of body I hope Eric
hears this and like if I was gonna be
dating a guy and he was like I like I
like a branch Warren look I'd be like
that's cool you know what I mean so it's
it really even like within a single
individual it's different you know if
you're lean and muscular there's very
many ways of being laid a muscular that
are cool-looking and the rest is on you
I think there's also to like when you
when you're sizing somebody up like that
not I don't mean like sizing them up
like to fight but when you're looking at
somebody's physique like you also know
like the level the level of like
maintenance requirements to maintain
that body right and so that may or may
not like be inline and with your style
and you can immediately note that where
you see somebody who's a bodybuilder and
you're like yeah that's cool but man
there's no way I can maintain that
enough regimen you know what I mean it's
just super I enjoy totally and quality
of life if you're back on you probably
can't really wipe your own ass all that
well and same thing goes when you're
like sizing up somebody if you're like a
potential you want to have a potential
in shit like if you like okay well this
person's a it's the ifbb pro pro what's
a physique women's physique you're like
okay that her life revolves around this
you know what I did was he any part of
her life that's like that's what comes
with the package you know what I mean
James do you remember us at Great Plains
you remember John Romano who was an
editor for muscular development I don't
know if he is I used to be an MD really
yeah so he was like he was the chief
editor at one point he wrote a great
article and MD and he was a great fuckin
magazine he was a hardcore before
hardcore yeah he wrote an article about
like D it was called so he wanted a to
feed your girl and this kid like one of
his training partners like man I think
I'm in love with her he's like you're
not in love with her you're in fuck with
her there's a difference and he's like
you know if you want to date a favored
girl this is what you expect it was a
pretty like but obviously because the
article was a little bit like
tongue-in-cheek that a lot of truth to
and clearly not all for you girls like
those music get ready to hold her hair
while she throws up her dinner she has a
fucking eating disorder cuz tons of
these girls do get ready for her only
give a shit about what she looks like
and so on down the line and he's like if
you're into that that's great but you
gotta understand you're not just getting
the look you're getting a whole package
and it was like you know tons of figure
girls out there aren't insane people are
not struggling with tons of disorders
two groups by the way but some of them
are and and that's just something you
know like if you look at a guy who's
like 300 pounds shredded like he doesn't
just get there just by accident that's a
lifestyle if you're in that lifestyle
and you're a girl or you're a guy and
you want to date someone like that then
you just know what you're getting but
you know funny enough like my wife and I
have talked about this before she has
like acquaintances in her past which
like started dating a person who had a
certain Tommy any kind sometimes it's
physical fitness hobby sometimes it's
another hobby and they're like when they
get married and start to think about
children they're like you have to stop
your hobby it's like good fucking God
did you know you're getting yourself
into like wouldn't her and I started
dating she's like I never gonna quit
lifting weights to make time for you and
I'm never gonna quit being a doctor
because you feel lonely I'm like that's
the hottest thing you ever heard in my
life but not everyone thinks that's hot
you know some people like you need to
stop this career bull shouldn't be with
me
so you know when you're looking for how
you want to look think about how much
time you want to spend looking like that
and maintaining it and also if you're
looking for a certain
a significant other understand that you
know you're getting some other stuff
with that look and a lot of times people
like who I love that he looks like this
but I've literature this night people
think I love that he looks like that but
I hate all the time he spends in the gym
look the funny fucking retarded yeah how
do you think I shit worse it's the same
way when you saw someone up and it's
fucking Jabba the Hutt right you know
it's like probably not gonna be a good
match
no need but if you like to eat tasty
food there probably won't ever sent down
with that shit oh yeah
oh yeah dude would had a deal the other
day it was like a like an arc and our
archetype blueprint but it was Jabba the
Hutt so it was like Jabba the Hutt and
like a blueprint for me I was like I
have to it's so sweet - amazing as he
was officially designed like that dude
I'll say this off camera okay we'll wrap
it up for it for now folks great job
good questions as always if you want to
have your questions for sure answered
you make sure you join up with rp+ I
think it's free till July yeah reading
to life so do I questions answer time
for our people us and then there's a
link in the forum if you go to the forum
miscellaneous there's a thread that's
like weekly webinar with Mike and James
something to the tune of that you can
drop your questions in there if you're
not an RP plus member you can toss them
up on the YouTube comments we may or may
not read them but if they're good we'll
usually grab them and thanks for tuning
in we appreciate you guys engaging with
us peace