our people SRP you welcome back dr.
James Hoffman here and we are going to
continue on with our discussions on some
basic physiological concepts so today
we're on basics of physiology this is
part two if you haven't had a chance to
watch the first part make sure you go
back and watch the first one otherwise
some of these things might not make as
much sense as they could if you have
been great we're gonna hop right in
today's discussion is going to be a
really really interesting topic we're
gonna be talking about the concept of
homeostasis and how that's regulated
within the body so homeostasis is
something that you've probably heard us
talking about before in a lot of our
different videos so today what I want to
do is just kind of give you a
fundamental understanding of some of the
things that we're talking about when
we're talking about how the body
maintains homeostasis and some of the
underlying mechanisms in which that is
being done now this isn't going to be
all-inclusive by any means this is meant
to just kind of introduce you to the
topic and kind of feed your hunger for
future discussions on this so let's get
started first slide so when we're
talking about homeostasis right this is
essentially the way the body kind of
maintains a kind of normal or regulated
State so we can look at it all the way
at the system level right which is
whatever body systems that we're
interested in looking at it could be the
endocrine system can be blood balance of
certain chemicals or pH can be all sorts
of different stuff right we can also
look at kind of a systemic effect of the
homeostasis of the organism which can be
difficult to narrow down where we can
kind of talk about the organism in flux
in terms of stress and strain
relationships more often than not in
exercise physiology we're going to be
looking at it at the body systems level
we're gonna see how does exercise or
certain stress ORS like maybe
temperature or altitude affect different
physiological variables like heart rate
blood pressure blood concentration of
certain ions things like that right so
essentially we're trying to figure out
what is kind of the normal resting
condition for this system whatever it is
we're looking at or the body right so we
have kind of a normal operating range we
know that internal and external
stressors can kind of create some
physiological changes in the body and
get us outside of our normal
kind of accepted ranges right and this
is really obvious if you go into
exercise right off the bat we can start
to generate some internal stressors and
we might have external stressors like
heat from the outside humidity
temperature altitude all sorts of crazy
stuff we know that those stressors are
going to start to result in some changes
in our body right why do we see those
changes well essentially we're taking
our body outside of its normal resting
state it's kind of exiting its maybe
upper or lower bounds for certain
characteristics and we need to bring it
back into a manageable range now we have
a lot of different strategies in which
we can maintain homeostasis and it says
most but not all systems use a variety
of short term and long term strategies
to lessen the degree of change
experienced from some of those stressors
on the body so essentially we kind of
have a combination of two principles
that you've probably already heard of
right we have the overload principle
that says hey the stimulus that we
impose on the body has to be disruptive
so disruptive that it takes the organism
out of their homeostatic state right and
we also have stimulus recovery
adaptation that says once an overload
has been delivered there is a refractory
kind of recovery time and that if
conditions are good we can actually see
adaptations to that stress alone right
so essentially what we have in the body
are physiological responses that help
manage these stressors in the acute
sense and then in the long-term we have
chronic adaptations which will kind of
help lessen the degree of severity when
we experience a stress or again so if I
go and do some type of training session
or I go out in the heat it stresses my
body a little bit hopefully it stresses
it to the point of what we call strain
which is an overload on the system right
and then my body will start to make some
changes so that when I experience that
same stress or again it will not be as
impactful or will not be as disruptive
on my homeostatic resting state the next
time that's kind of one of the central
purposes behind making training based
adaptations make sense so far
so again homeostasis is kind of
maintaining balance maintaining
regularity maintaining equilibrium for a
lot of our different body system
structures and functions so let's go on
to the next one so now generally an
exercise physiology when we're talking
about a stressor we're usually looking
at some type of external stimulus or
maybe an internal one dis generated from
exercise that is causing the organism
person to experience some type of stress
right a stress response is usually some
type of physical chemical or
psychological change that occurs as a
result of whatever stress or is being
imposed on the body so for something to
be stressful generally has to result in
a chemical physical or psychological
change and that's pretty normal right so
for example when you start exercising
the metabolic demand goes up oxygen
intake goes up to meet some of these
changes right
nothing crazy there so we know that
stress responses occur constantly within
the body at all times we don't even
think about it because these things
happen all the time right we are
constantly constantly maintaining our
own homeostasis at rest and when we do
light exercise or when somebody calls
you on the phone and you get really
excited right when you're texting your
girlfriend whatever we have to maintain
kind of our normal homeostatic point at
all time so we do this all the time we
don't even think about it right now
normally a lot of these stressors
sometimes the big sometimes are small
they're very easily managed within our
homeostatic boundaries we have a lot of
buffering within homeostasis meaning we
encounter stressors but we can push back
a little bit and it doesn't really seem
to take us outside of our kind of
functional range for whatever variables
that we're looking at it at so under
normal conditions we can buffer a lot of
those stressors right no big deal we
still stay in our kind of normal resting
state now unfortunately we can't
experience stressors that are so large
that they drive us outside of our
buffering zone outside of our upper and
lower balance for homeostasis right so
essentially we have some stressor we
push back we push back we push back but
that stressor can be so big and are you
know usually what we're talking about
it's exercised it's so big that it
starts to create a physiological strain
right so no longer are we just trying to
push back and maintain now we've
actually stressed the system so hard
we've gone outside of our normal
boundaries and that will be the driving
force behind us making a change as a
result of that stimulus so we're going
to start to see adaptations to the
stressors imposed right and this is
something hopefully is very intuitive
most of you have probably heard of this
before
but again and all
for us to make a chronic change an
adaptation we have to actually present
it overload and what that means is we
have to take our system or our body
system whatever it is outside of its
normal working range outside of our
normal homeostatic range of operation
outside of our buffering capacity and
now we have actually exceeded that so
it's created some type of physiological
strain let's go on to the next one
so again stressors usually result in an
acute physiological response right which
is usually kind of a feedback mechanism
to bless in the effect and maintain a
normal homeostatic range kind of a
buffering effect used to regulate
whatever stressors that were encountered
a strain on the other hand is when we
have an overloading stimulus resulting
in a chronic adaptation of the body
right and this is a long-term change to
lessen the homeostatic disruption of the
stimulus that was experienced so
sometimes people confuse these ideas
with like evolutionary adaptation right
whereas these are directed these are
driven based on the actual stimulus that
was experienced right so all the things
that change as a result of doing
exercise getting bigger faster or
stronger leaner more fatigue resistant
right these are changes that are
directed by the stressors imposed on the
body and maybe you've heard of the what
we used to call the set principle sa ID
which stands for specific adaptations to
impose demands same idea here right your
body will adapt to the stressors that
you impose on it whereas evolutionary
adaptations are completely random right
these are not things that we can
necessarily choose they just happen and
and ever from an evolutionary standpoint
people who tend to survive make
adaptations that are favorable right
it's not that your body chose to become
certain ways it just happened to do that
and your ancestors happen to do that
they were successful they had progeny
and then you are result of that progeny
right so there's just two different
things evolutionary adaptations are just
completely random whereas exercise based
adaptations are specific to the actual
stress or is imposed and again normally
stressors not a big deal we buffer them
maintain homeostasis and overloading
stress or will force a change in the
long term so that we can dampen the
effect of that stress makes sense
nothing too crazy yet sticking with me
awesome
let's go on to the next one okay so
there's a lot of different body systems
that operate on homeostatic regulation
just to list a couple here if you look
at the slide we have things like your
core temperature is very very tightly
regulated blood glucose very tightly
regulated oxygen content blood pressure
the amount of water that you actually
carry around on your body the pH balance
of the actual tissues and then off the
blood is very very well regulated and
then even things like extracellular ion
concentrations when we have to actually
create concentration gradients across
certain membranes are very very tightly
regulated so all of these things have
kind of a normal operating range and
they can get kind of whacked out when we
start to encounter stressors right in
the short term we can buffer that in the
long term we might actually make some
long-term changes to lessen the effect
of some of these in post stressors so
this is not an all-inclusive list by any
means but here's just some examples of
systems that operate on this idea of
homeostasis okay let's go on so one
thing that we want to establish about
homeostasis is that it operates on what
we call kind of set points and I think a
lot of people tend to think of this as
kind of like a one numerical kind of
thing where they say okay blood glucose
should be this number blood pressure
should be this number right the amount
of sodium should be this number but
really what we're talking about is
managing kind of an operational range so
the way I like to think about it is
there's a set point which is kind of an
average number but then there's also
kind of an upper and lower boundary that
we're staying within because at any
given time
we're gonna see all of our body systems
all those variables are going to be
waxing and waning a little bit depending
on what stressors are going on at the
time and that's totally normal no big
deal so we want to think of homeostasis
is kind of an operational range of
scores for any given variable in any
given body system right and if you take
a look over here on the slide we have
some examples of ways that we can
control it so again I like to think of
it in terms of upper and lower
boundaries so we have kind of a
functional operating range that we want
to work in if we go outside of that
range now we encounter a physiological
strain which will result in the recovery
adaptive processes being kicked in right
so the way that we do that is through a
couple big mechanisms
the first one is called negative
feedback and then the second one is
called positive feedback right so in the
example on the pictures on the slide
hopefully you can see okay if not no big
deal you can just google it and you can
see plenty of examples of this a
negative feedback control system
essentially is a result of encountering
a stimulus we pick up on changes as a
result of that stimulus we have our
brain centers detect it and they say
okay you know what I am going to send
out an effector something that is going
to seek to oppose those changes right so
in a negative feedback loop we are
essentially eliciting an effect that
will oppose the changes that are
occurring we're trying to reverse what
is happening right and this happens all
the time and this is one of our primary
control mechanisms so something gets out
of whack our brain picks up on it
whether it's temperature or pressure or
chemical imbalances we pick up on that
we send a message up to the brain brain
sends a message back to an effector that
says you know what we need to get that
back in check right so a negative
feedback loop basically tries to either
inhibit or suppress the negative effects
being experienced by the stressor so it
tries to pull it back into its normal
range where as a positive feedback loop
is slightly different and this is
something that we don't see as
frequently and homeostatic regulation is
something that can be used in very very
specific circumstances like giving birth
or orgasms or things like that we don't
see it quite as much but it is worth
noting and a positive feedback loop is
something essentially that picks up on a
stress or and actually starts to amplify
those changes that are being occurred
right so sometimes changes can be
positive like in the example of giving
birth right like things like
contractions that's normal and so a
positive feedback loop will pick up on a
change it will detect a change send
messages that say you know what keep
doing whatever is going we want that to
keep going up until it's done right so
more often than not when we're talking
about maintenance of homeostasis we're
looking at negative feedback where we
see a change stress or causing some type
of variable change starting to move
outside of our operational range we see
negative feedback coming in saying we
need to put a kibosh on that make sure
that we're still in our operational
ranges right and so we can just see some
examples of that on the slide here we've
got positive and negative feedback loops
again negative feed
being more common in our homeostatic
regulation discussion cool next one so
we know that a lot of these negative and
positive feedback loops operate through
chemical messengers right chemical
messengers are is kind of a mail system
of the body we know that chemical
messengers come in on variety of
different compounds and are used to
transmit either instructions or signals
to other parts of the body and then use
this for homeostatic regulation all the
time so essentially what we're looking
at our chemical messengers like I said
it's kind of like mail right so the body
sends out mail that says hey we need to
make a change here you need to make
change there you need to make a really
big change downstream
maybe through the blood it's something
else right so we do that through a
couple different processes right the
couple of big ones are cellular
signaling processes the first one which
you might see referred to in the future
is autocrine signaling which is where we
use chemicals to actually make signal
changes within the cell itself right so
autocrine changes are the result of
chemical signals which can be I ins can
be proteins and things like that
that affect within the exact same cell
that the stimulus is occurring in so it
only stays within itself right only
stays within the same cells so we have
some type of stimulus maybe we need to
activate protein synthesis for some
various characteristics that we will
send a protein out to an effector cell
within the cell excuse me an effector
organelle within the cell and that's it
no change after that right just stays
within the cell paracrine on the other
hand is slightly different paracrine
signaling is using chemical messengers
to actually affect nearby cells so
instead of staying within the cell we
can actually start to see chemical
signals that will start targeting the
cells adjacent or very close to
whichever cell is the site of the target
right so very very common we see
paracrine signaling activating kind of
local area effects right where we have
the cells are talking to the cells next
to each other and then on a bigger scale
we have what we call endocrine signaling
which is the one I think most people are
most familiar with this is kind of like
hormonal regulation this is where we can
actually see long-range effects of cell
excuse me chemical messengers so we
might release a hormone that is released
into the bloodstream it might have
started somewhere up in the brain make
its way into the bloodstream and it
might have an effect somewhere on a
target cell like a muscle cell somewhere
else in the
right so we can kind of see kind of a
scaling here autocrine within the same
cell paracrine nearby cells and then
endocrine it's more of a systemic
chemical messenger effect where we can
release things into the blood and they
can basically make their way all across
the body to have an effect on a
different organ somewhere else makes
sense you'll hear this more and more and
more as you dive deeper into exercise
physiology for now we just need to have
an understanding of autocrine saying
paracrine nearby endocrine system while
ok so on the topic of endocrine
regulation the first thing that usually
comes to mind is hormonal regulation
right so hormones are proteins right so
we know that proteins are made of chains
of amino acids so we know that hormones
are usually secreted by specific organs
so each hormone has a specific organ
that it's related to we also know that
they are generally transmitted through
the blood and different tissues have
very very specific cell receptors either
on the cell membrane or within the cell
itself for those specific hormones so
it's really really interesting so just
because you have something like insulin
or testosterone or cortisol floating
through the blood doesn't mean that it's
activating everything along the way
right essentially what we have are very
very specific kind of like a baseball
and a catcher's mitt on cell surface and
so testosterone or insulin or something
might be floating around and it has to
make a perfect fit on that cell membrane
right so if you have or kind of like a
the old block circle triangle children's
game you've got to make sure you put the
right block through the right hole right
in this case where we have with hormones
is there are very specific cell
receptors on the surface if it doesn't
fit it does not activate the cell now
when it does fit when we have something
like an insulin molecule floating around
and it actually hits that insulin
receptor on the cell then it will
actually start to affect whatever cell
that it hits what could be a muscle cell
could be any number of things right so
if you take a look at the diagram over
here we have an example and this is from
the you can drip sport nutrition book we
have an example so we had cortisol was
floating around in the blood it had a
target cell that I was trying to hit we
had the receptor activated at the cell
membrane the receptor actually then gets
targeted gets activated makes its way
into activating into
the nucleus the nucleus starts
transcript excuse me transcribing and
translating proteins for whatever thing
that we needed to occur that turns into
a messenger RNA which we talked about in
the last lecture the mRNA makes its way
over to the ribosome or it becomes a
protein which then acts as another
chemical messenger for something else
right to say this needs to become
activated or inhibited right so hormones
are used essentially to control the
activity of whatever target tissue that
we're looking at right so it can be used
to activate stress responses it can be
used to activate anabolic catabolic
responses any number of things and when
you guys get a little deeper into the
exercise physiology literature you'll
see there are a number of different
hormones all of which have a unique
starting place and all of which have
unique effects so it's pretty pretty
cool so we know that hormones hormones
hormones are proteins that are sent
right through the blood and have
specific target receptors on the cell
which then activate very very specific
effects on different organs throughout
the body
pretty neat stuff okay so on the next
slide we can just see here's kind of an
example of hormonal regulation and then
this is actually a cool example of
negative feedback as well so this is
also I believe this is from Bernadotte
sport nutrition advanced poor nutrition
book and here we can just see okay we
have the pancreas the pancreas can help
release either insulin from the beta
cells or glucagon from the alpha cells
and here we have examples of what
negative feedback might look like so in
the example of having low blood sugar we
have a homeostatic range of blood sugar
that we operate in once we start getting
too low outside of our normal operating
range we start to pick up on that we say
you know what there's not enough glucose
in the blood the alpha cells of the
pancreas will start releasing glucagon
which is a catabolic hormone which will
start to stimulate the breakdown of
glycogen in the liver to re elevate
blood glucose back into its normal
resting range right so again we had our
homeostatic regulation this one was
through endocrine control on the polar
opposite end when we have high blood
sugar so now we have blood sugar going
above our operational range to high
possibly going into like a toxic range
in some cases not always we see the beta
cells of the pancreas start releasing
insulin insulin has an anabolic effect
meaning it's going to pull things out of
the blood
and bring them into cells to be built up
for structure excuse me
so in this case what we're gonna see is
the alpha cells see me the beta cells
releasing insulin insulin will have
anabolic effect it will start pulling
blood glucose out of the blood to be
stored in the muscle or the liver as
glycogen or potentially be stored for
later use as fat right that allows us to
maintain a normal range of blood glucose
without it becoming too toxic for the
body so just an example of not only
negative feedback but of endocrine
control of negative feedback on a couple
different and so I kinda I really like
that to figure let's move on to the next
another chemical messenger that is
noteworthy for exercise physiology is
the use of neurotransmitters and neuro
peptides so neurotransmitters are really
really neat structurally because they
can vary in size they're as tiny as
single amino acids which is really
really small in terms of you know for
the body and then they can also be
gigantic huge peptide protein chain
molecules where they're just really
really large right so they really do
vary in size and the cool thing about
neurotransmitters is they actually allow
communication between different nerve
cells to conduct electrical signals down
each nerve cell right so we can see a
diagram over here on the right hand side
where we have the axon terminal of one
nerve which is sending an electrical
signal to the dendrite of another nerve
right and in order to do that we need to
have a neurotransmitter to help span the
gap between the two cells right so in
this case if you look we have a
neurotransmitter which is enclosed in
that synaptic vesicle remember vesicles
from our previous discussion so that's
kind of that membrane enclosure it makes
its way over to a voltage-gated calcium
channel and eventually will spill across
the membrane and allow these cell
receptors to pick up on that chemical
signal and then allow that electrical
signal to be conducted across the nerves
really really cool right and so there's
lots and lots of really really cool
interesting neuromuscular stuff we can
talk about in exercise physiology this
is just a really really simple example
so in order for those nerves to
communicate with each other we do have
to span the gap with a chemical
messenger so we we use things like
acetylcholine which can be sitting
excuse me
secreted by synaptic vesicles at the
nerve terminal end and then will be
received by again
receptors at the surface of the target
cell
now one thing that's really neat about
neurotransmitters neuropeptides
as we always just assume that it's kind
of like a positive thing where it turns
things on that is partially true but one
of the neat things that's noteworthy
about neurotransmitters is they can also
inhibit things right so just because
we're seeing electrical conduction
doesn't mean that it's turning processes
on exclusively along the way that's part
of it it does turn things on and does
communicate to say hey this needs to be
activated or this needs to be ramped up
but it also has an inhibitory effect
where it says hey we picked up on too
many of these products we need to back
off of this bioenergetic pathway or this
this reaction because we're accumulating
too much product right or something
along those lines we can actually
inhibit things as well we say hit the
brakes on this activate this
so neurotransmitters are another really
really big part of cellular
communication so very very similar to
hormones in this case a little bit more
specific to nerve cells and nerve
communication and so on the next slide
we can see just another example of that
here we have a neuron on the left figure
that is sending the signal to a
targeting receiving neuron and we see
that kind of similar diagram here where
we have the neurotransmitter it's
enclosed in the vesicle it spills its
neurotransmitter across the membrane
here there are specific receptors at the
target cell on the surface that picks up
on things like acetylcholine it grabs it
it says bingo good to go and then it
fires the electrical signal and then in
some case sometimes like the vesicle can
be either destroyed or we use things
like that we see a lot of interesting
things going on but basically the same
idea in this figure okay let's go on to
the next one
so we know that a lot of different
processes operate on chemical messengers
and we also operate on positive negative
feedback we know that in addition to
some of those chemical messengers a lot
of the process
excuse-me processes and regulation is
done based on the presence or absence of
certain molecules ions and what I like
to describe as products or reactants so
I was biochemistry major bear with me
this is the terms that we like to use so
one of the things that we see in a lot
of metabolic regulatory pathways is the
presence or accumulation of certain
chemicals like ADP and P inorganic
phosphates things like that can
actually have an activating or
inhibiting effect negative feedback
result or our signal cascade for a
number of different processes which is
really cool so essentially what we see
is if certain reactions are happening to
very very high degrees that usually
means we will start to see an
accumulation of the products of that
reaction so for each reaction we have
reactants leading to products right and
we have lots and lots of products
accumulating that can be a chemical
signal that says hey something crazy is
going on for example like when we start
accumulating a DPS that's usually a
signal to the body that hey there's some
intense exercise going on I might need
to start activating other enzymes for
things like glycolysis or aerobic
metabolism because clearly as a result
of accumulating ATP's there is an energy
demand in the body right so there's just
some examples of this that we can see
things like ADP a MP calcium and then
hydrogen ions which are protons so H+ is
literally just one proton that's
floating around usually accumulates as a
result of lactate being produced through
glycolysis very very normal right so
lactate gets a bad rep for being this
like crazy evil thing right really one
of the things that is disrupting
homeostasis it's not necessarily the
accumulation of lactate but the protons
that it brings with it so lactate by
itself not a big deal put it in an
aqueous solution and a proton comes off
of it well it doesn't sound like a huge
deal well unfortunately for us that
proton actually starts to accumulate and
when that starts to happen we start to
see a drop in the acidity of the tissue
which can then affect the blood as well
so we actually see pH start to go down
and hydrogen ions start to go up right
which can be problematic as we said
things like enzymes often operate within
an optimal range of pH the blood
operates within an optimal range of pH
so we start to see some problems there
right so here's some examples certainly
not all-inclusive but these are ones
that you're gonna see over and over and
over again so let's go on to the next
one I love this figure please please
please don't memorize this figure it's
ridiculous but this does a really really
good job of illustrating how the
presence or absence of certain chemicals
throughout a various processes so in
this example we're looking at
carbohydrate breakdown which can result
in glycolysis or oxidation right and
along the way we can see the presence or
absence of
certain things might actually activate
or inhibit some of these other processes
along the way which I think it's just so
cool and so neat and it's part of that
idea of coupled reactions where we see
all this crazy stuff going on at once
right so for example if we have glucagon
epinephrine norepinephrine present in
the bloodstream that will start to
increase and start activating things
like the breakdown of liver glycogen to
start increasing plasma glucose right
plasma glucose can eventually make its
way into the bloodstream if it goes in
through a conformational change and can
be used for storage or for oxidation
later on but again we can look at a
number of these different processes and
see okay what is actually stimulating or
inhibiting some of these effects and a
lot of times it's the accumulation of
either products or reactants so it's
pretty pretty cool and again by no means
should you memorize this but I think
it's a really really awesome
illustration and this is just one one
example right this is just glucose being
broken down potentially so you can
imagine there's hundreds of thousands of
millions of other prophecies that we
could talk about and make charts just
like this so again just illustrate
presence or absence of certain things
can activate or inhibit downstream other
things pretty cool another way that we
regulate homeostasis in the cell now
hopefully no brainer you guys already
know when we do some type of exercise
especially overloading exercise
homeostasis of the body and our body
systems is disturbed right we know that
not all things are equal in terms of
driving the adaptive processes there are
some signals in the body that are more
disruptive than others and have a more
potent effect on driving some of the
cellular adaptations and communications
that regulate homeostasis so in the long
term we said one of the big strategies
in regulating homeostasis is making
adaptations to exercise that we have
encountered and overloaded at previous
time right so what we find is that there
are some stimuli that are very very
potent in terms of driving cellular
adaptive processes and we call these
primary signals meaning they happen
instantly at the onset of exercise
generally and they start kind of a
snowball avalanche type effect in terms
of cellular communication and we'll get
to that
a little bit more in a second so a
couple things and this is the short list
a couple big primary things muscles
stretch in tension so this happens
basically instantaneously when you start
exercising right once you start doing
some heavy exercise whether it's running
or sprinting or weight training or even
sport training you start to generate
tension in the muscle you starts to
stretch it out this is something that
happens within literally milliseconds
your body picks up on it and when it
hits certain thresholds of stretch and
tension it actually starts generating a
cellular signal usually a chemical
messenger that says hey I am
encountering something that's pretty
rough pretty messed up right now
I might start to need to make some
changes in order to maintain homeostasis
in the short term and in the long term
right changes in calcium so you ever see
that written with brackets like that
that generally means concentration so we
can see the concentration of calcium
which is very very important for muscle
contractions so when we see calcium
increases in the in the muscle cell
that's usually as a result of really
really forceful contractions of the
muscle we can actually see differences
in calcium concentration depending on
how the muscle was contracted so in many
cases if we start to see kind of higher
very slightly elevated higher resting
baseline levels as a result of like
consistent stimulated contractions we
can actually start to see changes to
making a more fatigued resistive state
of that muscle as a result of doing
endurance that excuse me type activity
where we're not contracting the muscle
super hard calcium spilling into the
muscle right but it's not really going
crazy it's just kind of elevating a
little bit at activity and at rest so
it's just a slight change right when we
see big peaks and valleys in calcium
concentration that usually when we're
doing really powerful or really forceful
movements so that would be an indicator
to other cellular regulators saying hey
this person is generating really really
big forces we might need to actually
help them get stronger or more muscular
or maintain muscle mass in the long term
so that this isn't so brutal next time
and then one of the big ones again that
operates very much on negative feedback
and chemical messengers are energy
balance energy balance is a huge
cellular signal what we usually are
looking at is the ratio of products and
reactants so usually what we see is when
things like ATP are very high
glycogen very very high in the cell the
energy demand is low why because they're
not being used up right so for arresting
concentrations are kind of at normal
levels are very close to being full
there doesn't seem to be any indication
that an energy demand has been generated
the problem that we run into is when we
start to accumulate things like a DPS a
mps as a results of breaking down our
ATP s we start to accumulate products in
a higher ratio than reactants right so
now we're saying my resting
concentration of ATP went down a lot and
I'm getting all these byproducts right
that is a cellular signal to the body
that says an energy demand has been
generated and we can look at some other
things ATP and ATP are kind of the
primary ones but some other things like
nadh and nad+ also serve as an example
for this and this is an indicator that a
significant energy change has occurred
within the body and we need to start
regulating energy balance metabolism and
homeostasis so really really big signals
so we know that there are hormones and
cell receptors on the surface that can
alter some of these signals and what
ends up happening is as a result of
these primary signals right so again
these happen instantaneously virtually
right right at the onset of exercise
what ends up happening as these signals
lead to what we call secondary signals
which are kind of starting to form a
bigger snowball leading to a big
avalanche which is going to be protein
synthesis later on so what we find is
that these things kind of start is kind
of like the match that likes to fire
right so we say these things happen and
then very shortly after this on the
scale of like minutes we start to see
some other things happening let's take a
look
so these initial primary signals start
to trickle excuse trickle trigger what
we call secondary signals right
secondary signals are what most people
are more familiar with after kind of
getting a rudimentary exposure to some
of the scientific literature this is
where we can start to see things like
ampk adenosine monophosphate activated
protein kinase did I get that right it's
a big mouthful I think I got it
hopefully we can see a Katie and tore a
number of other pathways that regulate
things like either maintaining energy
balance or developing a more fatigue
resistive state which is NPK and then a
KTM tor is more on the anabolic side can
we
build structures back up can we repair
damaged tissue and can I make my person
bigger faster stronger kind of
adaptations we also see a number of
other ones like calcium calmodulin
dependent kinases IGF PG C alphas all
sorts of other stuff right and here what
we see is essentially we've picked up
the primary signal at the onset of
exercise something changed energy
changed stretching tension changed
calcium change something like that
changed all of which can be picked up by
either chemical messengers pressure
sensors things like that right then we
start to see these secondary signals
become activated based on whatever
stressors were experienced and when
these become activated now we start to
see a very very powerful downstream
effect leading towards transcription and
translation so let's go on to the next
slide we see a diagram here here and
this again is from the you can drips
poor nutrition book here we see we had
some type of training stimulus we had
some type of signal could have been
stretch calcium leading to an PK energy
changes any of those type of things
right
essentially that leads to this
transcription translation process where
we have started to say you know what I
encountered a stress or I have made a
signal cascade I've made hundreds of
thousands of chemical messengers all of
which are saying big James here needs to
get stronger or more jacked hmm working
on that goes all the way down to the
cellular level to the nucleus of those
cells and says you know what we actually
need to change who he is to some degree
right you are you are who you are we
have a blueprint of who you are but
we're gonna modify that blueprint a
little bit and say you know what I'm
gonna say James needs to get more jacked
than his biceps so they're gonna start
transcribing little chains of DNA and
that starts to signal the processes that
make you more jacked right so what we
end up seeing is again this process of
DNA replication we get an mRNA it gets
sent out goes to ribosome it turns into
a protein and then that gets sent out to
do whatever it is it needs to do right
and starts activating other cells
throughout the body or it could actually
lead to skeletal muscle protein
synthesis in some cases which is great
which is what I want so here's just kind
of a room entry example of what this
kind of looks like and now we can start
to see how these chemical messengers
have really really cool downstream
effects where we have a primary signal
leads to secondary skin signals and then
we see this like sort of avalanching
effect all the way waking its way to the
D excuse me the nucleus of the cell
where we're actually starting to
replicate little portions of the DNA of
the cell that say you know what let's
get those biceps bigger let's make him
faster things like that make sense
pretty cool and again this is like the
short version right I've taken entire
courses on how DNA is replicated it's a
very very deep crazy crazy crazy complex
process but this is kind of the nuts and
bolts of what it looks like now there is
a time scale for some of these events
right so we know the initial response to
exercise which is our stress or
disrupting homeostasis occurs within
seconds two minutes right you start
exercising and we see those changes
tension stretch energy charge the change
instantly right and lasts for a few
minutes the cascading events that take
place after may take several hours to
reach maximal activity so what we see is
things like gene expression seem to peak
somewhere around for 12 hours after the
initial stimulus and then protein
synthesis which is the actual
replication and physiological changes
that are occurring as a result of
whatever training that you did so this
is where the adaptations are actually
starting to manifest in your body this
tends to actually peak much later on
somewhere around 48 hours on average
plus or minus for most people so what
does that mean that means when you go
and do exercise right you're going to
get a cute response to the exercise but
a lot of the changes the chronic changes
that are occurring from that exercise
are actually taking place days after you
experienced it right and that can vary
depending on how overloading the
exercise was and this and that there's
some wiggle room in there but what we
know is for the most part you're not
getting bigger faster stronger leaner
more fatigue resistant in the minutes
following exercise it's really a longer
process right transcription translation
will be occurring for the next you know
4 or 12 hours or so and then protein
synthesis will be peaking which is again
the phenotypic the expression of those
traits into your body accruing those
traits onto your actual self that will
occur around 48 hours later kind of like
the next day or two which is really
interesting right sound familiar
leg Dom's hmm maybe related let's look
at the next one so here is just a
graphical representation of this
timeline
and I love this I think this is a great
figure I've used it in multiple classes
and the thing is that really irks me you
know when you damn kids and your cell
phones and your Xboxes when I was in
school we didn't have this kind of stuff
right we had to just figure this
out because it was not very well
understood at the time now you guys
can't like handi beautiful blue charts
that just tell you everything you need
to know right but in reality this is
actually very important and this kind of
gives you an idea of the time scale of
not only homeostasis and regulation but
also chronic changes and the adaptive
processes as well so again just to
reiterate we see that first one that
primary signal occurs within this kind
of seconds the signal cascade from the
secondary signals and and everything
after that occurs kind of on the scale
of minutes we see transcription and
translation of those new traits that we
want to manifest occurring on the scale
of hours post the overload stimulus and
then protein synthesis and the real
expression of those traits only occurs
days after we did the initial stimulus
which is really really neat so we can
kind of see kind of in a short-term
scale and a long-term scale effect on
homeostatic regulation pretty neat and
again this wasn't around when I was in
school so you should get this tattooed
on your lower back from this point on
okay so again what we want to
differentiate here and this is something
you're gonna learn more and more as you
take more exercise physiology courses at
rpu we want to differentiate acute
responses and chronic adaptations and
both are used to manage homeostasis in
this short and long term right so acute
physiological responses to stressors
maintain homeostasis in the short-term
that means your respiration went up you
started breezier your oxygen demand went
up as a result of doing exercise you
start breathing more to accommodate that
right things like that you're starting
to use more carbohydrate where we
activate more of the enzymes involved in
glycolysis right short term effect
normal what we see when we're talking
about chronic changes is when we have
overloading stimuli that we need to add
well not a sort of need to but we want
to adapt to in the long term right so we
had something that generated a
physiological strain we said you know
what I don't want that to be as brutal
the next time I encounter that I need to
make a change right this is a chronic
change over time so
chronic physiological adaptations to
stressors maintain homeostasis over time
whereas acute stressors are managed by
physiological responses and you're going
to learn more and more about that as you
dive deeper into exercise physiology so
again exercise physiology is a field
where we kind of seek to catalogue all
these different responses and various
adaptations that we make sit exercise
under as many conditions as we can
possibly figure out right can we do the
same conditions are assuming the same
exercise at altitude can we do it under
low pressure conditions can we do it in
heat can we do it under dehydrated
conditions can we do it under all sorts
of different things everything that we
can possibly catalog that results in a
stress or response relationship or in a
chronic adaptation relationship we want
a catalogue that's what a lot of
exercise physiology comes down to like
what can I show happens when that when
you exercise like this right
whereas sports scientists we think
that's awesome we think that's really
really valuable but we generally are
seeking to systematically enhance
athlete performance by kind of
maximizing the potential for some of
those adaptations so we say you know
what I'm a sports scientist you're an
exercise physiologist you're my homie I
need to know how to make my athlete the
most successful at sport generally I
need them to be bigger stronger faster
how can I make them those things right
exercise physiology helps us understand
what things make those things sport
scientists excuse me sports science
helps us figure out how to implement
those in the most systematic period eyes
face potentiated manner possible to get
the best results all of which yield to
improve performance that's what we're
primarily concerned with so very very
close very very related slightly
different approaches to how we go about
it alright that's it we talked a lot
about homeostasis hopefully you guys
have a really really good understanding
of some really basic negative feedback
kind of control mechanisms we talked
about some chemical messengers we talked
about products and reactants things like
that and this is going to serve you
really really well in some of the later
courses when we talk more and more more
about things like over
and stimulus recovery adaptation and how
those things are related so I hope you
guys enjoyed stay tuned for the next one
RP + RP you I will see you soon
[Music]