hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization let's talk about some
overblown facets of nutrient timing wait
hold on a second I myself was a huge
proponent of nutrient timing for a long
time I thought it really really mattered
and I still think that the nuances in
nutrient timing outside of just its
Basics don't worry we'll go over both I
still think they do make a
difference but only in very small ways
and for most of us myself included to be
completely honest many of these nuances
will lead to essentially zero notable
differences in our physique and our
performance and our muscle gain and our
fat loss that doesn't mean they lead to
zero results over the long term months
and months and years and years they can
actually add up but notable results
means like you do a couple months of
training and dieting with one way of
nutrin timing you do a couple months of
training and dieting with another way of
nutrin timing both of them check the
basics but have some Nuance differences
you're just not going to see a big
difference and what I'm saying here is
you shouldn't spend much of your time on
them you got to get the basics of
nutrient timing down first and these
other things you can either for most
people never spend your time on them and
for some people just look at the nuances
a little bit read the RP diet 2.0 book
it's got all the nuances in there at
nauseum make sure you're doing most of
them properly as Theory best dictates
and then you get ready to get your pro
card or whatever it is at that high of a
level that you're trying to do with
those nuances but for most people a lot
of the stuff I'm going to say is kind of
a use of time to think about and concern
yourself with so let's get right into it
I have seven things you about nutrient
timing you probably shouldn't worry too
much about it's like you know if you uh
sneak up in your neighbor's house and
they're asleep and you watch them while
they're sleeping through their window
you know if you're not making a lot of
noise no harm no foul you don't need to
worry about them calling the police or
um getting really scared and then
calling police or all that stuff that's
what I tell myself no big deal just a
little Peak anyway nutrient
timing number one four versus five
versus six meals a day if you Google
that or you put it into YouTube oh my
God you will get all kinds of answers
about one me much better than the other
and differences and application most of
that is pure nonsense four five and six
meals a day have been studying the
literature have been applied by an
unbelievable number of strength athletes
and they lead to roughly the same
results even if you peer down closer the
same results no matter what how does
that work well if you eat more food at
once let's say with four times a day
when you eat that more food it takes
longer to digest it takes longer to
leech into your blood and so you get a
even presentation of nutrients in your
bloodstream if you decrease the size of
each bolus of food of each meal the
presentation tends to be more rapid
because your stomach digests it quicker
your intestines absorb it faster so it's
a little bit more of a pulse but then
you add in another meal so the pulse
evens out you do six meals quicker
pulses but the pulses are closer
together so they kind of fuse the end
result is almost the same now if you eat
three meals a day especially if you eat
two meals a day definitely if you eat
one meal a day it's not an even amount
of nutrients in the blood it's distinct
pulses with distinct times of your just
muscles are not getting fed and not
getting recovered etc etc so yeah I
would say eat more than four meals a day
or rather four and anything above four
if you want to eat it totally cool but
if you think hey look I'm eating four
meals a day enough enough I'm trying to
get gains let me get to six that's not
going to move the needle hardly at all
if you keep other things constant next
four very related Point 40 versus 45
versus 50 grams of protein per meal how
do I get the ideas to make these videos
people will ask in various social media
and I'll talk to real people in real
life and they be like I'm worried I'm
not getting enough protein I'm getting
40 grams of meal should I bump it to 50
or 60 bro be easy here's how you figure
out protein per meal you take the number
of meals you eat per day four five or
six let's call it you take your total
amount of protein you divide your total
amount of protein by the number of meals
anything roughly close to that number is
good to go for example if you're eating
200 grams of protein per day and you're
eating four meals per day that's roughly
50 grams of protein per meal if some of
the meals are 35 and some of the meals
65 guys I assure you you will never be
able to tell in your physique there is
essentially no theoretical difference
because a slightly lower fractional
synthetic rate rate of muscle protein
synthesis and growth from the slightly
smaller amount a 35 gram meal is
compensated for in the next meal by the
slightly higher and uh amount of muscle
growth from that 65 grams of protein
here's another really cool thing the
reason that it's compensated is because
if you give your body just for a meal or
two a little bit not enough protein it
becomes more sensitive to protein
absorption and use in muscle growth for
the next meals so if it's 35 then 35
then 65 then 65 over that course of the
day you were a little bit growing a
little bit too little muscle good God
you weren't growing enough muscle with
the first two meals but you were growing
mega super compensatory amounts of
muscle with the 65 grams of protein in
the in the last two meals over the
course of the day if the meals were 5050
5050 versus 35 35
6565 it's the same shit and I mean it's
the same shit so if you're going around
and thinking oh my God I only had a
protein bar and a half for breakfast
fuck that's it all my muscle is lost you
look in the mirror you're Willam Defoe
and you're like oh shit well at least
I'm a good actor who's been in tons of
great movies Scott the video guy your
favorite Willam defo roll hit
it Saints oh that was
great he was uh he was a hell of a
character in that oh man great cross
unbelievable my man in any case you
don't want to end up like will Defoe I
get it you want to be jacked he is so
handsome in the face but I digress don't
you worry about these little protein
amounts now look don't eat like half of
the protein you're supposed to per meal
but anything like 75% even 70% of what
you're supposed to eat up to 130% of
what you're supposed to eat don't worry
about it you don't every meal doesn't
have to be the exact same
next if you're con concerned about
carbohydrate spread over your meals
here's what you really should attend
your concerns
to do you have enough carbohydrate in
your pre-workout meal if you need that
sort of thing because if you train
fasted in the morning you might not even
need it to fuel your workouts try low
carbing before workouts try moderate
carbing try High carbing couple hours
away so the stomach settles see which
one gives you the best performance
sometimes you can't tell then it doesn't
matter sometimes you're like yeah yeah
when I eat at least 50 grams of carbs I
can feel it it's great then really
importantly you want to have tons of
carbs in the post-workout meal you don't
want to go low carb in a post-workout
meal under almost any circumstances the
most important meal of the day to get
carbohydrates as the post-workout meal
it sets up anabolism reduces catabolism
sets up healing sets up muscle growth
all the really good things puts you into
a more relaxed state it does all the
wonderful thing as long as you have
enough training energy and as long as
you're getting some decent carbs in that
post-workout me and by decent I mean
take all of your carbs through the day
divide it by the number of meals at
least that number in the post-workout
meal so if you're getting 400 grams of
carbs a day and you eat four meals a day
at least 100 grams in that post-workout
meal and potentially much more how else
you spread your carbs through the day as
long as you have workout energy and
you're eating at least a meal's worth of
carbs in the post-workout meal however
else you spread the carbs out just
matters so little it's barely worth
worrying about and I I hate myself for
using that word worry is an ancestral
outdated animalistic emotion where
you're like do this and it's not good
for you don't worry about anything don't
be concerned about anything things to
consider things to attend your mind to
you don't have to tend your mind to
carbohydrate split in any scientific Way
Beyond making sure you have enough carbs
for training energy which could be zero
and a decent chunk of post-workout carbs
at least the fraction of your total
carbs divided by the number of meals you
eat per day as long as you have that in
the post-workout meal and your training
energy is good how you split your carbs
is really just up to you and it could
due to other technical things for
example you have a hard day at work so
you have to eat lots of carbs of
breakfast and lunch that makes sense you
work a desk job maybe you low carbet for
the beginning of the day then after the
workout you high carbet for a few meals
it that means um in those individual
situations yeah there are actually more
correct answers than not so I don't want
to say just do what you prefer or you
know it doesn't matter it doesn't matter
with regard to just nutrient timing for
athletic performance muscle gain and fat
loss other parts of your day other
things you want to do that can matter
but in general if you just spread your
carbs out evenly and make sure you have
enough carbs in that post-workout meal
and evenly is good enough so even if
your diet looks like this meal one 100
grams of carbs obviously protein and fat
as well meal two 100 grams of carbs work
out meal three 100 grams of carbs meal
400 grams of carbs go to sleep a few
hours later that's totally cool if you
want to take a little bit of
carbohydrate out of your evening meal
and breakfast meal and put more of that
into the post-workout meal I can't
promise you scientifically that that's
going to make a not difference I believe
theoretically over the long term it'll
make a tiny difference if you're into
that sort of thing amazing then just
take a little bit of carbs out of
breakfast in the evening meal but there
are good arguments against when there's
time not to do that for example if you
have plenty of carbs in your pre-sleep
meal sometimes they can make you sleep
better and recover better if you have
lots of carbs in your morning meal it
can give you more mental energy physical
energy to do your job which by the way
if you do your job well you have the
luxury of being able to pay for the RP
hypertrophy app which cost cost a
gazillion dollars I can't afford it but
you guys are all Lambo owners you can
afford it no problem and it allows you
to pay for gym memberships and food and
all that other stuff so if someone's
like well you got a low carb in the
morning saveing carbs for the workout
and you're like I'm not good at my job
anymore don't do that right because
putting a ton of carbs into the
post-workout meal is a theoretical
benefit and if it's practically
inefficient for you if you like have
kids and a job and other things you want
to do with your life don't you worry
about a thing even carbs over the meal
is totally cool as long as you're
eatting that post-workout meal and as
long as you training energy you're
golden next number four protein
digestion speed should you have a way
shake or a casan shake there are
practical ways to think about this that
don't have much to do with muscle growth
and fat loss for example if you are
dieting and you have a whey protein
shake in the morning and you don't eat
for six hours later until lunch you're
going to starve to death about one hour
after and for five hours until you get
your next meal if you have a weight
protein shake because it digests so
quickly if you have a casan protein
shake you'll be golden and you won't be
starving for hours and hours and hours
you get hungry just on time for lunch
the hunger benefits are absolutely real
what about muscle growth well here's the
thing a away protein shake grows way
more muscle because it pulses your
protein really high and then because you
don't get that pulse for a while you
lose
muscle if you take a Casey and shake it
doesn't grow a whole lot of muscle but
it's in the blood constantly so it
prevents muscle loss at the end of the
day drum roll it's the same shit just
phrase differently it's just kind of
when you want to do it it's like if you
want to have a ton of sex really fast
with someone or like the same amount of
sex spread over like 18 hours you just
like
stroke and then pull out and you're like
how was it she's like oh yeah it was so
good do it again you're like again like
right now or like in five minutes she's
like temp me five minutes you're like go
yeah yeah okay great and then in five
minutes she's like do it again you're
like I'm not hard
anymore I just just started scrolling on
my phone and I'm on I'm on Donald Trump
memes at this point wait I'm hard again
my
man orange man bad in any case either
way you spread it doesn't matter now for
Hunger management it matters but I'll
even cave out that if you're on a muscle
gain phase and you have whey protein
shake and you've been stuffing yourself
for weeks you're not gonna get hungry
you're never going to get hungry it's
going to take three days of not eating
anything to get hungry sure shit six
hours will go by just fine so whe
protein shakes totally fine meal
replacement you can even have a we
protein shake at night if you want you
know casine you need to pre-sleep yeah
on a slight theoretical margin I think
it's benefit to have casine pre-sleep
but like oh my God that margin is so
tiny and because Wy causes a big
anabolic Spike by itself maybe even that
margin doesn't exist on the net balance
so don't worry about prot digestion
speed too much and I didn't even put
this down because it's a slightly
different topic but the glycemic index
of the carbohydrate also doesn't matter
the only thing it matters for really
Advanced recovery from multiple daily
workouts where you do need hyack carbs
after workouts which most people AR
doing multiple daily workouts so no big
deal you're not a a track cyclist or
some shit like that and it matters for
Hunger management again if you have like
a glass of orange juice absolutely an
hour later you'll be starving to death
if you have a whole bunch of berries
three hours later you're totally fine so
if your hunger is a concern definitely
all the digestion speeds
matter if hunger is not a concern it's
no big
deal another thing is if you are eating
mixed meals in the nutrition literature
mixed meals are meals with proteins and
carbs and fats in some proportion
non-mixed meals or pure meals or
isolated meals are like either just all
protein all carbs or all
fats typical typical girl meal is like
just like lowfat potato chips in a bagel
and you're like that's not a meal what
are you doing where's the protein where
are the fats in any case mixed
meals yeah you can say okay I have a
fast digesting protein like a whey great
and you think yeah it's going to goop
hold on a sec in that way shake or you
had that way shake with
oatmeal some toast okay and a whole
bunch of peanut
butter crunchy peanut butter which is
objectively better than creamy peanut
butter and I want to see you in the
comments because I'll log in and I'll
fight you tooth and nail and I fight
dirty I will throw clumps of chunky nut
butter at you until you like it and if
you don't like it you're just wrong just
leave America go to some go to the moon
go live on the moon with your weird
creamy peanut butter where nobody likes
you and you have no friends and here's
the thing you put 10 people who like
chunky peanut butter into a room
together the crunchy shit and it's a
party you put 10 people who like creamy
peanut butter in room together it's like
an all in cells they're weird they stare
at the wall they try to bring up points
and no one's listening they just shut
themselves up I'm done here but look if
you like creamy peanut
butter just come to the chunky side come
to the crunchy side pause Scott the
video
guy do I even have to ask yeah which
side are you on bro beef with you got
beefy all day are you fucking kidding me
bro so you're
homophobic it's 2023 you can't say shit
like this Scott what is it that's so
wrong with you that you can't enjoy good
things like like crunchy peanut
butter who hurt you when you were a
child crunchy peanut butter is like half
finished peanut butter yeah is it your
pastor when you were seven years old I
was like yeah you're gonna like creamy
huh you're like yes Pastor I love
creamy me my man yeah everyone's having
a good time in any case I digress wayy
protein Shak so you think it's going to
be fast digesting bowl of oatmeal
delicious some toast amazing toast
slathered with fine any kind of nut
butter you want and you're like hey fast
digesting protein to eat like two hours
later bullshit because the carbs and the
proteins and the fats well they all mix
together in your mouth and then also
again in your stomach your stomach has
two functions one is to chemically
digest food two and a lot of people
don't know about this is to physically
turn the food and mechanically digest
the food that's why your stomach
actually turns right so it just turns
into the same fucking goo and is
completely mixed together so now fats
slow down digestion like crazy easy
carbs especially a lot of carbs
especially carbs with lots of fiber like
the toast and the oatmeal slow down J
just like crazy that way protein now
digests at probably a similar speed to
casian protein so anytime you have mixed
meals which is almost always thinking
about digestion speed for protein the
answer is it's all either moderate or
slow digesting almost anytime you need a
mix meal definitely nothing to concern
yourself with in any Grand sense maybe
in any sense at all number
five eating upon waking like you get out
of bed and you literally have a protein
shake like right in bed you like just
drip it all over yourself got a girl
with you that night drip it all over her
bitch wake up you know I'm saying time
to get these gains girl walk up out of
my bed shit here's a shake get out of
here it's nice to call the girl an Uber
on the way out it's nicer if you give
her Muscle Milk be like I'm not saying
you're too small but take the hint fuck
out of get it get good good Scott the
video go how do you how do you what's
the proper way to kick him
out scadaddle
scad they just wave the stick at him get
get and they sort of jet out the door
they jump out the window with their with
their party dress in hand and undies on
whatever other fuck so in any case you
gotta you got to get protein bro as soon
as you wake up because your muscles are
dying the catabolism is killing them
you're just slothing off you you wake up
at 700 a.m. you go back to bed you wake
up at 9ine you look like William defo
everyone knows this versus you wake up
you're like kinobody you just have like
well a girl in your bed right away and
you guys if you guys go check out the
the the real Bruce just Google the real
Bruce Wayne by kinobody is good for some
laughs he like wakes up and he's like I
fucking wake up and I don't eat for
hours you're like holy shit what's he
gonna say next sir how big is your dick
so he doesn't eat for a while who's
right well the answer is if you have
again throughout the day multiple high
protein meals at least four you can
totally wait as many as 3 hours no
problem and the net over the day balance
of muscle growth and muscle loss is
basically the same because if you wake
up and you have protein right away hey
that's great the anabolism kicks in the
catabolism falls off if you wait three
hours you do burn some muscle Absol
fucking lutely and you miss out on time
that you could be building muscle but
your body at that same time is getting
incrementally more sensitive to muscle
growth so much so that if you wait 3
hours and then eat your protein you know
breakfast or whatever you're have in a
shake your body grows a crap ton of
muscle as a feedback mechanism for that
and it makes up for the 3 hours pretty
much entirely so it doesn't matter so if
you're really concerned about like okay
so I wake up and I I generally like to
just brush my teeth I like to shower I
like to you know like pick dingleberries
whatever you do in the shower I'm not
here to judge I do weird stuff in the
shower by the way if you're interested
shower cam.net backd Mike I'm just
putting it out there look I have to make
fucking money okay the RP hypertrophy
app makes me a very rich man but it's
never enough I've got a camera in my
shower it's technically for cam it's
five cameras because one is never
mind should you be concerned because
you're like an hour and a half later you
have breakfast you're like but it's an
hour and a half of me losing muscle no I
mean technically yes but as soon as you
eat you make up for it no completely
such that you never have to be concerned
with this sort of thing so if you prefer
to not eat when you wake up for a few
hours totally golden if you go and do
cardio then hey that's
really which brings me to my next Point
number six fasted cardio versus fed
State cardio fasted cardio is when you
don't eat for a while maybe three hours
maybe the whole night and you go do
cardio burning pure fat brother fed
State cardio is when you eat a meal and
potentially within one two or three
hours or even like right away you go and
do
cardio the differences between them are
so unbelievably minor it basically
doesn't matter cardio isn't this magic
thing that burns tons of fat right there
and then it does some of that it also
Burns some carbs it also Burns some
protein like your muscle what it really
does is it takes your calorie deficit
and it sinks it lower for you and if you
eat a meal and then sink the calorie
deficit lower the meal that you just ate
some of it spills into that deficit and
then overall you have a certain calorie
deficit for the day if you do it
fasted your body fat and muscle and
glycogen spills into that meal that's
what you use instead or sorry spills
into that cardio deficit but then later
when you have meals they're really
anabolic and there's really no
interference and so it's made up for
what matters is you burn the 500 extra
calories from cardio per day that 500
you just add on to your other
expenditure that's the magic of cardio
when you do it doesn't exactly matter on
a theoretical basis on a practical basis
it can first of all what's more
convenient for you if you waken up early
in the morning you do fast and cardio
you can think look this is the way to
get real gains great enjoy your 2%
better gains oh sorry by that I mean 2%
% more fat loss and I don't mean 2% of
your body fat I mean if you're losing 7%
body fat on a diet I mean 2% of
7% there is no device currently invented
to even measure that degree of fat loss
difference and if you ruin your sleep if
you take off I don't know about you guys
from like 6:00 to 7:30 in the morning I
sometimes get my best sleep of the whole
night I'm dead bro reming and shit like
Neo and the matrix it's aming amazing if
I have to do faster cardio then instead
and contract the quality of my sleep
that is going to regain me and prevent
me from losing fat so
much it's a huge net negative on the
other hand some people love faster
cardio they wake up they hit it they do
it I do faster cardio I don't wake up
super early but I wake up my wife and I
do Brazilian jiu-jitsu that is not a
euphemism for sex I haven't had sex in
weeks months no hold on technically ever
I guess we're still waiting for the
right time it's a sensitive
issue where was I yes I wake up train
and we go do cardio come back and then I
have breakfast and then we you know
Begin work for the day it works totally
fine but if I had some food and then did
cardio it's almost the same thing not a
big concern not stuff to spend your time
thinking about and lastly number seven
thing you shouldn't be worried too much
about is whether or not not you eat
three hours before you go to sleep as
your last meal or an hour or right
before bed it all comes down to are you
getting good high quality sleep if you
eat three hours before bed on a fat loss
diet and by the time you got to go to
sleep you're so hungry you can't fall
asleep you have a fucking problem you
need to eat closer to bed so that you're
nice and satiated and then you can fall
asleep and stay asleep if you're in a
masca phase let's say and you eat right
before bed you wake up
like a body temperature of 90 degrees
120 degrees or some shit like that and
you're like you wake up like digesting
food and you're hot as fuck oh my God
you take off the sheet like and you like
have energy because you're like oh shit
I ate 90 grams of cars of course I have
fucking energy why the hell am I awake
well there's the
answer that case you need to eat three
hours before or one and a half or
whatever it is so just whatever it is
that gets you good sleep experiment and
it's not that hard of an experiment
expent try eating a while before bed try
eating uh really close to to bed and try
eating in between and see which one
works better for you if you're getting
high quality sleep there's no magic
there's not like if you eat just before
bed great things happen it's not true
now that's the stuff that doesn't matter
what does matter like ah don't worry
about new timing and I hate this from
stupid fit fluenc influ fiters whatever
the hell you call them they're like
nutrient timing doesn't matter like oh
my God nothing matters great how do you
abs and I don't how the fuck do I get
that if nothing matters well you know
like yeah man what does matter at least
four things one four meals more if you
like at least four high protein meals
per day your grams of protein should be
your pounds in body weight roughly
roughly evenly divided by the number of
meals you eat per day which should be at
least four and by at least four I mean
four is a totally amazing perfect answer
I often have four meals a day sometimes
I have five I almost never have six
anymore if you spread those meals
roughly evenly roughly evenly throughout
the day every 3 to six hours you have a
meal you're fucking golden that is
critical if you're eating three three
meals a day you can get great results
not the best results though and you you
probably watch this channel to get
something like very good results at
least and maybe your best effort and
because eating four times a day is so
nominally easy compared to eating three
I it actually it really is interesting
when I talk to folks in real life and on
the internet and some folks will be like
yeah man four meals a day that's a lot
bro I should like to eat three like what
that's difficult for you do you have
breakfast lunch dinner you can't fucking
do like an evening snack of fucking
yogurt what like that's what's keeping
you from your best gains is you can't
eat it doesn't make any sense to me four
meals a day is a serious person's number
of meals per day three meals that's what
your dad ate when he worked on the farm
and he was 19 he was not trying to get
fucking jacked two meals a day is like
some weird inter Min fasting shit those
people are almost never jacked one meal
a day is something if you do you're
really proud of it you talk about
fucking omad bro omad omad what do you
guys think of omad omad thoughts like
fucking Reddit dumpster fire get lighter
anyway so that's important four meals a
day roughly evenly spread plenty of
protein in each meal number two enough
daily protein carbs and fats and
calories to get to your goals about a
trillion videos on that at RP so go
ahead and give that a search that's
really much more important than nutrient
timing next having enough energy for
workouts and if you don't have enough
energy for workouts moving your
nutrients around in such a way that you
do and lastly but not least importantly
not starving for two hours after
workouts finish your workout and either
have your shake with you right there to
start drinking with protein and carbs or
get in the car drive up to an hour get
the shake get the meal in I wouldn't
wait much longer than an hour I sure
shit wouldn't wait much longer than two
it's an important window there to start
that recovery process and stop muscle
catabolism and all the other good things
so if you're eating at least four meals
a day high of protein you're getting
your proteins carbs and fats and
calories checked off you have enough
energy for workouts and post-workout you
get to recovering pretty quick with
plenty of protein and plenty of carbs if
you're doing that if you send me your
diet and you're like hey I'm doing this
as a diet and it checks all those boxes
and you ask me he like where are the
holes what could I be doing better my
honest answer would be like dude this is
fucking good man this is really good
unless you're doing some wacky stuff
outside of there you're good to go don't
sweat the small stuff click on the link
in the description get you the RP
hypertrophy app it's amazing I use it
myself and it gets better all the time
anyway see you guys next
time