your pre-workout drink contains too many
ingredients and most of them don't do a
thing instead consider taking these
science-based supplements before your
session first consider taking some
caffeine start with a dosage of about 2
to 3 Mig of caffeine per kilogram of
body weight 40 to 60 minutes before a
session caffeine is by far the main
ingredient in pre-outs that is
responsible for making you feel a little
bit stronger because caffeine
consumption can actually interfere with
creatine if you take them at the same
time I would recommend not taking
creatine before a session while creatine
is absolutely beneficial just take it at
some other time during the day where
you're not also consuming caffeine
another supplement potentially worth
looking into would be citrine malate it
likely increases performance and you
should take about 6 to 12 G of citrine
malate 40 to 60 minutes before a session
alongside your caffeine for the time
being I wouldn't consider beta alanine
or dietary nitrate as a solid
recommendation for muscle growth or
strength gains just yet so try taking
just caffeine and citrine malate 40 to
60 minutes before a session