what is going on everyone it is Saturday
March the 3rd and we're here in Columbus
Ohio for the Arnold Classic 9:30 in the
morning right now we're going for a
workout with my good friend Travis s I
did a collab with him on the channel
this time last year which is crazy that
it's been only a year since then it
feels like forever ago but he's a team
PE science athlete as well so we're
gonna go meet up with him now in the
hotel lobby and we're gonna go hit a new
upper body workout from my new training
program I wrote myself a new training
program that has a little bit more power
lifting focus on the gimbal we call
these the the polar bear because it
breaks the ice you know yeah I was just
saying to the channel that I wrote
myself a new program a couple weeks ago
it has more of a powerlifting focus so
we're gonna be doing upper-body workout
today you're seriously oh yeah we're
good did did you do pre workout yet yet
up in here man yeah you guys know we're
gonna hear if you guys head over to pea
science comm and you go to the checkout
and you type in Jeff you might be able
to save 30% I don't know that for a fact
but the only way to really find out is
if you go there let me know the port
back and if it works
I won't even make you guys write me a
big geek on alright this is why I
trained with this guy put my hand this
officer rashon he's gonna take over
actually we're gonna switch out to the
109th
all right YouTube dream team all right
so here's Jessica Sean had a bit
stephanie's they showed me how to eat
show me how Josh nice to meet you man
you guys like the expo and I also like
to note that Jeff is doing something not
so ethical right now cheating on his uh
his fruit of choice over here so it
looks like he brought another girl into
the car
let's do it
a t-shirt
is it just that you like this
is gonna pick up yeah you gotta be the
lightest it's gonna be all day it may be
tough to hear there's a few people
around but we're gonna try to go
downstairs apparently there's a power
lifting room down there
oh this is this is sick taking us to the
dungeons
Travis's lag program it's basically more
of like a minimalistic essentialist type
program I'm wanting to get back into
powerlifting I'd actually love to get
back on the platform and at least do a
bench press only meet at the very least
sometime this year I'm so I wrote this
program with that in mind it's a little
bit lower volume than like my usual
bodybuilding style program but it runs
an upper lower split so I'm only in the
gym four days per week yeah there's just
a huge focus on on the power lifts and
as many of you guys know I didn't
remember that last year the year before
so I still feel like I'm still kind of
recovering from that so this program is
designed to sort of get me over that
hump and get me back closing some
heavier weights again especially on the
squat and a deadlift I'm so for today
we're doing my upper body a way which is
gonna be bench press overhead press a
Meadows row pull up you may add weight
to that maybe not and an EZ bar curl I'm
sound pretty minimalistic on paper but
it's in the execution I think gives it
its value it's partially percentage
based and partially RPE based so what I
find to be really key in this program
for me anyway in terms of like
motivation and execution just having
this notebook and just like tracking
everything again so I've gotten to like
really methodically tracking my weights
and making sure that that progression is
in place and it's just been a really
nice change because I've done more of
like an intuitive type protocol to my
training for the last couple of months
we're in like especially on the
assistance exercises I'm not really
making sure that like weight is being
added every single set
every single time but I'll have like a
few core movements where that is in
place whereas with this new program
because it's so essentialist every
single move does have that core
progression in place and I'm really
keeping myself accountable to that now
so hopefully that makes a little bit of
sense ready to get him in
[Music]
how's it been since you mention it once
on Thanksgiving Day but after that I
mean before that I had been about a year
yes
so guys on the bench we're working up to
three sets of five with 80% of my one
right max now so I'm plugging in my one
right max I just 335 right now and be a
little bit conservative with it I'm so
for me that's gonna be three sets of
five with 265 and we're just doing like
a simple pyramid warm-up right now high
for me but as long as you can get a good
lift off I'll be nice
one morning good weight good oh yeah
strength wise and forever so much about
nice little touches well that was very
eventful let's get some music oh man
what do you got
I'm dropping this all right do or some
gutter all right
[Music]
three for me it is right I think so yeah
except three people have been following
me for a while probably know this but
how I kind of like to pair you guys my
training is I like to period eyes the
training split so I like to vary that
periodically so I'll usually go between
some kind of like push-pull leg split or
some kind of like a modified body part
split I'll alternate that walks of that
with blocks of upper lower where I'm
focused more on like strength
progression powerlifting movements so
right now I'm in that upper lower fees
and because I haven't been blogging a
whole lot you guys may not have noticed
that but I've gone through several
months now of like a push-pull legs
great body building style focus and now
I'm into that like upper lower more
strength specific focus I'm gonna bench
up man I want to get a 405 but again
I've done it once I'd like a heavier
body weight what's yours no one are that
I'm putting plugging in in us 335 but
I'd say I could probably do like 350
maybe and coming
yeah easy okay all right that's it for
bench I'm gonna move on to overhead
press
came back to the opportunity
it's even busier here than when we first
came in make sure we get a good
you can appoint a jet by Jeff is my
backup dancer and I run the show you can
record me now we just have a shot punch
somebody in the face this is our
bodyguard right here as they hear on all
HP we're doing three sets feet and with
these I'm just like basically
progressively overloading the beeps I'll
just add like the minimum weight whether
it's like five pounds or ten pounds
so I'm thinking today I'm gonna work up
to maybe 125 130 mile each P is so we
can relation to my bench press there's
just something about my leverages that
doesn't allow me to press quite as much
I also haven't done quite as much what
were head pressing is I have been
pressing
and then you want to press up and
slightly back overhead somebody and then
you kind of want to keep the same thing
with the grip as the other one you don't
want to have too much
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
man I love doing medals on this because
it's completely locked in so you just
have that like one planar motion it's
really nice
so yeah speaking of metal throws I've
got a video coming so probably my next
video that's gonna be a leg workout I'm
gonna do with John Meadows on Monday so
that's going to be probably the most
glory workout I've ever done so make
sure you check that out that's coming
that's a wrap for those so guys we're
gonna finish out with some pull-ups
we're gonna be doing three sets of ten
over here on the pull-up bar and we're
going for the full range of motion
squeeze at the top full stretch at the
bottom you can make three sets of ten
more or less difficult depending on how
you execute them and that's gonna be our
last back movement and then I'm gonna
finish off with some easy of our bicep
curls Travis and skipping arms no orange
blue Cass go back your chest no legs I
just I just do neck and goes
I mean so uh ya know ya expert on man
alright over a booth I but usually I'll
do an extra set arms for you finish off
with a little bit of neck
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
all right that's gonna wrap it up guys
we're gonna go over the hotel grab a
shower and we're gonna go to the expo so
I'm gonna check in with you guys over
there
[Music]
[Music]
I need to introduce you guys all to
someone this is Matt at the he has been
doing a ton of work behind the scenes
hour and a half so I feel so bad I just
wanna say thank you so much he's been my
research assistant so he digs up a ton
of papers for me saves me a ton of time
they're basically allowed me more
content like seriously the craziest Expo
day I've ever had
[Music]
all right look you guys later
so guys we're here at Ricci Ricci sushi
there's a research research shows I can
never say that research show see it's
hard isn't it yeah we're gonna get some
food here and we've got a PD science
dinner tonight so I'm gonna show you
guys what we get best smoked a pack a
pack of smokes for 20 years 20 years so
I decided to get this red rice ale I've
never tried it before but it's pretty
good I will say then we also got all
this sushi over here so Steph might know
better than me
these are California spicy salmon these
two are spicy tuna and this is a shrimp
tempura that looks fancy yeah oh it's
still a wrap
I didn't realize I'm sorry about all
right let's dig in turbine to [ __ ] I
don't know go on home
that's across the street from your
campus apparently it's a good it's good
thank you guys so I think we're gonna
finish up the video here and I just
decided I think I'm gonna pick up the
camera and make another vlog tomorrow I
don't do a lot of vlogging on the
channel anymore just because I just I'm
so passionate about getting all the best
information out there that I can and you
guys are obviously like very receptive
and appreciative of that information so
that's become like the primary focus of
the channel but I do love vlogging it's
always so fun to make these especially
when I'm traveling and rashon is just so
nifty with the camera so as long as we
have them here and we are traveling I
want to produce as much of logging
content as I can so I'm gonna pick up
this camera tomorrow make another vlog
for you guys we're going to conclude
this one here if you like the video
please leave me a thumbs up if you
happen to be new don't forget to
subscribe and I'm gonna see you guys all
in the next vlog