people are really of the opinion that
the kinds and brands of supplements you
use are super important legitimately
people ask me all the time at the gym
what brand of protein are you
gives a flying fuck proteins all the
fucking same unless they're lying to you
and putting some shit in there which
companies do every now and again but
they do very rarely most fundamental
protein Brands just about the same like
you don't ask a super morally obese
person like what kind of fast food did
you eat to get like this was it Taco
Bell was it McDonald's no no no I can
tell it's Wendy's isn't it does just
gonna be like look I just eat whatever
it's all delicious and it all
fundamentally the same shit and it all
adds body fat the same thing is true
with supplements but there's this huge
myth that like the very specifics count
like