here are some of the worst worst
buzzwords that you see in the world of
lifting Dr pack here the official doctor
of the Greek Olympic teen in general of
every sport they call called me
yesterday and by day I mean I called a
number nobody answered and I was like
well that means yes in my books I expect
my â‚¬600,000
salary to be covered by the Greek
authorities and therefore the countries
that are currently lending money to my
country I can say I am Greek send us
money please on that note though it's
time for the good old tone to come out
and look at some of these buzzwords so
you often hear things that people just
parrot especially in our world things
that we hear over years that nobody
dares to question and they sort of
become these established things conss
whatever you you want to call them let's
touch on some of them and how they
relate to lifting and whether they
actually mean something spoiler alert
they usually don't mean much starting
off with my worst the worst ever
functional training
[Music]
I still see this and I see it in my home
country of Greece I see it here in the
United Kingdom I still see it even in
the states so let's first Define what
functional means very roughly if you
want to be functional you need to be
well equipped to meet the demands of a
certain task pretty much that's what it
means now in terms of functional
training people have connected the idea
of functional training with doing things
that make you move in certain ways where
you're not really moving like that in
your daily life like the majority of us
need to be able to walk stand and maybe
lift some stuff from the ground and over
our heads if you're engaging in
resistance training and just being
active in general you're functional
that's it you can do everything overall
functional training is just BS and it
just makes it harder for many people to
buy into the concept of boring and
consistent resistance training which has
so much to offer for both your health
and your overall daily life Readiness
you doing some lifts to the full range
of motion and being active either by
walking or by I don't know doing some
more vigorous intensity cardio you're
fine the next buzz word is mind muscle
connection yes I said it mind muscle
connection BS it's not BS obviously
feeling the muscle is something that
it's probably not the worst idea in the
world if you cannot feel your biceps
whatsoever in any form of curl maybe
you're doing something completely wrong
but it is very unlikely that you need to
overly Focus or even focus on mind
muscle connection for the majority of
exercises if you have relatively good
technique the idea that mind muscle
connection as many old bodybuilders used
to say is the super important factor in
training and I recently heard that from
one of the notoriously bad bro
scientists back in Greece I'm not saying
his name on this channel I constantly
hate on him on the Greek podcast that we
have it's one of those buzzwords that
get thrown out when people don't really
know how to explain things they will say
yeah you know you see like here you can
you feel the muscle much more there for
do it this way or you have to uh focus
on having the best mind muscle
connection and it doesn't matter if you
train close to like bro mind muscle
Connection in the literature as far as
its effects on long-term muscle growth
we don't have much data if any to really
tell us that it's going to make a huge
difference so if you're doing a bicep
curl and you're strictly curling the
weight up and down even if you don't
have the best mind muscle connection or
the best pump and but you're still
feeling something it's very unlikely
that you're missing out on a tone of
growth another extreme buzzword and I
challenge you who just ask whoever says
it what does this mean is the idea of
shoulder Health that you have at healthy
shoulders and you have to do this
exercise that works the rotat cuff
better than the other and you see people
do literally band work at
RP zero minus 30 like they couldn't they
could be doing thousands of reps that
this somehow strengthens the muscle that
is supposed to to care for your shoulder
just train your shoulder
and they're going to be fine you don't
need that magical stretch or that
magical rehab exercise that doesn't
follow any of the established guidelines
when it comes to strength and muscle
growth but is somehow magically going to
improve your shoulder health and you
must do that one exercise because
otherwise you'll have bad shoulders the
repeated movement and repeatedly loading
things is what causing pains or aches
it's not that you have bad shoulder heal
manage load manage exercise ction you
are fine shoulder
Health another favorite buzzword of mine
that we see a lot in the hyper circles
is
stability stability a stable environment
obviously when you're trying to isolate
a muscle some form of stability makes
sense and doing the most unstable
exercise ever where you need to focus on
stability but stability has become this
word that people throw and say yeah what
about stability though people throw this
word out as if it's such a difficult
thing to work around for specific
specific exercises or it's such a
concern yes in the extremes and when
we're talking about making every
educated bet to absolutely maximize
muscle growth maybe but when it comes to
both injury and hypertrophy the idea
that stability is this huge concern well
not really it's something that you can
easily work around and you can easily
mitigate for even on exercises where
things are not as
stable last but not least and there some
more play one a common Buzz phrase or
Buzz words rather uh that I used to see
a lot while coming up as a young lifter
back in the day AK 10 years ago I could
say back in the day is a mass
Builder it would usually become
associated with specific barbell
exercise that would often uh also carry
a heavy dose of placebo over a period of
time you'd hear words that were
synonymous with mass building and you'd
assume that those exercises were
Superior to others and had some magical
ability to build mass for example the
barble score back in the day was
commonly known as a mass Builder all you
needed was squats milk and oats and the
squad would build your upper body
because hormones and growth hormone and
what not and because it places so much
pressure on your body just build slabs
of muscle everywhere that's the the kind
of wording that was used when in reality
you could do any sort of squatting
variation you could do a leg press you
could do a bunch of exercises that train
your legs even if they're not presented
as a mass
Builders that's it for me another video
reaching the truth hopefully preaching
to the choir I need to find a name for
all the people that watch this channel
just know that I appreciate you greatly
we recently hit 10,000 subscribers plus
by the time you're watching this
hopefully we're already at 20 trillion
Mr Beast is now my gardener
and life is good but I love you and
leave you 10% off do pack for Rascal
apparel don't forget to check out my.com
the smartest and most versatile training
app to ever exist coming out soon
express your interest I am not being
hyperbolic this will be the next biggest
thing out there after sliced bread which
we also selling with the apps so express
your interest to get your free loaf of
bread and I'll see you guys next time
hit that damn notification icon after
you hit subscribe comment you suck fcho
with a heart and then in a parenthesis
just kidding you look great you're an
amazing glorious beast and code
3605 for those of you that watch these
until the end so you win a prize of
nothing but a hug when you meet me in
person at some point on the street and
I'm homeless and you're like yo I said
that code of the video and I'm like
something change brother and then that's
the end of our interaction peace
a
[Music]