this is taking an exercise that's
actually very good for the back and
making it even worse this is a
modification that looks fancy that makes
shit worse it's like we're back in
Hollywood again huh
[Music]
fellas hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am the
creator of the RP hypertrophy app and
I'm a professor of exercise and sports
science at Leman College in the Bronx in
New York city in the United States uh
North America in the Western Hemisphere
on Earth which is in the solar system
and it's the very same solar system from
which Mr Dwayne AKA The Rock Johnson
also comes from and resides and lifts
weights and is so handsome
okay me and The Rock on a beach a
deserted Beach couple of unicorns sort
of running around and we're running too
we're holding
hands that's how I see this video
turning out
let's see if I'm right by critiquing his
exercise techniques 1 2 3
go yeah chains
brother I I saw a movie once called
bikini Chain Gang it was an adult film
are we getting canceled yet what the
chains do is they create needless
wobbling which destabilizes your body
and actually reduces Force production by
your shoulders almost every time you
destabilize system it is unable to
produce as much force as if it is stable
locked in and grounded so this is
interesting variation it makes for great
Instagram views but unfortunately is not
nearly as effective as just a pair of
dumbbells which I know is too boring to
put on the gram or the Tik Tok or the
swipe or wherever the Rocks publicist
posts
shit you just smash the camera with
that
oh shit he broke the rest of the camera
yeah his technique's not terrible though
he's like kind of lurching forward at
the bottom and then kind of rising up
with more than just his shoulders I
would love for him to do this either
seated or standing with dumbbells really
locked into position and doing it with
strict control maybe if Max stne our
editor is worth anything at all he'll
put a video of Jared feather doing
proper lateral raises in there or at
least someone that's doing them right
but you know Max always fails us so
he'll probably that up too Dam always
treat your employees like you treat
yourself poorly and with disdain I would
like to come up to the Rock I'm noticing
his tattoos in my ideal world I come up
to the Rock and like hey and he's like
hey what's up and I'm like what are your
tattoos mean and I just don't care what
he says after blah blah blah jawline
beautiful face and I'm like uh-huh
uh-huh yeah just say whatever the rock
just grab me already just hold me
please I need therapy all right now we
have standing dumbbell
curls uh yeah pretty good coming up nice
and high I would like to see him come
back a little bit more at the bottom to
get that stretch and also you'll notice
he's leaning forward at the bottom that
leverages him to lift the weight
properly but it leverages his biceps
into a stronger less exposed less
potential for muscle growth position you
want to expose the muscles putting them
into disadvantaged position so they
really have to work their way out of
there so what I would like to see from
him is for him to stand up straight and
push his chest out at the bottom and
really bring his arms back stretching
the living dog shit out of those biceps
this isn't terrible yet let's see if it
gets better worse or
neutral yeah so uh he stopped sort of
before lock out I again I would like to
see a bigger stretch at the
bottom oh I think he's doing some of his
reps like partial at the bottom and some
he's swinging up real high seems a bit
arbitrary yeah that's like I alternating
partial yeah Al alternating Bond end
partial and full range not terrible
pretty good idea interesting to try to
track it but uh I think uh this is quite
good again if you're going to do the
bottom end partial you might as well get
the big stretch at the bottom that's
kind of why you're doing it all right
now we have preacher curls uh these are
very good no critique so far I would
like to see him get all the way down to
a big stretch at the bottom but that's
just being being nitpicky this is great
man he literally has a sign in the gym
called project Rock Scott's video guide
is RP the wrong name should this be
project Mike no wait wait Rock's not his
given name what's my nickname I'm not
allow to say that out loud yes it is a
racial slur for the Jewish peoples
figure that one out self-appointed by
the way don't call me that online
because they will block you but I'm good
with it if you see me in real life call
me that shit any day
great wow what quality and control oh
shit here we go middle range reps which
are waste of time just a few of them not
terrible cuz he did them at the end when
he already tired this is a very good set
the rock you're back on my green list
the good list I'm like Santa Claus
except I don't bring you any presents I
just judge the out of you on the
internet I'm pathetic all
right we've got Smith machine Bros
okay first the good things he's getting
a good stretch at the bottom which is
great he doesn't seem like he's swinging
a lot which is also great he's bent over
for the general Gym and Fitness populace
quite well I would love to see him bend
over considerably more for two reasons
one is it leverages you to use more of
your back and have to use less external
weight it stretches your muscles more so
it's actually going to cause more muscle
growth if you really bent over and two I
just kind of want to see the rock bend
over further why why do I keep doing
this I'm heterosexual man I have a wife
at home but the rock you just see him
and I'm like what am I even should I be
in Hollywood can I just can I just smell
the
rock all right in any case the bad the
chains on the sides are a big fucking
problem and here's why one of the big
disadvantages of a barbell row of any
kind is that it's mechanically
disadvantageous the higher up you go so
closer to your tummy this is where you
usually fail but down here in the
stretch is where you actually want to
fail because you want the limiting
factor to be the most hypertrophic part
of the movement which is the big bottom
stretch the bent overow doesn't do that
that well so it's in some sense at least
a little bit inferior in that regard but
how can you make it worse well you put
fing chains on it so that it's even
harder at the top when the chains leave
the ground and even easier at the bottom
when the chains touch the ground and
deload the bar this is is taking an
exercise that's actually very good for
the back though maybe not ideal and
making it even worse this is a
modification that looks fancy that makes
shit worse it's like we're back in
fucking Hollywood again huh fellas they
actually modified the squatting motion
which would normally be done on a flat a
stable surface only ining Hollywood can
you take a movement that was just your
body weight squat with no equipment that
would have been the superior movement
and you made it worse oh shit big ass
Smith machine incline wide grip press
coming up folks I will eat my shoe if he
actually touches his chest on all of the
Reps ha sho's not on the menu
fellas God damn
it folks the bottom end range for the
50,000th time is the one that grows you
the most and I know it's uncomfortable
to be all the way over here feeling
feeling your pecs tear apart but would
it be crazy if I told you that you're in
the gym training chest in order to get
your pecs to basically rip apart in a
controlled Manner and yeah you won't be
able to lift as much weight but again
other than the girl that you will never
fuck anyway cuz she's never noticed you
who you think cares about weights but
doesn't nobody gives a shit about how
much you lift if your goal is physique
period you guys want to see more of this
video with more unedited raw footage and
crazy wacky takes we can't legally put
on public YouTube join our members
section to get the full length version
of this video give it some thought okay
looks like we have some dumbbell
[Music]
squats
okay so this is kind of like a dumbbell
Sumo deadlift squat situation I assume
he's training the glutes hopefully not
the quads a lot because there's not a
lot of knee flexion what I'll say about
this exercise is a few things the rock
is uh uh kind of like a real life
Superman so he weighs like I don't know
like 240 or something maybe even more
there is not a dumbbell unless you're in
Brian Shaw's gym and there's like 300s
around which is going to challenge him
in this movement so using a dumbbell
here means the external load is probably
too low if he just did one swap it would
be just get rid of the dumbbell and just
get a barbell this is one of these
things that if you're not particularly
strong you haven't been lifting a long
time and you're much older much younger
you can actually use the dumbbell in
this style to get a really great workout
but but the Rock proba can't because
he's so jacked that just doesn't make
any sense like so for example just using
me I can get a lot out of a deadlift of
this nature anywhere between let's say
400 and 600 lb let's not cut many slack
today 400 lb what the fuck am I going to
do with like 150 lb dumbbell even which
is like bigger than most dumbbells at
most gyms how much stimulus am I getting
with 150 lbs in the deadlift like that's
my first warm-up I can do 150 lbs of the
deadlift until I get like rabo or pass
out from not enough oxygen it's just not
training the muscles a lot cuz the
external load is too low very typical
Hollywood thing unfortunately making
things look hard where in reality to the
muscle that they're targeting they're
not that hard I will say the Cadence is
very good slowly Centric nice paw at the
bottom and then a smooth concentric very
excellent I just I just kind of wish he
wasn't doing it with a dumbbell damn it
and he could probably go a lot deeper if
the dumbbell wasn't standing straight up
like that so a barbell with some 25s
loaded on it it would just be better
just better sometimes there's nuance and
sometimes things are just better ooh
weighted dips okay the chains on the
neck is actually a good place to post
the resistance if you want your body to
can a l forward a little bit and get a
little bit more parallel to the ground
and expose your chest so these are great
uh dips for combination of a very good
tricep stimulus and an excellent chest
stimulus so so far so good on
that okay he's not coming up all the way
which is not a big deal but he's going
pretty deep by Hollywood and regular
lifting standards that's actually quite
deep what I would like to see is him sag
in and go even a little bit deeper and
maybe take a second at the bottom or
half a second at the bottom to really
stretch the PCS out that would help but
this is actually very good so far I'm
used to saying so far for these videos
cuz inevitably everything goes to
hell yeah not terrible not terrible at
all and very intelligent use of the
variable loading you have two chains on
I believe Two Chains as a musical artist
ALS that the kids listen to or did 15
years ago when I knew what music was now
he's down to one chain which is great
because he got close to failure with two
chains reduce the load get right back
into the mix couple reps coming his way
with one chain hopefully he also drops
the one chain and does some body weight
stuff this is really awesome this is
really awesome stuff oh yep last chain
off and he's doing it again I love it
very good again I just like to see his
Ecentric go a little bit slower and
maybe that one one second bottom pause
to really stretch the PCS but that's
being nitpicky this is really good
stuff oh yeah oh yeah that's failure oh
and he's going at it again oh wow he's
doing sort of force negatives this is
really intense he's got a great setup
for it so what he's doing here is he
already went to failure even with body
weight but since he can no longer
concentrically lift himself up we know
from a ton of research that your
Ecentric strength your ability to lower
something under control is way higher
than your conens strength your ability
to return it back so even if with his
body weight he's no longer strong enough
he's too fatigued in order to push it up
he's not so fatigued that he can't
control The Descent and if you take your
muscles really far beyond failure and
you start doing forced Ecentric I mean
you don't do this super often because it
will fuck you up in a good way but a lot
man if you guys want to try this work
out at home holy shit you might just
need to do like what he did literally
just now a couple sets of dips and you
might get sore pecs for a few days so
this is really awesome stuff yeah if you
guys have checked out our other
Hollywood critique celebrity critique
training videos you will Now understand
that even halfway through the video
right now the rock is doing a 100,000
times better job than almost all these
other celebrities and curiously enough
he's way more jacked
weird oky dokie just when we thought
things were getting good theery returns
folks the one one arm at a time pressing
bullshit is a gigantic waste of time if
you want to train one arm at a time just
lock in this hand really go at it with
this one because this one locks you in
and makes you really stable and you're
actually able to generate a ton of force
with one arm more than if you divide the
force by two with two arms Believe It or
Not bilateral deficit and then you rest
you grab this handle with the full
weight stack on it just to Cent your
yourself in and then you go at it like
that and you rest and you repeat if
you're doing this and then this and then
this you never really can align your
body properly to get the most juice out
of any one pack and then if you're doing
this and then this and then this it
strains the imagination as to why you
didn't just do this by the way there's
no good answer to that it's just
variation for the sake of variation you
can do better than
that there is no avoiding hard training
if you want to grow but if you want to
grow the most your training needs to be
hard and smart
RP hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
results oh boy though this is about
squat for question mark reasons because
squatting is hugely beneficial if you go
super deep maybe he has knee injuries I
don't know about in that case I reserve
my criticism but be much more effective
Ive for pretty much any goal if he took
his foot stance and narrowed it a little
bit and he took like uh five or six
total plates off of the machine and he
slowly dunked his boot all the way to
the ground that extra bottom range of
motion is the squeezing juice of growth
that's the thing we want and he's
missing it with every rep by doing these
top end partials yes it's cool that you
can put eight plates on a side on a pit
shark belt squat machine but uh but uh
not so effective and annoying to put
that many plates on there so far the
rock really has only one problem he's
avoiding that bottom end stretch
position which almost everyone does as
well folks that's the shit in the gym
that makes you the most jacked if I had
one mission in life now it would be
getting people to do that bottom end
stretch God damn it folks you're missing
out on the best stuff why do people
avoid it two reasons one the ego like
you can't lift as much weight which is
painful in an egotistical way and two it
just hurts down there man it fucking
hurts your shit is really just tearing
apart which is what you want lean into
the pain lean away from your ego and
you'll have better results I promise
some AB stuff great no complaints if you
do abs anything other than shirtless
you're an idiot or you're grotesque like
me and nobody wants to see you with your
shirt
off they make fun of you they ruin your
middle school high school college
experience
so got touch his abs to get that mind
muscle connection stop touching ABS Rock
let me see
[Applause]
them all right this is called the dick
Smasher exercise where you smash your
dick I think that's all it does um it's
I suppose a front raise for kind of side
delts front delts uh just fine again I
have no idea how it's possible that he
just can like the cable's smashing his
dick
folks
ouch oh
shit concentration curls with the 50s
baby I love that slow Ecentric the swing
on the way up not my favorite but the
slow Ecentric is
baller the concentration curl is
generally a shit exercise because again
it emphasizes the peak and traction
versus the stretch something like a
basian curl which is something you could
Google good luck spelling that shit
thanks manah henselman and or just you
know a curl with cables where you stand
way in front of the cables and you bring
the cables really far back and your curl
or an incline curl when you're on an
incline bench much better Force curve
much more effect but this is just very
impressive boom I'm sold zoa for me okay
now we have uh the V squat looking
machine not to be confused with the
vshred machine which just does a lot of
false advertising and nothing happens
all right this is cool
uh yep again the knee I guess something
must be wrong with The Rock's knees
because his knee flexion angle is a very
not impressive he would just get way
more out of the movement if he moved
closer into the machine stood more
upright and dunked his glutes way lower
letting his knees come out as he went
down that would be a way better quad
stimulus this is partial range of motion
at the very top it's not super effective
and
finally what I assume we're walking
lunges oh man man I there's got to be
something up with Rock's knees I feel
like shit criticizing him if that's true
he's just not going super low I would
love to see the knee gently touch the
ground every single
time though his use of chains is
excellent because what nope just kidding
there was no super set he just stopped
the chains
altogether okay so my rating for these
workouts is
a B minus but it's the kind where you
get the you get your I don't even know
if they do this in school anymore you
get your paper and pencil test back from
the teacher and it says B minus and it's
circled but instead of like everyone
else's grade who is whatever it says see
me after class and Mr The Rock comes up
to the teacher which in this case is me
and whatever the adult version you have
in your mind happens between us shower
scene love scene unicorn scene dirty
classroom sex totally fine with me
huh all I would say is this rock it's
only a v minus cuz you don't get that
bottom stretch if you really sunk it in
and got that bottom big stretch it would
be a work if not even A+ the the Cadence
is great the control is great
everything's awesome ex said that bottom
stretch is just killing you you would be
an a student if not for that but you're
going to have B minuses until you fix
that the C doctor is R I'll try to do
better I'm like yeah yeah now scram see
that's how I deal with students in real
life all right see you in lman college
peace
[Music]
homies