lagging muscle groups can be frustrating
as they can really throw off the balance
of your physique overall fortunately
science has found ways to increase
muscle growth potentially even in those
stubborn
areas welcome back Dr my wolf here today
with you PhD in sports science with wolf
coaching today we're breaking down how
to improve upon your lagging weak muscle
groups there are two big things you need
to do to improve your weak and liing
muscle groups the first one is to give
it plenty of time you need to have
realistic expectations when it comes to
the muscle growth timeline a lot of
people seem to think that within a
couple of months you can pack on a ton
of muscle the reality is that muscle
growth takes time and if you see
Advanced Natural Body wers it often
takes them years to make any appreciable
Improvement upon their physique and
that's years of consistent hard work if
you're less trained than this you can
certainly EXP like to see faster
progress for many people with their
weaker or lagging muscle groups it is
often just a time of being patient
continuing what you were doing a good
amount of muscle growth can take at
least 6 months to occur so I think if
you're really trying to improve on a
weak muscle group set a time frame of at
least 6 months to dedicate to really
focusing on that one muscle group or
those two muscle groups that you're
seeking to improve PA additionally if
you've been training for 6 months or
less you're still a beginner and I think
it's too early for you to really think
about specializing on a certain weak or
lagy muscle group as what you perceive
to be weak or lying muscle group right
now could just be very temporary when
you first start training you're still
developing your Physique in a major way
that weak muscle group could quickly
become a stronger muscle group or even a
strength within your physique if you
just continue training everything
equally depending on your background you
can have certain strengths and
weaknesses when you first set foot in
the Jil and those can be naturally
remedied by just training everything
pretty well so if you're new to the gym
just keep training everything pretty
evenly and then once you're about 6 to
12 months into your journey then you can
consider specializing but if you do want
to specialize here's the second key to
finally improving upon your stubborn
muscle groups the second key to finally
improving your stubborn muscle groups is
going to be to specialize on those
muscle groups we're essentially really
prioritize their muscle growth and how
you train them compared to other muscle
groups the aim essentially here is to
accelerate muscle growth of those
muscles to the maximum potentially at
the expense of the rate of progress for
other muscles there is likely going to
be a trade-off here so you should only
specialize if you're okay with the idea
of getting less muscle growth in other
areas and here's how to specialize on a
lagging muscle group first to see your
best growth you will likely need to use
higher volumes both the two most recent
metth analyses by basing colleagues and
by sh fing colleagues in 2022 and 2017
respectively El generally found more
hypertrophy when it comes to trading
with higher volumes compared to lower
volumes specifically in the metanalysis
by buzin Coles when they compared doing
12 to 20 sets per week to doing over 20
sets per week per muscle in trained
lifters who had been training for at
least one year while you saw a very
solid growth in the 12 to 20 set range
you potentially saw a bit more growth
depending on the muscle and depending on
how large of an effect you're looking
for when you at above 20 subs and this
general idea of going above 20 Subs
potentially be better for hypertrophy
has been studied relatively extensively
now specifically we have eight studies
comparing the set volumes of over 20 per
week to under 20 per week across these
eight studies four found more
hypertrophy with over 20 sets where's
four, similar hypertrophy between over
20 sets and below 20 sets however a CA
to This research is that many of these
studies don't have you training your
entire body with these crazy high Vols
and that's because you probably couldn't
be training with 20 or 30 or even more
sets per muscle per week for all of your
muscles at once first it'd be hard to
recover from and secondly most people
wouldn't have the time anyways dve that
many sets does take a lot of time and to
a large extent both of these issues can
be circumvented with specialization
increase volume and lagging muscle
groups up to 20 to maybe 35 sets at the
most meanwhile for an equal number of
muscle groups as you're specializing on
say you're specializing on three muscle
groups drop the volume to 5 to 10 sets
per week per muscle group for three
other muscle groups ideally they would
be in the same rough region you wouldn't
necessarily want to specialize on your
chest back biceps triceps and shoulders
at the same time as there will be a lot
of overlap between these and you could
still train more than is productive by
increasing the volume on certain muscle
groups and concomitantly reducing it on
other muscle groups you're still keeping
an overall balance within your program
when it comes to overall volume and
making sure you're not overdoing things
additionally it can also make it much
more feasible in terms of time if you're
away for crazy high volumes on all
muscle groups at once you may simply not
have the time to do so by only selecting
a few muscle groups those stubborn areas
to focus on at a time you're able to
effectively train these muscle groups
with higher volumes all right let's say
you've increased your volume to 20 to 30
sets per week per muscle and you're
wondering whether or not you should
increase it even further how do you know
if should increase the number of sets
even further to potentially see more
rows well one good homwork is going to
be your performance if your performance
is consistent week to week or even
steadily climbing that is a good sign
that you could potentially add more sets
into your training for that muscle group
and see a benefit on the other hand if
your performance is sort of dropping
gradually or even pretty quickly
dropping that is a sign that you might
be training that muscle group with more
volume that you can recover from and in
fact performance is probably the best
sign when it comes to interpretting
whether you're trading too much or
whether you potentially have the even
more trading if you'd like to see a long
discussion on the high volume research
fory check out the St science podcast
that will be linked in the description
another facet of specialization is that
you'll probably want to train with the
specialized upon muscle groups those
week areas a little bit more frequently
while training a muscle group twice or
maybe three times a week is great for
hypertrophy when you're doing 10 to 20
sets per week there is a met analysis by
sh fing colleagues on training frequency
that suggests that with high higher
volumes frequencies of say three or more
times a week may become more beneficial
so if you're doing 20 to 30 or even more
sets for a muscle group in a given
training week you may benefit from
training it three four or potentially
even five times a week at the very least
consider increasing training frequency
next although the evidence on this isn't
actually favorable if anything it
indicates that there is a minimal if any
difference on your hypertrophy I would
personally put the exercises or the
training for the muscle groups that
you're specializing on first within your
sessions ordering your exercises to
train whatever you care about the most
first in a session when you're freshest
does make theoretical sense despite the
evidence on the topic not supporting any
sort of meaningful difference if you
really care about muscle growth in that
one area it may just be worth getting a
shot next you can also try training a
little bit closer to failure on average
for that muscle group and training a
little bit further from failure for
other muscle groups once again it's the
same Principle as when it comes to
volume training a little bit closer to
failure may give you additional
hypertrophy as per recent met analysis
by Robinson and colleagues finding that
the closer to failure you take a set
generally the more hypertrophy causes
but equally you want to strike a balance
within your overall program if you tra
everything super close to failure all
the time that may not be productive so a
volume wise frequency wise training to
failure wise and excis orderwise that is
how I would structure a specialization
phase to start growing your stubborn
areas besides that the same principles
of muscle growth do still apply as when
you're not specializing let me give you
a quick rundown of what those are so you
can maximize growth in those stubborn
areas first if you want to maximize
hypertrophy you will likely want to be
in a calorie Surplus gaining around 0.5
to 1% of body weight per month likewise
you'll want to intake sufficient protein
to maximize muscle hypertrophy based on
a met aggression by Morton and
colleagues from 2017 that would be
around 1 6 g of protein per kilogram of
body weight at minimum per day next
whatever exercises you perform for that
muscle group you need to be really
effective and I have a whole series on
that very idea that you can check out in
the description below or on the screen
right now but let me give you a quick
breakdown of what makes an exercise
really effective for muscle groups first
the exercise should Target one of the
functions of the target muscle and
across your training week you will want
to Target hopefully many of the
functions of the muscle in a variety
positions next the exercise you pick
should have the target muscle that
stubborn area be the limiting factor and
that's where potentially incorporating
more isolation movements into your
routine can be helpful if you found
lackluster growth of your chest for
example by just doing a lot of pressing
maybe doing some more flies instead
would be helpful with isolation
movements you're very much increasing
the chance of the target muscle group
being the liming factor training closer
to failure potentially see more
hypertrophy and finally the exercise
should be stretch friendly and that
comes down to three things one it should
place the target muscle group into a
lengthened position two that position
should be reasonably challenging and
involve plenty of tension and three the
exercise would ideally be length and
partial friendly length and partials are
something that the researchers looked at
recently comparing it to a full range of
motion essentially the idea of just
doing partial repetitions in the stretch
part of the movement that may be
beneficial for inducing more muscle
growth and so if a movement lends itself
Al to length partials in terms of safety
that is a bonus next when it comes to
repetition ranges you could work in any
rep range from five all the way up to 50
reps per set and still maximize
hypertrophy on a per set basis however
there are a couple of considerations
first some data suggests that you do
want to get in a variety of rep ranges
when your aim is to maximize hypertrophy
so don't just do sets of five do some
sets of 10 20 30 maybe even more as well
second most of your work should probably
take place in the 5 to 50 rep range for
practical reasons specifically one of
her own metanalyses found that generally
people are pretty accurate at gauging
how close to failure they are however
when they perform more than about 12
reps they become less and less accurate
and become more likely to train further
away from failure or essentially start
sandbagging their sets and not going as
close to failure as maybe they should
and so just for ease of pushing close to
failure and minimizing discomfort going
a little bit heavier for most of your
training is going to be a good it and to
end this video exactly where we started
it give it time seeing any appreciable
musle growth especially in a stub area
is going to take a while especially if
you've been training for years and years
and years and you're trying to finally
balance your physique it's going to take
at least 6 months maybe even more to see
any appreciable progress stay the course
employ these principles and you will
likely see additional hypertrophy in
those stubborn areas and hopefully fix
those liing muscle during that time try
and hit PRS that you've never hit before
with good technique using all the
principles I mentioned during this video
in doing so and with that being said
that is the video If you enjoyed the
video please comment like subscribe
leave a comment down below letting me
know what else you want to see me cover
from a scientific perspective equally if
you haven't already please do subscribe
I know about 50% of you aren't
subscribed at the time of watching this
so please do subscribe additionally L I
know even the people who are subscribed
right now haven't hit the Bell a lot of
you at least so please do consider
hitting the Bell so that you get
notified whenever I release a video a
lot of work goes in through these videos
and I do appreciate your support if
you'd like me to coach you consider
checking out the link above and I can
become your coach in the meantime have a
fantastic day and I will see you guys my
subscribers you better have subscribed
next time peace