woo maximum muscle growth in just 30
minutes Dr pack here at the Airbnb where
my friends are staying to actually take
you through a raw and relatively
unedited upper body workout where you
can get a ton of gains so prepare for 30
minutes of pure pain sweat and enjoyment
much like my sex life but this time 29
minutes longer follow me to the gym
We'll see you in the battlefield in the
iron dungeon in the arena AKA just a
normal commercial
gym so usually whenever people talk
about 30 minute workouts or anything
below an hour it's usually in the
context of hey here's a time efficient
and somewhat effective workout now in
our case we're going to look at what you
need to do in 30 minutes in order to
pretty much optimize muscle growth with
some slight terms and conditions this
workout by itself Standalone if you were
to just do this one workout for the
whole week that would cover your sort of
minimum effective training dose as far
as hypertrophy goes but if you take this
workout and repeat it two or three times
you could do it even more times if you'd
like you're somewhere in the optimal
range as far as volume foretop it goes
for the majority of the muscle groups
that we're going to train too good to be
true
as long as you pay attention to certain
variables in the gym and you keep
intensity of effort pretty high you can
legit get in and get out in just 30ish
minutes and have a very effective
workout here with my equally tall friend
so it's wise to do some form of General
warmup before you hit the session so
that's a slight term and condition for
us that was the walk to the gym which
was totally long enough to be a general
warm-up but as a rule as a general rule
of thumb do something to get your heart
up either that being walking for 5 10
minutes doing a bit of light cycling or
whatever but if you don't have time and
you want to be super time efficient you
could totally skip that and just warm up
as I will show you inside the gym let's
also get something to drink before the
gym nutrition hack water it's good for
[Music]
you let's go let's do
it
we've entered through a door let's go
bakos in the back fre the guys cardio so
what we're going to do is we're going to
hit four sets for chest but on an
exercise that also trains our triceps
like the chest press versus doing
something like the machine fly so that
we get a bit more tricep work in in an
efficient way four sets for chest six
sets for back four sets for shoulders
and then around four sets for biceps and
triceps combined let's do it let's get
the timer going so we're going to aim to
be in and out in less in around 30
minutes probably less than 30 minutes
I'm hitting start and I'm getting on it
let's do it
so first
exercise will be the chest press
now even though we've done our general
warmup I still want to do a few reps on
this just to feel the exercise before I
start my working set so again we're
going to do four sets
here around six to 12 repetitions on
each exercise but with every set to
Total to complete muscular failure so to
the point where even a partial
repetition at long muscle lengths is not
possible all right I'm going to get
going I'm pretty warm we walked to the
gym I did my warm up here as well I'm
going to go full stack
and I'm going to focus on emphasizing
long muscle length so getting a deep
stretch keeping repetition Tempo between
1 to 8 seconds have some Ascension
control but nothing too great and just
get to the point where I can barely move
the machine anymore we're only going to
be here for 30 minutes and I'm wasting
some valuable time now but we're going
to make those 30 minutes count let's do
it
[Applause]
[Applause]
this is where I have a couple more
left woo set number one done we're going
to rest for
around 30 seconds to a minute between
each set until I feel ready to go keep
in mind that we're doing just an upper
body workout so it's not like I'm going
to be out of breath and struggling to
recover between sets as if I would be if
we were doing a lower body workout
also notice the swag we're in the gym in
jeans the new fashion is here
not only because I couldn't be asked to
change but also to show you that hey in
andout in jeans effective workout it's
all
possible let's get our timer out as well
see what's up we're 2 minutes in I'm
going to leave this on the floor and I'm
ready for my next set let's do
it
[Music]
same exact concept as before rest for as
long as I feel ready and as long as
you're hitting about five reps on each
exercise you're covered keep in mind
that the idea behind repetition ranges
strictly dictating hypertrophy or
strength is somewhat of a lie as long as
you're getting close to failure and
you're not doing ultra low reps which
would be somewhat time in efficient
let's say we were doing singles here
that would be a bit time inefficient but
as long as we're hitting roughly five
plus reps on everything and we're
getting very close to or to fader we're
definitely covered so you can be very
flexible with this if you prefer doing
higher rep sets obviously those will
take more time but you can still do so
all right 20 more seconds and I'm ready
for the next
set ah
I only hit four reps there cuz I didn't
rest 20 seconds even though I said I
would I tricked myself but drop
it the pump is quite
nice and we're 5 minutes in
officially last said let's get
it for arest
this one
more
cool
y that was nice that was emotional let's
get on with the next exercise follow me
to the machine
Row the last bulld Downs are currently
taken so we're going to take this to the
machine row 6 minutes in four very
productive sets for chest and somewhat
triceps and front delts have been done
let's get it let's do
it I'm only going to do two sets here
same exact concept select a load that is
heavy enough for five 6 to 12 reps I'm
going to go full
stack just in case adjust
this so that we can get plenty of R
let's see
nice
[Music]
stretch head one
done set two not done yet 7 Minutes
in we're going to give it a couple of
seconds AKA 20 seconds and then hit the
next
h second set all right let's do
it [ __ ] hell
woo emotional so notice how a few things
I paid attention to were number one
intensity of effort every set was pretty
hard well you couldn't get any harder
than that and as far as technique goes
emphasizing long muscle lengths so
making sure I get a good stretch not
worrying too much about the lockout but
still including it on some exercises cuz
I'm just used to doing them that way and
that's pretty much it minimizing
external momentum as you'll see here but
other than that as far as technique goes
things things can be relatively flexible
especially as far as Tempo and factors
like these go let's do it we're still on
the set we're still on the set three
reps at long muscling still productive
ego
unheard long muscle length what we care
about
[ __ ] know yeah we're bros we're gym
Bros deep inside that's what she said
and then I was like what does that have
to do with us and she was like look
fatel stop harassing me I don't know you
stop talking about us and then I was
like wait babe don't leave and she was
like don't call me babe bro I'm not your
babe I'm just a construction worker
trying to earn his bread and I was like
look the cosplay and the the outfit I
love it super sexy but what about us and
then she left and by left I man I mean
the guy continued
working on whatever he was working
on all right adjusting here for ego and
let's do it set number
two
nice
stretch notice how if we were to Define
range of motion or at least failure as
the point where you can't perform any
more full range of motion reps that said
would have stopped well I would have
have I would have had to go much lighter
but now changing our definition of
failure slightly and going to the point
where even partials at long muscle
length are not possible allows us to
potentially get a bit more out of some
muscle groups like the back so if you
saw towards the end of the set I was on
only able to get the bar towards my nose
middle of my middle of my head those
reps given that our latch and our back
musculature is stretched out and is
still working are probably really
productive as far as herper it
[Music]
goes same
weight
nice all right last 12 minutes last set
here keep in mind that that in addition
to our lats upper back to an extend our
biceps and forearms are getting a solid
stimulus here they're not getting all
the stimulus in the world but they're
still getting a pretty good
stimulus last
it
now I hear some of you may may be
wondering how do you track progress
during such a short workout I mean if
you keep things pretty standard as far
as like rest periods and so on and so
forth go or at least within a certain
range they go next time would be to
start at a slightly heavier weight
finish at a slightly heavier weight
maintain the same amount of reps or even
do the exact same thing we did today but
just beat reps as simple as that and
over time it's very unlikely that you
won't be able to know whether you're
making progress if you're using the same
exercises if let's say in a few months
I'm doing the lat pull down on this
particular machine and I'm hitting 100
instead of 93 for six plus reps peace
for six plus reps at the end of my
workout I know that I've made some
gains all right moving
on I am a failure but I will Rectify
myself on cam there we go the pump is
real
wow quite nice so this is not the best
best lateral raise machine but I like it
um the range of motion on it is not
fantastic but it will do let me just
quickly adjust my seat here there we go
and let's see what we can
get same exact concept as
before
last
one
what are you gam
man second
set again doing my best to emphasize
long muscle length here although it's a
bit
difficult but I really like this machine
cuz it feels comfortable on my
shoulders
all righty as you see rep drop off is a
thing and it's real this is not watering
the stimulus down that much one could
argue that if you were if you were to
rest longer that would be even more
hypertrophic and to a certain
extent that may be true but still doing
a few sets per exercise to failure and
resting 30 minutes to a 30 seconds to a
minute between each exercise is still
giving you plenty of hypertrophy
[Music]
Gam
yeah last
set and then we set
up all
righty last
[Music]
set
[Music]
[Music]
the end
Opa woo
3 minutes left we're going to give
ourselves two extra
[Music]
[Applause]
minutes okay let's
[Applause]
[Music]
see
we're going to super set this with
overhead tricep extensions for that long
head of the tricep
development
one more Super set left and we're done
it's it's been an emotional Journey but
a rather short Journey I'll up the load
on this on these a bit and
then we'll get
it obviously you can see the actual time
on the top left as well so you know
we're not trying to indeed scam you
slightly over 30 minutes but hey we
chose to [ __ ] around and waste our
precious time let's finish this workout
the way it
[Applause]
[Applause]
deserves
[Applause]
last
one and to really
[Applause]
finish
[Applause]
and we're done let's see
[Music]
it 32 minutes 22 seconds minus the 2
minutes of around 30 minutes let's check
out the
pump
[Music]
you get to be in it
[Music]
too and from the side on the
[Music]
side Hest
pump
[Music]
so done and dusted in just 30 minutes we
managed to hit four sets of chest press
two sets of seated row four sets of lat
pull down four sets of later raises and
then an easy peasy super set of two sets
of basian curls super seted with two
sets of overhead tricep extensions
plenty of work for the majority of our
upper body musculature now keep in mind
that the pressing and the pulling also
involved our biceps and triceps thus the
lower amount of sets at the end if you
do this workout once a week you're
taking minimum dose minimum effective
dose for the majority of your upper body
if you do this workout twice or even
three times per week you are right there
right near the optimal volume range for
the majority of your upper body
musculature don't forget to like
subscribe and comment so that I can
actually start making money off YouTube
and stop being a professional bottle
flipper cuz as you can see that's not
going really well I'll catch you guys
next time keep it real keep it g keep it
100
Anda
[Music]
peace