[Music]
hi guys it's Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and we've got an episode
today sponsored by Bob's Red Mill so I'm
going to use a bunch of bob's products
and we're gonna make a triple chocolate
pancake it's actually good for you and
it's super super chocolaty alright so
let's get started the first thing I'm
gonna do is use egg replacer this is a
Bob's Red Mill product that I've started
using a ton I can't eat eggs currently
so if you can you can certainly sub in
egg whites for this but if not this is a
great replacement and so with the egg
replacer it's just a tablespoon of egg
replacer to two tablespoons of water
that's your ratio so and that that's the
equivalent of one whole egg so if you
want to do two eggs you're gonna do two
tablespoons of the egg replacer and four
tablespoons of water as long as you keep
that ratio you're good and you just want
to add it together and then stir it with
a fork I found that the best thing to
use is a fork because you don't want
those chunks and if you just keep
stirring it with a fork those chunks
will break down and you'll end up with a
smooth consistency and that's what you
want and then just let it sit and it
only takes a minute to really solidify
up enough to you know to replace an egg
in a recipe and so if you just leave
that off to the side while you're doing
everything else it's ready to go by the
time you're ready to add it so the first
thing I'm gonna do is put all of our dry
ingredients in One Bowl we'll put all of
our wet ingredients in the other Bowl
we'll mix them together really lightly
and then we'll let it set just for a
little bit it'll bubble up and kind of
fluff up so we'll start with some carob
powder this is a Bob's Red Mill item and
then they have an amazing 12 grain
pancake mix that I love so much I'm
gonna add that in next some quick oats
the little ones date sugar guys know how
much I love dates sugar if you haven't
used it before it's really easy to find
you can find it on Amazon you can find
it on thrive market there's a bunch of
different places it's a sugar substitute
and it's a little bit more like a brown
sugar than a white sugar so it doesn't
work in all recipes but it's literally
just dried and pulverized dates so it's
a great natural sweetener and then we're
gonna add in our cinnamon and salt all
right so we've got our dry ingredients
all ready to go in there and by now our
egg replacer has gotten nice and gel
like right there so we are going to go
ahead and add that in you can see how
it's thickened up this is some nonfat
sour cream that in vanilla unsweetened
chocolate almond milk coconut oil so I
always like to liquefy the coconut oil
so I did that but if you add warm
coconut oil to a cold mixture like this
it's gonna chunk up immediately it'll
just get solid so what you want to do is
take a little bit of the cold and add it
in so you're kind of like tempering it
you're just kind of bringing the
temperature of the coconut oil down
without like freezing it out and making
it solid there are already smells good
now we're gonna add the wet into the dry
ingredients hold it lightly so you want
to incorporate all of the dry but you're
not in here stirring it like crazy you
don't want to do that it's gonna make a
tougher pancake and we want this nice
and light and fluffy like everybody
likes their pancakes just want to get
all the dry moistened and that's it
we're just going to let that set just
for just while you're preheating your
griddle and getting that ready to go
so we've preheated our griddle we're
ready to make these amazing triple
chocolate pancakes so I'm gonna spray my
griddle with some coconut oil spray
really well because you don't want it to
stick
[Music]
you've probably heard before that a
pancake is ready to be turned when you
see bubbles on the top and these are no
exception same thing you'll start to see
bubbling on top and that's when you know
this guy is ready to go
can I go ahead and flip him and put some
chocolate chips on some news and press
it down no these are gonna melt that's
gonna be awesome I'm gonna put these on
a paper towel-lined plate at first
before I put them on the plate that
we're going to serve them on because
they'll have some moisture obviously
they're hot they're steamy and if you
stack them right on top of each other
they kind of get soggy and messy so I
like to put them first on a paper towel
to kind of let them cool down a little
bit and absorb some of that moisture
before we go ahead and plate them
there we go triple chocolate pancakes
[Music]