[Music]
hey guys dr. Mike has held back for
lecture to an introduction to Sport and
Exercise Science gonna be talking about
the foundations and two basic subfields
the next step of your rpu journey so
foundational subjects are level 2 the
basic subfields are level 3 we'll talk
about level 2 first so what are the
foundational subjects they are three
subjects in particular that establish
ability to learn Sport and Exercise
Science effectively what's the analogy
here if you wanted to learn how to make
a car he had no idea what car parts for
what it would be a matter of incredible
laboriousness to try to figure out how
that works but if you knew what the car
parts did what their function was how to
recognize them then somebody could teach
you how to make a car step by step and
when they said hey give me the radiator
give me the tire you would know what
those objects are referring to if you
again another analogy for car building
if you don't know how to use a wrench or
how to use a drill you may have a
theoretical understanding of how to
build a car but you'll never be able to
do that unless you know these very
foundational basics
only after you know these can we take
the next step and say ok now that you
know this basic stuff that really has a
lot of general transfer but won't get
you ahead of anything in specific now
you can learn specifically how to make a
car or how to make a dresser or how to
make a TV once you know what the parts
are and once you know how to use the
tools that's when you can really begin
to learn how to do actual stuff so the
foundational subjects are really to help
you be able to learn you can try
learning above level two at level three
etc without knowing the foundational
subjects you
run into a lot of crazy crazy
difficulties right there are three
foundational subjects one is the theory
of science and that basically allows you
to understand the language and the tools
of science so the theory of science
literally explains to you how science
works how it comes to understand the
world and how the world works and the
meticulous nature by which science both
discovers how the body works and how
exercise is arranged and how we are to
use our own intellect to figure out
what's right what's wrong and what to do
if you're not familiar with how
scientists think or how science works a
lot of the kinds of conclusions were
going to be drawing and make very little
sense so for example we'll say things
like in the advanced courses courses
though the current balance of the
evidence seems to indicate that it's
likely that bla without a scientific
background only theory or science you
could be say okay okay Kayla bringing
stuff but like what's the answer
well one of the first things science
teaches if there's no answer there are
things of more and less likelihood and
we can't ever deal in absolutes
so understanding theory of science will
help you in every single course and
it'll especially help you at the top end
courses level 5 & 6
understanding how guarded conclusions
are made how to change your mind with
incoming evidence and all of that stuff
course number two is movement anatomy
fundamentally most of these courses that
we have at our pu are about learning how
the body works learning about how the
body responds to exercise how it was a
good idea to train how the body responds
to nutrition etc movement anatomy takes
the body and shows you what the body is
made of the basic bones in joints and
structures and organs etc that literally
give you the building blocks of what the
body is made of because if you don't
know the building blocks how the heck
are you supposed to figure out how they
move in a coordinated fashion in advance
of photo competition and how to
manipulate
so if we say that you know the femur has
to add duct by a certain amount during
this movement what the heck is a femur
what is a duct
well if you don't know move in anatomy
if you don't know what the stuff the
composes the body is the bones the
joints etc the the skeleton the muscles
then it's gonna be really difficult for
you to figure out what the heck is going
on and then you get a subject like
biomechanics what about injury
prevention and care of injuries is gonna
make no sense at all even physiology is
hard to understand how things work when
you don't know the structures involved
say well you know red blood cells are
manufactured in bone marrow bone marrow
like is that in the bones I think it's
in the bones
you take movement Anatomy you're gonna
know where everything is in the body so
that when you understand the body as a
whole now we can take the body and it's
our knowledge of it and start to apply
it to exercise and sports science last
course the third course in foundational
subjects is basic physiology physiology
is how body systems tend to work and
change over time
physiology there's a course above that
after that called Sport and Exercise
physiology but that's how the body works
in relation to support and exercise
something that is almost impossible to
understand unless you know basic
physiology for example someone can say
when an individual is sprinting in the
hundred meters they are producing ATP at
maximal rates inside the muscle cells of
their quadriceps muscles what the heck
is ATP uh where is it produced in just
the cell is there a part of the cells
bruise where this the cell well how how
do cells work to produce this luckily
you already took movement Anatomy so you
know what the quadriceps are you know
that they're composed of various fibers
and the fibers are composed of cells etc
but but after that how ATP you don't
even know what that is and how does that
work well that's the kind of statement
that is sort of given for granted in
sport physiology and it's up to you to
know what the basic physiology is right
it's
sort of like a race car mechanic saying
now you know so we're gonna modify the
fuel injector here to get a bigger you
know sort of activity in the chamber
here you don't know what the chamber is
a engine our fuel injector is or how
they work any modifications to them are
just pure nonsense to you so basic
physiology basically tells you how
molecules work how energy systems work
if they're very basic how cells work how
transportation to and from and out of a
cell works maybe something about how
digestion works etc the very very basics
of that physiology once you know that
then when you start to apply that to
sport in the next course you go ah okay
now I see when they say ATP is produced
I know what ATP is at the very least I
know how molecules are produced in the
body and I know what energy currency is
in the body and that is ATP and now when
that explanation comes as to how that
happens you have all the baseline
knowledge so now if you have taken all
three of these foundational subjects you
understand how scientists think do you
understand the language of science that
we're going to be speaking throughout
this entire course you know the body
fundamentally you know its parts what
parts involved and you know more or less
that very basic how they work at their
simplest levels now that you know that
stuff after you've taken the
foundational subjects you can go on and
expand your knowledge to much more
precise finally for the first time sport
and actually has all the stuff now mind
you theory of science movement enemy a
basic physiology this stuff that every
biologist and every doctor has to take
as well it's not just exercise related
it's if you're gonna talk about human
bodies and you're gonna study them
you're gonna have to take all these
three courses at some point during the
process preferably at the beginning
here's the thing about these three
courses and some of the other courses we
offer at level 3 there is a huge
difference here between a formal usually
University based and now before maybe
the first time online based education
and just reading articles online and
this is the huge difference a lot of
individuals who read
pickles online we'll read them and think
okay so this person says that you know
testosterone is produced but that if
your insulin levels are too high then
testosterone levels go down or if your
insulin levels are levels are too high
then cortisol is also too high so to
high-vis levels make too high of
cortisol levels okay
I know those are hormones I'm exactly
sure what hormones are but like the part
there's things in the body may be like
messengers and molecules or something I
know that a cortisol is like bad stress
related
I think insulin is like something to do
with carbs or making you fat and yeah I
guess if they both go up that's really
bad because one makes you fat and the
other one makes you fatter or something
or stressed out that's a lot of stuff to
figure out and if you don't know the
basic physiology of what hormones are
are they function if you don't know what
their structures are fundamentally from
where they start in the body to where
they go what their purpose is and how
they change with relation to each other
and over time which are gonna learn all
these basic courses you're just gonna
have to take a lot of stuff in articles
that are written by people who may know
what they're talking about or may not
know what they're talking about at total
face value because you can't ever be
skeptical of the deep physiology behind
what they're saying but people who have
had these foundational subjects can look
at a statement like that and say
something very simple so it says that
when insulin levels get really high your
cortisol gets high - well insulin
directly contracts chorus all the
mechanisms that raise cortisol in the
body also you know have no effect on
insulin and usually if insulin is up
cortisol is down
if carbohydrate is taken in and insulin
goes up chorus all is almost always down
at the same time so the mechanisms are
almost always antagonistic they're not
synergistic so if someone tells you you
know if you have too much insulin in
your body over time your cortisol goes
up that that fundamentally very
difficult to an eight you may not have
the specialized education in sport
nutrition to figure out does that really
actually happen
but at the very basic level if you know
that those are antagonistic hormones
largely that they don't usually got high
at the same time you'd be one as high or
the other you just art to be really
really skeptical of that article of that
video or of that book that you're
reading by somebody who might know their
stuff a might not you don't know and and
you might take a step back and try to
get a little bit more background on it
so this a huge difference there if
somebody who has a background education
biology physiology movement Anatomy
theory of science if they read some
articles online about training and Spore
and diet and all that stuff they tend to
be much more skeptical much more
measured and can refute BS much better
than individuals without that education
so if you've taken just these courses at
RP you you already one step ahead of the
breadline to cite Aladin at all not sure
what your Aladin mythically existed at
some you know the 1080 or something like
that but you're already one step ahead
of the red line so to speak in terms of
being able to see okay does what this
person said say you violate even some
basic science and sometimes it does and
we'll get to some examples of that a
little bit down the line so the good
news is yeah okay so if you just learn
these subjects you're already well you
know ahead of the curve but the best
thing about learning these baseline
subjects is they're gonna power your
journey through the basics right and
those basics will power you through the
rest of the field it's almost like
teaching you to read and write at school
wasn't much for its own sake okay you
can read and write that's sweet well I
can give you a person who can read and
write who doesn't know anything other
than that uh nobody has a PhD in reading
a PhD in writing means there's probably
some content in there not just stuff
that you write you learn to read and
write so that you can learn science and
math and literature and geography and
social history and all that stuff those
are the core curriculum subjects in an
elementary school or middle school so
these foundational subjects are kind of
like @rp you learning to read and write
learning to understand the language of
science learning the very basic
background of the body so that you can
even get to
the basic subjects these are pre basics
these are foundations right now once we
get through the foundations we get to
what we call level three major basic
subfields what they do is they cover the
major classes of knowledge in Sport and
Exercise Science all of Sport and
Exercise Science every single topic
derives in part or wholly from one of
these courses period from one of these
subjects all applied science is built on
the discoveries and insights of these
major basic subfields right now if you
do not learn the major basic subfields
and you try to learn the applied
subfields like sport nutrition for
example without first learning the basic
subfields like exercise and Sport
physiology like knowing how the body
works an exercise in sport context
before you learn how to feed the body
think if you try to figure out how to
feed the body sport nutrition before
learning sport in exercise physiology
how the body works in that sport context
you're going to ask you're gonna find
yourself asking pretty much an infinity
but number of why's right and being
unable to understand or anticipate how
the information is going to be unfolding
I'll get to the first point first so
asking yourself a ton of wise I'll get
into this every now and again some of us
who teach this stuff for a living we'll
get into this on social media with
individuals very intelligent very
curious individuals and will say
something like well you know it's a good
idea to train with heavyweights at least
sometimes if you want to grow muscle
because that activates your fast twitch
muscle fibers and they go ok or
stimulates them and they go ok why ok
because fast twitch muscle fibers tend
to grow more than slow twitch muscle
fibers now go home why you know because
of the chemical will would Jesus when
are we gonna meet at that I'm going down
to the basics and when are we gonna meet
the answer is if you don't have a basic
education the answers you ask why's all
the way down we could say we you know so
the various regulator molecules clip on
to others in you know in basically these
molecular cascades which are ways of
transducing information through the cell
that make the cell function differently
and they usually start up the nucleus
and they'll say so why'd they start the
new clique what's the nucleus and you go
oh oh boy all right it's like trying to
explain how a computer works to your
grandma and we're grandma asked what are
you doing you say oh you know a grandma
I'm downloading a video to watch later
on my flight when I go fly over to
California and grandma says oh what's a
what's a download you're like oh well
you have to start speaking in either
like three-year-old terms or the get
information goes from here to there but
if grandma continues to ask why at some
point you just have to send her to like
a computer hardware course or theory of
computing if she doesn't know that it's
really really uphill that's okay if
grandma's asking you the question and
it's totally cool to give a short
explanation on Facebook if someone's
asking your sportfish question but if
you actually want to know stuff if you
hear the person reading articles reading
books talking to other coaches if
everything they say leads to just an
endless series of why's that means you
skipped level three but if you know
level three if you know biomechanics and
they say you know you really shouldn't
squat like that because it puts stress
on your knee joint you go why and they
go because the following motion puts a
shearing force on your knee which we
know is destructive to that tenderness
and cartilaginous structures and you go
oh yeah I know biomechanics let me see
shearing forces knee design yeah you're
right holy crap
but you gotta need them on the way up as
they come down to talk to you in that
language and if you don't know the
basics of what they're talking about
it's an endless series of eyes all the
way down and remember how much are you
learning if you ask an endless series of
lies all the way down not much unless
they teach you the whole science no
one's gonna teach you that on Facebook
or coach isn't gonna teach you that
talking to you you got to learn that
stuff yourself to be prepared and ready
to learn just to make it another extreme
analogy imagine you showed up to work
rocket design team to send the new NASA
rocket to the moon or something another
moon mission and they said okay now so
your job is to make sure we plug up all
these areas with the following composite
material to make sure it doesn't rupture
on the way up and you go so um why are
we using this composite material
material and they give you like ten
equations for material science and
you're like what are those mean and
they're like what do you mean don't have
a material science degree that's why
you're here and you're like no I my read
articles online about rockets all right
at some point you got to have that basic
knowledge otherwise this is gonna be
pure nonsense though these are the
courses that give you that basic
knowledge so they're incredibly
incredibly important to take first
before you move up the rungs it's
tempting to go right under the apply it
stuff some of this stuff is a little bit
more boring than others but I promise
it's going to be a huge tool for you for
those reasons stop asking all the whys
to know the stuff to allow you to link
up and to be able to understand why or
anticipate how the information unfolds
that's a really huge step if you're
learning something completely anew it's
and will say here's this body of
knowledge and it's really really
complicated it's really difficult to
learn that whole structure and just
accept things as they are because you
have nothing to connect them to that's
like going to an alien planet and
getting a tour and the guys like okay
that's a glork it Zeb's people and
that's a Zora and adults people you know
hey Liz what huh it makes perfect sense
to him because he's got other things to
connect he knows what glork is really
kind of like a car Zeb is like an
electrical socket but you have no idea
about all that stuff there's nothing to
connect to so if you're learning Sport
physiology without knowing physiology
without knowing or so let's put this way
you're learning sport nutrition without
knowing sport access physiology someone
can tell you you know this is how you're
supposed to eat you know who you said
kind of remember that that's how and
there's no why but if you already know a
sport physiology right
and then you learn sport nutrition
there's a link to that it all starts to
connect so as you're learning a sport
nutrition step by step they say okay so
carbohydrates should be taken in before
physical activity because they power
physical activity via glycogen you know
I am exactly how glycogen works and
exactly how powers physical activity and
now I'm starting to see how that sport
nutrition recommendation is completely
logical when you see that something is
completely logical and it makes sense
with a structure you already have you
learn it at multiple times the rate
you're confused very little and you can
work at it and not a quick pace but work
at a good pace and the depth of your
knowledge is massive it's just gonna be
more useful knowledge not just
remembering stuff off the top of your
head real true ideas because you know
how the information integrates and as
you go through learning the course
you're gonna know how the information
unfold you're gonna go oh I bet we're
gonna learn about that snacks because
we've already carved proteins who are
deferred carbs I know the next fuel for
exercise as fats cuz I had support
physiology now I wonder if they're gonna
give us recommendations for an addition
sure enough you flip the page or rather
click over the PowerPoint boom
guidelines on fat intake you already saw
that coming for those of you who have
been to school before especially high
level you know how much better it feels
to know something is coming versus being
like alright what the hell is this you
can flip the page or you go to the next
PowerPoint you're like hmm alright this
seems to be here at random
nothing's random when you know the
underlying field everything fits
together kind of like Jenga blocks or
something like that right or like Oh
blocks so if you have a base it's really
easy to fit stuff on there it makes the
learning process not only more effective
but much more streamlined much more
enjoyable on top of that right so just
to reiterate if you don't know the major
basic subfields and you want to go to
the applied subfields if you take the
applied cell fields are the basics
you're gonna have to take most of the
claims on faith like this following
motion is bad for your knees
okay noted continue on that's cool
but you might want to learn the basics
for if anything else to be like old I
see why it's bad for the knees that
makes total sense
if you enjoy taking things on faith
you're probably not a huge fan of
science anyway and might not have stuff
this far into rpu so it's a really good
idea if you want a background to
solidify your understanding you may that
understanding easier to take all the
major basic subfields and there are four
of them what are they
sport an exercise physiology how the
body works in relation to support and
exercise sport an Exercise psychology
how the body sorry how the mind works
in relation to supporting exercise
biomechanics basically how the anatomy
of the body arranges itself forces etc
and what's called motor behavior and
that's how the brain and nervous system
both tell your body to move and are
altered by movement and learn to through
that whole process so we're gonna take
what we would do now is take a brief
tour through all of these four major
basic subfields and talk about what it
is the introduce and explain and give
you some select major insights of theirs
that are cool learning for you to have
now and you'll see explained in great
depth why that's the case later when you
go into actually learning about these
and into their apply derivatives so
Sporn exercise physiology introduces and
explains for example how we derive
valuable molecules from food and
hydration from fluids may you eat food
and then they look like little tiny
molecules not dust all right it's blood
apple how do we derive what we need from
that Apple covered in sport physiology
how we transform those molecules once
we've derived them into energy for
activity right and how we store and use
that energy to power activity or
recovery or repair the actual processes
that undergo that probably important
stuff to know if you're going to end up
learning something like sport nutrition
or how the body tends to recover
absolutely and of course in sport
physiology we learn how all of these
major systems adapt to changes so we
know if the body goes with less food for
a while what kind of changes is a make
what about more food what kind of
changes etc etc etc no more physiology
exercise physiology burner on for a long
time here are some major insights that
they've given us so far first insight
I'll go into these just a little bit
kind of like a get you excited for the
course situation so first probably for
evolutionary reasons of having very
scant food around and most of our
ancestral time digestion and absorption
of almost all the major nutrients is
usually very efficient that
automatically tells us at least two
things or hints to us that two things
are probably true one not digesting and
absorbing stuff is probably pretty rare
and it's usually a disease condition and
most people don't have to worry about
that so when people say oh you might not
be absorbing all those carbs it's very
unlikely another thing we can learn is
that if people are really good at
absorbing and digesting if we over feed
them they'll probably do absorb and
digest that stuff and gain weight as
opposed to saying well if you overfeed
someone everything just goes through
doesn't get I just absorb and gets
crapped out so for sure when someone
says about an obese person while that
person doesn't process food very well
they don't digest and absorb food very
well that's literally nonsensical
backward statement because we know most
humans processes they just absorb food
very well and that person clearly of
their size they must have absorbed quite
a bit right so now that we know that
absorption is not that difficult we know
the reality of the situation another
quick thing we can get skeptical about
just from this basic physiological
knowledge is people selling you vitamin
and mineral supplements and saying you
have to take these or else you're
chronically undernourished and bad
things will happen well if you eat a
complete diet and your body's really
good at adjusting absorbing usually gets
everything it needs from just eating a
good healthy diet and in fact that turns
out to be the case but when you learn
how good our bodies are digesting and
absorbing nutrients from spohr
physiology you start to immediately just
become a little bit skeptical not about
all vitamins and supplements but about
those people that'll tell you have to
have them or else or else really bad
things will happen while our ancestors
and
and up until very recent history and
most people in the world for example as
a matter of fact most people Western
countries don't take vitamins and
supplements I think really only sick and
dying no so clearly that's not the case
and this is the background physiology as
to why another really cool revelation
muscles have distinct energy systems for
short bursts for intermediate duration
exertions and for high endurance
exertions there are literally three
independent molecular systems for
generating that kind of energy for that
kind of movement one of the things that
you can clue from there is if this three
independent systems for energy
generation and we know the bodies of
them with only a certain size if we put
a whole lot of one system we develop one
system and there's just more of it more
molecular machinery to run that system
maybe there's less to run the other
systems and that's completely true and
that's one of the reasons why people who
are really good at weightlifting and
powerlifting sure explosive bursts have
a lot of those molecular systems that
are good at that energy system but the
energy system designed for endurance is
it very small and very weak in those
individuals relative to other very high
level individuals who've expanded on
those systems so we don't ever expect an
Olympic weightlifter who's at the
topless class to be a competitive
marathon our reason because use somebody
without a sport his knowledge could be
like well so they'll say things like
well that person is a really good shape
automatically because we know we have at
least three energy systems and a bunch
more complexity we know that saying
someone's in shape is already a little
bit illusory just a little bit we could
say well you would in shape for what
because the body has different things
that it's good at and different distinct
systems for different kinds of things
next we know from the insights of
exercises for physiology and this is
more of an exercise one that getting
enough oxygen to working muscles is a
major limiting factor in how much robic
energy they can produce a lot of times
mitochondria the organelles inside the
cells that produce energy from oxygen
are ready to produce a whole lot more
but the real problem is getting enough
oxygen to them interesting enough you
also learn a sport phys that most people
can breathe in enough oxygen just fine
it's that their blood doesn't carry
enough oxygen
so again skepticism the training mask if
we don't
I'm getting oxygen into the body what
the heck does a treating mask train well
it was something we really struggled
with the trainee mask could reduce the
oxygen maybe somehow and then we would
train that system but if the real
limiting factor is how much blood you're
carrying in your ox oxygen you're
carrying in blood for many people then
maybe we should work on ways to enhance
our blood volume and make sure that we
have a lot of red blood cells to carry a
lot of oxygen and in fact that is one of
the major Durance adaptations as you
with training and athletes will do
what's called blood doping when they
literally take out their own blood
months ahead of the race put it in a
refrigerator or a very special one and
then put it back in to get more red
blood cells because that improves
performance and you see very few people
doing any kind of breathing drills or
lung drills or gas masks stuff because
that stuff is not attacking a limiting
factor system another insight store
carbohydrate in the form of glycogen is
a major fuel source for high intensity
repeated movements typical of sports as
soon as you learn sport physiology
realize like a gin is a heavily relied
upon as a fuel source for repetitive
explosive activities which is like most
sports if not almost all of them and
automatically what is your opinion on
low carb diets knowing only that your
opinion should be skeptical because how
are we getting enough glycogen to make
sure that we power the kind of sport
performance that we want another
revelation last revelation here a lot of
them here's I tried to pepper them in
but it ended up being quite a few
adaptations to training how your body
changes in response to training have
different time courses depending on the
systems adapting some of those systems
adapt when seconds some of those minute
systems adapt to the minutes hours days
and some even weeks so for example if
you teach somebody a new technique of
how to move within seconds they can see
you doing it adaptations are made
rapidly in their brains and they can
execute monkey-see monkey-do kind of
like what you did so technique has a
really fast adaptive capacity people get
better within the actual session now
have you ever gotten stronger within a
session of exercise no you actually get
weaker so stress
in the sense of how much force your
muscles could put out takes probably
days sometimes longer to actually get
better the time course for strength
improvement is longer and what about
bone growth do you grow bones over the
course of a single session no way do you
grow them over week no way your bones
take weeks and months even to grow so if
we have certain exercise plans designed
for certain enhancements we have to
figure out okay these enhancements that
we want how fast do these systems really
adapt what's the time course of
adaptation for these and then we can
figure out first of all when to expect
results or one we know we're not on
track and also how often to train there
might be another really cool excitement
that support an exercise phase let's
move on to sport actually psychology a
little bit of a Grand Tour here as well
so sport exercise psychology introduces
and explains generally how people tend
to think about exercise and get
motivated for it so for example two
people on average like to exercise
voluntarily well some people do and some
people don't and you could study about
which ones do and don't and what kind of
factors tend to make people really like
exercise and want to do it on their own
and what kind of factors tend to make
people really not like exercise and have
someone have to make them do it on their
own or talk them into it or use
motivational strategies its Sport and
Exercise psychologists that's the
exercise psychology part the sport
psychology part basically introduced and
explains how athletes enhance their
performances with unique ways of
thinking are there special motivational
strategies special calming strategies
special aggression strategies that
athletes can use how can athletes change
their way of thinking to enhance their
output in sport those are the two main
questions the sport actually psychology
starts to explore here are some major
insights from those fields in exercise
psychology willpower is irreplaceable
and exercise motivation multiple lines
of evidence converging but if a person
doesn't want to change fundamentally
themselves and if a person isn't willing
to put at least some work their chances
of success in a exercise program or on a
new diet is incredibly low so there has
to be buy-in
there has to be an internal desire for
the best chances will
in that respect is critical however
another revelation from exercise
psychology which also extends to diet
psychology and things like that is that
willpower is really good in the short
term but it can't take you into a
sustainable exercise or sustainable diet
approach because willpower is a very
mentally taxing to exert right willpower
means to do it I got to do this how
often can you repeat that especially in
a free society in which you don't have
to exercise or eat right and still have
time or energy left for anything else
can you imagine all of your debut all
right all the time you get exhausted
both physically and psychologically so
the reality is that only habits can
sustain exercise training or can sustain
a long-term diet anything that's going
to take you weeks and months to complete
willpower is a good start to that but
only formed habits internal repetitive
desires to do things will take you all
the rest of the way so if you have a
habit of exercise you just show up and
train because that's what you really do
and a lot of you that are watching this
already train quite a bit and actually
that's quite a bit and you've had like
this kind of strange question so it's
not a strange question on paper it's
just changed when people ask you this
question they go or they say they say to
make a comment and kind of wait for your
sponsee say oh man you know I've seen
you the gym you you're looking really
good you must be in here all the time
huh and you're like yeah I guess I'm in
here a lot of like man that's awesome
good for you that's you've got a lot of
willpower and you're like mmm you know
you usually say all thanks yeah we're
all it's no big deal thanks so much but
do you think about it like really take
me a lot of willpower to be in here I
like training it sometimes I don't like
it like it but like that's just what I
do every Tuesday Thursday Monday is
Saturday that that's what I do I think
that's just a kind of a you know it can
you imagine somebody like after you come
out of the bathroom having brushed your
teeth there like you brushed your teeth
again didn't you and you're like we sure
did and they're like wow how much
willpower that takes to do it every day
you know yeah right I've been doing it
so long it's just automatic
this point it's not emotionally costly
it doesn't require me to grit my teeth
or literally because you have to get the
back of the teeth but essentially if you
want to exert a ton of willpower you
have to to start a situation to start a
change in psychology but as you want to
continue that change habits or where
it's at so if you're working out and
someone says hey you had a lot of
willpower you say you know what
some days I need it but most days it's
just a habit and it's something I enjoy
and as soon as that individual that
asked you that or told you that develops
they don't have it they'll know exactly
what you're talking about
in sports psychology real big insight is
that believing you can win believing in
yourself that you are capable of victory
in that moment or in that power of or
performance literally frees up more
mental and physical resources so that
you can take your best chance of winning
if you believe you can win you move you
move more smoothly you are more athletic
you doubt yourself less which means you
don't do a whole lot of this you go to
where you're supposed to go move the
ball where it's supposed to be moved
move the barbell where it's supposed to
be move move your opponent where they're
supposed to be moved with confidence and
that confidence allows you to execute
the technique eor supposed to but when
you're not confident when you don't
believe that you can win the very act
the very mental process of
second-guessing takes resources away
from your brains calculation of where to
optimally move and takes them away from
them and then all of a sudden your brain
isn't as good at being an athlete and
telling you where to move you got to
believe that you're going to be able to
do this whatever it is in sport if you
fully believe it are you gonna succeed
whether the stupid slogans believe to
achieve nonsense you may very well
believe that you're gonna be able to do
it and fail just the same but the only
thing you have control over is giving
yourself as good of a chance as possible
and if you believe that you can do
something you're going to put all of
your mental and physical energy towards
it in sport and have the highest prob
ability that you're going to succeed so
if you're a wrestler and you try to
throw someone and you don't believe it's
gonna happen you're not gonna use the
most force you could because your brain
sort of thinks why the heck would I use
the most force if this isn't even gonna
happen I know that's probably not gonna
happen
the wrestler is not gonna get thrown
I'll need to save my energy to when he
tries to throw me back okay but if you
believe in yourself and think I can
throw this person you use your best
athletic techniques you actually succeed
in throwing them and then voila
you're a difference that you're much
better so you're on top of them winning
the match right and if you fail at
throwing them well then if you don't
doubt that they can't throw you if you
believe that your unthe Robel you
immediately make adjustments to defend
against their next throw so huge thing
is for performance is confidence if it's
very hard to engineer in athletes more
on that later when we get to actually
talking about sports psychology as its
own course another last insight here I
believe yep last insight from sport
psychology is if you're an aspiring
great athlete
there are many psychological traits that
are going to help you along your journey
enhancing your probability of success to
be as great as you can be one of them is
the ability to stay minimally fazed
under pressure individuals that are
capable of unbelievable movements that
can jump higher run faster be more
athletic get to the ball play sport
better than others I mean they're the
mean potatoes of grace they're some of
those people are going to be great but
some of those people they're really good
in practice and they're really good
maybe at local small tournaments and
competitions but when the pressure is on
when the other opponent is also very
good when the other team is also very
good when there's a lot of people
watching when the game is for money for
a lot of money when it's for fame when
it's for glory that adds to the pressure
athletes that end up being great notice
the pressure or not they don't really
let it affect them much from
variety of tools that we can talk about
later in sports psychology in particular
but athletes that let the pressure get
to them let them the pressure shut them
down let the pressure give them second
thoughts going back to my first point of
not believing you can win those athletes
will almost certainly never be great
because as they get to that cusp of
greatness what is guaranteed is going to
happen on your way to greatness you'll
run into really good competitors in if
you're nervous in those situations if
you don't handle pressure very well if
they're gonna win a year not because
they're pretty much almost as good as
you or close or even a little bit better
but they're not fazed under pressure do
you guys normally perform like this they
were gonna do pressure you're bad under
pressure and you got this split you're
not gonna beat him you're gonna be in
high-pressure scenarios if you're gonna
win so it doesn't matter how many
free-throws you can hit in your own
garage but you know you know outside of
your garage on your 10-foot rim if you
can hit the best of the best and then
you get to an actual free-throw
competition even in your local you know
city center for like the fourth of July
or something
hitting free throws and all of a sudden
you're missing a phone because people
are watching for the first time you got
a real big problem in your chance of
being a great free-throw shooter at
basketball or anything related to that
are very very low so super cool insights
from sport access I psychology moving
along really quick to biomechanics
biomechanics introduced and explains a
couple of different things first of all
how the different body segments like
your lower leg your upper leg your torso
your upper arm etc are moved by muscles
in relation to each other really
important to know that right there there
has been some instances where perhaps
some individuals that were not quite
familiar with that got pretty duped into
believing some things that weren't true
about fundamental exercise just a couple
of years ago there was a really big
debate as to how much your lats are
involved in bench pressing and versus
how much your pecs are involved in bench
pressing
well basic biomechanics tells you that
your pecs pull the upper arm this way
thus creating most of the force for
bench pressing your lats actually pull
the upper arm back the other way they're
involved in bet rows and rows of other
kinds so people would say things like
well you know lats are
prime movers for the bench press but
there's no way that can be true right
and if you know biomechanics you know
that's a really good start so it's a
really good idea before you learn any
kind of movement how sports work what's
a good tactic and strategy what the
component parts are and how they're
moved around with respect to each other
in addition to that we want to know how
the body exerts forces and receives
forces to the ground for example in
running and jumping out or falling
during a throw or something the water
during swimming the air during cycle
riding right nobody rides that the Tour
de France nobody rides like a beach
cruiser style when they're up like this
everyone's talked down because we know
the relationship of drag and things like
that
and for other objects like various sport
balls and other individuals as well so
if you know biomechanics and you know
the interactions of forces and things
like that now you're in a really good
position to start to understand a whole
lot more about sport and exercise
training than if you haven't known those
to begin with and here are some major
insights from biomechanics first one
just human walking gait the process by
which you walk is incredibly complicated
machines are just now catching up and
trying to replicate what human gait
looks like why is this pertinent well
somebody could look at your walking gait
may be a physical therapist who maybe
isn't the best physical therapist around
or someone a personal trainer pretending
to be a physical therapist looks at how
you walk and looks at how your hips
swing is that I you know what you need
more quad work right human gait is so
incredibly complicated that in order to
analyze and prescribe solutions to gait
correction you need a multifactorial
model you need very likely somebody to
walk on a force plate and these kinds of
centers do exist for people with real
gait disorders it's not open and shut so
if you look at walking gait yoga it's
easy one leg after the other it is not
that easy there's a ton of hip shifting
the the pattern is actually super
complicated all kinds of different
muscles turn on and turn off at various
different times if you study
biomechanics you know whom you get is
complicated and someone tells you know
what
I've seen the way you walk clearly it's
a not enough quad strength you need in
your quads you had immediately get
skeptical of that because it's way too
fast for conclusion in most cases
knowing that it's such a complex problem
right here's another cool revelation
this one is something I remember
learning when I was younger and it
baffled me because it just kind of I
would say it violates common sense but
it's kind of a surprise so it turns out
that hip extensors the glutes and
hamstrings and knee extensor primarily
the quads are more important and
shortness than sprinting speed than the
calves the calves actually generate very
minimal force what the calves do in very
fast sprinters is they're made mostly of
tendon and that tendon is a very tight
and gives them a lot of reflex rebound
kind of like a spring where the glutes
and the quads and the hams provide most
of the muscle power to move you the
lower limb the calves are really just
used as spring so if you have a large
calf musculature you have to drag those
big calves around slowing you down and
because that large muscle doesn't really
produce a whole lot of force especially
because it's not given enough time to
really contract the full range of motion
then we know that big calves aren't
gonna make you any better at sprinting
almost certainly when we look at the
highest level sprinters it makes
immediate sense and also what's another
instant application or potential
application of this biomechanical
knowledge run if we know your calves
have very little to do with making you
faster and you want to design a
straining auditioning program for
sprinters are you gonna have them do
hypertrophy work for their calves or
you're certainly gonna have them do it
for their glutes hamstrings or they can
have big big muscles to make strong to
make powerful to make fast and really
make you fast on the track
what about calves they're on the leg the
leg is someone could say well look
clearly the runners are using the legs
but if you know biomechanics you know
that they're not really using the act of
contraction of their calves or for ninja
motion so it turns out that if you have
a sprinter with really big calves and
they said a coach listen I took the
scholarship seriously I've been training
my calves all summer so I could be a
faster sprinter you can say all right
Rob let's back away from calf training
where have you squats we're gonna have
you clean
and all this other stuff that's actually
going to help you and that's going to be
much better off than head training your
cast because we know from biomechanics
based on the variety of models and
studies the Cavs don't really have a lot
to do with producing a lot of forces for
your sprinting they're mostly
functioning Springs last point to
biomechanics kind of gives birth to is
that your body shape genetically things
you can't change like for example the
distance between your shoulders the
actual intro chromia width right we're
talking about bones you can't really
wide your shoulders bones oh sure you
can add muscle but you can't add bone
that's kind of insane you make your
bones thicker but not longer right the
width of your hips the width of your
bones the length of your arms and length
of your legs etc within very narrow
boundaries are required for sport
greatness at particular sports so it
turns out that most greats at sports
look very similar to one another if you
look at the hundred meter start line at
the Olympics for the hundred meter
sprint almost all those individuals look
incredibly similar to each other
almost all of them have relatively short
torsos relatively long legs very small
caps note it makes sense and that same
thing is seen in swimming it's a
different body type in swimming it's a
long torso long arms big hands shorter
legs kind of like a human seal or
something like that so what ends up
happening is if you want to be great
great great at a certain sport you may
want to take a look at what your own
genetic body design is and see if you
align from it right in powerlifting
there's a body design that makes you
great in weightlifting in every single
sport there's not a tonne of diversity
unless the positions play very different
roles on a team there's not a ton of
diversity so if you want to be the very
best or if you're a coach who's
recruiting athletes to be the very best
especially if you have a large role in
developing them you might want to know
biomechanics and know which athletes are
gonna really probably have a good chance
of succeeding in a service sport in
which athletes are not just based on
genetic body shape now that's not the
only variable but it's a really big
lastly we have motor behavior so motor
behavior is composed of three parts
motor control which is how does the
brain communicate with the body to tell
it to move to tell it to do this kind of
stuff literally motor control is almost
studying the brain like a computer and
the body like a series of
servomechanisms
and figuring out how does the computer
speak to that device to that machine and
make it move
that's what motor control is all about
just by itself a really really basic
science but can teach us a lot we're
gonna learn about in just a sec what
those major insights are motor
development is remember this machine
that is the body is not built that is
developed it has grown motor development
focuses on how those motor control
systems basically become operational and
how they change over the course of from
birth all the way up through toddlerhood
childhood teenage years
maturation old age etc right and motor
development is a lot of insights we'll
talk about in just a bit but if base
basically describes how that motor
system begins to hop function and
changes in its function throughout the
lifespan of a human being
motor learning the last component of
that is okay we know we have this motor
control system we know what changes over
time but we also know it can be taught
to do various different things nobody is
born knowing how to hit a perfect free
throw as a matter of fact if you've ever
seen individuals who genetically are
super tall and maybe are from a
different country in which they don't
play a lot of basketball they got great
proportions you're like aw I bet that
guy's gonna be great throw him the ball
he doesn't know how to catch a ball and
playing ball sports right and you go
what everyone knows how to catch a ball
well no you have to learn that kind of
stuff
motor learning focuses on how skilled
movements are acquired and talks a lot
about the optimal conditions for
teaching skilled movements so if you
want to teach someone how to execute
gymnastics and the best way possible to
make them that
that's they can be you should probably
know some motor learning stuff if you've
got personal training clients that just
aren't getting the movements properly
and you're frustrated with teaching them
how to squat it just keep screwing it up
motor learning science can tell you okay
how do you teach individuals in the
proper sequence to make sure you give
the best chance for them succeeding some
insights from motor behavior so first
from motor control the brain
unconsciously without your conscious
awareness controls thousands of muscles
for nearly perfect simple movements that
you take completely for granted so that
if someone God forbid gets their arm or
their hand severed you say oh no problem
will uh you know we've got machines are
cool they can develop a hand for you the
actual signals of communication how much
information is going from the rest of
your nervous system to your hand or to
the muscles that power your hand during
your wrist is incredibly high and
they're only now beginning to have
computers powerful enough to process
that and algorithms powerful enough to
understand and be able to replicate
those movements so for example if you
reach over and lift a glass of water and
take it put it down to drink if a
scientist had to tell you exactly how
many force vector calculations your
brain basically had to make to do that
it's in the thousands and thousands you
pick it up a glass of water so you can
imagine how complicated shooting a
basketball those are going for a you
know just moving your body in the water
during a swim incredibly complicated not
to be taken for granted
very difficult to correct if something
is wrong second insight there are
sensitive periods of learning
fundamental sport skills that are likely
to be a reality so if you learn sports
skills either much earlier or much later
than those sensitive periods you end up
not learning them as well as you could
have for example if you say to someone
okay we are going to try to teach you
how to be the best possible gymnast but
you start training them - gymnastics at
age 16 there are some maneuvers that are
going to be very difficult
learn because even if that person is
gifted at learning their brain no longer
works the same for motor development
perspective they no longer are capable
of absorbing the same kind of insight
their brains aren't as malleable to
learning really deep movements really
complicated movements really movements
you don't do in everyday life like
somersaults or something that if you
teach that to an 8 year old or a 10 year
old instead they'll pick it up 5 times
faster and at a deeper level when they
get them to sport competition and the
pressures on
they're much less likely to screw up so
if you want good athletes you got to
catch them early but not too early motor
development and the sensitive periods of
learning tell us that there's such a
thing as training people too early so
for example if you have an exceedingly
complicated game from a movement
perspective let's use gymnastics again
if you teach three or four year old
gymnastics it's almost completely
pointless they don't have the neural
architecture or the ability to move to
even replicate those moves you're worlds
you know just master walking and running
around you're gonna start teaching them
how to do flips and really complicated
cartwheels and stuff they're just gonna
suck at them and the problem is they're
gonna learn how to suck at them and
that's what they're gonna learn and
that's what they're gonna do so a lot of
really good gymnastics training is when
you get children that are relatively
young three or four or five years old
you just teach them real basic stuff
like how to run well how to jump well
maybe a couple of really simple
gymnastics moves as their brains mature
and already know ideally would we love
to teach them all of gymnastics early so
they can serve it of course right we
just get that far ahead but you can't
because it's just not ready for that
level of complexity when they're 6 7 8 9
years old now you stripped a thread in
more complexity as their brains
developed to be ready to handle board so
if you're interested in coaching young
populations of children teens etc know
your sport and find out what the
sensitive time zones of development are
and there's plenty of publication on
this at least very good guesses to make
sure that you're training people in the
right way not training in too soon with
stuff that's too complicated or waiting
too long and missing out on really good
fertile ground lastly if you want to
teach someone how to do a new technique
that they actually want
to apply in sport competition in the
real world teaching them at first in a
slow and controlled isolation from
everything else it's a really good idea
before you take that technique into the
live setting what does that mean that
means at first our nervous systems
really like to learn a technique pretty
much by itself so if you teach someone a
throw in judo you're gonna teach how to
slide one arm in how to slide this arm
over how to step how to tilt how to
throw you might even split that up in
different components and you're gonna do
that to an opponent that's not resisting
at all and you're gonna drill drill
drill for days and weeks never going
live ok never getting into a judo
competition never trying it on someone
who's resisting once your body has
mastered or has gotten very proficient
at that movement without resistance if
we started resist too early basically as
soon as you try to learn the move
someone would resist you're not good
enough yet to use the move now you're
just learning how to pull against
something that's not cooperating and
you're not gonna be learning at all
you're not getting a chance to practice
the actual move the moves getting
stopped halfway through once you learn
how to practice the actual move in a
very safe very isolated very mechanical
setting doesn't look anything a live
competition and live judo competitions
people don't just come up to you ok
throwing me great that's five points you
win right they're resisting and all that
stuff and they're trying to throw you
once you know that move in isolation
then you take it through a series of
steps in which you expose that move to
more resistance more speed but because
you have that groundwork in isolation
your ability to execute that move in a
live setting when it comes down to it
it's gonna be way better than if you
learn that move in a rush and just roll
right in to the mix and your own
training and when you're training with
people and actually doing what's called
randori which is stand-up and you don't
actually try to throw each other more or
less at full power
if you just take someone hey here's this
move you kind of just show it to them ok
great
now try it on your opponent in a run
durian competition they're gonna learn
it very poorly if at all so back to that
client you have trouble with squatting
if you're trying to teach the client the
entire squat motion at the same time
maybe you should break it up into parts
and just drill those components
for a while on their own have them get
used to going like this just generating
a block keeping their chest up keeping
their abs tight keeping their back arch
shoulders back just have them practice
this for a little bit then just have
them practice tilting their hips back is
it to sit down then have them practice
just sitting at the bottom of the squat
and what that means and getting their
heels on the ground and then you can
combine those movements later slowly and
surely into a full squat and then all of
a sudden they're squatting really well
and for even more complex movements that
stuff is indispensable so those are the
insights for motor behavior that was
kind of a little bit of a grand tour of
all the four fundamental the four basic
courses that you got to do if you get
through those and when you get through
those and those are all courses that you
can take in our pu you're already an
advantage but you're not at an
overwhelming advantage here's the deal
you can know the basic subfields all
that stuff I just described really well
each one of them right or even no vert
one very well and still not know how to
diet or train your way out of a plastic
bag right come up to a bio mechanist who
studies gait patterns and one of
America's leading universities a 50 year
old man is a 500 publications and all
kinds of journals is they teach me how
to squat well that person is annoying
anything about squatting they know about
walking they've spent their entire life
learning about walking it's quiet you
know he might even just give you advice
again squat down and yeah keep your
chest up or something right but because
there's no applied knowledge therefore
the applied knowledge is very limited
you might not be able to train or design
diets for anything on a sport
physiologist who knows just the basic
physiology can teach you it might not
know much about dieting whatsoever he
would you would say hey is a good idea
to low carb diet
he said you know probably not but I'm
not sure if he's charitable and if he's
not if he's overconfident to say oh no
it's a terrible idea or it's a really
good idea he may be very very wrong but
after learning these basic subfields
you'll have an understanding enough
understanding to learn the applied
fields that these fields inform very
well so
once you have the basics covered when
you go into the applied fields you can
learn a lot better you're gonna learn a
lot more and you're gonna be able to now
apply what you learn because they're
applied fields 50 times better than you
otherwise would if you didn't know the
basics right however that being said so
these fields don't prepare you for a
whole lot except for more learning but
they will already give you an
understanding of the limits and
tendencies of the human body in general
right and individuals who know just the
basics are much less apt to be tricked
by exercise and diet scammers for
example so someone says to you hey
here's this new diet you know calories
don't matter so you can eat whatever you
want as long as you avoid certain foods
calories don't matter now if you know
sport physiology you don't have to know
sport nutrition if you don't sport
physiology you know that excess calories
are stored as fat basically as a rule
man calories don't matter boy I don't
think I'm gonna buy that in sport
physiologist very rarely has to come
they may not be able to write their own
great diet but if they see a bunch of
diets compare and say which one do you
want to pick they can spot bs pretty
well here's another claim 5 minutes of
exercise a day gets you in shape now if
you're if you know a sport physiology
you may know that there's a dose
response relationship to exercise that
beginners get a lot out of very little
exercise but as you're more advanced you
tend to need more more and say oh cheese
you know that 5 minutes a day might work
a little bit for a beginner but I'm
under the impression that that's not
gonna work for very long so already if
you know the basics you're much more
secure in individuals not scanning you
already a very good start much better if
you go onto the apply fields the applied
subfields that's we're gonna chat about
next see you for lecture 3