what's up guys sean nalewanyj on Elcom
real science athletics common in this
video today we're doing an Instagram Q&A
answering some non fitness related
questions you guys sent in just for
something a bit different here if you're
not following me over on Instagram is at
Sean underscore nalewanyj
upped my posting frequency there the
past few months with new content pretty
much every single day so make sure to
follow there as well because when I'm
not here on YouTube that's where you'll
find me and you'll definitely get a lot
of value from the tips and advice that I
share there so let's get into it I tried
to pick a variety of different questions
here I'll start with a few simple basic
ones first and then get into some more
detail than kind of random ones after
that so first off what is your ethnicity
I get asked this all the time I was born
in Canada but I'm half Japanese and half
Ukrainian but culturally I have no real
connection to either side because it's
my great-grandparents that were born in
Japan and my grandparents that were born
in the Ukraine so unfortunately I don't
speak either language and I pretty much
just consider myself to be Canadian I
lived in Victoria BC for most of my life
I moved to Vancouver for a couple years
and lately I've just been kind of
traveling around so I don't actually
have a set home base at the moment the
second question what's your height
weight and age for height I'm somewhere
between five eight and a half and five
nine I don't know the exact number so I
just go with five nine because I'm
obviously not gonna round down and I'm
not gonna say five eight and
three-quarters because that's just way
too specific so I just say five nine
because when I got my DEXA scan they
measured me at five nine so that's close
enough weight wise I've pretty much been
every weight all over the map throughout
the years from a really lean 160 pounds
all the way up to I really not lean at
all 230 and a bunch of different weights
in between but my preferred weight over
the past probably eight years or so has
been somewhere between about 170 to 175
pounds and that lands me at around 12 to
14 percent body fat which I think gives
a good balance between muscle fullness
and leanness but without any of the
negative side effects of being too lean
and then for age I'm 33 but most people
who meet me in person usually say I look
younger than I am and a lot of times
they guess that I'm in my late 20s which
is probably from the the Japanese genes
the third question is beer or liquor
also do you pay attention to the
Vancouver
canucks with alcohol I'd go in phases
sometimes I'll go for months on end and
barely drink at all when I'm in a more
work focused mode and then when I'm
going through a more social phase I'll
tend to drink more so right now I do
drink socially probably once or twice a
week but I always try to keep it in
moderation nothing crazy usually I might
say two or three drinks on average and
for me it's pretty much always liquor
just something clean and simple like
vodka soda or a rum and coke Zero just
to keep the calories down and I just
prefer the taste of those drinks anyway
and then no as big as hockey is in
Canada I really couldn't care less about
the Canucks or even about professional
sports in general I wasn't athlete
growing up and it was a big part of my
life
baseball track and rugby were my main
sports but watching professional sports
just doesn't really interest me at all
aside from maybe the odd MMA fight here
there okay have you ever been recognized
on the street yeah I'd say probably on
average I have someone come up and talk
to me who recognizes me usually from
YouTube probably every two weeks or so
maybe three at the most
I remember one time I was actually on a
date and I had just by fluke two
different YouTube subscribers stopped me
on the street within the span of like an
hour and they both wanted to take a
picture with me so that definitely made
me look pretty cool in that moment but
yeah I'd say like every two to three
weeks roughly on average what's your
favorite genre of music probably 90% of
what I listen to is electronic music and
I guess progressive house would be the
best way to describe it I just find that
kind of music to be really motivating
and it's good for training and for
working and for things like that and
then aside from that probably rap and
R&B would be my second choice what are
your hobbies besides fitness my main
focus in life in general right now would
be on building my business so for me
that kind of is my hobby so expanding
things here on YouTube my blog over at
seannal.com social media particularly
Instagram and also building up the
supplement line real science athletics
and just helping as many people as
possible on their fitness journey as I
can because I genuinely do enjoy the the
whole process of it all so I have a lot
of plans for that over the next few
years so that's really where a huge
chunk of my energy goes besides going to
the gym and then I also travel a decent
amount too so just going out and meeting
new people in the place
that I'm living that's another big thing
for me and for those who follow me on
Instagram I was in Chiang Mai Thailand
recently for a couple months and then
Tokyo after that and I'm planning to go
to Bali in the next couple weeks here
and Vietnam and Taiwan are also on my
list as well for places that I want to
check out but ultimately I'm not someone
who likes to be doing a bunch of
different things at one time I've always
been very goal-oriented and so generally
I like to just have one or two main
areas of focus in my life and then I
just end up pouring the majority of my
time and energy into those areas and try
to go really deep on them rather than
spreading my attention out too wide so
on a similar note the next question is
what sources have helped you the most on
your entrepreneurship journey honestly I
originally started my business without
reading a single business book or
following any entrepreneurship content
for the most part and that's not a point
of pride really and I'm not necessarily
recommending that I probably should have
educated myself more and I probably
should do more of that even now but I
mostly just learned through observation
and through modeling so just looking at
people who had achieved a similar result
to what I wanted to achieve and then
basically reverse engineering and
deconstructing what they were already
doing not copying their contents or
anything like that but just emulating
their business methods in terms of like
what type of website are they're using
how do they market to their email list
what types of products and content are
they creating that people seem most
interested in so just observing what's
already working and then putting my own
twist on it I never felt the need to be
super innovative or to reinvent the
wheel when it comes to business I just
figured the systems that work already
exist I can see it in front of my eyes
that these people are successful so if I
want to be successful then I just need
to analyze what system they're already
using ok next question do you have any
embarrassing moments in the gym nothing
too crazy but one event stands out which
is the time where I got wheeled out of
the gym on a stretcher even though it
wasn't even really necessary I was about
22 or 23 and I was doing deadlifts but I
didn't warm up properly and my form kind
of slipped up toward the end of my set
and I ended up tweaking and kind of
throwing out my lower back basically and
if you've ever had the experience of
throwing out your lower back really
badly and pinching a nerve then you know
how insanely painful that can be
but yeah the gym staff came up to me and
I told them that I'd be fine but they
basically insist
that it was proper protocol for them to
call the paramedics since in that moment
I pretty much couldn't even walk and I
was younger and I wasn't really sure
what was going on so I just went along
with it so in the middle of a crowded
gym the ambulance pulls up paramedics
come out wrapped me in a blanket and lay
me out on a stretcher and then wheeled
me out of the gym in front of everyone
which was pretty embarrassing um I had a
good sense of humor about it but yeah I
would say it was still an embarrassing
moment for me so they took me to the
hospital gave me a shot in my lower back
for the pain I don't even remember
exactly what it was but I do remember
that it didn't help at all and I just
ended up going home a few hours later
and that was that I mean if you have any
embarrassing Jim moments of your own
then feel free to share them in the
comments below by the way next question
what are your thoughts on steroid use
have you ever considered using them in
the past or would you ever consider
using them in the future I actually did
a pretty detailed video discussing this
a few years back but the short answer is
that it did briefly cross my mind as
sort of like a vague possibility back
when I was about 19 or 20 because that
was when I was in my full-out
bodybuilding obsession mode and when I
wanted to just be as huge and shredded
as I could possibly get but ultimately I
never did mainly because I was afraid of
the possible psychological issues that I
thought it could create in other words
you gain this huge amount of muscle over
a really short period and then that
becomes your new physique set point in
your mind and now for as long as you
want to maintain that you're gonna have
to rely on the drums and if you ever
decide to stop you're basically gonna
lose the majority of the gains and I
just think that mentally that could lead
to some serious potential issues at
least for me knowing myself and I'm
really glad that I never did and
fortunately nowadays I don't even want
to have a super muscular super strutted
physique because it just looks a bit too
over-the-top in my opinion so I'm
relatively happy with my physique as is
obviously there's things I'd like to
improve on but it wouldn't require
steroids to get there so it's just a
total non-issue for me now and I feel
pretty confident in saying that even
though I don't think there's anything
inherently wrong with steroids because
it just depends on the person in their
situation and their goals and their
values and things like that but for the
majority of people out there I do think
that staying natural is going to be the
best long-term route next question when
did you lose your virginity next
question do you play any video games and
do you think they're a waste of time I
used to play a decent amount of ps3 back
in the
probably like six or seven years ago I
was really big into GTA and Call of Duty
there for a while but I don't play
anymore because I eventually found that
the amount of time that I was playing
was getting excessive and I was actually
having issues controlling it and for me
if I'm having trouble moderating
something and it's interfering with
other aspects of my life then I usually
just go cold turkey on it and I get rid
of it altogether and I've always found
that if you just get rid of certain
things altogether eventually you get
used to it and you find that you don't
really miss them anymore anyway I don't
think there's anything inherently wrong
with video games so if you enjoy them
and if you can play them in moderation
for example at the end of the day during
your downtime and it's not interfering
with more important things and that's
fine but if it is interfering and you're
playing an amount that you can just feel
probably isn't healthy for you then yeah
you might want to make some changes
there and last question the most
difficult one if you can sum up the
meaning of life what would you say these
are actually some of my favorite types
of conversations and I've always been
interested in you know philosophical
topics like this but in terms of a very
general question like the meaning of
life I genuinely couldn't give a good
answer to that to me life itself is just
a total mystery in the grand scheme I
don't know what it is or what the
meaning is or if there even is any sort
of meaning outside of the subjective
meanings that human beings create for
themselves and I'm also really doubtful
about whether or not human brains are
even capable of comprehending these sort
of big questions so even though I've
spent a lot of years pondering it and
trying to find some sort of answer I'd
say at this point at least right now
I've just learned to be more comfortable
with the idea that there are certain
things that I really just don't know and
probably never will know I could talk
more about my general approach to life
in the more practical human sense like
my values and things like that you know
how I think people should conduct
themselves day-to-day and maybe that's
what the question was actually asking
but that's a very loaded topic and I
have a lot to say on that so I'll
probably save that for another video so
that's the video guys hope you enjoyed
it if you have any other questions for
me you can head over to my Instagram at
Sean underscore now awanee and make sure
you're following me there as well for
more daily content and other updates and
of course if you're not subscribed here
on YouTube make sure to hit that
subscribe button below to stay
up-to-date on future videos and the
official web sites are over at Sean Nell
calm and real
athletics calm thanks for watching guys
and I'll see you in the next one
[Music]
[Music]