if you are having a combination of high
volume and high intensity sex
specifically and I will be getting
graphic unfortunately you're the one
doing the thrusting so to speak
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and occasionally we make
the huge mistakes Scott the video guy
and I of actually trying to answer one
of the questions in the comments with a
video
and uh more than a few comments every
now and again I think they're jokes but
some people seem quite serious ask the
question essentially of is too much sex
killing my gains now almost certainly
most these people are lying about having
sex at all but we decided to throw the
sort of science at this problem and see
that if in fact it is possible
dare I say probable that you are having
so much sex and in such a way that could
interfere with your gains right
is too much sex bad for your game so
here's the thing
I get hit on all the time you guys
probably figured this out I'm handsome
take a look
um
that's quite good looking and I'm really
tall I'm like uh what am I Scott the
video guy six eight six eight
approximately I'm six seven on a bad day
I feel bad on those days
and bitches love money and you know your
boy has 27 Lamborghinis yes that's right
the Butlers went crazy and bought a
bunch more so I'm just kind of over it
and uh I'm just not even into sex
anymore but however
being that I'm so tired of sex how could
you also be in a position to be
physically tired of sex is sex really
killing your gains do you have to tell
these bitches ah ah family not today
well actually science can weigh in in
this and here's the science part of this
video is preposterously short by the way
if you are losing sleep because of it
you happen to walk into your bedroom and
there are three random waifu Japanese
girls that just couldn't wait for you to
return and you figured Grandma you let
these bitches in again all right no
sleep for me tonight yet to doing
whatever you do in bed hey that's your
thing I'm not gonna judge you and then
you get zero sleep you show up to the
gym super tired sleep by itself is super
anabolic you missed out on that hey you
had a great time but lack of sleep is
absolutely a problem so now you having
as much sex as you do it's getting in
the way of your gains again but wait
there's more
specifically leg training
can absolutely suffer if you are having
a combination of high volume and high
intensity sex specifically and I will be
getting graphic unfortunately you're the
one doing the thrusting so to speak
here's the thing especially if you go
all night if you're doing a ton of
thrusting then yes absolutely it's going
to cost you and your muscles that do the
thrusting and if any of you have ever
actually had sex before you will notice
a distinct quadriceps and glute burn if
you're doing it right of course and
you're the active type of sexual partner
there are a bunch of studies
studies and people in in quotation marks
and people speculating on them was you
know is saving up and not nutting before
sport competition or a big lift actually
effective
a lot of these studies are conducted
very poorly end up answering no
questions at all what I will tell you is
this
if you're just jerking it
is jerking it like the day before or the
day of a big important super big lift or
sport competition going to somehow
magically sap all of your strength no
but I will say waiting a few days
without jerking it or if you're that
kind of person even a whole week not
sure if I've ever made it a week maybe
once it was a bad week towards the end
of that time it's not that you're
going to somehow get magical performance
benefits but if you haven't nutted in
about a few days or a week depending on
your own how often you get horny you got
this extra special kind of violent
fucking energy this something's got to
happen to it it can give you
theoretically a little bit of an edge
now if you've tried this and it just
causes you to be a bit disoriented and a
bit like shitty priorities you're
supposed to be running a track and field
race and the girls team's walking by and
they're like the hell am I here for
anyway then obviously don't do it but
you can experiment I mean if you do feel
a little bit more Gusto before you know
an athletic competition for a few days
or even up to a week you don't not at
all I say go for it because clearly if
it works for you it works for you and
the theory generally says that like yes
absolutely if you haven't met in a while
you're going to have a bit more
go-getter energy for sure
a lot of times people take that insight
for essentially masturbation and they
try to slot in sex so I've literally
seen comments sections in which they're
like see it doesn't matter if you bang
before tournament this study says it
doesn't matter but hold on a second that
really doesn't matter what your idea of
banging is because if you four hours
straight do the horizontal and vertical
and upside down on 69 whatever Mambo
then it ends up being that you can
really fatigue the shit out of yourself
you can absolutely reduce your jump
height your power your strength your
ability to do reps because you just put
in a ton of work and thus fatigue and
absolutely that will cost you
if you have a super big important leg
workout coming up tomorrow you gotta you
know what I'm saying you gotta tell
these hoes to back the fuck up don't
worry I'll have tips on how to do that
next lastly if you are having loads of
the good stuff the night before you're
trying to train really hard and you're
not attending to your hydration and your
nutrition you could absolutely show up
to the gym glycogen depleted because you
burned off tons of glycogen doing the
nasty and you could come in dehydrate it
right a quintessential thing to do after
sex is two things actually 80 style you
lay in bed and smoke a cigarette in bed
which now watching those movies in
retrospect is fucking weird and kind of
gross but it's something that has to be
done and a lot of times you want to go
to that fridge and get you a nice big
glass of orange juice it provides
hydration and replace glycogen so if
you're gonna do a shitload of banging
before hard workouts or competitions
make sure that you're at least staying
hydrated or rehydrating and make sure
you're eating well
make yourself and her a sandwich that's
rice 2023 we flip the gender roles to
make sure people are recovering
if
this is a situation you've run into
before and if you have a huge amount of
trouble resisting the sex don't worry I
have a few tips for you if performance
is your number one
and you've got a big lift or a big power
lifting competition or a boxing match or
soccer match or even just you know
Saturday legs is going to be popping
it's week four right before deload I
gotta be on my on my A-game a couple of
quick tips for you guys to be able to
avoid this ever present seductive sex
that keeps happening to you in your life
first my recommendations don't take this
too far I'll tell you why in a bit first
stay away from the grocery store two
problems of the grocery store too many
phallic objects cucumbers and shit you
know as soon as your boy starts touching
on that shit everyone's looking mostly
the boys and also tons of MILFs there's
the Frozen Foods aisle the nipple thing
you guys I don't even have to say it
grocery store is a disaster or don't go
to the store next no beaches no pools no
fountains no ponds no lakes board shorts
if you're in them people are going to
want to have sex with you anytime I get
into board shorts
custody battle four months later four
months how long do babies take four
years I knew I said something wrong and
definitely no libraries if you've ever
seen adult films libraries are chock
full of nerd girls dressed like waifu
schoolgirl thing and the classes and
they're pretending to read a book but
really they're just there to give blow
jobs and that's no good clubs are okay
mostly because when you go to the club
like I do all the time you get the Rope
off around your table bottle service the
club's more about hanging with your boys
than these hoes you feel me I'm at the
club don't you dare fucking come up to
me
lastly and this is really big if you
have a super important competition to
work out go to Grandma's house
hide out for a bit every time I go to my
grandma's house she's like these hoes
are on your shit again huh my grandma
you know what I'm saying turn on Golden
Girls let's chill a bit I'm gonna take a
break from these hoes have this great
workout great competition great whatever
and then I come back around and I go to
the grocery store the pool everything
collect these fucking coins like Mario
Brothers and do it up folks best of luck
to you staying on the straight and
narrow and girls
hello
I've never talked to a girl before
but I think they're nice see you next
time