hey folks dr mike israetel here for
renaissance periodization today's video
is about
my mass gaining diet to
250 pounds which just recently hit at
the very top end of my massing phase and
what i'll do is talk through some of the
specifics a lot of you folks have been
asking no one's been asking
what i'm eating sort of day to day to
get up to 250 pounds it's a lot of
weight i'm five foot six last i checked
and uh it's been an interesting time so
i thought i'd share with you guys what
i'm actually personally doing i know a
lot of the videos on this channel are
sort of theoretical and recommendational
videos where it's like what you should
be doing but every now and again i think
it's kind of cool to see like you know
what what the guy talking all that smack
about science is actually doing himself
so
let's get into
the timeline first just to set up some
parameters around what exactly you know
how did i make my way to 250 i didn't
just poof become 250 pounds so
i did a show in early december
2020 so just last year
and i did a little bit of uh rather
complicated i'm not going to get into
today but a bit of like uh active rest a
little bit of a a tiny little mini cut
and then a little rebound diet
at the end i weighed in
uh sort of mid-january about 235 pounds
okay so i actually stopped i weighed in
at 225 pounds
the day of the show sorry the day before
the show the morning of i weighed about
220 pounds i shed some more body water
and then it's pretty typical to bloat up
about 15 pounds or so and so i weigh 235
pounds and that's where i began
my massing phase in january so around
the middle of january of 235 pounds
i did a straight run of massing really
all the way up to about may 1st or early
may
where i got up to about 247 pounds in
the morning that's a lot by that point i
was choking to death on food and i hated
myself which is always healthy and in
order to potentiate more mass gaining
and actually just
give myself a little bit more runway of
gains that are a little bit leaner i did
a mini cut so oh about two weeks at that
point of restricting calories pretty
significantly and then i found myself at
242 pounds after all the body water
renormed
then that was around mid-may i was 242
and then by july 1st i was up to 252
pounds of sort of peak mass
and i went on to active rest between
roughly july 1st and july 15th i went
into active rest which means i barely
trained at all i ate enough protein to
keep the muscle on the body but sort of
like an one person and very importantly
uh i didn't take any supplements okay i
do not mean creatine and multivitamins
and if you don't understand what i mean
it doesn't matter because then that's
nothing you have to worry about if you
understand what i mean then you
understand what i mean winky face so
after that
july 15th or so
i had lost a significant amount of
weight i went from 252 to 242
while eating at maintenance okay that's
all body water from the reduction in
training volume which means your muscles
shrink a little bit because due to the
lack of inflammation
when the repair process is occurring
they lose some body water and of course
due to the cessation of supplements then
slowly reintroducing supplements back in
and eating and
trying to eat at quote unquote
maintenance but really it's a little bit
of a surplus because i had lost some
weight 2 42 july 15th by august 15th
which is very recently i have come back
up to 250 pounds and then ready for
another fat loss phase to begin
hopefully the target is another show
this coming december so now that all
that's out of the way
during those times when i went from 230
or 240 something up to around 250 what
exactly was i eating okay
before we get to the sort of meal plan i
was using or the more or less sample day
of eating which i actually ate like this
no bullshit
here are some complexities so you can
contextualize what you're going to be
seeing and hearing and then it's not
just a bunch of like oh my god i should
be doing this right now or what this
doesn't make any sense so here are some
complexities there are tons of water
weight fluctuations so all that stuff i
just said you might be like what the
hell you're going up two weeks 10 pounds
two weeks up 10 pounds down 10 pounds
that's crazy it's pretty standard
and the supplements being taken in and
out or reduced or increased absolutely
magnifies water weight changes like
crazy all right so in this case it pays
to look at averages if you follow me on
social media like instagram for example
sometimes i'll post a physique update
one of my stupid poses and i'll say oh
like a current morning weights 239
pounds or something and a week ago it
was like 247. you could be thinking oh
my god maybe he lost
like eight pounds or whatever of actual
tissue in a week no way it's all just
body water stuff and if you look at it
like at a just one comparison to the
other it looks insane but if you like it
over over averages it's not really that
insane so averages are much more
important so remember to take this all
with a bit of a grain of salt about
exact body weights and stuff like that
now what about training that question is
going to come up as soon as i finish the
diet stuff uh training is its own beast
but with the hypertrophy made simple
series which you should absolutely
youtube it's on the rp channel you
really have a core of how i train i
actually train like that
just a quick summary i do mostly full
range of motion on exercises
very good technique or at least what i
think is good technique i train every
muscle roughly two to three times per
week or two to three sessions per week
per muscle so i train biceps three times
a week shoulders three times a week
hamstrings twice a week so on and so
forth i do about six to nine total
sessions per week so during some phases
i only trained once a day six days a
week and during other phases half of
those days in the week half of those six
are actually two a days so there's two
sessions in am session and a pm session
spread by roughly oh usually six uh you
know four to six hours apart from each
other and that lets me cram in more
volume with a higher quality because you
know if you do shoulders and biceps
after right after back workout you're
pretty tired systemic fatigue is high
you really can't tap into the shoulders
and biceps nearly as well as if you take
a g four to six hour break and a few
meals in between rehydrate and all that
stuff you can really really put it in so
six to nine sessions a week six to 20
sets per muscle group on average six
would be something like when i train
hamstrings actually six sets of
hamstrings um
per week is is quite a lot for me
sometimes it's four sometimes five
sometimes six seven or eight and then it
goes all the way up to 20 and even more
for example for like side delts there's
not a volume of side delts i have done
which is completely crushed me when uh
outside of like 25 plus sets per week
right so regularly go into 20 sets per
week for side delts but that's usually
spread over three workouts so it's not
crazy you know six to seven sets per
workout not the end of the world split
over two exercises right
and three to zero reps in reserve so i
train pretty close to failure sometimes
hitting failure usually not and the reps
and load are added slowly over time and
deloads are roughly every five weeks no
nothing magic and if some of the stuff
that i'm seeing is like what the hell is
he talking about watch the hypertrophy
made simple series it's like each video
is like five to ten minutes long and
there's like 16 of them or something you
don't have to watch them all at once but
maybe you can scroll and see which
topics interest you or some of the stuff
i said doesn't make a whole lot of sense
you click on that video that sounds like
it and it's a neat way to learn so
what about the diet so training was
progressive the diet was progressive as
well because a really good question that
comes up for folks that are sharp is
okay hold on so you're going to tell us
an amount of calories you're eating in
macros but like as soon as you started
to move up to 250 from 235 like january
16th were you eating this many calories
of course not i started with much
smaller number and if my body weight or
trends in my training or my visual
appearance didn't seem to indicate that
i was gaining at a substantial pace then
i would add in roughly 250 calories on
top of the diet i was eating could i
have opted in to add 50 calories at a
time yes problem is you actually can't
measure out 50 calories at 4 000 or so
calories per day
that small amount is within the margin
of error of measurement and actually
within the margin of error of food
labels so it's impossible to add 50
calories a day you can tell yourself
you're doing it is not certain that you
are so i like to do a nice robust
addition to also make sure i'm not
wasting any time like i could add 50
calories a day for three weeks straight
and it turns out i had misestimated and
every single one of those was at
maintenance or below and i had actually
gained no new tissue or certainly not
gained as much tissues or could have
been gaining weight so i like to add a
nice solid number not a ton you don't
have to slap 750 calories on if you're
not losing if not gaining weight
appropriately but for me 250 calories
and i had to do that a few times and
towards the end it got really really
tedious and annoying so that's the way
it worked so it's not this is not static
it's all part of a dynamic process
and so to that end what follows in the
next slide is a sample day of eating on
my full blast mass this is what i was
eating as i was approaching and
exceeding 250 pounds in the mornings
which is a terrible way to live your
life
and i wouldn't recommend it but if
you're really geeked on getting jacked
here's how i did it uh and and the rest
of the diet that i did was very similar
just smaller food amounts and some
different food choices uh and if you're
thinking okay hold on but what about
these mini cuts what did you eat on the
mini cut then just search on youtube is
retell mini cut or dr mike mini cut and
you'll get like 15 videos of me going on
and on and on incessantly even on what
the hell mini cut is and how i do it all
right so
the diet first the specs okay so the
grand overview
towards the end of my massing i was
pushing in
just over 4
500 calories per day which like you know
depending where you're coming from may
not sound like much or may sound like
plenty or may sound like a completely
insane number uh funny enough like just
from a human to human perspective it
doesn't look like a lot on paper to me
i'm like whatever i've you know i've had
days where i've eaten 6 000 calories
where you know like a sufficient amount
of edible marijuana was ingested that's
not really a problem but because i'm not
a drug addict i don't take in edibles
every day and thus 4 500 calories daily
in and out especially with the stress of
training
holy crap i was living in las vegas at
the time and you see the sun is very
strong in las vegas and when you're very
hot you don't want to eat so it was
doubly difficult whole process was tough
but hey it's worth it because
hopefully i look jacked at this angle so
the ta-da makes sense in any case
probably at this time remember
maintenance is also a dynamic variable
i estimate the maintenance at this time
to have been around 4 200 calories and a
rough 4 500 so it's a 300 calorie
surplus which means i can expect to gain
oh i don't know half a pound-ish of
tissue per week sometimes more sometimes
less and if you're really meticulous
you'll go back to the first couple
slides and say well hold on that doesn't
actually add up with how much weight you
gain because it's too slow or too fast
water weight water weight water weight
is what explains a ton of that okay so
don't get bogged down with the super
super specifics just the general ideas
here
all right macros
250 grams or so of protein per day about
a gram per pound nothing crazy
uh yeah a lot of bodybuilders eat way
more than that
i'll tell you what i think about that
it's like insufficient evidence that
that's a good idea it's more expensive
i'm jewish i'm not going to spend extra
money unless i need to sure hope youtube
doesn't cancel me for that
and uh that's mostly joke by the way but
in any case uh it's protein's hard to
eat man
you know you can eat another couple of
things of pasta or rice but jamming down
dry chicken breast sucks like a protein
has actually been shown to be quite a
satiating nutrient which means it curbs
your hunger really well that's nothing
i'm interested in i want to eat more of
a nutrient that curves my hunger on a
mass skating diet sometimes on a fat
loss diet it'll eat some more protein
than that just to get the old uh hunger
curbed but
for the love of god i don't see a reason
to go excessively high on protein maybe
i'm wrong maybe other folks have it
right but uh that's my thoughts on the
matter carbs i was taking in
about
685 grams of carbs per day
that's enough to fuel my training and of
course get a decent surplus going or at
least contribute to the surplus
and the rest of the surplus is generated
by fats which were oh in this particular
type of day 90 grams of fat per day and
that's definitely enough to cover all
the hormonal bases for fat intake minima
and is also generating a pretty decent
surplus itself or helping to contribute
to one
so that basically roughly is about 4 500
calories per day
spread over 5 meals
of mostly whole foods but some shakes
too people always ask about the balance
of whole foods versus shakes thing is
shakes don't usually get you as much of
a holistic nutrition they don't you
often have as many vitamins and minerals
as whole foods certainly low on fiber
and almost entirely bereft of
phytochemicals which plants have can be
really good for your health in really
small ways so whole foods are good to
stick to but a few shakes here and there
are never a bad idea especially if
they're required big thing about shakes
is a lot of people think like
i'm getting jacked i have to have shakes
shakes aren't magical to just deliver
nutrients in a certain way that may be
more convenient or maybe less burden on
your
i was going to say burn on your
digestive system that's not the sense
that your digestive system gets
overwhelmed it's bad for it to have
whole food it's just sometimes shakes
digest faster and uh you can take in
more calories and the digestive system
doesn't sort of get clogged up in the
sense of like oh i would like to eat
right now but i can't because i'm still
full shakes just go through faster they
absorb easier so then you can use them
to supplement your intake to make sure
you still hit all your numbers even if
just with whole food alone it gets a
little bit tedious a little bit
difficult
every day
is a little bit different due to
scheduling so this day i'm going to show
you is a sample day it really happened a
whole bunch of days but a whole bunch of
other days it was a little off you know
sometimes i go and film youtube videos
sometimes i go train at a slightly
different time because jared feather
says he now's a good time instead of
later or sometimes i have more work pile
up or i have podcasts or other stuff i
get caught up in my work and then the
the plan changes plus or minus an hour
here and there plus or minus 30 minutes
plus or minus 20 to 30 grams of
nutrients sometimes the meal structure
looks different but in essence this is a
really good template sort of
for me which following has generated
pretty good results right
big big thing is
when i show you the actual meal plan
itself for the sample sort of day of
eating
you have to watch for general trends and
ideas not specific choices okay there's
a perennial question type
of why chicken over beef has no actual
answer that answer does not exist okay
the
all tons of lean proteins as long as
it's a relatively lean protein beef fish
chicken turkey shrimp you name it it's
all good it's all in that same category
what is important are the macro intakes
the timing the ratios of macros
not the types of specific foods you eat
and not the exact stuff watch for
general trends and get much more out of
this so
finally all this bs we get to the actual
what am i eating here to get to 250
9 a.m ish i wake up a little bit before
that
my first meal which occurs oh roughly an
hour before training starts typically
is a serious mass shake
from optimum nutrition i do half this
the shake which is one full heaping
scoop because the whole serving's two
heaping scoops for some damn reason the
scoops are fucking enormous by the way i
can put myself into a fucking scoop
and i add one scoop of usually optimum
nutrition whey protein by the way i'm
not sponsored by optimum but if you guys
are listening hello
i've been having serious mass shakes
with mass gains for years it's just an
amazing product i have nothing but the
best things to say about optimum
nutrition and it's reliable and it's
awesome and it's not super expensive is
it tasty
you know like a really bad milkshake
have the expectations that you're gonna
have
that meal eaten or
drink about an hour before training has
roughly 50 grams of protein about 125
grams of carbs and 5 grams of fat so
it's a nice wallop of carbs and protein
i show up to the gym energetic ready to
get a pump so on and so forth
no intra shakes this time
one of the reasons was like intra shakes
are great jarrah does them all the time
uh i don't do intra shakes anymore uh
for the most part because when i'm
massing i if i start drinking an
interest shake i'll just throw up during
the workout and when i'm cutting i like
to save more of my macros for whole
foods that make me more full so i don't
do inter shakes much anymore but i don't
need to do inter shakes because i have
plenty of food before plenty of food
right after and then nutritionally my
blood is actually always containing
amino acids and carbohydrates so i
kind of have an intra shake by eating
beforehand and right after right so no
big deal there
after the workout is over generally
around 12 pm come home
and
have meal number two which has been in
many days kids cereal of choice which is
often about a box of it for me
um and
with skim milk i take uh like lactose
free milk because i'm like moderately
lactose intolerant which means like i
can eat all the cheese i want nothing
happens all the ice cream nothing
happens but if i drink one glass of
regular milk
it comes out the other way looking a
whole lot like that same glass of
regular milk but more of it in gas form
than i would like so
skim milk lactic acid or sorry about
lactate um
lactose removed and all of a sudden
it's an amazing source of protein and a
little bit more carbohydrate
milk is actually insulin urgent which
means it boosts insulin secretion a
little bit more than you would expect
for its carbohydrate content which is
baller because insulin is anabolic and
especially anti-catabolic and mild
anabolic as well
and i add some whey because there's not
enough protein in just the milk and the
cereal and that occurs right after
training in that meal has 50 grams of
protein
250 grams of carbs and getting into
eating whole boxes of cereal you're
signing up for a lot of carbs and oh
around 15 grams of fat now look some of
the kids cereals have zero grams of fat
some have as many as 20 so that 15 is
kind of more of an average figure and i
usually get the cereals have like a
little bit more fat than just
five or zero grams so 15 is a pretty
common for me
3 p.m three hours later i have what you
could actually call my first whole food
meal
and that would be uh some sort of lean
meat with a little bit or
a little bit of broccoli slaw uh and
more blockly slot when i'm dieting for
fat loss much less when i'm eating for
mass gaining because broccoli starts
very few calories makes you very full
and if you eat a whole lot of on mass
gaining uh you know good luck getting in
all the actual carbs and then lots of
rice so white rice my rice of choice
because brown rice is toxic to your
aura
and your chi system just kidding brown
rice is great but again it's more
filling so i don't really typically eat
a whole lot of it on mass skating uh if
i choose to eat some of it i'll eat it
more in a fat loss phase
all of my meat
generally comes from trifecta which uh
full disclosure i'm part stockholder in
uh but i think it's a really cool
company that make meat that tastes uh
pretty good and it comes in pre-packaged
exactly macros and you just take it out
and well you guys have seen my chef
cooking video uh
scott if we could link that in the
in one of those pop-ups that would be
neat if you really need cooking lessons
i basically make that meal uh verbatim
right there on in that video so 50 grams
of protein or so 200 grams of carbs yep
that's a lot of white rice and around 15
grams of fat depending on the
meat choice that i'm using there and as
far as flavor and stuff like that you
guys probably know better than me how to
flavor food again if you watch the video
i use like seasoned salt and you know
stuff you get at sam's club when you
don't know how to cook so
please do not take this video to be like
oh dr mike likes to eat this stuff like
dr mike has no skills in cooking and
eats like a wild animal whatever he can
get so
3 p.m
that's that meal now as you can imagine
200 grams of carbs 50 grams of protein
15 grams of fat and whole foods punches
me right in the gut
and fills me up for a long time so my
next meal isn't until four hours later
typically around seven p.m
where i'll have meal number four and a
very common meal i would have at this
time in las vegas is i would drive over
to chipotle they'd probably know who i
was by then and i would typically get a
burrito a chipotle burrito is one of my
favorite foods in the whole world quite
strange but that's what it is
and i would usually get half chicken and
half uh steak
and with rice and beans and sour cream
and some cheese etc and i would also
have usually either before or after that
meal like a fresh fruit or some fresh
fruit of choice because like fruit's
really good to eat for your health and
um also i you know like how it tastes
and it's uh just something very pleasant
and an easy way to add another 20 grams
of carbs or so so that total meal
burrito plus fruit i didn't mix the two
dip my burrito into the fruit don't know
how that would work dip the fruit into
the burrito
maybe we're on to something
50 grams of protein 100 grams of carbs
and a whole lot of 50 grams of fat
that's where that fat comes from because
for a burrito to be delicious it usually
also needs to be fatty good news i was
on a mass gaining phase and actually
needed that fat
that meal left me really full
until around 11 p.m
towards the end of my evening tv
watching with my wife
and then would get ready to go to bed i
would have a casey and shake why not
whole food because if i had whole food
right then i would just absolutely throw
up luckily i didn't throw up i would
just lie in bed with food coming up my
throat and choking me to death so i
chose to opt for a casey and shake
before bed and the casing i was using at
the time was by ascent full disclosure
ascent is one of our business partners
at renaissance periodization so i'm
formally hawking it to you but
especially if you're drug free ascent is
super duper ultra tested not have any
drugs in it so if that matters to you
then it's a great choice and otherwise
like there's just really good people
over there and they don't lie to you
about what the hell's in the supplements
because that happens every now and again
in the fitness industry believe it or
not you find out your protein was really
half protein and the other half like
just one amino acid so a sense really
good and i would have roughly 50 grams
of protein in there up to as many as 10
grams of carbs uh because some of their
casein products have a little bit more
carbohydrate
and about five grams of fat
tada
and if you do the math that actually
adds up to around right around 4 500
calories and the macros i listed earlier
well that's the deal all right so
what were the results and sort of what
was my experience with this whole
situation
cool thing is is i got to 250 pounds
with veins in my abs still which is a
real trip to see in real trip to
experience
and again supplementation was a big deal
here okay and i'll talk about a little
bit more of that in just a second
so you know typically you don't get to
250 with veins in your abs
unless you're doing something extra
as far as i'll leave it for now
towards the end of this process okay so
so notice i was still very lean or
pretty lean
and uh i was so full
that when i would brush my teeth
actually in the morning and in the
evening
when i go back to hit my sort of bottom
back teeth i would occasionally gag and
food would almost come out
that is when your body is telling you
listen
we have to eat less this is crazy
okay so that i hated food
hilariously every single food got old
for me
except for chipotle so chipotle if
you're watching this
you know what i'm saying your boy could
go with a sponsorship that went out one
i have to pay my real hard-earned money
for burritos or you could potentially
help me out with them
jk i'll gladly pay money for your
amazing burritos please keep making them
so
it was tough it was tough
and
here's the deal
when you get to what's big for you if
you're usually around 170 and you get to
185
you might have to become pretty
uncomfortable okay a lot of folks say
look just eat plenty and enjoy life and
you'll get bigger that absolutely works
to a point and that point comes the only
thing that works to get bigger than that
or the thing that works best is you know
becoming mild uncomfortable right you
don't tell someone to go into the gym
into the weight room and say oh you'll
lift some weights challenge yourself a
little but don't do anything too hard
and you'll get super jacked you get more
jacked but not super jacked super jacked
requires really pushing yourself in the
gym and oftentimes really pushing
yourself at the kitchen table and if the
table that you eat is not in the kitchen
then you have to push yourself harder
even there
in any case
this can happen even if you're still
pretty lean so sometimes people say well
yeah it's hard to smash food when you
get fat that's definitely true but if
you're smashing food and you're still
gaining even if you're staying pretty
lean sometimes it get really tough to
eat so don't let it surprise you don't
be like oh my god if i do something
wrong oh it's just part of it anytime
you push your body way up
past a historical high a lot of times
your body doesn't like to go there and
if it does oh jeez you know you hit the
generic jackpot so
you just have to do what it takes like
rich piano line by accident and
impressive results are rarely an
accident yes you can be genetic god and
just get to 300 eating whatever you want
most of us will have to
poke and prod to get there and that's
just part of the process all right
it looks like i might have added about
10 to 15 pounds of muscle
over this past several months so that
could look really really interesting on
stage which i'm very excited about
hopefully that goes well
really good question is how the hell is
that possible
dr mike you've been lifting for like 21
or 22 years and the last several years
you've only gained like three to five
pounds of muscle every year how'd that
happen well here's the answer
uh special support supplements are
involved and i scale my supplements to
that i never really take as many as i
can tolerate or as many as would be a
not so good idea anymore and slowly work
up on the supplements and they keep
slowly doing a good job
and
recently i made a change which uh in an
alternate universe where these sorts of
things would be legal i would absolutely
disclose but i'm not going to and if you
think that's a problem you should go
lobby your local uh you know
leaders to get those laws rescinded but
uh last change was a big change
and uh it worked incredibly well and if
you're really curious about what those
sorts of changes are
give broderick chavez a follow on
instagram so that's at team evil gsp
and join his facebook group you get tons
of questions tons of answers
he is absolutely hands down the best uh
expert alive today on special sports
supplements so if you want to know
what's going on with me with that or
what i would sort of quote unquote
recommend just go straight to broderick
and he does a way better job he's the
person that helps me design my protocols
okay
all right so
i just began dieting when i'm making
this video i just began dieting for a
show in december and if all goes well
i'll be doing that show and hopefully i
don't make a fool out of myself and
put some a package on stage that's oh
you know five pounds less muscle than
last year but i think it's gonna go
pretty well uh hopefully the muscle i
gained was actually muscle and not
mystery water weight that'll just come
off all right
lastly
what can you take away from this okay
the four-part little breakdown here
first is inspiration okay like when i
started social media i wanted to inspire
and spread positivity all the
influencers say that for some reason i'm
not a huge fan of the influencer thing
and positivity is lame or whatever but
in all honesty like you know it's cool
to see what the big guys uh eat to gain
weight uh it's kind of neat just from
like a fan perspective um i still follow
pros and a bunch of regular people that
i met on instagram or whatever and i
fanboy the hell out of their diets like
i want to see what uh i and valliere i
already say his name and i think it's
just ian i want to see what he's eating
i scroll through shit i'm like oh that's
really cool right so one of the things
you can do is look at this and just be
like oh that's neat you know that just
really kind of inspires me to do my own
thing which is which is good uh another
one uh benefit here is grounding uh it's
good to see what big guys actually eat
versus like i'm just listing macros and
you've been like how do they get 800
grams of carbs i don't know what the
fuck are they eating uh or like the
completely clean diets they post and are
almost always lying about like only
clean meals has passed this past mass
phase brother like okay oh you also
instagram yourself at a club in vegas
where there was a half finished plate of
french fries and a quarter of a
cheeseburger on your plate like i'm
inclined to believe you don't sit in
front of other people's half-eaten food
what do i know right so a lot of times
it's cool to see like oh yeah people who
are getting super jacked actually do go
to chipotle on occasion and have
burritos and so on and so forth and so
can you etc etc
number three it's cool to see that as an
example of structure right uh carbs are
on workouts and including some of the
realistic food choices like okay like
it's okay to eat sugary kid cereal after
training cause it seems to check all the
boxes and people who are getting jacked
are actually doing that on occasion uh
by the way in case anyone's curious on
two days where i had am pm workouts uh
the am and pm workout would generally
fall between
meal number three and meal number four
right so the workout would like oh
started around five or five thirty and
then seven pm uh i would eat probably a
cleaner meal than a burrito just to get
in some of the uh
you know less fat and get the nutrients
in a bit quicker but more or less it
would look kind of the same way
all right
lastly
number four
i want you to get an idea of what not to
copy do not copy this had a gentleman
just recently comment on my instagram
when i posted my fat loss diet he's like
this is great thank you so much i'm
gonna do this and i'm like oh my god
look i think he weighs like 170 like uh
this is a gain diet for you not a fat
loss diet sir don't ever copy anyone's
stuff verbatim that's a bad idea
but then okay if you're not allowed to
copy this the hell are you supposed to
learn from it what about your own plan i
mean clearly look like oh dr mike it's
fun to listen asmr shit to my voice and
all the bullshit i talk about but at the
end of the day you probably want to get
jacked yourself so what do you do how do
you design your own plan well i have
three really good resources for you if i
may say so myself
muscle gain dining made simple series is
literally coming out as this video is
being released should be one or two or
three videos in the making and it's
gonna be a total of g like eight or ten
videos literally step by step telling
you the theory and instructions of how
to design your own muscle gaining
nutrition plan so we got you covered on
that end if you want much more in depth
and much more scientific rationale and
watch more nuance get a copy of the
renaissance diet 2.0 book first author
on that is myself so that's really
really in-depth stuff if you really want
to
not just make your own plan but maybe
even make plans for others that's the
book i would recommend
and if all the stuff is a lot of
thinking and you're a busy professional
in another field and you just want god
damn it someone tell me what to do
you can download the rp diet coach app
which i was the sort of chief designer
of and uh it can just tell you what to
eat and it's a dynamic app so as you
gain weight it updates your plan to make
sure that you're gaining at the
appropriate rate not too fast not too
slow uh the rp diet app is in its
current form it's always evolving slowly
it's pretty strict so you got to hit
your macros pretty exactly if it's going
to tell you you're doing a good job
so if you're really really hardcore it's
a really good app currently but if you
want a lot of flexibility that's coming
over time it absolutely will get more
and more flexible but uh that's uh sort
of my recommendations and i'll see you
guys next time and if you're not 250
pounds or more don't even bother liking
or commenting as a matter of fact when
you comment you had better tell me what
you weigh and if it's not 3 000 pounds
i'm gonna downvote that shit see you
next time
you