welcome back Dr mil wolf here PhD in
sports science with wolf coaching
reviewing gbss five favorite hypertrophy
movements that have been slept on now
I've never interacted with GVS too much
personally but from what I've seen I got
to admit I'm kind of a fan I like the
personality and even though he doesn't
come from a strictly evidence-based
perspective generally he actually gives
pretty good advice and I think we see
eye to eye on most things plus dude is
pretty jacked so what's not to like fun
fact GVS also almost moderated the
debate between natural hypertrophy and
myself keep in mind throughout this
reaction that I'm coming at this from a
SPO science perspective versus a more
applied perspective potentially so
without further Ado let me give you my
two sons what's up peeps back with
another video So today we're talking
about five exercises that are not
particularly popular and are often
vilified that I really really like and
I've gotten not just enjoyment from but
results from as well so let's jump right
into it and number one we have rack
polls now as everyone knows I'm a big
fan of rack polls I think they are
excellent I think they actually get the
job done a lot more than people think
now whenever I post a picture of my rack
polls or a video of my rack polls uh I
actually get a lot of comments like sfr
bad bad sfr
low stimulus High fatigue uh bad sfr sfr
bad and I think this stems from
powerlifting because for powerlifting I
do think that the rack pole especially
higher up is not going to be
particularly valuable if you look at the
sticking point for most people in the
deadlift it is fairly early in the
movement it's a fairly low sticking
point so sometimes right off the floor
sometimes a little bit off the floor
maybe mid Shin somewhere around there
but people are us usually not failing a
deadlift around the knees or higher
first things first I agree that the
rackpull is not going to be a good
palting accessory I I hope no one's
really making that claim too much there
are going to be cases where it might be
but on average it's not the best palting
accessory with that being said while I
do appreciate the light-heartedness with
which he is addressing the commenters on
YouTube I get why this movement is
unpopular and I think it should be and
here's why I'm just not really sure what
you're really training with with the
rack pull for the hip extensors that is
to say the glutes adductors and
hamstrings you're training them in that
sort of peak contraction position which
for muscle growth probably not ideal the
forearms usually you'll be using straps
anyways so the forearms are unlikely to
be trained close to them after failure
for it to be very effective and finally
there's really only two muscle groups I
can think of where it has some use and
that would be the upper traps and the
erector spin muscle the muscle that's
responsible for extending your spine
let's cut to the chase with the erector
span muscle the muscle also responsible
for keeping your back straight with the
moment arms involved in the rack pole
being very small I don't think you'll be
training them that close to failure and
I think the upper traps are almost
always going to be the limiting factor
but then when it comes to the upper
traps the question has to be asked why
are you doing a rack pole versus just an
ismetric hold at the top because
ultimately your upper traps are not
moving around during the rack pull
anyways so why go through the motion of
getting the bar off the rack in the
first place if all you're doing the
movement for is the upper traps and
they're just being held isometrically at
long muscle lengths so essentially to me
the only function of the rack pole here
is to have the upper traps be stretched
out isometrically with a decent load but
then the question is why are you doing
the rack pole as opposed to just an
isometric hold and then that comes down
to a question of are isometrics
inherently worse for hypertrophy than
Dynamic contractions where you're
actually lifting the weight up and down
like in a shrug the answer there is we
just don't fully know yet from a science
perspective but personally rather than
rackpull I would much rather someone
just straight up do an isometric hold at
low muscle lengths or do partials or
what have you because the rack pull
isn't really adding any to it as far as
hypertrophy goes if they are usually
it's because they got out of position to
sacrifice strength later in the movement
to get more strength earlier in the
movement this is usually from rounding
the back in some place which you know is
fine if you're used to that and if you
can brace effectively um but that
doesn't mean that a rack pole is really
going to help your deadlift in most
cases so yes for a powerlifter
especially if you are very very strong
rack PS are going to have a not great
stimulus cuz it's not very specific to
what you're trying to accomplish and
they will have a lot of fatigue as well
however I tend to do rack poles for
quite High Reps and I don't care about
my deadlift so that's not really a goal
I'm trying to get my back thick and
juicy and if you think about it what
works the back when you are deadlifting
well it's it's this type of action you
know where your shoulders are forward
your upper back is grounded and then you
have to bring those shoulders back you
know so this is actually working the
traps because of the weighted stretch
and not just the upper traps but you
know the lower and the middle traps to
get that chest raising action it's
almost like a front Squad in some ways
it's going to work the lats quite a bit
more than a lot of people think because
your shoulders are are tucked forward
and you're trying to keep the bar close
like that is still lats it's not a
lengthen movement but it is still
absolutely working the lats and then the
spinal Erectors it's fantastic for those
because you're not quite isolating them
but you're using them just as much as a
normal deadlift but you're sort of
taking the lower body to a certain
extent out of it so I don't really agree
with claim here that the Lots or mid
traps or lower traps or rys are being
trained particularly while here
ultimately in the rackpull just like the
deadlift the force Vector that you're
training against is going straight down
Meanwhile your ROM boids mid traps lower
traps are essentially responsible for
bringing your shoulder blades back so
these muscle groups their Force Vector
is essentially acting at a 90Â° angle or
perpendicularly to the force Vector that
you're working against that is to say
the function of the lower and mid traps
and the rhomboids is essentially
unresisted so yes you can absolutely
feel your lats and upper back by just
going like this just like you would when
you're flexing or posing for example but
the rack pole still doesn't really
Target the lats or mid traps or lower
traps or ROM voids effectively at all in
my opinion and for the record I think
that that lift is one of the most
overrated movements when it comes to the
back as a whole does it train your
hamstrings glutes and iors very
effectively absolutely does it provide
some stimulus for your rectors
absolutely but does it really train the
lats mid traps rhomboids lower traps
well at all I really don't think so I
would take an actual vertical pulling
variation or a rowing variation over a
deadlift for the back any day of the
week you're still working the hamstrings
and glutes to extend the hips a little
bit but because the move is almost done
when you're starting around the knees
you can really just focus on using the
back a lot more proportionately compared
to a deadlift and so I get the sort of
oh you must be a juicer look at your
traps well a lot of that is from letting
my traps and my shoulders everything
round forward and stretch forward during
a deadlift I'm trying to finish the
movement as low as possible so I'm
trying to lock out around my knees if I
can I can because my arms are pretty
long but not that long but I'm trying to
really lengthen and stretch everything
out in the upper back look I like the
emphasis on the stretch position we'll
have you here that's all great what I'll
say though is that from the videos he's
showing here he's not really
intentionally flexing his back all that
much not to the extent of really getting
a stretch in his erector spinning
muscles and look personally I have
actually trained my Erectors before but
just on a machine where you can
flex and extend the spine a lot more
easily than you would during a deadlift
or ra pull so he's for sure getting some
erector stimulus here I just don't think
it's a great movement for targeting the
Erectors unless you modify it heavily to
really emphasize movement at the spine
like you wouldn't do a curl just going
from here to here so in the same way in
the rack pole if all you do is
essentially use the same technique as
here you're not really targeting your
rectors maximally well ultimately the
Erectors are the same as any other
muscle group so train them the same way
so if you want a big dad lift don't do
these if you want big hamstrings big
glutes don't do these you know these are
more contraction focused but for that
upper back it actually is a lengthened
Focus movement because you're really
stretching everything out and then
unlike a row where you're really trying
to contract everything you are actually
not quite getting to that fully
contracted position so I would say for
upper back these have been these have
been very very effective and so try them
out number two the Arnold press now
these are are often vilified because
people will look at the anatomy of the
front delt and they will say oh this
this doesn't do anything so just start
here and then just do a normal seated
dumbbell overhead press uh I get that
and I think if you only wanted to
maximize front delt hypertrophy that
would make sense cuz you're not really
getting much of a stretch on the front
delt here you are a little bit but what
I find is that these are great for traps
so another good trap movement because
you have to be almost like shrug down
here and then you're rotating back which
is working a lot of traps it's working
more side Del I found as well and it's
okay to choose a movement that is not
working a specific muscle or part of the
muscle as quote unquote optimally as
something else you can choose General
exercises you can choose an exercise
that is working several different muscle
groups pretty good you know it's not
maybe the best for any particular area
but you can't really have a program that
is really digging deep into every single
muscle because you'd be doing like 80
exercises okay it's fine to choose
exercises that are more General and less
specific and I would include the Arnold
press in this because you're working yes
the front delt but also the side delt
even a little bit of rear delt from this
like this kind of action people will
look at EMG or something like that but I
have found you know I've gotten sort of
weird adts from that from just from
stabilizing and it's almost like you're
pushing back you know on on an overhead
press you're pushing up with these ones
you're rotating and it's like the
sticking point is up here I I know P I
don't give a [Â __Â ] um but this lockout is
very very challenging and you know I
found these to be overall very very
effective all right first of all I
respect the honesty and the commitment
and the lack of care about the pit stain
we all been there um regarding the arnal
press for the shoulders doing this
during the movement doesn't really
change anything about the movement it's
still going to be a good front belt
movement but I do question what this
motion essentially is adding to the
stimulus of the front delts the side
delts Etc because ultimately the path of
the upper arm remains relatively
unchanged yeah you might be changing the
length of different muscles slightly
based on internal external rotation of
the shoulder or what have you but it's
not going to be a big difference and
certainly I don't think the rear dots
are getting any stimulus from the Arnold
press no more at least than you would
during a traditional SE dumbell overhead
press so Arnold press It's relatively
unpopular it's a fine movement it's not
my favorite but it's a fine movement so
I'll give this thumbs up for the most
part we are at that stage of YouTube
Fitness by the way where a thumbs up is
my honest critique of this take number
three are dumbbell pullovers now I
really really like these I don't do them
the same way as natural hypertophy does
he does them sort of lying across the
bench which you know might allow you to
sort of open up a little bit more and to
lean back um but I like to do them on
the bench so where you're lying on the
same direction as the bench you're on
the bench um just because I find it to
provide a little bit more stability and
I also like to dig my head into the
bench as I go back um which also gets a
little bit of neck work as well at the
same time now some people might say oh
this is not a lad exercise it's not
working the lats yeah I don't know about
that I'm I'm going to call [Â __Â ] on
that you know people will say you know
some biomechanical study or or EMG or
something but I mean if you can feel the
lat stretch as you go back I think it's
stretching the lats you know people will
try to Gaslight you like no no you're
not you're not feeling the lat you're
feeling you're feeling the oblique or
the rib cage or the seratus or the ABS
or something else or the rear Del I know
when I'm feeling my lat okay you know
stop stop just stop stop so first of all
I agree that Thum pullover is a
phenomenal lat exercise I have a whole
video on that so here it's the best lat
exercise in my opinion now I don't think
I arrived at that conclusion through the
same means as Jeffrey here did I don't
think relying on the feel during a
muscle is really a good way to go about
determining what exercise is better
ultimately for a lot of movements for
example that top squeeze position might
feel amazing like [Â __Â ] me just doing
this now I feel my biceps does that mean
that me just holding it like this is
going to provide a maximum growth
stimulus No in fact I might feel this
more than certain movements at some
points during the exercise and so how
you feel f d and exercise only
correlates relatively weakly in my view
to how effective it is for hypertrophy
if you don't get any feeling the target
muscle dur an exercise might that be
something you want to pay attention to
sure but just because you feel an
exercise a little bit more than another
doesn't mean that exercise is
necessarily better now with regards to
the biome mechanics and EMG claims I
absolutely agree ultimately we have a
pretty substantial body of evidence
suggesting that hey if you want to
maximize muscle growth training in the
stretch position is a good thing the
dumbbell pullover does just that and the
claim that it's all chest due to
differences in internal leverage between
the PEC and the lats at the bottom of a
pullover the truth is we just don't have
evidence to suggest that that is
actually how it plays out when it comes
to hypertrophy like if you take a set to
failure does that mean that only the
pecs are going to be taken to failure or
does that mean your body's going to go
hey we need to extend the shoulders
let's recruit all the muscles we can to
accomplish that job my hunch is it's the
ladder and therefore when you're taking
a setep close to failure even if your
pecs have slightly better leverage you
will get a robust hypertrophy effect
importantly if someone making the claim
that the pull over or the pull down is
Alex or alterus major or what have you
just keep in mind there is no direct
evidence to support that claim to my
knowledge very few with any Studies have
actually measured hypertrophy as an
outcome of differences in internal
leverage not feeling your chest in the
bench press you're
feeling your quads and we are all built
a little bit differently the shoulder
joint is a complicated one so it's
possible that some people feel more
chessed when they're doing this movement
some people might feel more rear adult
some people might feel more lats some
people might feel more triceps you know
so there's a lot of different areas that
can actually provide shoulder extension
from that extremely extended position
and so yeah this could be working in
multiple areas but again that's not
necessarily A Bad Thing I've also found
these are actually pretty good as a sort
of bulletproofing exercise um you know
if you can't do dumbbell pullovers
because you feel really unstable in that
fully extended
position you should probably do dumbbell
pullovers you know because these are
actually going to be a good movement
just start light start controlled you
might want to add a pause in that fully
lengthened position and if you are weak
in that area you're going to want to
strengthen that area so often when I get
a client and they're like I cannot do
this exercise I'm thinking I know what
we're going to be doing not always you
know sometimes it just doesn't make any
sense but I think often if someone is
getting pain from a movement or they
just don't feel com able with that
movement or that range of motion they
should probably be doing that movement
you know just building up starting with
lighter weights and you know if your
body is so sensitive that it's giving
you pain from a pretty basic range of
motion you know nothing super extreme uh
I think you know for your own just
durability and and injury prevention you
should probably build up that area and
that tolerance to stress in those
positions so purely anec toally here
injury prevention pain management not my
expertise I will say when I train more
in the lengthen position and sure I'm
biased if you want to claim that but I
have found personally that generally my
joints just feel a bit better if I'm
exposed more regularly to the lengthen
position I'm not making claims that
there is definitely an effect here it's
just how I felt next up we have machine
squats now full disclosure I used to be
in the gym like four five six years ago
you know doing my barbell squats like a
[Â __Â ] small legged Champion over here
and I'd see someone using machine squats
and I'd be
like [Â __Â ]
[Â __Â ] really like that was actually my
mindset just like look at this guy he's
using a machine he's using the machine
I'm over here with my little Twigs
squatting up a storm with my barbell and
ironically when I hurt my q and I
couldn't do barbell squats and I
couldn't do barbell deadlifts and I
couldn't do these basic movements it was
this single best year of quad training
that I had had since my first year of
lifting fact M had even been better than
my first year of lifting and I made a
lot of progress from working in
movements that I would never have dreamt
of doing before and so I really do
recommend getting injured or you can
learn from other people's mistakes right
it's cool how how that can work you
don't have to snap your [Â __Â ] up in order
to unlock some some dope variations so I
actually find that these are are a lot
more stable you don't have to worry
about you know unracking or rcking or
you know stabilizing or balance or any
of that and you know I have some
imbalances in the hips and these are
just way way way more productive plus I
can keep it much more quad dominant um
you actually can see in the videos where
my hips are coming off the pad I get
asked about this a lot it will visualize
what would happen if I kept my hips on
the pad so the pad would actually drag
my hips down making it more hip dominant
and less quad dominant so from the very
first moment I did this movement I just
allowed my hips to drift off the pad
from the very first rep I never thought
oh I need to keep keep my hips on the
pad because I tried that when someone
suggested they're like you're doing it
wrong and it felt like some kind of like
shitty good morning no I want the knees
to go forward and if I the knees are
going to go forward the hips have to go
forward Ward with them and so those are
you know your hips are actually
connected to your knees I don't know if
you know that they're actually there's
actually a what do it called a femur
down there might be pronounced fure so I
do agree with the machine squat or any
sort of machine for the quads actually
being pretty effective like for a lot of
people it allows them to minimize the
loading on the spine work in higher rep
ranges because it's less systemically
fatiguing it can be a nice way to work
around some pain potentially if you have
some lower back pain and depending on
how machine is built it can allow you to
get deeper get a better stretch Etc so
by and large I do agree and in this case
it also looks like the way he's
performing it where he's not letting his
hips come up against pad just allows his
back to stay a little bit more vertical
get a little bit deeper knee flexion
overall making it a potentially better
quad movement another thing I like about
these is that they actually Force the
lift to be more quad dominant as you get
closer to failure often with a barbell
back squat or even you know front squat
or even a SPI machine hack squat as you
get closer to failure the Instinct will
be to shift the hips back and to use
more posterior chain or even the
Erectors to get the bar up especially if
you have these long ass femur but for
these as you get closer to failure
actually you'll feel like you want to
shift the knees forward and so I
actually think that this is a good thing
because there's no temptation to shift
the hips back and I wouldn't say these
are unpopular but I will say that they
are a little bit underappreciated and a
lot of people even powerlifters could
benefit from including these in their
programming finally we have side bends
now these are something that are often
viewed as dangerous for some reason I'm
not entirely sure why um if you find
these to be dangerous uh you're probably
just not very conditioned to moving side
to side there's no reason why moving
side to side a little bit should be
dangerous it's only going to be
dangerous if you've never really moved
side to side which is entirely possible
if you're on a typical bodybuilding plan
and you're sedentary the rest of the
time if you have you know any type of
athletic movement or or wrestling or
something where you're twisting and
turning these will seem like a complete
joke but I think for a lot of people
these are going to be a good
conditioning movement you can easily
build up pretty heavy and another area
that I think people won't realize is
being targeted are your spinal Erectors
so they're not just responsible for
erections phrasing hey phrasing editor
cut that out it's it's highly
inappropriate we can't have that kind of
stuff on Jeffrey ver sc's YouTube
channel unacceptable so the spinal
Erectors are not just responsible for
erecting the spine but they are also
responsible for actually bringing the
spine upright from a sideways position
right so when you're in this position
you're actually stretching the spinal
Erectors you know so these are actually
a pretty decent spinal erector movement
um as well as for the obliques people
often do them for the obliques yes the
obliques are working but it's not just
the oblique that performs this action I
found that when you go heavy as well
like 100 lb or more it also provides a
pretty good stretch for like the upper
back and the mid traps um and so it's a
just a pretty good allaround movement I
think it's good for injury prevention
plus I think that if you have hip
imbalances or leg length imbalances this
is a really really good sort of
insurance policy because you might
actually find that one leg is moving a
little bit differently and so it'll work
the adductor slightly it'll work the
glute media slightly you you'll feel
that entire hip area lighting up
especially if you do you know sets of 20
or 25 or sets of 30 and so yeah I think
there is value to be provided here I
don't think it's particularly dangerous
I think that if you feel like you're
going to snap your [Â __Â ] up from doing
this you should probably
do this so do I think the side Bend is
an exercise you need to include no I
think it will work the obliques
ultimately your external obliques the
muscle on the side of your abs those are
actually also involved in spinal flexion
so essentially any movement that trains
your ab muscle like a crunch a dragon
flag
a wheel roll out or anything else will
also train the obliques reasonably well
and that's why in most programs you do
not see any isolation exercise or
lateral flexion exercise for the oblique
specifically simply because they do get
a decent stimulus from other movements
and so I wouldn't claim the side Bend is
this perfect exercise that you need to
include it's fine if you want to grow
bigger obliques but otherwise there's no
need what I'll say regarding the whole
pain and injury stuff and in general
this is a trend throughout the whole
video I like that he's not
fear-mongering about exercises because
it's a pitfall a lot of influencers fall
into but equally I don't like making the
claim without evidence that hey training
with this exercise might bulletproof you
or might prevent injury I just don't
think we have the evidence to claim that
with any confidence and actually Louis
Simmons used to provote these may he
rest in peace and I think he was
probably on to something here I think
that even for powerlifters there's
probably a lot of value to be gained
actually Ed Cohen also recommended doing
like holds with the side Bend like with
a barbell so he holding on to the
barbell in in a power rack you know and
and not necessarily doing reps but just
doing it you know holding it for time
and you know that really does give you
that ability to brace which I think in
particular if you have muscle imbalances
in the hips in the lower back Etc are
it's probably going to be a good idea to
include and there are of course other
movements that you can do to work that
similar movement pattern that similar
functionality those areas you know in
the obliques and the side you could do
side planks with your feet up on a bench
and then you know dip your hips that way
I used to do that as a runner Super High
Reps 70 80 90 100 reps at a time really
burning out that sort of hip an entire
side area you could do a POF press so
where the cable is coming from the side
and then you push out stay braced hold
it go back in push out stay braced hold
it and so your your torso isn't moving
it's it's only your hands and stay EMB
braced you can do like a wood Chopper
high to low low to high and it always
struck me as a little bit hypocritical
where if you do a wood chop a limb
Chopper or whatever it's called people
are like yeah right on instagrammable
and then you do this with a dumbbell and
and people just lose their [Â __Â ] I agree
I think that people often fear Monger
different exercises like oh the side
Bend or oh the deadlift or what have you
just don't anyways that was my review of
Jeffrey very Scofield's five favorite
movements for hypertrophy that are
unpopular overall honestly I've said it
before but I'm kind of a fan of Jeffrey
V sculfield even though our viewpoints
kind of collide or clash in some ways
like I give this a seven or eight out of
10 which considering his background
being more of an applied guy is really
solid and in general I think he is more
attuned to advancements in hypertrophy
research then people give them credit
for sometimes anyways that's the video
If you enjoyed the video leave a comment
down below letting me know who else you
want to see me react to like the video
subscribe if you'd like meet coach you
check out the link above and you have a
great day and I'll see you next time
peace what I'll say though what was he
saying again um [Â __Â ] all right there you
are