thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth-busting day where every Monday
we're gonna take a look at some popular
fitness or nutrition idea look at where
that idea got started and then find out
whether it's in fact true or false based
on the most recent scientific evidence
this week we're going to be looking at
the idea that energy drinks are harmful
to your health so I found that energy
drinks like monster and Red Bull have
actually become really popular in
fitness circles and I think it's because
of the idea that you can get some sort
of energy boost without any kind of
caloric cost especially with the diet
varieties of these energy drinks
um so they can energize you for a
workout without having to take in any
extra calories which is pretty
beneficial I think or at least people
perceive it that way from a dieting
perspective and in my experience it's
common to see folks lamb two or three or
more of these a day and their popularity
is just increasing in general especially
for the youth and according to a 2007
teen market research report the energy
drink market was valued at 12 billion
dollars in the United States alone and
it's projected to double by 2025 however
many people aren't sure of the health
effects of these things so let's take a
closer look at what the science has to
say but first where was it that this
idea originated from
I'm almost tough to say exactly where
the idea that energy drinks are bad for
you comes from but I would say it has at
least something to do with the fact that
they tend to have really long
ingredients lists sometimes with names
that are kind of difficult to pronounce
and I think that a lot of people have
become weary of consuming so-called
chemicals however I think that's a term
that they don't really mean to use I
think any fundamental entry-level
knowledge of chemistry will tell you
that everything is made up of chemicals
even water is itself a chemical and if
you were to call water say dihydrogen
monoxide its actual chemical name people
may be more wary to consume it even
though that doesn't hold any water in
terms of whether or not it's it's
healthy or harmful just for a quick
example let's look at the actual
ingredients list in one all-natural
blueberry and as you can see it's a huge
list of stuff
look fairly intimidating to an
uneducated eye but here's part of the
problem that I have with this criticism
leveled at energy drinks and just more
broadly I guess synthetic compounds in
general is that first of all it isn't
clear exactly where that line between
natural and synthetic sits I should say
it's not clear how much you have to
modify a natural substance so that it
becomes synthetic and secondly just
because something occurs in nature
doesn't mean it's good for you
I'm just for example sharks occur all
the time in nature and they will kill
you if you happen to run into one I mean
on the other hand antibiotics are
synthetic they're man-made and they can
save your life if you need them so this
concern with energy drinks is at least
in part an appeal to nature fallacy
which isn't necessarily incorrect I
think that in some contexts we do have
good reason to be skeptical of some
man-made substances and some man-made
products however that isn't a good
enough basis on its own to the judges
health value so I think what we should
instead do is look at the actual
ingredients list on these products and
break them down and look at what the
scientific evidence has to say about
each of them so what does the science
have to say about the ingredients in
energy drinks well the ingredients won't
look exactly the same between any two
energy drink products but I think
examined calm did a really good job of
breaking down the science between the
ten most commonly used ingredients in
energy drinks and notice that this list
can look more or less scary depending on
if they use the chemical name or not so
for example on this up energy drink and
vitamin b6 is listed as paradoxical
hydrochloride which may sound scary if
you don't know what that is but it's no
less vitamin b6 and if it was just
called vitamin b6 on the label and so
what I'd like to do is just quickly go
through this table here and look at what
the evidence has to say but first I
should probably note that really
anything will be harmful at high enough
of a dose if you were to say slam fifty
or a hundred cans of monster you would
just as likely die probably from an
overdose on water or from water toxicity
than anything else anything can be
harmful if you consume enough of it and
the poison is always determined by the
dose so whether or not something is
harmful is always going to be predicated
on how much of that thing you're
consuming I'm so back to the table and
we'll start with what doesn't seem to
really be doing much of anything good or
bad and so here in the middle we have a
list of three vitamins a pseudo vitamin
niacin b6 b12 and inositol and they're
all water-soluble vitamins so the
likelihood for overdose and negative
health effects is basically nil
especially at the typical dose but they
also don't do what they're clean to do
which is improve energy because unlike
actual food vitamins don't increase
energy acutely and they don't have any
caloric value like actual food and
they're not stimulants like say caffeine
and the same thing goes for guarana
which is just a natural form of caffeine
but here the dose is almost always too
low to do much of anything good or bad
and l-carnitine is also over height now
although it's actually very effective
and improving sperm quality the dose
would have to be about 60 times higher
19 doesn't increase fat burning except
for in cases of carnitine deficiency
which is actually extremely rare in
adults without metabolic disorders so
there isn't anything to worry about here
at these doses but next we'll look at
Torrey which does have some potential
benefits including antioxidant and
cardio protective effects and improved
insulin sensitivity
now the 2008 toxicology report on the
upper limit for daily supplemental
torre√≥n consumption across an entire
lifetime was 3 grams so with one gram
being in a can of monster this morning
may give you some pause when exceeding
or nearing say three monsters a day and
consistently however I think it's worth
noting that the same paper acknowledges
that much higher levels of tarean have
been tested without adverse effects and
may be safe that the data for intakes
above those levels just aren't
sufficient for a confident conclusion so
I'm max we'll look at ginseng it's
supposed to increase focus and it might
do that one 2010 study showed positive
cognitive effects at 400 milligram dose
but actually a slowing in arithmetic
with 200 milligrams
compared to placebo as you'll probably
want at least more than 200 milligrams
if taking ginseng for focus and in terms
of negative effects examine sites of
potential for GI distress and ranted
while a 2011 systematic review looking
at 57 clinical trials concluded that
ginseng generally has a good safety
profile and the incidence of adverse
effects seems to be low 16 of the 57
trials did report side-effects but they
were mostly related to the GI tract so
things like diarrhea and cramps um so
before we get into the two remaining
ingredients which I believe to be the
most likely to be problematic some of
you may note that there's often
artificial sweeteners in these drinks
it's most commonly sucralose in East K
and luckily my girlfriend Stephanie made
a whole video discussing all these
sweeteners so I'm really have to go into
too much detail here I'll just refer you
to that video but the long story short
of it is that you'd have to consume
something like 32 cans of diet soda just
to hit the adequate daily intake for a
skate we have to drink something like 6
cans of diet soda to hit that adequate
daily intake for sucralose nom but just
keep in mind that the adequate daily
intake is a very very conservative
estimate of how much you have to drink
every day for a lifetime to see no
adverse health effects um so the main -
potentially harmful things in these
energy drinks I would say are sugar and
caffeine and despite my myth busted oh
I'm sugar explaining why I don't think
that's quite the villain it's often made
out to be I would say it's it's probably
the most potentially harmful thing in
these over the long term and I think
this because it basically unnecessarily
drives total caloric intake higher and
in a way that doesn't really provide any
nutritional value and I think this is
especially the case for the high rates
of consumption amongst teenagers and
youths who are drinking a lot of these
and getting a lot of empty calories from
the sugar I mean so while I wouldn't say
that sugar is in and of itself causing
direct time I wouldn't say that it's
toxic especially not consumed in the
doses and
energy drinks I would say that it is
unnecessarily contributing to total
daily caloric intake and especially in
the absence of a regular exercise
routine or regular daily activity I
would say that this could lead to
problems down the road if it becomes a
habit but of course this isn't a problem
if you just go with the diet or
sugar-free versions of these energy
drinks which is why I recommend going
with diet over the sugary ones if you
have the option so that basically leaves
us with caffeine which is of course the
main powerhouse behind these energy
drinks that is the main stimulant
ingredient and it definitely is
effective there's a ton of evidence
suggesting that increases alertness
wakefulness even performance and of
course energy so it is effective the
question is whether or not it has any
deleterious or harmful health effects
and I think it's important to note that
many of these popular energy drinks can
sometimes contain upwards of a hundred
and fifty milligrams of caffeine which
is four or five times the amount in a
regular can of coke and as of may 25th
of last year Health Canada filed a
safety alert that healthy adults consume
no more than 400 milligrams of caffeine
per day but she could easily exceed with
a monster and a pre-workout alone in a
2017 review from the safety of caffeine
mirror this recommendation
however they also noted that between
2005 in 2011 there were over 79,000
emergency room visits attributable to
overconsumption of energy products
containing high levels of caffeine in
patients aged 12 years and old usually
this was due to tachyarrhythmia really
fast heart rate from a high dose of
caffeine in many of these cases involved
alcohol consumption as well so you
definitely want to be careful when
combining these substances stranded the
actual lethal dose of caffeine as about
10 grams so you'd have to drink
something like 50 cans of energy drink
just to reach that however in powder
form it's quite a bit more dangerous and
you could easily reach a lethal dose
with just like two teaspoons of pure
caffeine powder so on that note I think
I'll bring this full circle by saying
that I think it's unlikely that the
individual ingredients and these energy
drinks are likely to cause any serious
health effects on their own of course
that's going to depend on how much of
them you're consuming and it also
depends on who's consuming
I think that pregnant nursing women
should really avoid these products
because of the caffeine content and I
think that teenagers and children are
definitely more susceptible to negative
cardiovascular effects from these so
again it's really going to depend on how
much you're having and who it is that's
having it I'm also open to the idea that
while the individual ingredients on
their own haven't really been shown to
be harmful at the dosages provided it's
possible that they could like interact
in some way to produce negative health
effects and that is quite quite
reasonable but I would say that the
evidence for that is pretty weak as of
now the examine article points out the
possibility of an interaction between
sugar and caffeine that could increase
the Hertz workload acutely but again the
severity of this effect will depend on
how much you're consuming and your
current health state I would say that if
you currently have cardiovascular
complications or if you have a history
of heart problems in your family I'd be
very careful with these products
especially with caffeine just in general
but otherwise for healthy active adults
there doesn't seem to be anything
particularly harmful at least about
ingredients in these drinks at the
dosages provided sugary energy drinks
are probably just best avoided
altogether especially since you can just
go with the diet variety or sugar-free
variety and avoid all those extra
calories and I would say it's the high
caffeine and high sugar content that's
the biggest potential issue I'm not the
presence of mysterious chemicals or
synthetic ingredients I'm so bringing
this full circle I would say that this
myth is kind of busted whether or not
these energy drinks are harmful will
depend first of all on who it is that's
consuming them so their age their body
weight and a current health status and
secondly it'll depend on how much of
them you're consuming and how much you
personally are comfortable with
consuming I think will depend on your
personal level of risk aversion as much
as anything else as for me personally
actually quite like energy drinks so I'm
comfortable with the risks associated
associated with drinking one of these
per day which in my opinion are actually
quite low however if you are wanting to
play it on the safe side
or maybe you have more of a history of
health problems or concerned about that
then you may want to err on the side of
caution they want to really heat Health
Canada's advice and pay attention to
your total daily caffeine intake you
might want to try to keep that below 400
milligrams per day
I'm suppose that's gonna wrap up this
week's myth-busting day I hope that you
really liked it before we go I want to
give a huge shout out to Squarespace for
sponsoring this video and say thank you
to Squarespace in case you guys aren't
aware Squarespace is an all-in-one
create our website platform and it's
actually the platform that I've been
using for the last two or three years to
run my own website in my own online
store and I think it's a great service
because it's really easy to use they
have fantastic customer support and
beautiful award-winning designer custom
templates that you can use and it's just
a ton of those to choose from and I
think they all look really aesthetic so
if you guys would like to get started on
building your own website or your own
online store and go to squarespace.com
/nu and you can save 10% off your first
purchase today thank you again
Squarespace sponsoring the video thank
you guys so much for watching don't
forget to leave me a like if you liked
the video I subscribe if you happen to
be new to the channel and I will see you
guys all here next Monday