in my opinion the cable crunch machine
crunch and decline crunch are some of
the best ab exercises you can do to
build a bigger six-pack the primary role
of the rectus abdominus muscle AK K
six-pack muscle is actually spinal
flexion many traines make the mistake of
prioritizing hip flexion over spinal
flexion when training the RS during
these three exercises on the other hand
you're able to lengthen the Abs if you
overextend your spine get a looted
stretch in your abs and then contract
them additionally all of them are length
and partial friendly should you choose
to perform know the main thing to focus
on in all these exercises is going to be
to extend your spine during the Ecentric
and then round it on the concentric do
this and you should experience more AB
hypertrophy than before and that's why