all right what's going on guys so in
this video I want to answer the question
I've been getting asked the most every
time I actually go to the gym which is
how is full-body training actually going
for me as I've talked about the science
and the theory behind a high frequency
full-body setup in another video which
I'll link down below but I haven't
actually shared it much of my own
personal experience with it over the
last six or seven months so in this
video I'm going to lay out all the pros
and all the cons that have noticed with
this split so you guys can have a full
summary of my thoughts so far and I'm
gonna overlay some clips here from last
night's workout I ended up hitting 455
pounds on the deadlift for two reps and
it moved super fast so I'm really
excited about that so I actually want to
start with the cons here so the
potential downsides of doing a full body
split that you'll want to keep in mind
if you're thinking about trying it out
first just to make sure we're all on the
same page anytime I speak about any
training split here on the channel just
try to keep in mind that for the most
part I see training splits simply as a
way of organizing your workload in a way
that fits your schedule and keeps
driving progress forward for the record
I've been training for 14 years now and
I've tried push-pull leg splits upper
lower splits and full-body splits and I
think they each have their own unique
advantages and disadvantages depending
on the person and the context but I'd
also say all of them can be very
effective and I wouldn't be comfortable
putting either of them on a pedestal and
saying this one is definitely the best
and maybe I'll do another video
explaining the pros and cons of each of
these splits but for now I'm going to
focus on high frequency full-body since
that's what I'm doing at the moment so I
think the first potential downside of
high frequency full-body is that there
are more ways to mess it up than other
splits so take the bro split for example
it's super easy to set it up and it's
pretty hard to mess it up you take all
your chest exercises put them all on
Monday and then you've got a full week
before you hit chest again and because
there's actually far more time for
recovery than anyone realistically needs
it's pretty easy to manage recovery on a
bro split so if you don't have much
knowledge of program design a body part
split is as simple as it gets
even a push-pull leg split just taking
the legs for example you still have
about three days of recovery before you
have to hit legs again so the chances
are if you happen to overdo it on that
first leg day you'll probably be pretty
much good to go by the time the second
leg day rolls around now we can contrast
this with high frequency full-body where
if you don't know any better you might
come in and do so much legwork on day
one that you end up feeling already
fatigued on day two but now you got to
do legs again and then by day three or
four you're feeling even more
so you just end up digging yourself into
a hole with overtraining
so clearly with a high frequency
approach fatigue management is a bit
more complex so if you don't have a
fundamental understanding of it you
could definitely overdo things a bit
more easily on a split like this than
most others so for this reason I don't
actually think it's a great split for
beginners if you're new to the gym and
you want to train full body there's no
reason to go five days a week or even
four days a week all you need as a
beginner is two or three full body
workouts per week which won't give you
the same potential recovery issues that
a higher frequency split might now when
it comes to me when I first started this
split last summer I was initially doing
way too much each day and I was just
feeling more and more fatigued as the
week went on because I was coming from a
history of split routines it just didn't
feel right to do say three sets of leg
curls and that would be your only leg
work for the day or do three sets of lat
pull-downs and not also include a row
for the back but I just needed to get
over that bias and start taking my
weekly volume that I normally need to
make progress on and just splitting that
up across five training days once I did
that my recovery improved and now I feel
like my recovery is better than it's
ever been and I'll get to that in a
minute
okay another potential downside is that
the workouts can be longer at least they
are for me now this doesn't seem to be
the case with everyone some people say
they can still get in and out in an hour
and don't really notice a difference or
for me it's usually more like an hour
and a half I think that's because say
you're hitting deadlifts and then you've
got bench press right after you'll need
to do a pyramid warm-up for the
deadlifts and then another pyramid
warm-up for the bench press and that can
definitely add up especially if your
working weight is pretty heavy so for me
even though my full body workouts are a
bit longer I don't personally look at it
as a downside because for one I love
training and for two I don't mind being
in the gym a bit longer if I think it's
gonna get me better results but for
someone who's just looking for the
quickest most time efficient way to
train I'd say this probably isn't the
best routine it does depend on how much
volume you're actually doing that may be
something like a upper lower split done
four days a week would give you most of
the results for less total time in the
gym all right the next downside that I
noticed early on was that I was always
having to train a muscle group a while
it was still sore which was pretty
annoying at least for a while
now I think this might have been
especially bad for me because most
people have spoken to haven't actually
found this lingering soreness problem to
be an issue for the most part but for
whatever reason ever since I started
training I've always just had the
delayed onset muscle soreness I remember
back when I was running bro splits I do
a leg workout on Sunday and then the
next Sunday I'd still be sore sometimes
so I could be a bit of a genetic
exception just because I tend to get
super sore anyway but I did find that
for the first few weeks I do a full body
workout on Monday and then some of my
muscles like my quads for example would
still feel sore on Tuesday but now I'd
have to hit them again so this actually
started out as a pretty bad thing and it
almost caused me to scrap it altogether
but now I'm really glad I didn't because
I never get sore anymore even if I push
it really hard in my recovery is the
best it's ever been
I'll get to that more in a minute but I
do still put this in the Khans column
just because for some people more like
myself there might be this adjustment
period where you have to train the same
muscle again while still sore which
isn't inherently problematic as long as
you can still perform the exercise
safely through a full range of motion
and you do plenty of warm-up but like I
said after the first few weeks the
repeated bad effect is gonna kick in
anyway and that soreness should just
totally go away which has been great for
me okay and the last downside I'll
briefly mention here just because people
keep asking me about it is joint stress
I haven't noticed any joint pain myself
after running this split for six months
and I know colleagues and friends of
mine who've been doing it for years
without any big issues so I'm not
actually convinced on this one being a
true downside but I did want to bring it
up here just to share my thoughts and I
think the line of reasoning is that if
you're training the same muscles every
day you're also stressing the same
joints every day which over time can
lead to overuse and cumulative stress
but I think you could just as easily
spin it the other way you could say well
one thing all your leg work on one day
so you've got squats lunges leg press
leg extensions all in a single workout
is gonna load that joint so much all at
once and create so much acute joint
stress so I think the key is just using
good technique you're not pushing
yourself past your limits and that's
pretty much the same advice I'd give
regardless at the split but I will say
this if you have a history of joint
problems especially with a specific
joint you'll want to be especially
careful with how you sequence the
exercises that use that joint so for
example if you have a history of
shoulder pain you might want to space
out your bench press work and your
shoulder press work by at least two or
three days rather than putting too heavy
overloading compound exercises on
back-to-back days and you can just fill
in the rest of the volume with lower
impact exercises like lateral raises and
make sure you do plenty of rear delt
work as well so I can't see how the
joint concern would be valid if you were
doing the
acting exercises day after day
especially at the same intensity but if
you're varying the movement and loading
patterns from day to day the way the
joints are being taxed will also vary
and I would imagine that should help
prevent joint overuse now with that said
in my powerlifting days I ran programs
where I had squat every single day for a
month and that added a ton of strength
to my squat then a ton of size to my
quads and because I managed my intensity
and volume appropriately I didn't run
into any joint issues either so with any
split you want to pay attention to your
body's feedback and if you have any
warning signs adjust the set up and make
sure you recover all right so those are
the cons now not all of them are fully
legitimate in my experience but I wanted
to share my thoughts on all of them
anyway now I want to turn to the good
things I noticed since running a high
frequency split and there's actually
more pros than cons for me I'm so I'm
gonna go through these a little bit more
quickly so the first thing I really love
about it is that it's new and different
which I'm finding really motivating I
think novelty is important from a
physiological perspective in the sense
that a new training stimulus should
cause the body to adapt in a new way
meaning if you just keep doing the same
things that you've always done you'll
plateau at some point and need to change
things up
but even more than that I'm saying this
from a psychological perspective it's
just exciting to be doing something that
I haven't really done before and I think
that novelty is huge from making
continued progress as a more advanced
trainee
the second Pro for me is that the
individual workouts feel much less
overwhelming for example on a leg day if
I had to do squats rdls lunges calves
and so on it can feel overwhelming going
into the workout and a lot of the time I
just wouldn't look forward to lifting
but with full body training it feels
much more manageable to hit one exercise
for a body part and that's it and if you
look at it across the full week you're
not actually doing any less you might
actually be doing more it just feels a
lot easier in your head
alright pro3 is somewhat related it's
never having to do a full leg day any
way you slice it doing one exercise for
legs every day feels a lot easier than
lumping it all on one day and I haven't
personally missed having a designated
leg day so for me this has been a plus
although I could see that for some non
bros who loved leg day they might see
this as a downside the fourth Pro is
that I'm actually making great progress
especially when it comes to strength
which I do find interesting because my
split is definitely more hypertrophy
focused than strength focused so this
could be a muscle memory effect going on
since I was D trained a bit due to
injury or it could be the introduction
of top sets into my
program or it could be that I'm just
responding really well to the higher
frequency which to me seems the most
likely given that I remember from years
back whenever I do a high frequency
squat or a bench program my list would
blow up and as for my physique I'll put
a little post-workout posing up here on
the screen I weighed in at 162 pounds
this morning so my weight actually
hasn't changed all that much and I'm
thinking I'm looking the best I have in
a while so I'm excited to see how things
continue to progress after I fine-tune
the program a bit more and continue to
make some more strength progress v Pro I
kind of already mentioned this is that I
never get sore anymore which is allowing
me to perform better and my recovery
feels great next Pro is that moving
around missed volume is super simple
occasionally I'll have to cut the
workout short for whatever reason rather
than needing to wait until the next push
day or the next week or whatever I can
just easily throw it on tomorrow's
workout or any other workout because I'm
hitting every muscle every day anyway so
it doesn't mess anything up recovery
wise Pro seven is that I do find my
execution per set is better especially
toward the end of workouts so
historically by the time I got to the
end of a push day and had lateral raises
to do I'd usually feel so tired from all
the other shoulder and chest stuff but I
couldn't focus as much as I can when I
literally only have to do three sets of
lateral raises that day you only have
one exercise per body part it's so much
easier to give it your full focus and
attention the next Pro this is actually
been a pleasant surprise for me but
full-body pumps are actually great you'd
be surprised how little volume you need
to get a decent arm pump or a chest pump
if you're focusing on the movements and
keeping our core body temperature up
throughout the workout and I think I
like having a solid full-body pump at
least as much as being almost painfully
pumped in just one muscle now I'm so
that's been my experience with full body
training so far I'd say it's definitely
been more positive than negative for me
especially at this point in my training
career and I'm personally enjoying it
more than push/pull legs or upper lower
splits at the moment even though those
are still solid routines that I'm sure
I'll circle back to eventually and I
think I'm going to leave it there for
this one I don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already aboard
a link over here to my latest science
explained video covering full body thank
you guys so much for watching and I'll
see you all here in the next one