[Music]
okay welcome everyone back to the
science applied series now for those of
you guys who are new to the series so
far i've covered six separate workouts
as part of a push-pull leg split and
those workouts were the basis for my
push-pull legs hypertrophy program which
i just recently finished up myself so
this video is going to mark the
beginning of my new training split so
i'm going to be switching from push-pull
legs workouts to upper lower workouts
what's different from anything i've done
in the past is that i'm going to be
running the upper lower split six days
per week so i'll be hitting my full
upper body three days a week and then my
entire lower body three days a week
which means the per session volume will
be a bit lower but that bump in
frequency is going to function as a
pretty powerful new stimulus for growth
so before we get going with the first
leg workout itself i just want to
quickly let you guys all know that the
new upper lower size and strength
training program is now available on
jeffnipper.com so you guys can go and
download it and start alongside me and
many other subscribers who are going to
be running it starting this week and as
usual it'll be on sale for the week of
the launch and then it's going to go up
to full price after that and i'll have
some more details about that at the end
so without further ado let's dig right
in with lower body day number one so as
always i like to kick off every workout
with a general warm-up lately i've been
using the stairmaster or steep incline
treadmill because i find i can break a
light sweat very quickly and then get on
with the lifting after that i'll do my
usual three or four minute dynamic
stretching and foam rolling routine
which i'll play in fast motion here but
maybe soon i'll dedicate a full video to
this routine if it's something you guys
would like to see so from there we're
jumping into the first exercise which is
the back squat where we're gonna hit
three sets of four reps in week one five
reps in week two and then six reps in
week three before returning to four reps
in week four and you guys know i'm a
huge fan of the standard barbell back
squat and even though it may not be the
best glute builder of all time they
still do a great job of hitting the
quads glutes and spinal erectors while
developing raw strength in a way that's
going to have carry over to other lower
body exercises that i don't think really
any other exercise can't so for this
workout as always we're going to start
with the basics lay down the strength
foundation and then get into the more
fancy stuff from there now so first a
quick recap on all the squat mechanics
stuff now so i'm using a high bar
placement here because it allows me to
maintain a more upright back posture
which at least for the time being
relieves some pressure off my lower back
however i'm thinking that maybe about
halfway through this program i'm going
to give the low bar squat a try again
and see how it feels because i am about
10 stronger with the low bar position
which is pretty standard for most people
in my experience i'll keep you guys in
the loop about how i make that
transition from high bar to low bar when
it happens as for depth i'm aiming to
have my hip crease below my knee joint
which basically means that when viewed
from the side you need to get this below
this
however this is the power lifter in me
talking here so i'd say that if you're
training purely for building muscle i'd
say hitting parallel or just below it is
probably fine also i like to squat with
a slightly wider than shoulder width
stance but as far as stance width goes
this is about as narrow as i'd recommend
going many people still seem to think
that squatting with a narrow stance is
going to hit the quads more however
research shows that when comparing 75
percent and 140 of shoulder width
stances there's no difference in quad
activation however the glutes do seem to
be better activated with a wider stance
which makes sense given their role in
performing hip abduction so if glutes
are your main priority you may want to
use a slightly wider stance but granted
i think the best way to determine your
stance is to experiment yourself and
choose a stance that you feel strong and
comfortable hitting depth with now one
thing i've been trying to work on here
is cueing to breathe down into my gut
before i descend rather than breathing
up into my chest and this way when
viewed from the side the bar shouldn't
rise up as you bring in your air and
brace the week one squats are going to
have a fairly low rpe the weight won't
feel too difficult week two will be more
moderate effort and then week three is
gonna feel pretty hard for week four
feels a bit light again and then the
waving continues all right up next we're
doing three sets of ten reps on an
eccentric accentuated romanian deadlift
i actually ran this workout as a sort of
test run like three days ago so my
hamstrings are still pretty sore here so
i'm not using the weight that i'd
normally use you guys will still get the
general idea so we're doing a four
second lowering phase and keeping
constant tension on the hamstrings by
not squeezing or fully locking out the
glutes at the top i find that the
hamstrings respond uniquely well to a
strong mind muscle connection so this is
what we're really going to be trying to
accomplish here and while the research
on accentuated eccentrics hasn't shown
much of a hypertrophic benefit so far i
still think there is merit in using them
since slowing down the negative is going
to provide at least the same
hypertrophic stimulus with lighter
weights so you'll be able to focus on
the hamstrings better than by just
getting the weight up and allowing other
muscles like the glutes or lower back to
take over okay up next we're doing a
walking lunge drop set of three sets of
eight and eight for a total of 16 reps
on each leg now according to dr brad
schoenfeld while the jury is still out
on drop sets available evidence does
suggest potential benefits when properly
integrated into a training program and
in the paper they advise against large
drops of sixty to seventy percent or
very small drops of five to ten percent
but still acknowledge that various drops
in load can be employed so here we're
doing a single 50 drop set so before you
begin map out how long 16 total strides
is for you and place your heavy working
weight at one end and your 50 lighter
weight at the other so we're gonna do
eight reps each leg with the heavy
weight first drop those dumbbells pick
up the 50 lighter dumbbells and then go
back the other way for another eight
reps each leg now if you're new to
lunges this might be a bit advanced for
you so you may want to start by just
dropping the heavy dumbbells and then
doing body weight only reps as your drop
set which is also totally fine while you
acclimate to the more intense training
style and this isn't something that i'll
do all the time but i really wanted to
start this program off with some
interesting training tools to keep the
workouts challenging and engaging but i
also think that these tools can be used
for bringing up weak points by really
pushing yourself okay up next we're
doing another eccentric overloading
technique on the leg extension for three
sets of ten reps basically you're going
to do a concentric rep bilaterally using
both legs as normal and then on the way
down you're going to take one leg off
the pad and lower the weight back down
using one leg only so you'll do the
eccentric unilaterally while focusing on
squeezing the quads and controlling that
lowering phase and there are few ways
that you can do this if you have one
quad noticeably smaller or weaker than
the other you can do all 10 unilateral
eccentrics with the weaker leg first and
then match it with the stronger leg now
personally my quads are close to the
same size so i'm alternating legs on
each rep myself and i think this is a
great strategy for overloading the
eccentric because research shows that
eccentric strength is about 20 to 50
percent greater than concentric strength
so you can take advantage of this by
having one leg handle all of the load on
the eccentric and then split the load
between the two legs on the positive
after that we're doing another intensity
technique on the lying leg curl where
we're gonna switch between a slow
eccentric lying leg curl and a constant
tension leg curl for two sets of eight
and twelve reps so basically you'll do
eight reps with a three second lowering
phase and then without dropping the
weight do another 12 reps keeping
constant tension on the hamstrings in
the active mid-range so we can think of
this as a sort of finisher exercise for
the hamstrings where we're really trying
to burn them out using just two sets so
you really gotta make them both count
and to finish out the workout we're
gonna be doing a super set of straight
leg calf raises and cable crunches in
this new program i'm going to be hitting
abs two days a week on two of the lower
body days i was originally going to do
the abs everyday challenge but i think
that for now a two times per week
frequency is going to work better in
this program where there's already a
pretty high frequency for many other
body parts so that'll probably come
later and i'll keep you guys posted on
that but for now here we're super
setting just for the sake of time and
the fact that abs and calves aren't
gonna interfere with one another so for
the calf raises i'm doing these on the
leg press because i have a feeling that
after this workout you guys are probably
going to feel like you want to sit down
and do them this way and it doesn't
really matter whether you load these
standing or seated biomechanics are
going to be pretty much the same as long
as you have a straight leg and then for
the cable crunch this is a movement i'm
going to cover in a future technique
tuesday video but for now you really
just want to focus on extending and
flexing your spine and not just hinging
at the hips so allow your lower back to
round at the bottom as you squeeze your
abs together as if they were an
accordion you were pushing together okay
so guys that is a wrap for this first
leg workout and like i said the new
upper lower size and strength program is
officially live on jeffnipper.com and
it'll probably be a while before i get
through all of the sample upper lower
workouts here on the channel if you guys
want to get started at the same time as
me on the program and run it for the
next nine weeks i'll have that as the
first link in the description box below
and this program uses three separate
three week wave loading cycles so it's
definitely different than anything
you've run previously from me where you
have shorter progression cycles where
effort builds across three weeks and
then tapers back down and then up again
for three cycles of that for nine weeks
total and even after the first nine
weeks unless you're super advanced so if
you have like 10 or 15 years of training
experience then you should be able to
run it through again for another nine
weeks and continue making progress and
as i said this program is going to have
you in the gym six days per week but if
you can only spend five days a week in
the gym there's an explanation in there
of how you can modify the split to fit
your schedule you can only train four
days a week i'd recommend running my
upper lower split in the fundamentals
hypertrophy program first and many
people who ran my push-pull legs program
told me i sort of undersold just how
much information is in that program and
the fact that it comes with full
customer support so if you guys run into
any issues at any point in time or if
you have any questions my team is there
to help you out and if they can't help
you out then they're going to put you in
touch with me so anyway it's going to be
29.99 for the launch and then it'll go
up to the regular price so it'll be
39.99 after that so i'm gonna put a
button to the new program over here next
to my head if you guys would like to
pick it up thank you guys so much for
watching don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe to the channel so you don't
miss future science applied videos and
i'll see you guys all here in the next
one