are you doing too much volume the
recommendations of doing 10 to 20 sets
per week per muscle group or 15 to 25
sets per week per muscle group are often
based on the methanalyzes by bazvale and
colleagues or show and telling
colleagues this rarely extends past 20
sets a week however there are two
considerations I rarely see discussed
first rest times as rest times go from
about one or two minutes between sets to
over 2 minutes between sets each set
becomes more effective so 10 to 20 sets
with low rest might be the equivalent of
about 10 to 15 sets with adequate rest
secondly it's important to remember that
in these methanalysis volume is counter
towards all muscle groups that a
movement might Target whether or not
they get a good stimulus from it for
example a row would count towards bicep
volume so if you're going to use the
numbers from these met analyzes in your
training make sure that you count your
volume this way assuming you instead
count each exercise towards one muscle
group I would advocate for a starting
place of about 10 to 15 sets per week
per muscle group start there and adjust
based on your response