is muscle memory real in this video I'll
break down the science and tell you the
answer welcome back Dr Meo wolf with you
here today PhD in sport Science with
wolf coaching today we're talking about
muscle memory let's start with how
muscle memory is supposed to work muscle
memory refers to the idea that after
layoff from training regaining lost
muscle for example is a lot easier than
gaining it in the first place for
example let's say you've been training
in the gym for 5 years you take a year
fully off from training the idea of
muscle memory is that when you return to
training after that year off you'll be
able to regain muscle a lot more easily
than it initially took you to gain in
the first place so what it might have
taken you 5 years to gain the initial
amount of muscle that you lost during
that year of layoff it might take you
only 6 months or 12 months to regain
those 5 years worth of muscle growth but
how would muscle memory actually work
well let's start with some basic
physiology scalo muscle fibers are large
multinucleated cells that contain
hundreds to thousands of nuclei that's a
plur of nucleus by the way each
according to something called myonuclear
domain Theory each nucleus within your
muscle fibers only has transcriptional
capacity to synthesize new proteins in
its immediate vicinity interestingly
these nuclei within your muscle cells
seem to be evenly distributed across it
it's kind of like if each nucleus had
its own magnetic pole right and these
magnets or these nuclei were kind of
repelling each other at all times such
that the nuclei would eventually just be
evenly distributed across your whole
muscle cell here's the interesting bit
because myonuclei are responsible for
transcribing and synthesizing proteins
within your muscle cells the number of
myonuclei should linearly increase with
an increase in muscle fiber size AKA
muscle growth and indeed this is what
myonuclear domain theory predicts that
there's always going to be a linear
Association ation or correlation between
how big a muscle fiber is and how many
myonuclei it has and so when you lose
muscle a muscle fibers get smaller you
should also see a drop in how many
myonuclei you have around in that muscle
cell the truth is this isn't that clear
in fact some data shows in animals that
myonuclei are lost when you lose muscle
so that does seem to support the
myonuclear domain Theory whereas other
studies show that you actually maintain
the amount of myonuclei in your muscle
fiber even when your muscle actually
shrinks whenever we're talking about
myonuclei and how many there are and
whether or not you lose myonuclei during
for example no training you got to keep
in mind that the methods that we've used
in the past for counting myonuclei
weren't quite as advanced as more recent
ones so with these studies just take it
with a grain of salt this is all very
preliminary recent developments in my
Nuclear accounting techniques will help
us determine the answers here a little
bit more clearly in the future so if
transcription from my nuclei is the
bottlenecked growing muscle from scratch
perhaps if my nuclei do truly stay
around when you lose muscle this could
explain muscle memory right because the
my nuclei stay around and they're
usually what stops you from growing
quite as much muscle as fast if you have
them around from the last time you
trained before you lost that muscle that
could just accelerate the process a lot
there is one issue though the only
evidence we have of myonuclei mediated
muscle memory is in odents AKA in rats
in humans things aren't quite as clear
to date there's only one study in humans
really trying to look at the concept of
myonuclear domain Theory and how that
relates to muscle memory here's what
they did they took some participants and
they assigned their limbs to one of two
conditions in one condition for one limb
they had to train for 20 weeks straight
in the other condition they didn't train
at all during these 20 weeks so one limb
was training and one limb was not
training following these 20 weeks of
training or no training they took 10
weeks off training entirely then after
these 10 weeks off they took 5 weeks of
training again but this time for both
limbs to see would the limb that's been
trained previously that potentially go
into my nuclei regain muscle or gain
muscle faster than the limb that hadn't
trained before and thus hadn't gotten a
greater amount of myclear long story
short both limbs saw the same muscle
growth so if you expected muscle memory
to be a thing here and and you thought
well the limb that trained previously
should have more myclear around and thus
should regain size pretty quickly and
should see greater rates of muscle
growth compared to limit didn't train
that didn't seem to pan out in this
study later other researchers performed
a secondary analysis on the data set
from this study specifically they looked
only at participants that actually
gained myonuclei during the 10-e
training phase what they found is that
these participants lost the myonuclei
that they gained in their training limb
during those 20 weeks of te training
what this means practically is that my
nuclei that you recently gain during
training might not actually be able to
stick around that much as I discussed
earlier in animal studies they often do
stick around and often for months or
years however in humans it might
potentially be the case that if you only
recently acquired new my nuclei those
aren't quite as prone to staying around
when you don't train so to make a long
story short in humans myonuclei don't
seem to be the only thing playing a role
if they were the only mechanism involved
at this point the evidence would be a
little bit more clear however just
because myonuclei might not be the exact
mechanism responsible for this
phenomenon that we've often observed
doesn't mean the phenomenon doesn't
exist in fact here are three studies
that show that after detraining
regaining previous muscle mass gains is
a lot easier than getting in the first
place let me give you an example in a
study by star and colleagues after an
initial 20 weeks of training to gain
some muscle and some strength
once participants took some time off and
lost those adaptations it only took them
6 weeks of training to regain everything
they gained during those initial 20
weeks and so you can regain muscle and
strength seemingly about three times as
fast as when you first gained it so
muscle memory does seem to help you
regain muscle after a layoff importantly
as myia are concerned it seems like
complete bed rest and really long times
off of say more than a few months or a
few years might be problematic as far as
your myonuclei concerned typically when
you do see that myonuclei kind of go
away it happens when rodents or humans
are exposed to complete rest like for
example bed rest when they're injured
and or when longer time frames are
present such as a few months or a few
years the concept of muscle memory might
also have implications for steroid users
let me give you an example from a rodent
study in this rodent study there were
two groups one group received
testosterone the other group received a
sham treatment essentially nothing the
group that received testosterone saw
increases in muscle size and increases
in myonuclei whereas the group receiving
a sham treatment didn't see either of
those things following this period
testosterone was removed from the
testosterone group guess what happened
the rats who took testosterone lost
muscle size but their myonuclei number
remained unchanged following this period
both groups were then exposed to
something called overload which is when
researchers remove a muscle from rodents
in order to add tension or make a muscle
work harder kind of the equivalent of
what we would do in the gym with
resistance training essentially exposing
that muscle to more tension the group
that was taking testosterone previously
and that had a higher myonuclei count
around regain muscle very quickly and
gain muscle at a much faster Pace
compared to the Sham treatment rodent
group what this means is that someone
who's previously used testosterone or
other drugs may be able to regain muscle
more easily than a natti because they've
acced more myonuclei and mycle gu do
stay around for a while and so even if
someone used tal Stone a few years ago
or maybe even a few decades ago they may
still have an advantage now over someone
who's never taken them the final area of
evidence where the concept of muscle
memory might be helpful is an older
people returning to resistance training
while the evidence in this area isn't
super consistent it's relatively mixed
there is some hope there's data
suggesting that my nuclei do stay around
for a while let's say for example you
lift it in your 20s then you stop
Lifting for 40 or 50 years and then
return to lifting data suggests that
it's possible that some of the my nuclei
might have stayed around and thus when
you start lifting again in your older
Years you'll be able to regain some of
that muscle you had when you were
younger and that generally leads to
Better Health that said the retention of
my nuclei does not seem to be indefinite
let me give you some takeaways from this
video first the concept of muscle memory
is not super well understood yet it does
seem to occur in humans but whether or
not it's due to myclear or not is a
little bit less clear in fact most of
the evidence we have is in rodents my
nuclei do seem to be staying around
longer than muscle fiber so if you're
starting to lose muscle there's a good
chance that your my nuclei are still
around and will help you regain muscle
size later down line when you start
lifting again for example however my
nuclei do not seem to be staying around
indefinitely so you couldn't just take
decades and decades off and necessarily
expect to regain the muscle you lost
instantly finally and this is pretty
speculative it might be the case that
newly acquired myonuclei say the ones
you've gained over the past 5 to 15
weeks of training do not stick around as
easily as myonuclei you've been
acquiring and kept around for multiple
years that's the video If you enjoyed
this video on muscle memory and the
concept of myclear domain Theory leave a
comment down below give it a like And
subscribe and I'll see you guys in that
next one
[Music]
peace
[Music]
a