here's how to maximize your muscle
growth based on how advanced you
are welcome back Dr Miler wolf here PhD
in sport Science with wolf coaching
nonfunctional sign about to deliver some
science on how to build muscle here's
the deal whether you're more advanced or
more of a beginner some of the same
principles do still apply the main thing
that will need to change is how you
train before we get into that let me
touch on some nutrition fundamentals
that if you want to optim your
hypertrophy you should be hitting first
a slight calorie surplus of maybe 1 to
300 calories will be best if you're
aiming to make a lean gains I have a
whole video on how fast B you can check
out here but aim to gain around half a
per to 1% of your body weight per month
the second most important nutritional
Factor you need to be nailing if you
want to maximize hypertrophy is protein
intake and based on met regression by
Morton and colleagues you want to be
consuming at least 1.6 grams of protein
per kilogram of body weight per day to
maximize muscle building it's probably
wise to have at least three meals a day
if you have three or more you're likely
maximizing hypertrophy and for most
people having breakfast lunch dinner is
a very intuitive thing to do if you're
also aiming to lose fat if you're mostly
eating plant-based or if you're older
say above 65 years old you may want to
consider increasing protein intake a
little bit higher than 1.6 maybe aim for
around 2 g of protein per kilogram of
body weight conversely if you're
somewhat High higher in body fat say
much higher than 25% as a male or 30% as
a female you don't quite need as much as
1.6 g of protein per kilogram of body
weight because you're carrying a fair
amount of body fat your protein needs
don't scale as well with just your body
weight so you can aim a little bit lower
if you're somewhat higher in body fat
for most adults aim to sleep for at
least 7 hours per night there's not a
ton of research on sleep and how it
impacts muscle growth but the research
we do have does seem to suggest that if
you sleep less than seven or so hours
per night consistently
bad things may happen the hypertrophy
goblins will come and steal your gains
it's like the tooth fairy but you're
being scammed instead of scamming the
fairy additionally things like managing
your stress potentially supplementing
with creating monohydrate do all play a
role but that is not the topic of this
video because by far the main thing that
is within your control to build muscle
is training and how you train
specifically there are a few key
differences in how beginners should
train versus intermediates versus more
advanced trainees for this video I'll be
defining a beginner as having less than
one year of training under their belt
and intermediate as having between
around 1 to 3 years of consistent
training under their belt an advanced
training as someone who's been training
consistently for at least 3 years first
beginners how many days a week should
you be training in my opinion between 2
to 4 days you can certainly go higher or
lower than this but 2 to 4 days will be
a sweet spot for many beginners in my
experience because you're new to
training you don't need to spend that
much time in the gym to maximize your
hypertrophy in all likelihood if you're
training two to four days a week the two
best routines you can likely use are one
a full body split or two an upper lower
split the full body split is likely best
as it ensures that you train each muscle
group at least twice a week however if
you are training 4 days a week you could
adopt an upper lower split and therefore
get in an effective frequency of twice a
week for each muscle group I have a
whole video on the best routine
somewhere above but for now that is all
you need to know as a beginner how many
sets should you be doing as a beginner
well you should start really low if it's
your first time ever training if it's
your first time training for the first
few weeks do around five sets per week
per muscle group and see how you respond
then with each passing month try
increasing the number of sets a little
bit within your first year most of your
training should take place somewhere
between 5 and 15 sets per week per
muscle your body will quickly adjust to
training and become less and less sore
and fatigued from any training session
and so you'll be quickly able to
tolerate more and more training volume
and grow more muscle with that being
said if you're a beginner just getting
into the gym keep in mind that enjoyment
should be a big part of how you train
for you to stick to lifting weights and
actually maximize hyperr in the long
term you can make gains if you're not
lifting think about what you enjoy doing
and definitely tailor your training to
be more in that direction if you enjoy
optimizing your training and just
maximizing muscle growth do that but if
there's other things you enjoy like
certain movements you enjoy doing that
may not be optimal don't worry too much
include them anyways because they'll
increase your enjoy ment increase your
consistency and in the long term might
just build more muscle one of the
biggest things for a beginner to worry
about is Progressive overload there is
no hard rule on how fast you should be
adding weight or adding reps week to
week if you're a beginner you should be
increasing the weight and or reps
essentially every week every workout
take notes as to how you performed and
the next week try to add some weight or
some reps relative to last week as a
beginner this is when you'll see the
fastest gains and you may often be able
to jump 5 10 or maybe even 15 pounds
week to week in how much you lift a
common mistake I see being made by
beginners is thinking they need to run
starting strength or any other number of
programs that are specifically aimed at
beginners many of these programs are
needlessly restrictive if your aim is to
build muscle no you don't need to squat
bench deadlift you don't need to
overhead press you don't need to do
chin-ups all us being equal machines are
just as good as free weights so play
around see what you enjoy stick to it
progressively overload and that is the
main thing you do not need to run one of
these preset templates do the training
that aligns with your goals your goals
if you clicked on this video is to
maximize muscle building and mostly
doing squat Bend deadlift and overhead
press like a program like starting
strength what have you do isn't going to
maximize muscle growth so instead do the
movements that build the most muscle use
good technique and do sets of at least
five reps finally if you're a beginner
you may benefit from keeping your reps
at least somewhat on the lower end on
average most of your training should
take place between 5 and 10 reps while
it's not a huge deal having a low rep
Target might allow you to stay a bit
more focused during the set improve your
Technique without having so much fatigue
buildup during the set that you're
either unable to go quite as close to
failure or two just be unable to really
focus in on technique those are the
fundamentals of how to gain muscle as a
beginner now let's say you've been
Lifting for at least a year how do you
maximize muscle building as an
intermediate lifter first by this point
in your lifting career you should be
enjoying training if training doesn't
feel enjoyable reflect and see what
parts of your training could you change
to make it more enjoyable as an
intermediate I think you will see your
best muscle growth training between 3 to
six days a week if you're an
intermediate there's a good chance that
to maximize your muscle building you'll
need to do at least 10 to 20 sets per
week per muscle and that's where going
from 2 to 4 days a week of training to
more like 3 to 6 days a week of training
will really benefit you allowing you to
spread out that volume a little bit more
since you're now training for more days
per week a greater variety of routines
become viable full body is still greater
approach upper lower becomes an even
better approach than before and finally
if you are trading 6 days a week Push
Pull legs can be a great approach too as
all of these routines allow you to train
each muscle group at least twice a week
as an intermediate lifter your gains
will start to slow down you may only be
able to add reps or weight every couple
of weeks or maybe every 3 weeks or what
have you but you should still be seeing
consistent progress if you're
implementing an effective routine like I
just mentioned and finally if you've
been training for at least 3 years
consistently you're what I would call
call an advanced lifter you've Eed out
most of the easy gains and now it's just
a matter of continuing on for years and
years and years and getting those
marginal muscle gains every year here
you'll need to tune in into each detail
if you really want to maximize muscle
growth and even potentially see any
muscle building at all at this point you
may want to start training 4 to 7 days a
week note that if you're training 6 or 7
days a week you want to be smart about
how you structure things with 4 to S
days of training a week full body can
still work if you're smart about it and
I think it's great upper lower works
great and push pull lights can work
great as well and this is where volumes
can start become a little bit higher
especially if you choose to specialize
on certain muscle groups now that you've
been training for 3 years you may have
noticed that certain muscle groups or
body parts of yours don't seem to grow
as well as others and that's where
specialization phases can come in where
you temporarily increase the volume how
many sets you do the frequency how often
you train a muscle group and the
proximity to failure training a little
bit closer to failure for a given muscle
group however if you specialize on one
muscle group you'll need to reduce how
much you're training on other muscle
groups compensate for overall training
stressors if you've been training for
less than about 3 years there's a good
chance that your physique will still
change substantially with each
additional year of lifting so that's why
I only recommend beginning to specialize
once you've been training for at least 3
years as that is when you'll know
whether or not you truly have stronger
and weaker body parts this is also when
you can start implementing more
isolation movements for those weaker
muscle groups that you have as far as
Progressive overload go goes at this
point it'll be a lot slower always aim
to improve performance week to we always
try and see if you can't add a little
bit of weight or a rep here or there but
it will slow down it might be the case
that only every month you add some
amount of weight or reps to a given lift
but if you do this every month for 10
years in a row those gains do add up you
just need to stay consistent and as an
advanced lifter is when some of the
finer details start mattering or just
nailing the fundamentals while there are
differences in how it begins versus an
intermediate versus an advanced train or
train there are certain things that
everyone can but doesn't need to pay
attention to this stuff applies to all
lifters these are broad generalizable
principles that apply to everyone and if
you apply them correctly you will see
more muscle growth whether or not you
choose to optimize these factors is
ultimately down to you they apply to
everyone equally this is the real
science slowdown that most influencers
won't give you most of these big rocks
these foundational things don't change
whether you're beginner an intermediate
lifter or an advanced lifter the degree
to which you pay attention to these is
entirely up to you but let me break down
what each one is and how it can improve
your muscle building first exercise
selection I have a whole series on what
exercises are best for each muscle group
but here's what they have in common
they're stretch friendly they focus on
the stretch position of a movement
stretch friendly just means it places
the target muscle in its stretch
position it has plenty of tension in
opposition and it's lengthened partial
friendly they generally make sure the
target muscle group is the limiting
factor they don't involve other muscle
groups unnecessarily for people who are
pressed for time they are time efficient
like dumbbell and stack loaded machines
are usually more time efficient than
barble exercises it targets one of the
functions of the toet muscle like for
example for your biceps it actually
flexes your elbow it's appropriate for
the toet rep range certain exercises
work better in certain rep ranges and so
just think about what exercises you want
to use for your goals for hypertrophy
those are some of the factors that you
want to be paying attention to and good
exercise selection will benefit you
whether you're a beginner or more
advanced training just because you're a
for example doesn't mean you need to do
squat bench deadlift there are probably
better movements out there than just the
low bar squat the wide grip bench and
the conventional deadlift equally if
there are certain exercises you just
enjoy and you're happy making that
trade-off in Effectiveness let's say for
example you're like yeah push Downs
yeah brother like you just pump away and
you're like this is amazing this makes
me feel manly the Bros on myin life is
good you can do them that's fine but
just be aware there might be better
exercises and that's something every
beginner or intermediate or Advanced
lifter
has to come to a decision with next up
is the range of motion you use whether
you're a beginner or more advanced
lifter or what have you in all
likelihood certain ranges of motion are
just better for building muscle than
others doing length and partials Here We
Go Again might be better for hypertrophy
compared to just training the shorten
position or even potentially doing a
full range of motion if you're wanting
to maximize muscle building whether
you're beginner or Advanced use the
right range of motion next training
sufficiently close to failure while you
don't necessarily need to take every set
to failure as shown by recent study by
following colleagues where they compared
one to two reps in reserve to going all
the way to failure you do want to train
pretty close to failure whether you're a
beginner or more advanced you will
likely want to be spending most of your
time most of your sets within two to
three reps of failure likewise using a
variety of rep ranges within your
program will probably benefit you
whether you're more of a beginner more
advanced as you become more advanced you
can probably incorporate more higher rep
work because your Technique is solid and
because you might have found the ability
to train closer to failure more
consistently even with higher reps but
including some variety of rep ranges
between 5 and 30 at any stage of
advancement as a lifter is likely going
to benefit your hypertrophy and finally
frequency as I mentioned throughout the
video there's a few splits I recommend
based on how many days a week you're
training but picking the right split
training each muscle at least twice a
week to maximize muscle growth is likely
going to be beneficial whether you're a
beginner more intermediate or more
advanced the main ways in which
beginners intermediate lifters and
advanced lifters really differ is in how
much volume they might need to maximize
growth therefore how many days a week
they should be training therefore what
splits they should be using and finally
how fast they tend to be able to
progress week to week and therefore what
kind of progressive overload strategy
they should be using importantly by
Progressive overload strategy I mean
adding either weight or reps is going to
be fine as illustrated by a recent study
by Plotkin colleagues where adding reps
weight to week or adding weight week to
week was equally effective for
hypertrophy but just essentially being
aware that if you're Advanced your gains
are going to slow down and forcing
Progressive overload as an advanced
lifter can often come at the detriment
of good technique for example which we
don't want to compromise no matter your
level of advancement good technique
should be an adequate Tempo per rep
around 1 to 2 seconds minimum for the
Ecentric and explosive concentric a good
range of motion focusing on L muscle
lengths and minimizing cheating or the
involvement of non-target muscle groups
if you're doing a bicep curl and you're
using your hips prob not beneficial that
is the video If you enjoyed the video
please leave a like like comment
subscribe if you'd like me to coach you
check out the link above or if you don't
want me to coach you but you kind of
still do but you also don't want to
spend as much money as you would for
coaching check out myod app.com it's a
training app we've been working on for
years behind the scenes from a
scientific perspective that is
essentially going to be a coach in your
pocket but at a fraction of the price
it'll create the perfect training
program for you based on how advanced
you are what your goals are and more I'm
biased but I think it's Cutting Edge and
it's unlike anything that's out there
right now so if you want to be notified
when it does get released check out myod
app.com and sign up you'll be able to
lock in at a lower price than anyone
else now that I've done all of my Shing
for the video have a good rest of the
day and I will see you guys next time
peace