what's going on everyone welcome to the
vlog so literally just finished going
through my whole fake natty debate video
so I'll link that in the description
below if you guys haven't seen it yet I
was gonna actually make this a part of
the whole vlog but I decided it probably
be better as a standalone video because
after I started writing the notes I was
like I have a lot to say on this topic
speaking of controversial topics I
figured I'd let you guys know I am
working on a response to all the
cholesterol eggs controversy and vegan
gains as 5 videos now I think so I've
made contact with an MD and a med
student both are vegans and I'm working
on making contact with another
cholesterol expert who isn't vegan and
what I'm gonna try to do is like
integrate the interview snippets into a
video on like my main takeaways what
I've learned about eggs and cholesterol
and update my whole viewpoint
accordingly from there but I do need
some time to make that happen so try to
be patient with me and I would say in
the next month or two I should have that
video out but in the meantime if you
haven't seen my interview with Kamal
Patel stand by that I think can all did
a fantastic job of outlining everything
and until I update everything and my
full view on that
yeah you can continue to spam me if you
want but it's not gonna help me get it
out any faster okay um so anyway we're
gonna get ready for the gym right now
I'm gonna get some pre-workout I still
gotta have a pre-workout meal and I'm
gonna pick up my friend Pat you guys
know him fabulous and we're gonna start
day one of my new push-pull legs program
so you guys will have seen probably that
I launched a new
intermediate-to-advanced I'm calling it
intermediate to advanced push-pull legs
program and I was finishing up my
previous block of training which was
kind of like an upper lower push-pull
legs type hybrid and now I'm going
straight back into the full blown
push-pull legs so anyone who has the
program I'm gonna be running that
alongside you guys I'm super excited
about it
so I'm get that printed out then we're
gonna get a pre-workout meal this here
is the program so it's split into two
eight-week blocks we're going to be
starting with we
one block one the whole document is 110
pages we have to do all that don't
family printer though what's that
put it change your mind what is he doing
oh I've got a double sided yeah trying
to save the planet there we go that'll
be good enough for now I actually want
to print the whole thing out and put it
in like a little binder and that way
I'll be able to like track my workouts
over time yeah you guys can put you guys
have probably seen similar stuff but
basically like this is our workout for
today and then I'll track my weights
used for each set here and then as you
go through the program you can refer
back and see what weights you are using
here and I'll talk a bit more that in
the gym these are new PE signs right now
so this is from adidas ready Oh what do
you think Rosen don't these are silver
and then this is a gift from path I
appreciate you pat thank you man like
look at the heel on this super high
super solid can't wait to squat knees
today Pat and I were squatting and he
was showing me these on his phone he was
like do you like these are like yeah
those are dope like send me the link I'm
gonna order him as soon as I got home he
sent me a text ins like I got them for
you better so thank you that's it that's
a good friend right there so even though
I don't track I still will usually weigh
out my protein sources just to make sure
I'm getting enough I've got some ground
turkey here
150 grams for a light day oh yeah it's
it's the lettuce on the menu today by
the way I like to have a pretty solid
meal like something with a lot of
protein decent amount of carbs feel like
I performed so much better with a full
stomach it's really individual some
people would rather have an empty
stomach for me I find like if I can get
a big bloat
it'll work out is actually so much
better for my squats and dead lift
performance find white rice is really
easy on the old digestion and I don't
worry too much about the glycemic index
or anything like that pre-workout
because when you're combining fat
protein and carbs the GI index just
becomes totally unreliable anyway so
don't worry about that too much
um okay Kiwi lime flavor the feedback on
this has been amazing at first I was a
little bit worried because the only
people who had tasted it pre-production
was like Pat Steph Steph sister and you
did you try it yeah Sean but everybody
who's tried it says it's honestly I
think everyone I've heard from has said
that it's like their new favorite
flavour so I do think there is still
time available so I'll have the the link
for that in the description below if you
guys would like to check it out
can't wait to start that's it's so good
when you have like routine to follow
until no no wait I'm the love and squat
bench press today deadlifting today
especially the squatting deadlifting
like since my cut I feel like my bench
press has been pretty stagnant like in
power lifters my experience people cut
the bench press tends to be the first
thing to go but my squat and deadlift
are still creeping up which is really
good to see one dollop
two dollops surely wet
I'll just mash that all up it's the
pre-workout meal this is a big leg day
I'm gonna do two scoops of high volume
two scoops a high volume gives me 400
milligrams of four grams of syphilis I'd
like to do six grams so it's really if I
can't and I have one scoop of prolific
to that that's about as good as it gets
right there I'm gonna click on a YouTube
video
eat this get in the zone we're gonna go
3 well Stefan I usually watch it but
she's not here right now Ashley called
Worcester's videos she's a bikini
competitor doing this Miss Olympia her
training is really interesting I feel
like her coaches really got a good
approach so and the guy who produces her
stuff he's done work for a Christian
videography is really good which is why
you might like her it's pretty cool like
it documents our old friend
actually just going to fold this up in
apps I'm gonna let me print this after
when I get some ink
you can collect it outside outside
Wow
are you feeling huh good bro thank you
for the sneakers man do you like oh yeah
oh yeah really clean looking and I have
a feeling it's gonna make a difference
with that elevated heel and like and
then just how solid yeah yeah that's
what I'd say I'm gonna put up my hundred
thousand subscriber thing but I just
haven't taken it out yet this is more I
just got a new pair of knee sleeves from
rise there's my other ones yeah so where
I cut down I was using a mediums but now
these small are gonna provide so much
more and then I've got my new kicks here
these were the old ones I was using so
these are the adidas power lifts and
then what are these called pet deleted
lights um yeah so anyway you can see
like they have quite a bit more
elevation here in the heel this is solid
whereas this is rubber so there's a
little bit more give to it if you get
under heavy weight so I'm gonna be using
those before and then these are my old
knee sleeves here so you see these are
mediums and then these are the new small
so if those are gonna be way tighter
what else do I need
oh my belt I left my belt in their class
times I'm actually gonna bring this as a
backup just in case it had it so this is
the rise prong belt but I'd rather use
the Weaver belt for all my deadlift
so real quick guys if you do happen to
get any of these rise in these sleeves
which I find help like probably at about
5 percent 5 to 10 percent super quick
take it
half make sure it's directly in half
will be put
you're gonna grab them from the bottom
and really yank it over your cat it
should be really tight then I grab it
here at the top that fold it down a
little bit try to yank it up so the top
half is at least halfway up my knee the
leg hair makes it harder and then unfold
it at the top that's it
those are super tight so you can see the
recoil here right like to bend my knee
here I actually have to work against the
sleeve which is good when you're
squatting that's gonna give you so much
support and a little bit of assistance
that still counts as like raw like it's
not a quick they're just nice leads to
use wraps then you would no longer be
but I recommend these Annabelle for
everyone who's serious about squatting
and deadlift so we've got four sets of
five with 70% today she starts very long
conservative four by five is 70 I'm
gonna put in my 1 rep max on the squat
is 4:15 so 294 sets of 5 probably go
with that I don't know what you want
what is your best squatting meet 5:22
let's go with 525 because I think you
can probably do that easily right now
honestly so everybody know it's like
Pat's actually we're gonna be training
for key nationals and like we've got
some pretty ambitious powerless eagles
right now so he's probably going to be a
little bit a little bit more assertive
with the programming with the
percentages but I'm gonna stick to the
plan
so it's gonna be my third pyramid
warm-up set so I just did glide to the
bar and then I did
135 225 now 275 and after this I'm gonna
jump into my working weight so just
gonna do a couple reps here to get a
feel for the way
Jim lokay
nice super easy you definitely gotta
bump it try to get like a one inch
deeper on every rep because its latest
bit it's like you're pretty much in
there but some reps might be alright
first set of five this way shouldn't be
like maximal weight you shouldn't be
person any blood vessels trying to get
this up or anything really cooks down
good mechanics she's hitting proper
depth not allowing your knees to cave-in
using a slight foot player exploding on
the concentric ensuring you're having
proper breathing all the basic mechanics
and I'm gonna have Pat behind me not
spotting too closely but just to make
sure is
give me a pretty high volume day
that's fine oh yeah
yeah yeah
that's pretty solid head a little bit
really good form of all points yeah it's
one thing you might notice like Pat for
some reason I don't actually know if
this is something me you might need to
look into but when you squat you have a
very constant tension approach you
almost don't pause at the top it's like
a very body though their style and rest
for me there's a pause between every rep
as I get my hair yeah I don't know how
you really do that and like you must be
bringing your air in like really a
quickly breathing out on the way up yeah
pushing it out and then I'm breathing in
as a votes row down yeah I think you
should try taking that full pause and
breath at the top because that's the way
it's gonna be in a meet you're gonna
walk out get this much air in your gut
is can then you start the descent so
let's start practicing that on every rep
because my last set is gonna be my
fourth set of five I find the toughest
part when you have like four sets or
even five sets to get through once you
get over that hump of like halfway to
three-quarters through then you start to
really lock in mentally and be like okay
I can handle this because on these
high-volume days it can be a lot to
undertake mental you and you see
everything you've got left to do in the
workout but I kind of just think about
doing it just one set at a time by
yourself plenty of time take the rest
that you need to feel recovered and then
once you get you know over that hump of
being like halfway through it I said
okay now after this we just got dead
list it's good for us and you you'll be
able to bank through it so anyways last
set here gonna crush this one make it
look easy
let's get it
yeah
Hey oh yeah
[Music]
job
that's it over so after I finished my
last set one thing that I do in my
program here is I'll come over you'll
see there's a column here it says LS R P
stands for last set RPE so I just
finished my last set and now I'm going
to think about how many more reps I
think I could have gotten with that
weight probably could have gotten eight
or nine reps with that and that just
gives me feedback for now the next time
I come out oh no ok this is felt like an
RP of seven last time what's it gonna
feel is it getting easier is it getting
harder it gives you feedback in that
sense Julia sir you'd have a code it's
kind of self-regulating alright guys up
next two sets of hate on the deadlift
we're going 65 percent one read Mac so
I'm still kind of nursing this to lower
back injury that I've had in the last
couple years but like steadily making
progress up so what would you call my 1
rep max deadlifts right now like I did
365 4 5 right so I'm gonna call it I'm
gonna do the same as my squat for 15 65%
of 415 is going to be 270 I'm gonna
round up we'll go to 75 so 275 for two
sets of eight to be a warmed up here
with a plate course for Daedalus you're
gonna want to switch over to like flat
heeled shoe nothing too much elevation
and as for cooling in sumo or
conventional I say it's just a matter of
personal preference there's no real hard
and fast
for it just general trends I find
shorter later guys tend to be stronger
with sumo taller heavier guys tend to do
better with conventional but it's really
really hard to pin that down you kind of
just have to experiment and figure it
out for yourself but the main
physiological or biomechanical
differences between the two is very
simple quads and lower back the
conventional deadlift will work their
lower back a little bit more sumo
deadlift will work your quads a little
bit more other than that it's potato
compatible with the warm-ups you don't
want to just go through the motions you
want to be actively consciously thinking
about your execution and pretending like
you've got a lot of weight on the bar
there so right then I'm thinking okay
I've got the working weight on here how
is my body gonna move how am I gonna
brace how am I gonna hold you want to
really neurologically program that in
through your warmups they're not just
like a safety precaution they actually
help you perform there
drive
so just be something a little bit of
feedback have gotten so far from people
running the program some people say like
the wait is too light the goal isn't to
be taxi like these are compound lifts
involving a lot of muscle mass
differences between like having only one
rep left in the tank of having say three
or four reps left in the tank you're
going to be activating a very similar
level of musculature and so for
longevity throughout the program it
makes so much more sense to start off a
little bit lighter really focus on
honing in on your technique mastering
the form executing it with explosion or
with the choice of power and speed and
that's kind of what we're really trying
to drive home so don't fall into that
intensity trap where you're just always
focused on like how hard can I train you
how close is this pushing me to failure
that's something that isn't really
essential tenants of intelligent
programming and it can be a speedy
the other thing I just thought of if
it's too late for you you might be low
balling your one rep max might want to
bump that up a little bit if the
percentages are just doing like
ridiculously light then you might be
under estimating your one rep max
strength potential and I want to retest
them Pat here the Beast we're putting in
his one rep max deadlift has a
conservative 615 pounds so here are 65%
is we working with 405 for sets 80 and
this technique focus is going to help
you a lot it because I still see room
for improvement on your sumo so we're
gonna hone in on that with all this all
this volume work sup max volume works
perfect so one thing we're trying to
work on here with Pat is he has a
tendency first of all I think you go a
little too wide with the sumo so you're
like riot out to the plates come in a
tiny bit more because what happens then
is these are almost forced to cave in as
he goes through the range of motion so
if he brings them in a little bit closer
you can help keep his knees out in the
direction of his toes which is what we
want to do and then also you don't want
your shins to be coming in like this you
want your shins to be as upright as
possible so those are the little
technique things we're gonna try to
good yeah perfect
see how his shins here stay gentle as he
goes now see how his knees are kept out
that's perfect
okay yeah take another photo just
finished the squats and deadlifts that's
about the time I'll start having some
time in for workout just because it
keeps my energy up using a little bit of
fuel keeps things going so got my big
funky
it's gotten a little hard usually more
sweet
Arielle
12 reps for 325 gonna leave it at that
for now because I don't want to build as
the week's go by and really nail down
the technique this first week focus on
squeezing keeping your chin cuff down
that's the worst exercise ever invented
I hate doing hip thrusts but they work
so we're not a walking lunge so guys
just finished up with hip thrusts up
next we're gonna do 40 reps of walking
lunges for 20 reps each leg is gonna be
like really taxing a good way to kind of
finish off the goons hamstrings quads
I'm gonna do a little bit of isolation
work to really finish off the workout
with a super set and that's gonna be it
so she's got two sets here so when
you've only got two sets you really got
to make them both count so I'm gonna
start with 16 kilo kettlebells here and
see how that feels for my first set
those are stone Troodon yeah it's pretty
heavy yes you guys
if that same piece going don't cheat
pretty cardio intensive so like that's
kind of part of the point like this is
the higher volume block but it actually
gets higher volume is go along but the
idea is to build up a huge work capacity
improve like cardio metabolic components
set in the next block we can kind of
translate that a little bit more private
okay no joke fresh so now we've got a
superset blanking extensions and seated
leg curls so right next to each other
three sets of 15 reps each with both of
these you want to focus on squeezing the
target muscle to move the weight so on
this one you want to think about
shortening your quads so your squads are
like a bus that isn't accordions that
are compressing this way and that's what
causes your legs to go up same thing
with the leg curl you want to think here
hamstrings like an accordion going
together and that's what's moving the
weight down gonna go fairly lightly like
those lunges were really rough to you
improperly 40 reps apiece so over here
kind of focus more on mind muscle
connection a little bit more of a
squeeze not going too crazy with the way
qumola breath but yeah you're not trying
to die on this
should be like squeeze tractor
so well when we start doing more
strength specific stuff like having a
huge work capacity you can really do
anything with a big work capacity it's
really the best thing to have I think as
an athlete the more you can do is it
better to better you become
that's it actually suppose we calves
bring your new calves let's do a quick
three sets these three sets of ten let
us do them right here
our legs feel like jelly
so guys it has to wrap up this whole
workout I feel like I finally got my win
back my plan originally was to kind of
take you guys through the full program
which I eventually probably will cover
most of the workouts or at least a
scattering of them to give you guys some
ideas over the next couple weeks I'm
gonna be going to Columbus to shoot
three or four videos or at least two or
three with John Meadows the mountain dog
and so my programming will be a little
bit off for that week we're gonna do I
think a back workout forget what else
maybe an arm workout if there's a body
part you guys definitely want to see a
train let us know but it'll probably be
more body part focused I'm just gonna
take John's guidance on that kind of
adjust my programming to that for the
time being and then once I get back to
my regular swing this is what I'm gonna
be running so anyway I'm gonna get my
stuff
penciling those last few sets that I did
on my sheet and I'll check in with you
guys
alright guys so that wraps up date woman
in the workout what do you think bro so
hard bro I said this in a mythbuster
video I'm actually wrapping up the
mythbuster series next Monday so that'll
be my last episode of I'm gonna call it
season one and then I'll be probably
back next year with season 2 and season
1 focus more on nutrition based stuff
season 2 will probably focus a little
more on training or I'm not too sure
where I'm gonna take you yet but in any
case that's gonna be wrapped up which
means for the next couple months at
least every Monday will be a new vlog so
I'll show my training my diet what I'm
up to if I'm traveling that kind of
stuff you guys are even getting more
vlogs on the channel and then I'm also
gonna try to stick to a Monday Saturday
schedule so Monday would be a vlog
Saturday will be something
heavy-duty Saturday will be something
informative like an interview science
explained I'm gonna keep going with the
science applied series or whatever so
yeah just an update if you guys enjoyed
the video leave me a thumbs up let me
know
again what workout you'd like to see
John and I cover I'm heading down to
Columbus a couple weeks so let me know
subscribe to the channel if you're new
over here I'll have a button to my last
video on the fake natural debate and all
that stuff if you guys missed it I think
it was good hopefully not too
controversial hit up the button to
subscribe you haven't already and I'll
see you guys all in the next video