okay what is going on everyone so what
follows in this video is a conversation
that I had with Joran tromelin who's
currently pursuing his ph.d his area of
research focuses on muscle protein
synthesis and he's pursuing that over in
the Netherlands at one of the leading
labs in this field
I'm your niz a really smart and
well-read guy as you'll see very
acquainted with all of the scientific
literature on this topic so this is
actually just going to be part one of
our conversation and in this part we
focus mostly on training as so as to max
out the muscle protein synthesis of the
interview we focus on diet so how to eat
so as to max out muscle protein
synthesis and we ended up getting a
little bit carried away and going down
the rabbit hole with training but it
turned out to be I think very
informative now so I hope that you guys
like it now if you would like to hop
around I'm gonna have timestamps down
there in the description as usual so you
can skip according to topic that you're
interested in and also make sure you go
over and check out your website I'll
have that linked in the description it's
very helpful and if you'd rather listen
on another platform I'm gonna upload
this on my podcast I'm still in the
process of rebranding that right now but
I think if you just search Jeff Nippert
you should be able to find it in iTunes
and I'll put it up on stitcher as well
and so you can listen on the go but for
the rest of you feel free to comment
down below yarn said he was gonna pay
attention to the comments and answer any
serious questions that you might have
down there so if there's something
you're curious about
I'm just drop us a comment and we'll do
our best to get back to you so without
further ado here is my conversation with
your n-- tromelin alright so everyone
I'm here with Jorn tromelin and we're
gonna have a discussion today about
protein intake and in particular some of
the work that he's been doing on muscle
protein synthesis so John I just want to
say thanks man for coming on and sharing
all your knowledge with us we really
appreciate it
yeah thanks for having me for sure um so
before we dig in with all this maybe you
can give the listeners some idea of what
you've been up to what you're currently
working on yes so I'm a researcher at
mistake University and the Netherlands
and our research group focuses on muscle
metabolism so we got a pretty big group
some different research interests but at
all centers around muscle metabolism so
we have a few people who focus on
sarcopenia so age-related muscle loss
and how we can prevent that with
nutrition and exercise and others are
focused on muscle loss and get need
patients for example or during an
immobilization when you break a leg and
then me and a few others are mostly
focused on on athletes so either looking
at Erika Janik
aids like creatine or carbohydrate diets
for endurance athletes or protein
supplementation for those who want to
build strength and size and then our lab
is probably best known for the use of
metabolic tracers so what you can do for
example is simply do a training study
and see whether or not you become bigger
or stronger from an intervention but we
really like to look what's going on in
the muscles so we often take muscle
biopsies and then we can study the
underlying processes and yeah that often
forms the basis of better understanding
interventions and coming up with even
smarter interventions rather than just
concluding whether or not something
works of course that's also very
important but we really like yeah
understanding the mechanisms and coming
up with future hypothesis gotcha
I've noticed just like in the field a
lot of bodybuilders and strength
athletes have taken a liking to your
work because of the I guess crossover
application there do you have an
interest in bodybuilding or like what's
your personal interest that kind of got
you into working in this field well I
was pretty much the skinniest guy you've
ever seen still far from in the physique
athletes but we're doing a little bit
better I always joke that I no longer
have to run to get wet in the shower but
yeah so I just yeah started lifting
I asked the biggest guy in the gym like
how did you get so big and he was like
yeah you seemed to work out pretty hard
and this was all when I was like
teenager but what about your nutrition
and this was before YouTube was a thing
before social media was the thing I was
like nutrition what what does that have
to do with anything and then I started
to Luke on internet it wasn't that much
at that time and then at some point I
stumbled upon an abstract and it wasn't
like an internet forum I was like what
is there is weirdly formatted piece of
text so that is basically a summary of a
study and then you know I try to
understand it without refusing and
that's pretty much how I stumbled into
research and luckily I have I think more
talent for research then then fitness so
I'm pretty much gone all-in on that
awesome yeah I mean we're so grateful
for your work because it really does
have quite a lot of application and for
any of the listeners who aren't aware
like I've drawn from quite a bit of your
work especially recently and there's one
piece that you have on the internet
that's basically like a wiki of
everything you could ever want to know
about muscle protein synthesis and that
was that was really fantastic and really
really helpful so if you'd like maybe a
more in-depth summary if maybe some of
the stuff we talked about here I'll link
that down in the description or the show
notes so you guys can go check it out
it's that was amazing
Thanks Thanks so I guess we'll start
with is muscle protein synthesis so
that's a term you hear thrown around a
lot I feel like a lot of people might
not know exactly what it is so maybe you
can give us a quick primer on what that
process involves yeah so I like to say
that muscle protein synthesis it isn't
really rocket science it's much more
complicated than that but the simple
version is not that hard so the analogy
I like to use is that your muscles are
like a wall in bodybuilding you want to
build that wall bigger and the bricks of
that wall are amino acids so
the building blocks of protein so we
protein and we want to add those to our
muscles so the addition of amino acids
to the wall is called muscle protein
synthesis but at the same time the wall
is also being broken down and that
process is called muscle protein
breakdown and both processors are always
running so it's not like oh I'm anabolic
so I'm in a muscle protein synthesis but
running it's just if one exceeds the
other you're in a positive balance so
you're growing or if breakdown exceeds
synthesis you're in a neck net negative
balance and you're shrinking so it
sounds like both are very important but
actually muscle protein synthesis is
much more important than muscle protein
breakdown for a variety of reasons the
first one is that muscle protein
breakdown stays within a pretty narrow
range so it goes up a little bit with
exercise and with nutrition you can
reduce it a little bit but in contrast
you can influence muscle protein
synthesis a lot like three to five fold
increases so whether or not you'll be in
a positive balance or not almost
entirely depends on your muscle protein
synthesis so yeah and there's also like
pretty much the only thing you can do to
reduce breakdown is to eat and you only
need a minimal amount of insulin to have
the maximal in a bit inhibitory effect
or muscle protein breakdown so anytime
you're not faster essentially you've
done what you could do then the final
issue is that it sounds really bad right
we want to make that wall bigger so we
want to prevent the breakdown of that
wall but so imagine you have a house and
you want to make it house bigger but
there's some cracks in the walls do you
really want to make that house bigger or
is the whole thing gonna collapse so
what you actually see is that most
protein breakdown is you
so you can genetically engineer rats for
example for obvious reasons you cannot
do that in humans but if you genetically
engineer rats so that they cannot have
muscle protein breakdown these rats are
actually smaller and weaker than rats
that have normal functioning muscle
protein breakdown so muscle protein
breakdown is a functional process
essentially if you could theoretically
totally prevent it it's probably a bad
thing and it makes total sense if you
have cracks in your wall you want to
break down that small part of the wall
reuse those building blocks and now you
have a much stronger foundation to build
on so that's why in most studies we only
measure muscle protein synthesis it
almost entirely determines muscle
protein balance anyway and at least in
healthy subjects and in those who yeah
athletes essentially how high muscle
protein rain down rates are is very
predictable it might be a little bit
different if you're talking about
patient populations or Jeff for healthy
people muscle protein breakdown rates
are not that interesting right
I've kind of heard it like with
resistance training the goal is to kind
of tear the muscle down a little bit I'm
still kind of let that like muscle
protein breakdown kind of sink in and
then with your nutrition after you kind
of allow the distance the synthesis side
of that equation to sort of exceed it so
that the net balance is that you're kind
of anabolic is that is that kind of true
is that kind of part of the point of
resistance training is to break the
muscle down a little bit
not necessarily so it's a little bit of
a debated topic so Brad Schoenfeld has
popularized the theories of muscle
hypertrophy which are mechanical tension
metabolic stress and muscle damage and
then the letter to show muscle damage
and metabolic stress those are highly
debated with some people even saying
they have negative impact on muscle
hypertrophy and should be avoided if
possible so
yeah you definitely don't need to induce
muscle damage maybe a little bit is good
maybe but a lot of these things it's
like a curve where a little bit is good
and too much is bad or it's a inverted u
curve where a little bit or a whole lot
is bad but in between is OK
so it's not necessarily good or bad
might depend on the amount but now the
goal is definitely not induce as much
damage as possible if that was true you
would just go to a boxing gym get
punched in the body all day and you
would be the most Jack guy ever yeah
exactly so so then in what context is
muscle protein breakdown good so when
when you resist this train is breakdown
generally exceeding synthesis is that at
least true or not depends on your
feeding stay essentially so pretty much
any time you eat some protein muscle
protein synthesis rates will exceed
muscle protein breakdown rates and so
yeah if so if you if you eat protein
before a workout and we've actually done
done their studies then even during
training you can be anabolic so in a
positive muscle protein balance right so
it would would you say a goal I guess
would be to always have synthesis sort
of exceed breakdown as much as you
possibly can to be as anabolic as you
possible theoretically yes now in I
would say the last five years more
research and this has been inspired by
the info in a minute fasting movement
has looked at the role of auto coffie
which is essentially yeah a form of
muscle protein breakdown and the idea is
that if during aging for example certain
proteins get miss fold it and they just
accumulate in the body and that's a bad
thing essentially so if you fully
prevent muscle protein breakdown bad
things seem to happen but the ideal
situation is a pretty high
where there's a lot of protein breakdown
so you never have old dysfunctional
proteins but at the same time you're
making more protein so you're gaining
muscle mass but at same time you make
sure that you keep renewing your old
dysfunctional proteins and that's a
little bit similar what you see in the
field of diabetes and exercise where you
see that endurance trained athletes they
have a lot of fat in their muscles and
that's a good thing
and they can use it as a fuel where
people with diabetes also have a lot of
fat in their muscles but it's a bad
thing it causes inflammation and insulin
resistance and the idea there is the
same that if you have a high turnover of
the fat so continuously synthesis but
also breakdown of these fats then it's
healthy so if I would summarize it it is
everything is just very dynamic and
people like to simplify it a little bit
with if one is bigger than the other
it's good or not but that's not really
the case right right
so then if if the like sort of narrative
that like your your training till I tear
the muscle down and then you eat the
protein after and it builds it back up
that's kind of wishy-washy sort of bro
science it seems kind of so then what is
the role of training them in in this
equation why why does resistance
training why is that effective at
building muscle basically yeah so well
it would be perfect if all we had to do
is eat protein so we know protein
stimulates muscle protein synthesis and
like I said pretty much anytime you eat
protein protein synthesis rates will
exceed muscle protein breakdown rates
however we know you cannot just eat 500
grams of protein a day and become a bell
tubular would be would be great but
doesn't work like that so your body
doesn't really seem to hold on to muscle
protein if there's no need to and that
is more or less what exercise does it
tells your body like we can actually use
all these proteins that we synthesized
so we know that there's synergy between
the two
after exercise you respond better to
protein so one of the things you can do
so this comes back to those tracers I
mentioned earlier you can tracers in the
protein that you feed through your
subjects for example and then you can
see how much of the amino acids form
your nutrition are being used for muscle
growth and even if you don't train some
of the amino acids you eat are being
used to form new muscle tissue but if
you train you simply utilize a lot more
of those amino acids in your nutrition
very important to note as that effect is
pretty long-lasting so very common in
the fitness industry is the so called
window of potential where you have to
eat protein immediately after exercise
that's not necessarily true depends a
little bit on training status most
likely but for at least one to two days
after exercise if you eat protein you
utilize it better if you've done some
resistance exercise so you really need
the combination of both if you want to
grow mm-hmm so you would say that
resistance training basically makes the
muscle sort of more sensitive to amino
acid uptake after training and that
effect lasts for 24 48 or maybe even
longer after training so that kind of I
guess like D values the necessity of
getting those amino acids in right away
after training exactly yeah so in
regards to training so I guess as I see
it you have basically two factors that
you can kind of manipulate you have
training and diet so as a kind of max
out muscle protein synthesis so let's
just quickly cover the training side of
things first is there anything from your
research you think you can pull from
that you know can inform us on how to
train so as to sort of maximize muscle
protein synthesis yeah so I see trading
and programming as a combination of
science and an art there's the the
science gives a few clear guidelines
basically the rules within you have in
which
you have to play so there's clearly
things that are just suboptimal but then
once you stay within those rules you can
essentially program to your desire so
yeah basically there's been research and
all these variables for example how many
sets do you have to do now it's pretty
clear that multiple sets for example are
just better than one set when I grew up
high intensity training hit sir not the
cardio variant but just the strength
training variance was pretty popular and
the idea was all you need is one
balls-to-the-wall set anything other
than that is overtraining
that's just completely wrong multiple
sets are clearly superior for most
protein synthesis and muscle growth than
just one set so how many sets do you
need or that for example depends a
little bit on your training frequency so
there's reasonable evidence that doing
about 10 sets is superior to doing less
than 10 sets but it's 10 sets a week so
it depends a little bit on how you
divide your training split essentially
so do you do two days with five sets or
do you do three days with three sets so
you can play around with that a little
bit
my guess is also that it's highly
dependent on training status so if
you've been doing 10 sets for a year at
some point your body is pretty much used
to death and then volume likely needs to
increase another variable often
discussed is how much weight should you
use is there like an hypertrophy
range where it's just optimal and then
off the new year six to twelve reps I
think a CSM which is essentially the the
biggest organization in Fitness still
recommends that but so Stu Phillips
started that research line and very
clearly demonstrated that essentially
with any amount of weight you can build
muscle as long as you train to muscular
failure so yeah the goal of training
essentially as to recruit and fatigue
your muscle fibers and doesn't really
matter if you do a very heavy weight and
then actually you can only do a few reps
or that you do very little weights or
even Jeremy Lin ecchi a sho net even
without any weights and I'm not talking
about body weights training no literally
just contracting the muscle so could
almost call posing even with that you
can build muscle mass as long as you
train to fatigue and what are evidence
that support that is for example from
blood flow restriction where the idea is
that you wrap a band for example around
your arms therefore oxygen can really
get into the muscle and potentially the
metabolic products cannot really escape
the muscle so your muscle fatigues much
earlier so that sounds like a bad thing
but because your muscle is fatigued much
earlier that is really the only thing
the muscle senses so with very little
weight and very little reps you already
fully fatigue the muscle so the muscle
pretty much things I have to grow so
weight and reps doesn't really matter as
long as you fatigue the muscle then
doesn't really need to be failure
probably not if you stay one to two reps
shy of failure it's probably fine other
variables is for example rest periods
it's also pretty clear that you want at
least two minutes of rest between sets
and then of course frequency is also
highly debated but again it's pretty
clear that you want at least a training
frequency of two times per week where
you hit each muscle group at least two
times per week and then whether more is
better is not really clear so those I
would say are the general guidelines in
which a good training program has to has
to play with but then whether it's two
three four or even six times its
it's highly debatable also what's a
little bit difficult in in research is
that we all want to do the super sexy
studies but it's very simple to do a
study to show that training three times
a week is better than training one time
per week for example but to find the
difference between training four times
per week and training five times per
week that then essentially need a study
of 10,000 subjects to find because it's
diminishing returns right so all the
sexy hypotheses are almost impossible to
show in a study which is I guess like
the frustration of a lot of people why
why do researchers always do these basic
studies I thought we already knew this
but the thing is if you look at I call
it the sexy questions so does the high
frequency matter does nutrient timing
matters it's very likely that your study
is too small so basically you have
statistical issues to come through
proper conclusions and then people say
see it doesn't really matter what
training frequency is our nutrient
timing doesn't matter which isn't the
correct conclusion either it's just a
statistical issue so yeah I don't think
we'll have any clear evidence what about
what's truly optimal because there was
yeah those sexy research questions are
very difficult but I do think we have
pretty good guidelines within which
rules we have to play mm-hmm that's yeah
that's great that's really comprehensive
so just to like quickly I guess try to
summarize that you basically are saying
you want to be doing at least 10 sets
per week that may increase depending on
your level of training advancement
probably be for the most part in the 6
to 12 rep range but as long as you're
within some reasonable proximity to
failure probably doesn't matter that the
actual rep count generally want to be
resting two minutes or so between sets
is there something special about two
minutes or is it more so that it just
allows recovery so you can sort of use
more load in later sets yeah that that
seems to be it so if people don't want
to
wait two minutes a simple option is
superset exercises so do for example a
bench press and then do something easy
like a leg extension to be fair so this
is again it's difficult and research is
pretty clear that longer rest periods
are superior to short rest periods but
then what's being compared is like six
sets of one-minute rest for the six sets
of five-minute rest and then the
conclusion is that five-minute rest is
superior but you could argue your
training lasts for five times longer
what if you use all that time to do more
sets mm-hmm right so it's there's so
many variables you can play around with
that it's almost impossible to get the
perfect answer so that's why I always
say it's a little bit of an art and
that's why we need personal trainers
that yeah can tailor it to the needs of
the individual right yeah that's what I
said too on the point of frequency I
think it's become relatively
uncontroversial that at least training
twice a week is is better than once a
week for hypertrophy and Naturals there
are some people I think still pushing
this that like one times a week one time
a week really does seem to well work
well if volume is you know matched
between conditions and in my experience
in the field there are tons of natural
bodybuilders at the very top who are
still running bro splits for 20 years
and they get fantastic results doing it
I guess you could always argue that they
might get better results or they might
have gotten even better results if they
had gone twice a week but I feel like
the question of frequency tends to be
diminished by just simple training age
and consistency over time so it's like
within a one-year period or something
you might get more results if you
trained more frequently even with fixed
volume but across a 10 or 20 year career
I just don't know I feel like at some
point you're just gonna hit your your
genetic limitation perhaps regardless I
don't know how you feel about that and
then I'd also be curious just to know
like from a muscle protein synthesis
researcher if you think that there is at
least mechanistic potential benefit in
getting those more frequent blips and
muscle protein synthesis
because as you probably know it doesn't
that the sensitivity to the amino acids
following training doesn't really last
that long like it's not lasting a week
right are probably not anyway so it
seems like you're at least wasting some
potential spikes and synthesis if you
wait too long between training how much
do you think this really matters in the
real world so the longest increase in
muscle protein synthesis that has been
shown after exercise is 72 hours so that
this fits nicely in line with you need
to train at least two times per week
then the question is also even if you do
like a super bro split that you do chest
on one day and you do delts on another
day and maybe even triceps where you
start out with a Close Grip branch how
many times have you trained each muscle
group right so that's almost like you
have four chests have like a heavy day
and an and motor a day and maybe the
delts you even train three times so even
if you do a full-on split how many times
have you hit all those muscles really
that's that's always difficult yeah it's
my guess is that yeah that frequency
matters a little bit but yeah like yeah
it's like you mentioned it's as well if
you train 10 years you're you should be
more or less at your genetic potential
either way you could argue that your
genetic potential is like 5% higher if
you optimize things that you never reach
that level if you don't have everything
dialed in I'm always very pragmatic so
like 90% of the discussions in Fitness
are just perspective so you have I call
it the minimalists essentially to say
nothing matters it's just about total
amount of protein just about total
volume those are the two things you
should worry about nothing
matters and that's for them it's perfect
right if they would have to worry about
every possible technique that could give
like a 3% increase in gains they would
go completely nuts it's more or less a
hobby the only one if it's essentially
like the a 20% rule like focus on the
20% that gives 80% of the results and
then you have competitive athletes that
yeah by definition they want to win they
want to do everything and for them it's
just annoying when you say like oh it
doesn't really matter it doesn't really
matter no they are like what can I
possibly do to beat the guy next to me
so things like frequency it it really
depends if you enjoy training once a
week and your goal isn't to be a
competitive bodybuilder do it perfect
it's only dangerous when people and
online argue like oh it doesn't really
matter like yeah to me it's all
perspective mm-hmm so always yeah in a
discussion people should make clear like
I think this gives 80% of the results I
don't really care about doing five times
as much work for a little bit extra and
you know if that's hopefully
communicated then it's like fine I'm
gonna give this a try because it might
be beneficial right right yeah and I
think I should say that I guess that
whole like 10 year argument where
frequency isn't going to matter I guess
that I'm saying that in the context of
assuming all the other variables are in
place like you are training sufficiently
intensely you know you do have
sufficient volume you're good exercise
selection and you know all those other
variables are in place I feel like
frequency kind of does take a step or
two back in terms of priority within
that context I mean maybe to add on real
quick so yeah probably one of the
reasons why high frequency trading got
popular more in the evidence based
fitness community so to speak is that
there's some research that suggests that
that increase in muscle protein
synthesis becomes shorter the more
trained you are and therefore if you're
very trained you should train almost
daily because
you're lucky if your MPs increase even
less a day if you're trained to be fair
that is not as well-established as some
people suggest so when you when we
measure muscle protein synthesis we can
look at different types of muscle
protein synthesis essentially so in all
our studies we just looked at what's
called makes muscle protein synthesis
you just look at whatever protein is in
the muscle and you see how it responds
but you have all kind of different
proteins in the muscle so we are
interested in myofibrillar proteins so
these are the proteins that can contract
so give you strength but are also the
big ones that give you muscle mass for
example you also have for example
mitochondria which we can measure
mitochondrial protein synthesis very
relevant for endurance athletes not so
much in fitness and strength and what
you see is if you're untrained and you
start lifting pretty much every type of
protein in your muscle is like what is
going on I need to adapt to this so you
see with an untrained person if he's
going to Train mitochondrial protein
synthesis is stimulated for example so
if you measure mixed muscle protein
synthesis you say oh this is going up a
lot and after like three months you're
mighty ganya no longer need to adapt to
resistance training anymore and then if
you only look at mixed muscle protein
synthesis you say like oh the response
is now down but it is the other
irrelevant type of proteins that are no
longer adapting when you actually look
at the mind fiddler protein it's not
that clear that that response becomes
shorter so the theory that the MPS
response becomes shorter the more
advanced you are it's not that clear to
be honest I wouldn't be surprised if
it's shorter but it's not as clear as
some people make it seem what I also
want to add is maybe even if it's true
maybe you should train more freaking but
the alternative is what happens if I
double the volume of my workout
that might also simply increase and
prolong the muscle protein synthesis
various ways you can play around with
your training programs the only thing
that is just clear is you need to force
your body to adapt otherwise nothing is
going to happen so just I'll just
messing around with frequency on his own
is not gonna do that much I think you
always your weekly volumes should
increase the more advanced you are which
makes sense if you think of Sun Tanning
for example you need yeah low intensity
maybe once a week to get a little bit
darker but then yeah the more advanced
you are yeah but more often higher
intensity longer that's ultimately
always yeah you simply need a bigger
stimulus now I would argue the higher
your total weekly volume gets in
practice you almost always need to
improve your frequency to to handle that
because yeah are you gonna do 30 sets of
legs one day that seems horrible yeah
yeah I hear you yeah and I I guess the
only issue that I have with that like
very essentialist line is that you know
you mentioned like people will say okay
all you need to worry about is your
weekly volume and your protein intake I
feel like in that context training
intensity and by that I mean intensity
of effort does almost unfairly take a
back seat it's like this volume is only
important in the context of a sufficient
training intensity so I feel like if
anything should come first especially in
light of all this research showing that
you know it's provided the sets are
taken sufficiently close to failure you
can get similar hypertrophy across all
these spectrums of rep ranges I think
that that should put almost intensity in
the driver's seat at least in the
passenger seat I don't know so so based
on that what's really interesting is
like pretty much like you mentioned so
if let's say you could do 20 sets of
legs on a day how much is that 20 set
word because your performance will be
horrible because there's already muscle
damage etc and fatigue on the other hand
your muscle doesn't care about the
weight similars with the blood flow
restriction you're doing a
amount of weights and your muscle just
experiences it as difficult so I
wouldn't be surprised if your xx set is
pretty worthless but at the same token I
wouldn't be surprised if it's just as
valuable as your first set because just
even though your performance is horrible
your your muscle is like again set to
fatigue so yeah a lot to love left to
discover in that topic well one last
quick training question for you what
what is your thought on progressive
overload how important do you think that
is for hypertrophic adaptations over the
long term again depends on definition of
it to me progressive overload is
essentially that tanning analogy again
it can be anything so if you go tanning
more frequently that works if you tan
longer that works if you improve the
intensity of the tanning that works a
lot of people just take progressive
overload this oh you need to do heavier
weights overtime and then they think if
they have a ten repetition max this week
and then in two months they do more
weight but for eight repetitions that
it's progressive overload but you're
just trading weight for less reps in
that set so that's not truly progressive
overload so either your total weekly
volume needs to increase for example or
you need to do more weight but for the
same amount of reps so yeah I absolutely
believe progressive overload is the
basis of everything but it's not
necessarily more weight ideally it's
more weight because just practically you
cannot simply add more and more and more
sets
not just from a time point of view is
support them all probably also from an
[Music]
from a recovery aspect so in the ideal
world you keep your volume relatively
low and just add weight every week
maintain the same amount of reps each
set that's the perfect world then you're
clearly progressing
linear progression everyone's happy but
at some point that will no longer work
and then you have to add weekly sets and
that's just another form of progressive
overload mm-hmm I would I would say that
yeah the classical definition or at
least that's most used in the online
community is getting heavier over time
is a pretty good indicator so it you can
do up you can add all the volume you
want if your bench isn't going up your
five repetition max or maybe your ten
doesn't really matter isn't going up
then probably that volume isn't really
working
either you're overtraining or still
under training so I would say that is a
very good indicator or of if your other
stuff is working essentially mm-hmm I
got you I guess like recently I wouldn't
say I've become like skeptical of the
principal I guess I've just been become
a little bit like I guess less
enthralled with its position in this
whole like dogma because if you just
look at a lot of body builders who are
at the top a lot of them don't apply
progressive overload they go in and use
muscle confusion and get fantastic
results so I would potentially argue
just based on that basis that maybe
progressive overload isn't required for
hypertrophy but it just like accentuates
the the progress if that makes sense or
would you say it may be these people who
are using muscle confusion do in fact
have some form of progression in place
they just don't realize it I think the
letter I think they have progression
without realizing it but I have no clear
data on it I don't have clear empirical
evidence either but I can assume if you
just always like what we do know is that
different exercises stimulate different
types of muscle fiber soda well I'm not
talking you're about type 1 or type 2
muscle fibers but more that just the
angle how we online we always call this
muscle this exercise hits this muscle
from this angle so the better enough
recruitment is is different so I can
imagine that if you week one all you do
is bench then second week you do flies
for example that you overload
essentially or
fibers well you more or less maintain
the training stimulus like it's so
obviously a weaker stimulus for the
outer fibers but it's enough to not go
down and then third week you do dumbbell
press for example and then you go back
to the to your bench but the sort of
people who do muscle confusion so to say
they don't track their workouts so they
because they don't really care about
that right so they are more about like
yeah the mind muscle connection so they
might not realize that over a year their
bench has still increased so yeah I
think yeah power lifters for example
they always track their workouts so they
know whether or not something is working
while more bodybuilders they don't focus
on it but my my god is that they are
progressing over time right as otherwise
it seems weird to me that if you if you
would continue to switch around
variables and then five years later they
come back to your bench and you still
lift you can still bench the same time
the same as what you did the first time
you ever benched like Evolutionary that
makes no sense right you've got all this
muscle mass and you still cannot really
you're still not adapt to do anything so
yeah my guess is there is there is
progressive overload right I guess like
the only other counter example I would
think of I'm not sure if you've seen
this but there's this case study where
this guy had this really rare muscular
condition I forget what it was called
but it basically caused the muscle to
constantly be contracted or at least it
was like contracted way more frequently
than a normal person would be and if you
just look at this guy he never weight
trained at all but if you look at the
guy's back it's like extremely muscular
so that seems to be an example of
hypertrophy in the absence of
progressive overload but yet in the
presence of a lot of muscular activation
or at least contraction or what-have-you
so I'd be just I guess just like I don't
know
conjecture Lee like what where does sort
of like muscle act
vation fit in with this whole like
progressive principle because I could
see progressive overload being applied
in a very like laxity Segel way whereas
if you have like high levels of
activation high levels of effort I feel
like you could see significant muscle
hypertrophy even in the absence of
progressive overload perhaps it's a
controversial statement and I'm not sure
so this rumor not so this pretty much
comes back down to that study from
Jeremy Lin ecchi who showed that even
with just contracting your muscles
without any weight people could
stimulate muscle growth right so my
guess is that when he was 15 he wasn't
as big as he when he was 20 so his
muscles were contracting as a result
there is some hypertrophy and then they
contract again but just harder mmm
so yeah I think the biggest issue is
that progressive overload is used
synonymous with doing more weight but
that's not necessarily true so I bet if
you take an untrained guy let him pose
right now look at us even though perhaps
EMG data is not optimal to see how how
much tension there is in the muscle but
let's just use that for now see how hard
his muscles are contracting then let him
continue posing for the next six months
and then afterwards do the same thing I
bet that after six months he is able to
pose a lot harder and that his muscles
are able to generate a lot more force
but he hasn't used more weight but just
in exposing positions the muscles are
still trying to contract as hard as
possible and he is generating more force
so I want to dig into the the dietary
factors here but really quickly you just
Park my memory when you said EMG and I
guess I've received quite a bit of
criticism for using EMG research to
support the use of certain specific
exercises and there was
only a paper published you probably read
it and roof I got ski was at least one
of the authors on it and it basically
like just called into question the
validity of using the mg to support
exercises and it doesn't really scale
with hypertrophy well or at least
there's no evidence of that
and having read the paper it seems like
the main line that they take against
using a mg to endorse like training
actually training recommendations is
that you know the general China line of
reasoning is that higher EMG amplitude
means greater neuromuscular excitation
which means greater activation greater
motor unit recruitment greater rates of
muscle protein synthesis and then
greater hypertrophy over time they took
an issue which I think a lot of people
do with that final link which is
basically muscle protein synthesis over
time correlates with more hypertrophy
over time
apparently that isn't as
well-established as people think or it's
definitely come under quite a bit of
criticism recently what do you think of
that criticism and so muscle approach
synthesis is my baby
so people are calling my baby ugly so
figures all with a grain with a grain of
salt but so I I have no experience with
EMG date on no expert on it we have
people down the hall that that do they
are they are more skeptical of that
initial step that the EMG translates to
higher muscle protein synthesis but I
would rather not comment on it because
it's not my expertise but obviously the
idea of measuring muscle protein
synthesis is to look at the anabolic
potential of an intervention either of
certain exercise program or from
nutrition and then pretty much the study
that that yeah
triggered this whole discussion I
remember it clearly that paper came the
first paper came aligned I'll discuss in
a second and I walked through one of the
authors who was currently working here
I'm like what did you guys do this is
gonna be a shitstorm and yes it is so
that first study ascent
what they did as untrained guys they
exercised resistance exercise and the
measured muscle protein synthesis for
four hours after exercise and then they
trained for I think ten weeks or so and
looked at do the rates of muscle protein
synthesis after that first session
correlate with muscle mass gains so the
guy who has the highest most protein
synthesis after exercise does he also
gained the most muscle oh that didn't
seem to work out and then a lot of
people said seed and most protein
synthesis is useless blah blah blah yes
my baby so but so I think the main issue
is that I come back down I come back to
the to the rocket science the muscle
protein synthesis stuff is really
complex and in my opinion most people
don't really get it sorry just come to
conclusions where they should like like
me with EMG people should say like I
don't fully understand this and be a
little bit careful with their
conclusions so we mentioned earlier
muscle of exercise can stimulate muscle
protein synthesis for 72 hours probably
in practice most often 24 to 48 hours
so measuring muscle protein synthesis in
the first four hours doesn't make that
much sense right it's like measuring the
first five kilometers of a marathon and
then say well that guy's sprinted the
heart the fastest in the first five
kilometers of marathon so it's clearly
gonna win doesn't really work like a
third let's say we put you in a deck so
right now you exercise and we put you in
the deck so again tomorrow and then say
well you didn't gain any muscle mass so
resistant exercise doesn't work you know
the method has certain assumptions and
if you violate those assumptions the
method becomes useless but the problem
is that most people don't understand the
assumptions of muscle protein synthesis
so one of them is that the timeline that
you measure muscle protein synthesis has
to capture the the muscle protein
so I would fully agree that it's a bad
idea to measure muscle protein synthesis
for four hours when the actual response
is more like 48 hours that is pretty
much the conclusion from that study so
then that's that research was followed
up with a next study in which subjects
trained for six weeks but now they
didn't measure muscle protein synthesis
after one exercise of sorry after one
training session they measured it over
the entire six-week period
and lo and behold good correlation so
this time when you actually measure
muscle protein synthesis over the whole
period that you measure muscle mass
gains then all on a sudden it makes
sense so again the time period that you
measure muscle protein synthesis is very
important now theoretically you should
be able to measure the muscle protein
synthesis response to one exercise
session and predict muscle hypertrophy
over a longer period but again in that
case your muscle protein synthesis
measurement has to capture that entire
muscle protein synthesis of that
exercise session so at same authors from
that first paper that didn't find it did
a study where they essentially learned
from their mistakes and improved their
study and now they measured muscle
protein synthesis for 24 and 48 hours
after a training session and so
essentially capturing that whole
training response and in that study
again muscle protein synthesis dead
predict muscle mass gains one one extra
notice it didn't in completely untrained
subjects and the reason there was that
when you're completely untrained you
cover this a little bit earlier like all
proteins in in your in your muscle
essentially get damaged muscle doesn't
know what's going on
and there's a very high muscle protein
synthesis and used for a muscle gain the
muscle protein synthesis is used for
repair
so it's essentially artificially high
but not to build my fibula proteins but
to repair the other proteins but that's
only true in completely untrained
subjects after just four weeks of
training essentially the muscle protein
synthesis response becomes specialized
to focus on my fill or protein synthesis
and then there was a very good
correlation so essentially from the
three studies that we have two of them
who make sense clearly show a good
correlation the only study that shows no
correlation also makes completely sense
that in that condition there is there is
no correlation it would almost be weird
if it was a correlation now I've seen
some people who have you know kept up
with this research and now came to the
conclusion oh you should measure muscle
protein synthesis over longer periods
and a four-hour period is bad that's not
true either at least not necessarily
true so again the time period should
match the muscle protein synthesis
you're looking at so if you're looking
at the most protein synthetic response
to training then it should probably be
at least 24 hours but if you're looking
at the muscle protein synthesis -
protein ingestion that muscle proteins
synthetic responses maybe four hours so
if I would give you a protein shake now
measure your muscle protein synthesis
over the next four hours I probably
would see a nice increase and that's the
correct conclusion however if I give you
a protein shake now and measure your
muscle protein synthesis over the next
three months I wouldn't see an increase
in muscle protein synthesis because of
this one shake that is because I measure
too long much longer than that your
protein shake works so essentially the
message here is your measurement period
has to match whatever you're looking at
but if you don't realize that then yeah
obviously
you're gonna draw the wrong conclusion
so the bottom line is yes muscle protein
synthesis rates should and indeed do
predict muscle mass gains but only if
the measurements are done logically
which again is also true for a Dex are
any any measurement one thing I would
add I would even argue that muscle
protein synthesis measurements are often
even better than the long term studies
and here's why
so unfortunately gaining muscle mass is
a very slow process so okay let's if I
wanted to become really popular online
here's what I would do I take anything
that's controversial let's say foam
rolling I would take two groups one
group does foam rolling for six week the
other group doesn't take let's say ten
subjects in each group and measure
muscle mass before and after and now my
conclusion what would be most likely
there's no difference in muscle mass
grades between those two groups but
realistically even if foam rolling would
increase recovery therefore better
training more volume etc etc and best it
would give like a 10% increase and in
order for that 10% increase to be
detectable in the study subjects would
have to train much longer so if you gain
a kilogram in sex weeks and the other
group would gain one point one kilogram
of muscle mass that's not significantly
different
if both groups would train six months it
would be like four kilograms and four
point four like the difference is now
four hundred grams of lean mass and that
might be statistically significant so
the problem is that a lot of long-term
studies are just very underpowered so
the proper way to do it would be to do
one gigantic study so like let them
train or let them foam roll for six
months and have probably three times as
many people in each group nine you have
sufficient statistical power
except that your study is 18 times
bigger six times three so either I can
do 18 wrong studies at least the wrong
conclusion and people would love me
because I would have 18 publications so
oh you're on you're busting all these
myths sea foam rolling waste of time
only hurts la la la I would be the most
popular guys but I would know that one
big study would give a better
well actually the real correct
conclusion so in I have a lot more faith
in most muscle protein synthesis studies
than in most training studies that find
no significant differences between
groups that are you know the small
studies like if it's less than ten weeks
of training and it doesn't have like
20-plus subjects in each group I have
very little faith in the study doesn't
mean that it's worthless because all
that data can be used later in a
meta-analysis but that study on his own
is pretty well I would say deceiving
because you get the wrong conclusion but
it's just a statistical issue yeah
that's an interesting take I usually
don't hear it that way it usually goes
like well this you know MPs data is good
and all but we need the chronic
long-term studies to kind of corroborate
it but I definitely hear what you're
saying just because of the
methodological issues with that
longer-term research just the way it's
usually set up so just to very quickly
add there so what people might not
realize is that these muscle protein
synthesis studies for example they seem
easier because it's you can do it in one
day often but actually the amount of
money that these cost they're much more
expensive than most longer-term studies
so if we or others thought that the
longer-term studies were better we would
happily only do those and do like the
coolest long-term studies but the
reality is like you need all types of
evidence right so you need the mechanic
of the mechanistic stuff you need the
long-term and ideally you do both so I
you have the long-term measurements of
muscle protein synthesis during a
training study but essentially anyone
who dismisses any line of research even
the animal work even the in vitro even
the observational just doesn't really
get it if there seems to be
inconsistencies between studies you need
a good explanation you have to explain
why muscle protein synthesis doesn't
translate to the long term study and for
example the conclusion could be well the
long term study was statistically
underpowered for example about 80% of
protein supplementation studies show
that protein supplementation does not
increase muscle mass and the only reason
is because the studies are just too
small too little subjects not long
enough so if we didn't have the muscle
protein synthesis studies that clearly
showed an anabolic response to protein
we would have given up on protein
altogether like 50 years ago yeah and
only like in I think like it's now nine
years ago we did our lab did the first
meta-analysis that for the first time
convincingly showed that protein works
but only when you combined all those
small protein studies essentially so
yeah main takeaway you need everything
and if something doesn't seem to be
consistent you need a solid explanation
and if your explanation is well that
doesn't translate to that what what it
really means is I don't get that so I'm
gonna ignore that right right yeah it's
always been a bit of a weird line for me
to see or to read because it to me it
almost sounds like saying like just
going back to your wall analogy it's
like adding bricks to the wall doesn't
correlate well with wall size it's like
it's it really should so to argue the
others I mean you need a really good
argument to tell me that it doesn't
correlate right so I think the mistake
that people made there is that they read
a lot about the molecular markers of
protein synthesis which is like gene
expression and stuff like that and the
thing is most protein synthesis is
literally the physiology so it's not
something theoretically it is literally
looking our amino acids being added to
the wall so it's the
finition of getting bigger yeah so yeah
like you say if it doesn't correlate
something weird is going on yeah but so
I think people confuse it with like gene
expression right and that doesn't
necessarily mean you're growing that's
just a signal that your body says hey
maybe we should grow but then just to
address that very very briefly let's say
that your genes say hey maybe we should
go grow because she did exercise but if
you don't eat and you don't have two
building blocks to build nothing's going
to happen so the gene expression stuff
doesn't necessarily translate but the
muscle protein synthesis is literally
the wall is growing so of course you're
grown yeah yeah yeah and even just to
make this case from another side I guess
I I've always liked I haven't always
said but at least since I've encountered
this criticism I've kind of realized
that if you combine other research so if
you look at research say comparing so it
you know giving subjects soy protein
versus giving them milk protein you tend
to see greater spikes in MPs with the
milk protein and then when you look at
the the chronic trials and different
studies you also tend to see more
hypertrophy with the milk versus the soy
I'm so you know putting those two
together it seems they're really line up
that that of course you know one is
predictive of the other I think so the
way I see it is that the muscle protein
synthesis like muscle protein synthesis
can go up three to five fold easily so
it's much easier to see the anabolic
potential or something but then in how
much muscle gain does that actually
result for that you kind of need the
long term studies because what the
mistake people make is that Oh most
protein synthesis is increased by 50% so
I'm gonna make 50% more muscle mass
gains but that doesn't really work
because how long is muscle promoter
protein synthesis is elevated by 50% the
whole day then yes that should translate
but if you have wavers a soy for example
and it increases muscle protein
synthesis for with 50% the weight
compared to the soy for the 3 hours
after
exercise and essentially you need to
divide that by eight to get 24 hours to
see how much extra muscle mass gains
that's gonna resolve it okay so
Joran I'd like to jump into all the diet
stuff and protein stuff to make it a
little bit more practical first I think
we're gonna take a quick little break
here just for the listeners and then
when we come back we're going to dig
into all the the protein stuff to do
with this
[Music]