[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna be looking at how to train the
hamstrings with perfect technique now
just in general because the hamstrings
are a by articular muscle meaning they
cross both the hip joint and the knee
joint I think it's good at programming
advice to include some kind of knee
flexion based movement like a leg curl
and some kind of hip hinge based
movement like a Romanian deadlift in
your routine which is something I
discussed in more detail in a hamstrings
training video that I'll link down below
and I might cover that in a future at
technique Tuesday video on the leg curl
and glute ham raise variations now
before we get into the Romanian deadlift
technique itself I do want to clear up
some semantics so there's an ongoing
debate in lifting circles about the
difference between a Romanian deadlift
or an RDL and a stiff leg deadlift
I think the main difference is that the
Romanian deadlift starts out of the rack
while a stiff leg deadlift starts from
the floor as a sort of high hip deadlift
that RDL ends the range of motion just
below the knees whereas the stiff leg
deadlift allows the bar to come more
forward so that the pleats actually
touch the ground now for the purpose of
developing the glutes in the hamstrings
I personally prefer that RDL however the
stiff leg deadlift may have a bit more
strength carry over to the conventional
deadlift off the floor okay so with that
RDL we're basically training pure hip
extension where the glutes and
hamstrings contract to straighten out
the hips there will also be a strong
isometric lumbar extension contraction
occurring as the spinal erectors
contract to keep the lower back in
neutral so to set up the RDL you want to
set up the bar in the rack just below
the height of your deadlift lockout take
a roughly shoulder-width grip just
outside your thighs and since the RDL is
loaded less heavily than the
conventional deadlift you should be able
to use a double overhand grip without
issue however an alternate grip can be
used to prevent grip fatigue or you can
use straps to take your grip out of the
equation on heavier sets
I just don't become dependent on them
for all lifts stand up with the bar and
take three steps back out of the rack
the same as you would for a squat
walkout stand with a roughly
shoulder-width stance with your feet
pointed slightly out by about 10 degrees
and with your legs just
inside your hands even though the sumo
RDL is a lift I've used in the past for
assisting sumo deadlift strength I do
find it to be a bit awkward and many
people just aren't flexible enough to do
it right so I usually recommend at the
conventional stance for the are do
before you initiate the negative you
want to brace by lifting your chest and
stomach up I'm just going to help you
keep your spine extended and you should
maintain the spinal position throughout
the lift you can also think about
packing your lats by slightly pushing
back against the bar again the negative
by pushing your hips straight back
keeping the shins completely vertical a
slight bend in the knees is a good thing
but you don't want the knees to travel
forward like they would in a squat and
you can imagine there being a wall
directly in front of your knees
preventing them from moving forward the
bar should stay centered directly over
the middle of the foot as you keep it in
tight to your shins only lower the bar
to the point where you can no longer set
your hips back any further without
having your lower back either round or
come forward unless you have extremely
long arms or incredible mobility this
usually means ending the range of motion
somewhere between just the low knee
level and mid-shin the plates shouldn't
actually touch the floor on an are do
want to reverse the motion by pushing
your hips forward and lifting your chest
up while keeping the bar centered over
the mid foot to get the glutes more
involved you can squeeze the glutes hard
at the top posterior Lee tilting the
pelvis removing the bar slightly forward
as well however I personally prefer to
use the RDL more for hamstrings emphasis
and will usually end the range of motion
at or near full hip extension without
that additional posterior tilt and
because the glutes are going to be
contributing to hip extension regardless
they're going to be highly active even
without that additional glute squeeze as
a more advanced technique you can try
putting a 5 pound plate under your toes
which is going to enhance the feeling of
hamstring stretch in some people and
even though I haven't seen any research
on this I tend to feel a stronger mind
muscle connection with my distal or
lower hamstrings when I do them this way
and I suspect there may be some
differences in regional activation
patterns as well now I would say out of
any exercise that we've covered so far
people mess up technique on this
exercise at the most and I would say the
most common error is to overextend the
range of motion a lot of people pride
themselves on their deep squat or their
full range of motion pull-ups leading
some people to think that more range of
motion is always better this simply
isn't the case it's common to see people
lower the plates all the way down to the
floor
simply resulting in lowering or rounding
at the lumbar rather than increasing
range of motion at the hips and you'll
even see people standing on a bench or a
jump box to extend the range of motion
even further which is only gonna
increase risk of a tear without any
extra significant tension to the
hamstrings and while it's somewhat more
common to see women with impressive
hamstrings flexibility and hip mobility
be able to touch the plates to the floor
without compromising spinal position for
the vast majority of men and women the
lift should end somewhere just above
mid-shin level another very common error
is having the knees travel forward this
usually stems from loading the lift too
heavily turning it into a sort of top
half conventional deadlift this is not
only more dangerous but it's also going
to take a lot of tension away from the
hamstrings and the glutes putting much
more emphasis onto the quads it's also
really common for people to drop their
hips down rather than setting their hips
straight back and this can then lead to
all kinds of other issues like having
the bar travel too far forward having
the knees bend too much or losing upper
body rigidity in the spinal position a
reasonable alternative here would be the
dumbbell RDL which is the exact same
movement pattern except using dumbbells
instead of the barbell and the
goodmorning is another similar hip hinge
if dominant exercise we've discussed in
a previous technique Tuesday and I'll
put a link to that video over here now
don't forget to check out the
description box for all my training
programs including my most popular
push-pull legs hypertrophy program just
split into two eight week training
blocks I don't forget to like the video
if you found it to be helpful subscribe
if you haven't already and I'll see you
guys all here in the next video