safety bar squats are very unique it
really taxs the legs and the core your
glutes quads hamstrings the whole entire
body is really challenged by this
movement if your personal trainer uses
WS like the core or claims that squats
are training your hamstrings that's not
a good look we have studies actually
measuring muscle growth of the
hamstrings from the squat showing
essentially no growth and saying a
movement really targets the core that's
usually a marketing point that is used
by general population personal trainers
to appeal to general population clients
but those have essentially no evidence
behind them sure in this case you can
claim that the lower back muscles are
being trained because they're keeping
your spine extended but the ab muscle
that most general population people
actually associate with the core those
muscles are likely not being trained
very effectively and that's because if
the ABS were to get involved they would
crunch down the spine and actually make
you bend over or collapse during the
squad