external
rotations bad news folks external
rotations do almost nothing unless you
have some kind of problem in your
shoulders you can just start warming up
for whatever exercise you're actually
going to load that day first so this
external rotation is something
someone previously injured who knows
that doing this is a must for them to
warm up should be doing everyone else
it's aing waste of your time very
important to put blood in the shoulder
start a workout is it also doesn't the
warmup itself for the workout do that
like light sets of bench press before
bench press yes now we have at least one
study to show that just doing a couple
sets of the actual lift you're going to
do is as good for performance warming up
as doing a whole cardio warmup
beforehand this is inferior even to a
cardio warmup because it doesn't even
warm up the shoulder joints that much as
much as just doing a minute on the
elliptical would do this is not a very
good use of time my apologies but it's
just not