okay so what follows in this video is a
conversation that I had with Kamal Patel
he's the director at examine calm and
we're gonna cover pretty much everything
I think there is to cover about the
vegan diet and the science behind it and
the audio this conversation will also be
available on my podcast if you'd rather
listen on the go and I really wanted to
have Kamal on to talk about this because
as I'm sure you'll see he really is one
of the smartest guys I have the pleasure
of knowing I'm Kamal has two master's
degrees from John Hopkins University
he's published peer-reviewed articles on
vitamin D and calcium and he's currently
on a hiatus from his PhD in nutrition as
he's doing a lot of research and writing
for exam now I've already gotten some
criticism for not speaking with a more
prominent vegan voice on this but I
think that the facts about veganism or
any topic for that matter are what the
facts are regardless of whose voice
they're coming from but for the record
kamal did grow up as a vegetarian and he
still is for the most part vegetarian
but he will eat fish occasionally and we
talked about that and i think as you'll
see he really is a grounded and unbiased
voice on this topic but anyway if you
think that there are still gaps to be
filled in after listening to the
discussion that can only be filled in by
a vegan voice then I'd be happy to reach
out to them also we do discuss the vegan
gains video and we talk about eggs for
quite a bit so I'll leave a timestamp in
the description box and in the comments
if you'd like to jump to that and also
there will be timestamps for all the
topics that we touch and there are a lot
of them we cover pretty much everything
from the digestive effects of the vegan
diet the carnivore diet and the ethics
of eating meat so there's a lot in there
so you can feel free to hop around but I
do encourage you to listen to as much of
this as you can because I think you will
come out the other side knowing really
everything there is to know or that you
need to know about the science behind
the vegan diet so anyway without any
further ado I hope you guys really enjoy
this conversation with Kamal as much as
I did having it okay so everyone I'm
here with Kamal Patel of examine calm
Kamal it's been way too long man how are
you doing I'm doing well how about you
good man as I understand it you've been
pretty busy I think last time I talked
to you we were
doing research like we always do we're
still doing research but we have some
cool new things coming up so we're
expanding the website making it easier
to use we'll be having a product launch
in the next few months the product sign
around protein I won't get it too much
into specifics now but it'll be some
different angles about protein that most
people haven't thought of I'm gonna have
been speaking at various conferences
about issues about research and we just
keep covering new supplements and diet
trials and that's our date as I
understand it you're working on a book
as well how's that cooking yeah I am
working on a cookbook so I can't really
cook well so I don't do the cooking part
but the book is about sort of
traditional diets so not like paleo but
like your great grandma's great
grandma's diet so if you think of your
ancestry if it's from Poland or from the
UK or from Thailand then they'd all have
different diets and it's possible that
some of those dietary choices could have
affected what we might optimally eat now
depending on genetics epigenetics
nutritional mix and that kind of thing
we might end up talking about some of
those factors in this podcast so yet new
viewers of the channel in podcast
probably won't know this I would imagine
most people won't but Kamal and I did I
think two podcasts a little over two
years ago
however we talked a lot about some of
the same stuff we're going to talk about
here now but I think since then the
vegan diet in particular has really
exploded in popularity and then with
that comes a whole lot of misinformation
so hopefully we can cut to the chase and
dispel some of that here with with this
conversation yeah there is a lot of
there's a lot of people that feel
strongly foreign against vegan diets and
there's not a lot of people that look at
both sides of the research so hopefully
we can do a little bit of that now for
sure I'm actually not sure myself I
don't think you're vegan or vegetarian
but how would you describe your own diet
in dieting history so I experiment quite
a bit but my quick history is my family
was vegetarian growing up I started
eating meat when I kind of could make my
own decisions and for probably 15 year
years I had a normal sort of
bodybuilding powerlifting type diet at
the time I was a wannabe power lifter
and then I started thinking more about
animal rights probably five or ten years
ago and I've been just experimenting
with different diets since then last
year for two or three months at any any
animal products but there are some
complexities with that so right now I am
eating fish mostly somewhat similar to
me I wasn't raised vegetarian but I
think four or five years ago I read
Peter singers book the ethics of what we
eat and I Koga really convinced me that
the way at least meat is farmed and
prepared in our present culture is
pretty horrific so from an ethical
perspective I definitely see a lot of
merit in the vegan diet you probably
feel the same way yeah I feel exactly
the same way I don't judge people based
on if the factory for meat because
there's a lot of impediment for example
some people might have never thought
about it too much or read books or watch
documentaries some people it might be a
cost issue to get pastured meat some
people have other priorities if you have
health issues or you know family or
relationship issues but there's really
no reason tea factory for meat which is
probably I don't know ninety or plus
percent of the meat in the US and it
only takes reading a book or watching a
documentary to see that it's insane it's
kind of like you know the the matrix the
original matrix not the the bad follow
ups but in the original matrix they're
all kind of plugged in to a system to
extract nutrients from humans and they
don't live real lives and to me that's
somewhat similar to the factory farming
system at least in the u.s. if you have
our to our factory firms it's kind of
horrendous so the animals don't live
lives they're just treated horribly in
order to extract nutrients from them so
this isn't for against eating meat in
general which is a separate issue the
ethics of killing this is more for
factory for me so more than any nutrient
thing I think it's really worth it to
take a week to research as most much as
possible what the food is like before it
gets killed before it gets to your plate
I totally agree
I don't want the focus to be on the
ethics I really want to focus on the
health aspect of this but if someone did
want to make this sort of dietary change
for ethical reasons in a way that may
not necessarily require the sort of like
dogmatic elimination or total
elimination of any meat what steps would
you recommend taking so the first thing
is think about the types of animals that
you eat so people will often assume that
for example red meat is bad by their
nutrition reasons or they've seen a
documentary where cows are treated
poorly and cows are treated poorly but
in general I'd say chickens are treated
the worst and there might be some sense
that because they're a smaller animal
and they're in barns with thousands of
chickens there they're not as important
but think about whether you eat a cow or
a chicken or a fish and then maybe kind
of Whittle that down so pasture dairy
from your local farm the cow will be
treated a lot better than even cage-free
so-called free-range chickens that
really just have like one point of
access out of a huge barn and never see
the light of day and then wild-caught
fish is even a magnitude of order quote
unquote better than that because that
fish leaves a somewhat normal life you
know before it gets caught so if you're
thinking about eating a more plant-based
diet you don't have to cut out all the
animal products which I've done in the
past on day one it might be better to
concentrate more on well cut fish and
then maybe a little bit of other types
of meat and then slowly get to know the
farms that you're getting your meat from
and just getting to know how agriculture
works in your area and just not going
whole hog no pun intended
yeah for me that was something that I
kind of thought of as a first
approximation was like there's certain
animals that have a greater ability to
suffer I would imagine than others now
so like eliminating all pork I like I
think four years ago I pretty much just
eliminated all pork in my diet is like a
first step and then I did turn to red
meat because I would imagine cows are
more intelligent than chickens so hadn't
really considered the differences in how
they're treated like you just said but
then also you know switching to like
free-range eggs and so
or just for me I tried it for a couple
months this was like four years ago and
it just got to be so difficult
especially as a bodybuilder getting my
protein in and I found myself consuming
a lot of these like soy based products
that were just really high in calories
and back then you didn't have the same
availability that you do now for like
vegan protein powders and and
supplementation and so on so I feel like
these days it's probably quite a bit
easier to meet that protein requirement
and maybe some of the other nutrient
requirements and it would have been even
four or five years ago
yeah it's I'd say compared to four or
five years ago there's a couple huge
differences one is I think at that point
the protein quality amino acid balances
weren't as researched and now I think
even like the the gold standard protein
quality is changed so now it's the DI
AAS as opposed to PDAs and and that
measures soy proteins and other
plant-based proteins differently like
quite a bit differently because it uses
indicator amino acids that escape
digestion in the small intestine or the
large intestine so if one were a vegan
bodybuilder these days to optimize your
protein intake you would use a
completely different scale if you were
really getting nitty-gritty about it and
then the other thing is now there's I
live in the Bay Area and there's all
these fake burgers and five years ago it
was kind of not so great fake burgers
and now they're like really pretty good
like they taste good and people always
think of their diets as idealistic like
this is what I'm going to eat because
it's a perfect macronutrient ratio and
and this the type of animals I would eat
if I do eat animals and I'm gonna get
these nutrients but in practicality most
people struggle with whatever diet
they're on either you bulk too long so
you have to cut too hard or your
vegetarian vegan plant-based and then if
you have a hard time in life you end up
being some animal products whatever it's
easier nowadays with like the impossible
burger and stuff like that that actually
tastes like me cuz a lot of people have
gone 3040 years eating meat and you
can't expect them to just you know
change on the dime so
things are changing now and I think in
five or ten years things will change
even more because they're spending a lot
of venture capital funding into those
companies so I'm curious to see what's
gonna happen
yeah I'm really excited for synthetic
meat so they actually grow actual media
in labs I mean I feel like if you're
gonna get anything that really mimics
the flavor of real meat that'll probably
be it because these products that are
commercially available now our soy based
or something like that right yeah so
generally soy based or pea based so I
think the standard now is if you're
taking a powder a p-n rice mix is good
for a pea based paddy or a pea and soy
based patty and my sort of personal
recommendation to vegan bodybuilders at
which they always do just out of
necessity is mixing up your protein
sources so even though soy doesn't show
much affect or as much as people think
in trials as far as phytoestrogens and
that kind of stuff there haven't been
super long term trends so even a trial
that's a year long will typically have a
smaller sample size and it's hard to
pick up side effects because to pick up
adverse effects you have to do subgroup
analyses and studies and those studies
are not statistically powered to find
side effects and that's true a
pharmaceutical Study supplement studies
and begin a vegetarian and soy based
study so mixing up protein source is a
good idea and it might not just be if
you're vegetarian it's probably good to
mix up protein sources if you eat meat
as well but that's a separate issue
mm-hmm yeah I remember you talking about
that last time it while we're on soy do
you think would be too much I mean can
we safely eat this every day or would
you say you know a few times a week is
good or what what does that discretion
actually mean so there's the acute and
there's the long-term sort of
complications there's almost no acute
complications and people who don't feel
any effect right away so if you eat soy
every day for a week and you don't have
tummy issues basically it's probably not
gonna have some secret you know a side
effect that you're not aware of that
being said eating soy every day and
moderate doses is probably not a bad
thing because there's a
long sort of ecological history and East
Asian countries of that kind of practice
because tofu and various other soy
products have been eaten for millennia
that's not to say that things that have
been eating for a long time are healthy
it just shows that they're some track
record for eating every day but vegan
bodybuilders some of them will eat much
larger doses and that's where I think
there could be trouble because it's not
just things like phytoestrogens there's
also things like I can't remember a
Soylent the drink uses soy protein but
even like vegan or one of the leading
sweaty protein powders has had issues
where if the protein company uses the
same factor and you're drinking a
protein powder every day you have a
higher chance of accumulating things
like heavy metals or other contamination
products that are from that factory so
this applies to things like protein
powder it applies of things like if you
make a smoothie every morning out of
mixed bag of greens because those could
also have contaminants whether it's
bacteria or something else so just
variety I think it's key and it's
probably fine eat protein every day for
yours but there's never gonna be super
long term data so I don't know if you've
noticed this in the community or not but
I feel like what proponents of a vegan
diet will often do is recognize these
good sound ethical arguments and then
kind of conflate them with health
arguments as well or go searching out
for health-related arguments that
support their their biases for ethical
reasons yeah obviously that's that's
intellectually problematic and then also
I find it leads to this effect where you
have I would say most people adopting a
vegan diet for health reasons actually
rather than ethical reason so what do
you what do you think about the health
effects of a vegan diet do you think
there are health benefits to going vegan
for most people so at least from what
I've seen both in research and the short
while I was working clinically is it's
highly dependent on the person like
extremely almost more than anything else
the main reason is that plant-based
diets are
monolithic so you could have a
plant-based diet at the most basic
categorization that is unhealthy so
there's you know hummus and peanut
butter and jelly based plant-based diet
and then there's the whole food based
one and that's one categorization and
then another categorization as people
will go on a vegan diet and follow their
favorite guru or youtuber or whatever
and eat a very similar diet and not pay
as much attention to their individual
reactions but the more plants you eat
the more different effects there are on
the gut microbiome because animal
products have very little effect on the
gut microbiome so that whole kind of
meme about it's a vegan meme about and
this sounds I don't mean to criticize
like vegans or vegan means because
ideally I would be vegan I I'm not a
bodybuilder so I I don't need to
maximize my physique so just for ethical
reasons I would not eat any animal
products but because of some gut issues
and other health considerations for my
own conditions on my meeting something
in Multan expel any way so there's a
vegan meme about animal protein and
animal stuff going rancid and putrifying
in the gut and it's actually the
opposite case so I talked about the DI
AAS the scale to measure protein quality
and there are fairly high quality plant
proteins but every single plant protein
escapes digestion and the small
intestine to some degree and that's
because it's locked up in a food matrix
and I don't mean it's locked up like you
can't access it it's just that some
small portion will go undigested and
enter your colon with innamal proteins
it's typically very little once the
animal protein hits the HCL in the
stomach it gets digested like that and
then if you think about the intestine
the intestines main job is to
differentiate the salt from the non-self
it's kind of the organ extension of the
immune system so when stuff food goes
through your intestines then the foreign
things are really plants and that's not
to say that the plants are bad or good
it's just that they're foreign you know
they have their own defenses because
plants
move around so when humans eat plants
it's not like the plant wants to be so
all plants have developed defensive
compounds now the plants that we
cultivate farmers cultivate nowadays
typically have lower levels because
we've found the plants that have lower
levels then won't kill us and we've also
bred out the things that are extremely
toxic so for example canola oil it comes
from the rapeseed plant rapeseed and
sound is good to marketers so became
canola I think Canadian oil low acid the
thing is they bred out that type of acid
that is kind of harmful and bitter and
now canola oil is widely used so a
similar thing has happened for many
other plants the fruits have gotten
bigger and juicier the vegetables have
gotten less toxic the grains have gotten
more energy-dense so when that stuff
hits your gut there can be benefits and
there can be detrimental other podcast
but animal products don't have that
effect you take the men they provide
protein and a variety of fatty acids and
that's about it so the effect on any
individual person will depend on what
their gut microbiome is constituted of
enough that's work so really there's no
overall effect of vegan and vegetarian
diets if somebody is eating unhealthy
and they escape the standard American
diet most likely a vegan or vegetarian
diet will do them well if they're going
from a pretty well composed diet to a
vegan vegetarian diet it really depends
on what conditions they have and what
their gut microbiome is why do you think
then you know all of these observational
or cross-sectional studies that we have
you almost always see improved health
markers and lower incidences of all
these diseases when people eat a vegan
diet so the evidence is actually pretty
mixed it depends on what studies you
look at and you know people who argue
against vegan diets will say like you
know this one cherry-pick study shows
that vegans have higher depression rates
and then people who are ready for began
diets will say oh this the study showed
lower heart disease rates so I've looked
at most of the studies just because you
know at like I said I ideally would eat
no animal products including dairy so
I've been very
interested and looking at the health
benefits and detriments because if I
ever transition to that I'm gonna get
those detriments or health benefits so
the data on mortality for example is
extremely important so it's much more
important to look at mortality than it
is to look at heart disease or heart
failure because mortality means you're
dead you know heart disease doesn't mean
you're dead
it just means that you have to cooperate
from your heart attack
most people have heart attacks don't die
so there's been a few big studies for
mortality recent one is the epic Oxford
study and it showed that there is
absolutely no mortality difference
between vegetarians and vegans and
omnivores but it did show that
pescetarians had lower cancer rates and
they also happen to have slightly higher
heart disease rates which there might be
some some confounders there this is all
observational data of course so it's
hard to tell what caused which effects
and then there was a study before that
that's pretty famous especially in
plant-based diet advocates that
Adventist study so some of the
Adventists live in Blue Zone so an area
where there's longer lifespans
so there's one in Loma Linda California
there's one and Okinawa and Japan so
there's various characteristics that
have been used to explain these diets
like the Mediterranean diet is used to
explain people in certain areas of
southern Europe living longer the diet
might not explain most of it like and
most of those cultures there's some you
know kind of just emphases on life like
hanging out getting sleep getting rest
you know not stressing out too much but
diet wise the advent to study showed
that there were lower mortality rates in
vegetarians
it was something like 10 to 15 percent
lower mortality which is quite
significant if you look at that on its
own it looks impressive but if you
compare it to epic Oxford which is done
in a different area in Europe then it's
just really like the data is mixed
there's not a lot we can tease out of
this because no matter how many people
you get in these studies it's all
observational so somebody who eats a
vegetarian died in one area might live
longer than meat-eaters because in that
area the meat-eaters tend more processed
food you know it's just really hard to
tell
and then there's other confounders too
like the studies on cardiovascular
mortality you might see that a
vegetarian diet does better worse for
cardiovascular mortality but it's
different nowadays because most heart
attacks are non-fatal so cardiovascular
mortality just means that you know the
people survived long enough to not have
too much detriment to their heart attack
but you could survive decades after a
severe heart attack you just have worse
health so what does it mean to have
higher mortality or lower mortality not
that much because in public health we
quantify things by quality of life
measures and the quality of life is not
measured in those studies it's just a
hard outcome mortality so basically the
data's mixed it depends on if you're
looking at mortality or cardiovascular
disease or stroke or heart disease or
cancer and those are all different so
there's no better or worse most likely I
would say vegetarian vegan diets do a
bit better for almost all of those
outcomes but it's highly confounded
right right yeah that's what I would say
cuz just in preparation for this I dug
up there was one systematic review
published last year it had 24 studies
and when you look at the effect on all
these different conditions there were
all sorts of different cancers
cardiovascular disease I'll cause
mortality etc pretty much every study or
pretty much went when they pulled the
data together for pretty much every
disease favored the vegan diet over the
omnivorous yeah and that's actually an
interesting comparison because the most
important part of a study like that it's
not the intervention group whether it's
vegetarian or vegan or pescetarian or
what-have-you
it's really the control group and there
haven't been studies done looking at
vegetarian diets versus the equivalent
omnivorous diet it's always whether you
eat meat or don't eat meat what really
it should be like vegetarian versus
paleo or vegetarian versus Mediterranean
diet and those studies haven't been done
because the sample sizes aren't large
mm-hmm right
and would you say it's the case that
people who are on a vegan diet are
probably otherwise more inclined to do
other healthy stuff be more active smoke
less etc yeah the people who are healthy
or at least have healthy habits tend to
be the people with named diets that
aren't from the 90s so not like Jenny
Craig or Weight Watchers or South Beach
but paleo keto vegan pescetarian those
people tend to be healthier the people
who are struggling with their diet tend
to be Atkins like if if you haven't
progressed beyond the Atkins diet to
some of the newer lower carb diets it
means you're not very good at using the
internet or you have an old Atkins book
laying around if you're Weight Watchers
it means you have friends who use Weight
Watchers and succeeded which is which
happens a lot because Weight Watchers is
not a bad diet but it means you're
probably not that good at using research
or the internet so the newer diets those
people just tend to be healthier it's
really hard to tease apart causation
right right and more nutritionally savvy
too like they probably know that you
know it's a good idea to include certain
foods and not others and then also I
would imagine most people who are on a
vegan diet are probably eating more
fruits and vegetables anyway so it could
be the fact that they're just eating
more fruits and vegetables than the non
vegan group not necessarily the case
that is there something in specific
about the meat that's causing negative
health effects would you say yeah so the
the meat pros and cons and the plant
matter pros and cons gets pretty
complicated but I would actually think
that for a lot of vegans it depends on
what they're transitioning from so if
someone is transitioning from a really
high meat diet it's quite possible that
their health effects could be from
reducing the meat intake if somebody is
just adding more plants to their diet
it's often from increased satiety
because it just if you're a whole foods
based plant-based bodybuilder you have
to eat a ton you're eating a lot of
legumes you're eating a lot of whole
grains and nuts and just all
those add a bit by bid to get enough
protein and by the end of the day you've
eaten until you're stuffed
three or more times which is fun and I
think it's actually a decent reason to
to be a vegan lifter of some sort
because it's those foods generally taste
very good now the flip side is you're
introducing some risk like the more of
those things you eat the more risky it
is and that's just if you don't pay
attention to your food intolerances but
I'd say that in general it's it just
depends on person whether it's the
downsides of meat or the pros of more
plants that is making them feel healthy
mm-hmm
would you say with the riskier it is
from a digestive perspective kind of
like you alluded to earlier I know a lot
of vegans struggle with all sorts of
digestive maladies yeah so the most
contentious topic in irritable bowel
syndrome IBS is plant-based diets so
plant-based diets for inflammatory bowel
disease IBD it typically either there
helps or is neutral but for IBS more
often it hurts and the reason is that
IBD is a pathological condition you do a
colonoscopy you can see that something's
wrong with your gut you often have to
take medication to control it
IBS is a condition of unknown
pathophysiology where it could be that
you have an overgrowth of bacteria in
your small intestine from eating too
much junk food and you can't get rid of
it without a strong pharmaceutical or
over-the-counter antibiotic or it could
be that you have a certain balance of
gut bacteria that is really hard to
disrupt because they made biofilm and
certain bad bacteria made biofilm and
you can't get rid of them unless you
take a biofilm key later you lower your
mineral intake so that those bacteria
can survive as well and build more
biofilm or you change the balance of
your diet and it doesn't have to be
animal versus plant-based balance it
could even be within the plant kingdom
so for example some people eat a load
and no starch diet in order to help
their joint pain and it's usually people
with spine issues so in closing
spondylitis is a condition where
you can have narrowing in your joint
space in your spine and there's a
possibility of that being exacerbated by
a type of bacteria in your colon and
that bacteria feeds on starch this is
where there's a ton of complexity so
resistant starch is good for most people
you know half of people 9/10 of people
who knows and resistant starch is starch
that escapes your small intestine
digestion and gets to your large
intestine and the resistant starch comes
from heating and cooking starches and
then cooling them down
so if you heat up rice or potatoes you
eat some you cool down your leftovers in
the fridge or freezer and then you keep
them again you'll go from being able to
digest almost all the starch to not
being able to digest like 20% of the
starch and since that charge gets to
your gut
it provides excellent fuel for the
bacteria there
well it's excellent fuel if it fuels a
certain type of bacteria Klebsiella that
bacteria could over grow and be
implicated in this autoimmune condition
that can lead to spinal pain so that's
just it goes to show that there's no
like Oh a vegan diet will help these
people not help these people you know
what if you have a history of audio
audio immune conditions and then you end
up eating a vegan diet with a lot of
starch and then you start hurting worse
versus somebody who for example goes to
vegan diet and starts having less joint
pain because other reason associated
with animal products so for example with
animal products they're typically higher
fat and definitely higher in saturated
fat so if you're eating a diet like that
you could end up eating so much fat that
that fat more easily transports
bacterial breakdown products endotoxins
also called lipopolysaccharides across
your gut lining so if you have a
compromised gut lining you're eating a
lot of fat with every meal like the
types of people who eat you know sticks
of butter I won't name names but there's
people on the internet in the past few
years that have been like oh look I'm
eating more butter than ever before I
ate like bacon or butter wrapped in
bacon or you know whatever and then
those people are like oh you know forget
about the cholesterol and forget about
this I don't get hungry well being
hungry
is not the worst thing in the world and
it's also possible that when you're
eating all that fat those chylomicrons
the bundles of lipids are now
transporting endotoxins from break downs
of gram-negative bacteria across your
intestine and that's bad because
endotoxins are implicated in a variety
of diseases most inflammatory conditions
and also autoimmune conditions so you
could go from plant-based diet to one
heavy and meat and then end up with more
joint pain because of endotoxins or you
could go from a meat-based diet to a
plant-based diet and end up with more
joint pain because you're over growing
certain types of bacteria in your gut so
this is way more than like elevator
pitch on vegan diets could inform
somebody you have to have at least like
half an hour of explaining stuff and
most people just don't have time for
that but in terms of making general
recommendations to the public do you
think all of that is wholly relevant I
mean like I know a lot of people do
suffer from joint pain or have
autoimmune conditions but under the
premise that most people don't would you
say that on the net balance of it all a
vegan diet better or worse for digestion
depends so much I mean I'm not gonna get
you to reiterate what you said yeah it
does depend but I'd say for most people
think about how much you poop basically
and what your poop looks like and that's
the best indicator if you have to pick
one indicator of whether vegan diets
will help you or hurt you
so people who have constipation and on
the Bristol stool scale tend to have the
the small stool and hard to pass stool
those people can be held more by being
in diets because you typically will have
less bacteria that produce hydrogen
sulfide which is the type of gas that
leads to constipation or is implicated
in it and if you switch to the in diet
you're getting a lot more bulk and that
additional plant bulk will help you poop
more and plants also contain water so
that water plus fiber and that food
matrix and if you eat enough fat which
also helps to promote pooping then those
are all the things generally you need
go from constipation to healthy pooping
frequency on the other hand if you're
pooping too much
so that's IBS T irritable bowel syndrome
with diarrhea versus IBS C which is with
constipation then going a vegan diet
might not help you and it might hurt you
this is just a very general heuristic
rule of thumb and that's because of your
pooping too much then one problem could
be your intestine is sensing that
there's some foreign stuff coming in and
it needs to get rid of it so like I said
I'm about 70% of the immune system is
located in the gut and gut associated
lymphoid tissue and those cells are
trying to sense out whether the stuff
you're eating is good for you or bad for
you now the stuff that's good for you
might still be good for you even if your
intestine thinks it's bad because it has
phytochemicals and vitamins and minerals
but if it thinks it's bad it's gonna try
to get rid of it fairly frequently it'll
draw in water into your gut it'll make
the migrating motility complex which
gets tough through your gut it's that
sound you hear when you haven't eaten
for a while you get the gurgling in your
stomach that's not bad it's good it
doesn't mean you're hungry it just means
that your God is pushing stuff through
and that's good because it helps get rid
of bad bacteria but it could also be bad
because if you find yourself on what the
gurgling got a lot if you find yourself
pooping too many times during the day if
you find yourself pooping mostly liquid
sometimes then you might be eating too
much plant matter so that might be one
general consideration if you want to get
rid of constipation maybe more plants if
you want to get rid of diarrhea maybe
less or more selective plants mm-hmm
right right I don't know if you're
familiar with forge fagioli or not he
speaks at the same sort of conferences
as you guys he did this experiment where
he ran the carnivore diet for a couple
months I believe so he mostly just ate I
think red meat and bone broth and maybe
liver or something and he said he
noticed huge improvements in his
digestion in terms of like reduced
flatulence bloating better regularity
etc
do you think that that's kind of like a
one-off example or do you think that
they're I don't want to get too deep
into the carnivore diet but why do you
think he might have had those results
and do you think there's any merit to
that at all okay so there's a very
strong link between those sorts of
improvements and the cardboard diet and
board seems really smart to me I first
encountered him I think on Lyle
McDonald's forums like 15 years ago or
maybe Lyle liked them or something but I
accidentally entered a Twitter
discussion a few weeks ago where
somebody was criticizing him and I
didn't read the whole thing but I think
boards are saying you know I had these
results and equals one experimentation
is good the other person was saying it's
not backed up by research is dangerous
to make recommendations to favor of a
carnivore diet I said that Borge and the
other person participating in the
conversation amber who's one of the
leading people behind the carnivore diet
are smart people you know and getting
into there like the online debate and
kind of throwing insults around wasn't a
good thing because it's N equals one
there's no way to argue for or against
it but the mechanism makes sense and
that's because the best diet for
reducing digestive complaints is fasting
so if you don't eat for a week then
often not only do a digestive
disturbances go down but autoimmune
symptoms go down and that's because it's
all linked the more digestive
disturbance you have most likely the
stronger correlation there is with
autoimmune conditions and also possibly
with energy and sleep as well and an
experiment where you go a week or two
only eating meat the risk is very low
like the acute risk but the potential
benefit is high because then you can use
it as an elimination diet it doesn't
mean you have to not eat any plants the
rest of your life but it means you know
that the issue is with some type of
plant it's the next step up from not
eating anything it's don't eat anything
or eat only meat or intermittent fast
for very long periods or eat meat plus
some type of glucose substrate so I'm
something that offers glucose and that
that should be probably dextrose if
you're doing at her
core and that's because if you're not
gonna be ketogenic and you feel better
on a non keto diet then that much
dextrose will help you feel energetic
basically and then the next step up from
that is to introduce new plants so I'd
say a carnivore diet is not a bad idea
to try if you do eat meat of course to
be don't eat meat
it's the worst diet in the world but I
really think that people are a little
bit if if you decide to go vegan or
vegetarian and you feel fine doing it
you know there's absolutely no reason
eat any animal products but if
something's off and you keep testing
different combinations of plants and
something that's still off it might help
to try either fasting or a carnivore
diet mm-hmm while we're on the topic of
meat do you have any thing to say about
meat in the diet
in general it is meat in general
unhealthy when consumed and then what
about red meat in particular and then
also maybe briefly talk about processed
meat which will probably come up in the
general meat discussion okay so going
backwards on processed meat is
interesting because processed meat is
preserved with nitrates or nitrites and
nitrates are actually a good thing
so nitrates are the reason why some
leafy greens might be healthy so
researchers used to think around 30
years ago maybe even a little bit more
than that
that fiber was the main reason why leafy
greens and other plants were healthy and
also why meat heavy diets were bad
because they didn't have enough leafy
greens often but it turns out that fiber
doesn't have strong correlations with
health effects but nitrates do and leafy
greens and beets are often high in
nitrates and nitrates think of it this
way nitrates are the thing that allows
the main thing that allows your blood
vessels to expand and expand a blood
vessel is easier blood flow and a lower
chance of a clock and just generally
better heart health and blood flow so if
you do something like juice OB or drink
a smoothie with kale then you get
nitrates if you eat a leafy green salad
you get nitrates that a half-life of the
of the increase in nitrates is fairly
short but it's
on the on the magnitude of order of like
a couple hours or even a little bit
longer and if you eat leafy greens a
couple times a day every day you're
gonna get this boost of nitrates every
day and it's gonna be healthy for your
heart and process meat has nitrates
because it's preserved with them so you
might think wise process meat so bad for
you
and it's because when you heat up
processed meat then n nitroso compounds
which is a variation of nitrates are
nitrogen containing compounds leads to
worse heart health and higher
probability for colorectal cancer so
it's basically heating up things that
are high in isolated nitrates is bad for
you whereas the nitrates produced by
plants is good for you and if we're
working backwards that was on processed
meat and then on meat in and of itself
there's a few factors so some of them
are hypothetical and some of them are
less so the hypothetical ones actually
have the biggest health impacts and that
has to do with something called neu5gc
and meats and the background of this is
all the animals have a coating to their
cells so you have to have a coating on
your cells made up of carbohydrates so
that your cells don't stick together and
those coatings are called silac acids so
if you didn't have those yourselves
would all stick together and you'd end
up not being able to function you have
clots and you know you can have cell
signaling and stuff like that so all the
animals have different types of silac
acids so the silac acids and all the
animals or mammals used to be similar it
was called neu5gc and then about two
million years ago or so humans had a
mutation that led us to produce not any
u5g see but any u5a see and the only
animals mammals nowadays that have that
are us guinea pigs certain new world
monkeys and just not very many animals
all other animals including our mammals
rather including cows make and knee u5g
see and the reason that's a problem is
that I was talking about the gut and the
immune system trying to tell what's part
of us and what's not part of us if you
eat any u5g see through a burger or
through bacon or something
then there's always gonna be some kind
of chance that the gut bacteria will
incorporate that nu FIGC or even that
some of the nu v GC will go through your
gut and be incorporated into your own
tissues and this is relatively new stuff
so in the past 10 years the first clue
was that researchers found that human
tumors can contain very high levels of
any u v GC so if you think of like have
you seen that show Sherlock on BBC with
Benedict Cumberbatch so he always tries
to do deductive reasoning so he pieces
together clues and then he knocks them
off one by one
so clue number one it is tumors can have
very high levels of Nu v GC but that
doesn't mean that nu v GC is bad because
not all tumors have been the u v GC so
then we have to find another clue
so clue number two was that people with
Hashimoto's thyroiditis an autoimmune
condition have seven times higher level
of Nu v GC than people who don't have
the condition and that type of
correlation is extremely strong and hard
to ignore even though it's not a
randomized trial so now you have this
cancer clue and you have a thyroid clue
but then there's another clue where
rheumatoid arthritis patients which is
another type of autoimmune condition
don't have high levels of any u v GC so
it's not all autoimmune conditions
it's Hashimoto's thyroiditis and also
high in tumors so the last clue cuz
there hasn't been any fake studies in
the past couple years was in like 2015
or 16 and it was a mouse study that
showed that if you fed mice I pretty
much pick juice which contains really
high levels of nu v GC versus mice that
had a similar diet but no nu v GC the
mice with nu v GC developed cancer at
extremely high rates now granted they
were eating as much nu v GC as somebody
who eat who ate only meat and also had
twice as high levels of normal human
carnivores would eat but they developed
tumors on a regular basis so then if you
piece all those clues together what it
tells me is that if you have a
three of autoimmune conditions you
should maybe try to avoid red meat
chicken doesn't have any u5g see fish
doesn't as well dairy does and then red
meat is the king of any u5g see if you
feel poorly on a diet high in red meat
it won't have to do with any u5g see
generally as far as we know of it might
have to do with other factors but an EU
5 GC could tip the balance if you don't
feel as well and there's this kind of
hypothetical detriment then don't eat
red meat it is some in the armor
of a of a carnivore diet because most
carnivores human carnivores eat beef
almost exclusively and that's because
anecdotally and these facebook groups
and you know various other places red
meat is higher in nutrients than chicken
and white meat it seems to be more
satiating for some reason and it's
easier to get pastured grass-fed beef
that isn't treated as poorly and a lot
of carnivores do watch out for ethics
and animal raising but there hasn't been
super long term studies of carnivorous
diets that doesn't mean that it's
unhealthy at all but there could be some
issues like this nu v GC but nobody will
ever know because you can't randomize
people it's a human carnivore diet for
50 years that just won't work ethically
or funding wise hmm
so I I want to talk about the actual
risk imposed here because when I hear
these sorts of things like this
hypothesizing I feel like it can feed in
quite strongly to the chronic food fear
that people will have and they develop
this fear of not being healthy or living
a long life or dying early because
they're eating meat or what-have-you and
just circling back to the the process
meat thing when we talked a couple years
ago I think the World Health
Organization had just released their
statement that 50 grams of added
processed meat per day increases the
risk of colorectal cancer by 18 percent
and that made all the all the headlines
and it sounds really scary
18% is a big number but that's an
absolute or rather that's a relative
risk increase so the actual baseline
risk of
colorectal cancer given all these
factors is something like 4% and then so
it's an 18% increase of 4% so it goes up
to like almost 5% or something like that
so Express on an absolute scale you have
a 1% increased risk of colorectal cancer
provided reading 50 grams every day
across a lifetime seems a lot less scary
than when voice does a mean percent
figure right so I'm just wondering like
with all of this this sort of like
hypothetical mechanistic stuff you're
talking about I feel like in the hands
of the wrong person it could be twisted
to make people really scared to eat meat
do you think that there's justification
for that I mean like I I'm continuing to
to eat meat I want to do so as ethically
as possible and once synthetic meats are
available I'll switch to that
immediately but you know how scared do I
need to I mean I don't feel scared
because I'm aware of this data but I
feel like some people really are fearful
of what they're consuming and they
really kind of hyper manage it in a way
so there's two things to keep in mind
with that as much as we're gonna get
into details and we already have about
Studies and whatnot those studies are
not as important as kind of human
experience or in the past thousands of
years
so one randomized trial or one
meta-analysis on meat or on any you 5 GC
or whatever is very limited in scope
it's done on a small number of people
with a high dose or a small number of
animals with a high dose the mouse trial
was done on genetically mutated mice
where the high doses of nu v GC but if
you look at human data then the area
where I'm where my great grandparents
are from in India western India Gujarat
has the some of the most extensive past
history of vegetarianism of any area in
India and India as the most extensive
history in the world so the the best
kind of story about how that journey in
diets affect health comes from that area
now granted that India has been poor for
a long time but the longest living
people in the world they don't like all
live in India you know it's like some
random person in Europe or in the South
in the US who has eaten whatever you
know
they generally healthy they have a
positive outlook on life they also
happen to eat eggs and bacon every day
or there's unverified things because not
everybody has a birth certificate like
there was woman and South America who
ate a lot of starchy tubers because
those are most carbohydrate rich sources
of storable food it's in nature because
you can't really store food so well and
also a lot of like monkey meat and
monkey brain and she lived until you
know a purported age of a hundred twenty
or thirty or 140 or whatever so there's
people who live to very long ages eating
meat whenever they can and it makes
sense because the way that meat was
Heena in the past was not the way it's
eaten currently currently you go to the
supermarket you get muscle meat you eat
the muscle meat two to three times a day
and you do that every day but
historically it's been that you go out
hunting if you get a catch that's great
and you eat that that day you preserve
as much as you can you eat a future days
but if the animals aren't around if
there's a drought if you know you just
have bad luck and you don't have any
meat you have to gather and you get
plants so humans would go either a
shorter periods two to three days to
longer periods like a month without any
animal meanie our animal protein so they
would have quick rises in animal protein
or overall protein like two to three
hundred grams or more and then dips like
twenty or thirty grams and that's not
accounted for in current diets so thus
care about is meat good or bad for you
is really a scare about dosage it's that
if you eat a carnivorous diet and you
are a you know big guy or a big gal and
you eat a ton of the meat and you don't
eat any fish or chicken it's possible
that that any u5 GCC stuff could be an
issue or might not be who knows but it's
all about dosage if you eat a regular
diet and you eat meat even everyday that
dosage is going to be a magnitude of
order below what's studied so if you if
you have to burn something into your
head it
that the dose makes the poison and media
headlines we'll never talk about that
but it's always about the dosage mm-hmm
I always find it a bit odd when people
draw on our ancestors habits to form our
current dietary guidelines I mean this
is the whole premise behind the
Paleolithic diet right I mean I would
imagine they didn't live nearly as long
as we live today so why what why are we
why borrow clues from prehistoric diets
and so on so there's reasons to borrow
from them at reasons not to so there's a
lot of reasons not to one of them is
they for example would catch meat and
cook it over an open flame or whatever
that's a great way to form heterocyclic
amines that char on the meat which is
carcinogenic highly carcinogenic so that
World Health Organization report placed
fresh red meat that I think leveled to a
or group to a which is like possibly or
probably causes cancer process red meat
was at Group one which is definitely
causes cancer and I don't think there's
much objection to that at all because
things like heterocyclic amines and I
trusted compounds those are not good for
you and it comes from high heat cooking
of meat whereas like slow cooking
that's not paleo you know it's not paleo
to be like oh I got this meat let's not
eat it tonight let's slow cook it no you
don't do that you cook over the flame
you eat it right away you get all the
heterocyclic amines you can some people
will say oh that balance that by plants
because when you eat plants that does
decrease the impact of things like
heterocyclic amines or even like iron
but it's not like the cavemen would eat
the meat and then eat a bunch of spinach
you know cuz leafy greens if your nature
you were just not eaten because they
don't provide calories it might provide
some taste but there's no salad dressing
in nature you can't like tap the tree
and get out salad dressing or any beans
so they would eat whatever they can
whether it's healthy or not healthy they
would eat toxic plants find out that
they're toxic tell the next generation
eat a little bit less that knowledge
could be lost who knows so
there's things to glean from Paleolithic
diets and also kind of newer diets in
the area between the Paleolithic period
and us might be called Mesolithic I
can't remember and there's things not to
clean and I think one of the things to
glean is that they would eat a variety
of things humans evolved to eat a
variety of things it's generally safer
to eat a variety of things they also
didn't eat a ton of stuff every day
multiple times a day so intermittent
fasting might be a good thing and then
other than that that's kind of it like
grains are not inherently bad for some
people they might have reactions greens
some people might have reactions before
time but it's hard to predict other
things like legumes are generally seen
as healthy you know nuts may or may not
be healthy like they they show extremely
positive evidence in almost every trial
it's great for heart disease great for a
variety of conditions but for some
people they do very poorly on nuts and
that might have to do with digestion so
like there was a trial a couple years
ago that the researchers hypothesize
that pistachios were good for
performance in a cycling time trial and
then they gave the the people of
pistachios every day including just
before the time trial and they did
significantly worse than the people who
didn't need any pistachios which they
did not expect at all and the reason was
most likely that nuts
don't nuts especially seeds don't break
down like other plant matter does it's
kind of hard to break it down you're in
your digestive system which is why
sometimes you'll see nuts and seeds in
your goop for most people that's fine
but if you have a compromised gut lining
you can get some things leaking through
your intestine which is not a good thing
so again it's all about dose there's no
foods mostly that are inherently bad but
it's good to maybe take one or two
things from paleo sometimes I got you I
got you when you mention the periods of
high protein feeding and then no protein
do you think that we should borrow
anything from that I was I don't want to
make sure I misunderstood that yeah I
think it's generally a good idea so on I
probably read Facebook groups way too
often but I'll read like the zero carb
grew
are we vegan groups because I only care
about the animal ethics everything else
to me is gravy I like reading about the
nutrition related things so there are
people who will easily fast on a zero
carb diet because you don't get as
hungry so if you're eating a lot of
carbohydrate it's a lot harder for you
to do a one or two day fast if you're
eating zero carb it's a lot easier and
some people will follow what certain
researchers do like Thomas Seyfried for
example as a researcher in Boston who
researchers fasting and longevity in
cancer prevention and stuff like that
and after a while of researching this he
was so convinced that he and possibly
his family do regular seven-day fasts at
least once a year for cancer prevention
and there's a lot of nitty-gritty
getting into the strengths and
detriments of that evidence but you know
I think that's definitely something to
consider if you don't have to do a
seven-day fast but I think 24 to 48
hours is pretty safe once in a while and
then also Valter Longo who's a
researcher out west he does a fasting
mimicking diet where if people can't
handle a full fast then you can do
something where you eat like five to
seven hundred calories for an extended
period usually around 45 days like once
a month or once every two months and
that could contribute some benefits but
it doesn't make it so you're in that
state where like oh I'm fasting I don't
know if I can handle it and then you
just eat a whole pizza and ice cream and
then now you're getting the opposite of
what you want to look fasting so there's
a few different types of intermittent
fasting that I think could be beneficial
and that's one of the hottest research
area so I think in the next five years
we'll see more studies so Kamal what I'd
like to move on to is just a couple
isolated topics that we can kind of go
through in turn and that I know people
are gonna be really curious about so the
first one I want to get into his eggs
you'll hear people just as strongly
voicing on both sides of this where
they're like so if I'll separate my egg
yolk from my egg whites
people will do it you've got to eat the
yolk you're crazy you're leaving so many
nutrients out and then you'll by the
same token have people you know if I
conclude the egg yolk then they'll say
you know this is
with cholesterol and causes heart
disease and all this so what's your
opinion on eggs so I've been me to my
mind yet on eggs and nutrition and
that's just because the research is
inconclusive eggs have mixed evidence
for health but a lot more positive
evidence than there ever was the most
recent trial or the most recent large
trial from probably like this spring
compared diabetics who ate twelve eggs
or more a week versus those who ate like
one or two eggs and this was a very
large randomized trial so very strong
evidence and it showed that there is no
risk difference at all and any cardio
metabolic risk factor so that means
cholesterol triglycerides blood sugar
any of that stuff and the reason this is
an important trial is because the
evidence before was that eggs are
probably okay to eat unless you're
diabetic and they show worse outcomes
for patients who are diabetic but now
that there's this larger trial that kind
of flips the previous evidence it's a
it's a strong trial and it kind of shows
even in people who are susceptible
diabetics to worse lipids eggs don't
seem to do that much bad but there is
still this conflicting evidence so I
think maybe two years ago there was a
meta-analysis that showed that there was
more heart failure and those who had
higher egg consumption there's two ways
to look at this one is that the study
had talked about before that
exonerated eggs was a randomized trial
so this was the strongest type of
evidence the heart failure trial that
showed that eggs might be bad was not
randomized it was just following people
over time to see how many eggs they so
that can't isolate eggs as the causative
factor on the other hand that eggs are
bad study was big it included a lot of
different studies and it also led to an
actual health outcome heart failure the
randomized trial only showed that
certain intermediate markers like
cholesterol didn't change so it's really
who do you want to believe do you want
to believe that heart failure is the
most important thing even though it
wasn't a randomized trial and you can't
isolate variables or do you want to
believe cholesterol and triglycerides
and stuff
and the randomized trial you know I
would say that something that like the
listener personally s to judge but
nobody's gonna judge that nobody's gonna
be like let me see what's more important
to me I'm at analysis or prospective
studies err no so my personal opinion is
that it's really dose related again so
the randomized trial compared eating
eggs every day a couple eggs a day to
eating no eggs and the heart failure
study compared people who ate quite a
bit of eggs with people who ate almost
no eggs what they didn't do is it
include a moderate group so it's almost
certainly safe to eat a moderate amount
of eggs weekly you know I don't know
five or ten or something as to eating
three or four eggs a day I'm not sure
you know because there's a discrepancy
in evidence between randomized trials
and prospective observational trials so
we'll probably never really be sure and
that's also separable from the
mechanistic evidence because you could
eat a lot of eggs that are scrambled and
get a lot of oxidized cholesterol
because the cholesterol dietary
cholesterol you eat does not affect your
cholesterol levels in your blood that's
been debunked decades ago but what it
can do is the more you use high heat on
your eggs the more the cholesterol in
the eggs can be oxidized and then that's
not good because oxidized cholesterol
can be incorporated into cells and
that's not very healthy but even with
that there's a there's a caveat and that
it's really dose dependent because it's
not like all the cholesterol and egg
yolk gets oxidized it's like 1 or 2
percent so it's really people who eat
like 6 to 12 eggs a day like like Ronnie
Coleman you see the ton etics you know
but most people are not 280 pounds so
they're not going to eat 12 eggs a day
so if you moderate I think eggs should
be fine so how would you recommend
preparing them then to avoid that avoid
that oxidized LDL well I don't I don't
like runny eggs but most people seem to
especially foodies so runny yolks won't
be oxidized but the evidence is so
preliminary there it's like Jesse
whatever tastes good you know I like to
taste the scrambled eggs i weirdly
developed our reaction to eggs too
in the past few years and that might be
because of some gut issues and I have
the health condition but eggs are
something that is extremely variable
eggs and dairy and that's because eggs
are you know a not yet developed animal
and kind of evolutionarily speaking the
animal that lays the egg does not want
other animals to eat that egg you know
cuz that's their baby so there are
things in the egg that can harm you but
they don't hard most people because most
people are healthy but I think that
people with health conditions sometimes
could be adversely affected by eggs but
this hasn't been studied very much
there's things like there are certain
foods that that are either histamine
liberating when you eat them they make
histamine be extracted and you know go
throughout your bloodstream and can
cause things like hives and reactions
there's foods that contain histamine and
eggs are one of the leading things that
cause histamine reactions but this is
again getting into people who are sick
the average healthy person eggs if they
don't cause an acute reaction should be
fine right
in that randomized controlled trial you
talked about where they found no
difference in this blood lipid profile
did they already have high cholesterol
or were they at healthy levels of blood
cholesterol at baseline you know I don't
remember but I know that they didn't
have very high levels mm-hmm it's either
they had normal or maybe moderately high
because you can't get through an
institutional review board testing eggs
on high cholesterol patients it wouldn't
pass gotcha
because so I I did this vlog where I was
basically strong my morning breakfast
which is usually two eggs and while I
was eating it I pulled up an old article
from examine I think was called our eggs
healthy young and I basically said what
you just said which was dietary
cholesterol doesn't actually impact
blood cholesterol that much is your
body's pretty good at regulating this
homeostasis if you're healthy and then
there was a response video done by
another youtuber vegan gains I don't
know if you're familiar with him or yeah
I'm aware of for them I'm kind of aware
of all the youtubers but I don't watch
too many videos right fair enough so his
criticism was that basically people who
try to say that eggs are
are okay or don't cause cardiovascular
disease will take one of two lines so
they'll others say that dietary
cholesterol doesn't affect blood
cholesterol that much which is what you
and I've done or they'll say that high
blood cholesterol isn't a risk factor
for cardiovascular disease so then you
went on to basically say that the reason
why we saw that eating eggs didn't
increase blood cholesterol is because
the subjects already had kind of high
cholesterol so it's not surprising that
it wouldn't get raised even further if
you have a healthy person and they eat a
bunch of eggs then perhaps it would
increase their blood cholesterol more
and then lead to that that increased
risk of cardiovascular disease what do
you think about that criticism so for
the first point about dietary
cholesterol from eggs I can find the
study I'm guessing that they did not
have high cholesterol to start with and
there's also been other studies since
our blog post was published so if I was
arguing for a vegan diet I would not go
down the dietary cholesterol line but I
will go down the saturated fat line
because I think a lot of people have
gotten into this paleo rut where they're
like it doesn't matter what I eat or you
know even I'll eat as much saturated fat
as I can because more cholesterol is
better that's not true at all so that's
kind of like a point for vegans let's
see the easiest way to summarize it is
you know I was talking about how eggs
studies conflicted so the randomized
trials conflicted with the observational
trials the randomized trials show no
difference in eggs if you ate low amount
or high amount of eggs and observational
trials showed that there was a
difference so there's a similar
situation with saturated fat and the
evidence is even more mixed for
saturated fat so saturated fat is
involved in metabolism of blood lipids
HDL LDL VLDL also triglycerides and each
of those has complexities that we won't
get into because it's boring but if you
look at all randomized trials of
saturated fat there is a very strong
relationship between negative caleche
Olympics and saturated fat like
extremely extremely strong so if you eat
saturated fat and moderate to high
levels instead of anything else on
saturated fat monounsaturated fat
carbohydrates you'll have increased
lipids and lipoproteins in your blood
there is only one exception which is if
you eat a lot of carbohydrate you'll
have higher triglycerides than if you
eat the same amount of saturated fat and
there's a very strong link between those
markers and heart disease but it's not
the cholesterol test that you get at
your doctor's office because that
cholesterol test is LDL see it's the
amount of cholesterol but the important
thing the most important thing is LDL P
the number of LDL particles so you could
have the same LDL measured at your
doctor's office as some other guy but
you could have a lot more LDL particles
and they could have less but most likely
if you have high LDL you're gonna have a
lot of LDL particles and the more LDL
particles the more this thing happens
which is what you want to avoid you have
your artery you have lipoproteins and
cholesterol and other lipids around them
floating around in the blood and what
causes heart disease is not cholesterol
but cholesterol is implicated in making
heart disease works so basically if that
fat if those lipids get lodged in the
artery and it gets oxidized then that's
bad and if there's more inflammation
then that's bad and in order for it to
lodge the more LDL particles there are
the more chances that one of them will
get lodged and the way that this often
explained is let's say that this artery
wall is like a harbor where boats are
docking and then the boats coming in are
cholesterol or cholesterol carrying
particles so the more LDL P the more LDL
particles there are the more chances
that one of those boats is gonna knock
into your Shore when you're not ready
but that doesn't mean that it's always
the same there could be different sizes
of particles floating around but the
more there are even if there's a mix of
large particles which are called
buffie and sometimes deemed as being
healthy which they're not or small and
dense which are always bad it doesn't
matter if you have a hundred fluffy ones
or a hundred small and dense ones
they're so gonna be crashing into the
shore and the more they crash in the
shore the more likelihood that
cholesterol will get oxidized so it's
not as simplistic as if you know our
saturated fat then you're gonna die of
heart disease it's like you know Oh 50
percent add and fifty percent
inflammation or maybe even like 20
percent and 20 percent information or
any percent information and then the
issue is that all these randomized
trials show that more saturated fat more
cholesterol in your cholesterol tests
the the worse it is for you when you are
rather the observational studies show
that but when you look at randomized
trials of actual like heart attacks or
heart failure or stroke or any of those
things there is no effect the more
saturated fat you eat it doesn't affect
more heart disease it doesn't affect
heart disease mortality so when you look
at individual biomarkers like LDL HDL
below saturated fat is not good for you
but when you look at actual health
effects there is no effect so nobody has
really explained that because we're just
on the cusp of learning about that kind
of stuff which is why like nobody on the
internet whether they're on YouTube or a
researcher can say they know for sure
what the relationship is yeah I don't
care how smart you are how many studies
you read um there's evidence on both
sides for me I don't think eating a ton
of saturated fat is healthy according to
evidence but eating a moderate amount
and maybe even more than that seems to
be healthy but the evidence is
conflicting though whether you're vegan
or you're a carnivore um you don't know
you don't know whether your diets gonna
give you a propensity for a heart attack
or not and there's gonna be more Charles
about this yeah I think that makes that
makes a lot of sense to me just to
double back on this EE so you would say
that saturated fat has a stronger so
dietary saturated fat has a stronger
link to increasing serum
cholesterol and dietary cholesterol does
she say that yeah yeah so Dietary
cholesterol has negligible either small
or close to zero effect on serum
cholesterol saturated fat has a high
effect on cholesterol and a lot of this
has to do with things like cholesterol
clearance so cells have receptors for
cholesterol clearance and then there's
reasons why certain medications succeed
or don't succeed so for example HDL is
not good cholesterol and LDL is not bad
cholesterol LDL can have a bad effect an
HDL can certainly have a good effect but
HDL helps clear cholesterol out and LDL
delivers cholesterol but cholesterol is
important to human health you know it's
not just randomly there it's important
for hormones and a variety of other
things the problem is when you overwhelm
your capacity to clear the cholesterol
either because genetically you're
susceptible to it something like 20% of
people have a genetic susceptibility to
poor cholesterol clearance so drugs like
pcsk9 inhibitors can help that there's a
variety of other drugs that have been
tested for lipids that have not helped
like there's been possibly like I don't
know how many millions or a billion
dollars spent on research for drugs that
increase HDL because HDL is good there
was a huge failure a few years ago where
Pfizer I think it was funded a huge
trial the the trial was extremely
successful HDL HDL went up by like 20 30
40 percentage points that should have
reduced heart attacks and mortality but
that group had much higher mortality and
they had to stop the trial it was very
controversial that they even did it that
goes to show that it's not a one-to-one
relationship it's not like a new cut LDL
you'll be heart attack proof or if you
increase HDL you'll be heart attack
proof that's not true but good news for
vegetarians and vegans is there does
seem to be some relationship between
people who have low cholesterol because
of a Whole Foods vegan diet and low
heart disease rates that's borne out
both in small studies
and and just people so like there's this
former cardiac surgeon named I don't
remember the name who's I think still
alive like hundred five years old and
he's like you know I'm I'm heart attack
proof vegans or heart attack proof
because of cholesterol and stuff and
he's seen the cholesterol in surgeries
it it's not quite that your heart attack
proof but our whole foods vegan diet
attacks both of the important points it
decreases the amount of LDL P LDL
particles so then you don't even have to
worry about if you have issues with LDL
clearance and it's also generally
anti-inflammatory so that your
cholesterol if it does get lodged does
not get oxidized as much and generally
for people who are on it for decades you
know you will get off of a vegan diet
pretty shortly if it caused a bunch of
digestive disturbance but if it doesn't
and your honor for decades you're
fostering probably a pretty healthy gut
microbiome and that also leads probably
to lower inflammation throughout your
body so they're attacking all fats its
facets of heart disease and a lot of
those people live for very long periods
so I think it's healthy to do it's a
healthy diet but meat is not inherently
bad for your heart mm-hmm on that note I
think would be a good time for us to
touch on some of the drawbacks of a
vegan diet one thing that comes to mind
is potential nutrient deficiencies is
there anything in particular that comes
to mind that people should be wary of
when wanting to adopt this for ethical
or whatever reason yeah so part of this
varies by individuals so if you put your
nutrient or your foods and there's
really only one app to do it I think
it's cronometer or chronometer and a lot
of pronounced it but MyFitnessPal and
those things don't so if you put your
foods into there and you're vegan and
you listen to this podcast you're gonna
get enough protein because protein is a
number one thing people think about
you're gonna get enough b12 because
that's second thing people think about
the things that you might not think
about or at least not think about the
right way are omega-3s
even if you think you're getting enough
on vitamin A even if you're think you're
getting enough and then vitamin E and
magnesium so Omega threes
can I can I Drive for a sec because you
you say you said you don't need to worry
about protein and you don't need to
worry about b12 yeah those would have
been the first two on my list I mean why
do you know just for people listening to
the podcast because people listen I
think our of you know they're pretty
intelligent and they've already
researched those things you can tell you
haven't read my comments those are the
first two things to think of if you're
like new to the diet cuz you know you'll
die with without enough protein you'll
feel weak without enough b12 you'll get
you know various health desired chronic
conditions but b12 is always on
everybody's mind as is protein so these
are things that aren't as much on
people's minds so there are some people
that take algae oil from my good threes
and that's a great source of algae or of
omega-3 D if you're vegan but there's
not a lot of other great sources and the
thing is that if you if you take
flaxseed oil or if you eat flax seeds
the conversion to EPA and DHA is
unpredictable so for some people it's
somewhat high like 18 and 20% for some
people it's below 10% and that's
genetically determined
and that's actually possibly
evolutionarily determined so Indian
people or people from sub-saharan Africa
they have more copies of a gene called
FAS fatty acid fatty acid desaturates
which makes short fatty acids longer so
it makes shorter plant fatty acids into
longer ones like epa and DHA so your
body can use them for important stuff so
if you think about it and make sense
because 2,000 years ago people in
northern europe would have to eat meat
at all seasons because there's seasons
where there's not much plant at all um
so they're gonna get more epa and DHA
people from around the equator there's
this much more plant food available and
then there might be times when they just
can't go hunting i don't know i'm just
hypothesizing it's too hot or who knows
so there was possibly an evolutionary
benefit to having more copies of this
gene that lets you make short plant
proteins our plan
fati gasses into longer once that
usually found in animals nowadays that
might be a detriment because people get
way too much omega-6 and some people
even possibly get too much omega-3
because it's not like more is better for
my good three or four omega sixes
because omega threes and sixes are very
long chains of carbon with a lot of
kinks in it so it's not at a straight
flat chain like butter or coconut so
they don't stack together very evenly
they're all kind of like spread out and
that's good for certain purposes in the
cell membrane like for signaling and for
fluidity but if you get more and more of
those the more kinks you get and the
longer these chains are the more free
radicals can get into one of those kinks
and attack and you don't want to do that
so there used to be these calculators
online when like Paleo first came onto
the scene ten or fifteen years ago where
you will put in your age and your a body
weight and it would tell you okay
optimally you should take eight fish oil
pills a day
oh we're just terrible because omega-3s
are actually needed in very small
amounts there's actually not even a
dietary guideline a specific number for
omega-3s there's no DRI and part of it
is because the the studies just are not
strong there's not a lot of good
evidence even though we know we need
omega-3s but part of it is because the
more omega-3 you eat the more you might
have these issues with oxidized fatty
acids and there's no Studies on that so
they just haven't even approached those
issues from a government level but when
people ask me about omega-3s I say don't
take supplemental ones unless you have
to so if you eat animal products there's
almost no reason to take them if you're
a vegan you you can't take fish oil but
you can take algae oil but other than
that you can possibly get enough omega-3
or Lisa P and DHA conversion in your
body from fatty acids in your plans but
you won't know for sure so I'd say if
you're risk-averse
or if you have depression because EPA
and DHA especially DHA could help
depression then take an algae oil if you
don't you can stick to plant-based
because you'll most likely get enough
conversion you just won't know for sure
and there are some factors that can
affect that I think for example females
have lower conversion but I can't
remember those starting off here I think
I come down more strongly on the fish
oil being positive and having
cardioprotective effects and other
positive health effects than you do but
I still make the recommendation to kind
of max out your whole foods route first
so if you can eat fish you know two
three four times a week and you'll be
good obviously vegans don't have that
option so I would say yeah the algae oil
is is probably a good idea but it seems
to me that maybe you're not quite as
endeared with the omega-3 literature as
I am given that it you know if you are
eating fish and like you said meat and
perhaps supplementation isn't really
necessary yeah the literature is
interesting because there are very good
trials for like fish oil and depression
and fish oil and triglycerides and some
other stuff so if you're taking it
therapeutically if you're like you know
this is the reason I'm taking it I'm
gonna take fish oil then okay but if
somebody's taking it for general health
I'm not very convinced and part of the
reason is new studies so just today and
that I think the Cochrane Collaboration
which is the main systematic review
organization in the world came out with
the biggest review of omega-3s and
possibly fish oil and heart disease
there is an even lower link than there
was before it was before there is a
small to negligible link now there's
pretty much zero Association and that's
because I think it depends on which
studies you include in your
meta-analysis and which ones you take
out and also it's it's a little bit
difficult because fish oil supplements
all differ so when studies are done on a
pharmaceutical for example Lavazza which
is a type of fish oil that cost a
ton of money versus like a fish wall
pill from over-the-counter the quality
can differ an amount of rancidity or
heavy metals can differ so I just think
if you do two official it's good to look
into you know batch testing and if your
fish oil is good I don't buy like big
Costco bottles possibly don't buy liquid
fish oil because that auto oxidize is
very easily wants to unscrew the cap but
if you eat fish at all then
there's no reason tech visual I'm the
node of protein I feel like I'm a little
less convinced than you are that it's
it's not an issue just in my own
experimentation with this so before the
interview I did have some math just for
quinoa for example so in a hundred grams
of quinoa you have a hundred and twenty
calories only 4.4 grams of protein in
quinoa is touted to be a pretty good if
I could just say when I saw their
protein and b12 aren't issues
I almost meant like they're obviously
issue so I like I'm not gonna just skip
them cuz they're obviously everybody
always thinks about them I understand
like God for things like quinoa and
beans and stuff they'll have those
charts where I'll say like oh you think
you can't get enough protein on a vegan
diet I had this protein up yeah that
protein is so miniscule II bioavailable
compared to protein from animal products
you have to often multiply it times two
to get the amount you will get in an
animal product so that's why it's so fun
to eat a vegan diet cuz you have to eat
a lot mm-hmm they got enough protein and
stuff yeah so it's so just for the the
quinoa example in order to get 40 grams
of protein which I think you'd need to
kind of be close to optimizing the
muscle protein synthesis you could
probably get it with 20 grams with
something like quinoa you'd probably
want at least 40 grams of protein you'd
have to eat over a thousand calories
worth of quinoa just just forget that
one spike so I mean these sources of
protein are just not gonna be enough for
anyone who has muscle building goals so
no I think if if you're trying to build
muscle and you're on a vegan diet it
really helps to take even an hour out
and think about your goal and like
visualize it so some people will start
eating a vegan diet and then think of
themselves as a before and after picture
like oh I'm at this body fat and lean
mass now after a body recomposition I'm
gonna be sub ten percent body fat and
you know ripped if you're really serious
about that you almost have to supplement
it's really hard to eat a whole foods
vegan diet and get to that level like
people have done it and I've seen video
on YouTube but it's really hard and if
you want to make your life that hard
okay but if not the easiest ways to do
it is by powder combinations like pee
and rights because otherwise even like
you know buckwheat and quinoa with some
legumes and stuff you're gonna have to
eat four or five maybe even six times a
day to get up to 1.2 or 1.4 times body
weight in protein which is extremely
difficult but some people have fun doing
that so yeah you know it depends on the
person
when you say 1.4 or 1.2 1.4 you mean
grams per kilo right not because some
people yeah yeah which is which is
enough I think for health month muscle
maintenance and so on we can argue about
the specific number I would say probably
more closer to like 1.8 grams per
kilogram but in any case it just makes
it more difficult for them so yeah in
fact I mean in vegan diets is gonna be
above 1.8 most likely because the
barbell will heal slower yeah yeah
exactly it the bioavailability is lower
and you generally have less loose
leucine content program so it's
inherently less anabolic and then some
people are at one person I've seen on
the internet has supplemented with
leucine on a vegan diet and I don't
actually think you can do that because
pheno amino acids almost all of them or
all of the commercially available ones
are made from animal products right so
it's not like you can just boost your
leucine that way yeah I don't I don't
know enough about vegan supplements but
I feel like there's almost everything
out there now so I don't know there
could be a yeah there might be a vegan
Lucien's Club home and I'll probably
Google it right after this but free
amino acids are extremely expensive and
if you get the complete spectrum of
amino acids in free form they're
expensive because it comes through
hydrolysis and you have to do a lot of
hydrolysis and it's often things like
feathers or hair that's hydrolyzed so
you know I'm sure you could get enough
leucine to make a supplement but that
supplement will be so expensive from
plants that I can't imagine yeah that
could be completely proven wrong but
that's just my yeah it is an expensive
diet which is why even
if you agree with the ethics of it and
everything it's just a difficult one for
people to adhere to with the way things
are set up now I think yes well I think
you'll see a lot more people switching
you know if if these meat alternatives
and and so forth become more economical
yeah I think it's a expensive diet if
you're looking to maintain or gain
muscle but if you just kind of don't
care and you want to be healthy it can
be pretty cheap because rice and beans
is very cheap you know it's the stuff
like when you have to diversify your
diet and especially if you're wanting to
eat organic fruits and vegetables it
becomes very expensive so I just want to
make sure we've got everything here so
we said protein is an issue for that
you'd want to supplement you know some
people or some combination of P and rice
perhaps hemp protein I feel like is a
good one for yeah hemp is another one
and you can just get that in protein
powder for vitamin b12 as far as I know
there is no vegan source of that so you
just have to supplement it is that right
there is no vegan source but there have
been people that have been vegan without
taking b12 for decades and there's no
there's no any symptoms of anything and
that might be because b12 is produced
from bacteria right so if you were a
vegan eating fruits and vegetables from
your garden it's possible that you could
get b12 through your plants but if
you're eating stuff from a supermarket
most likely not or you don't know or if
you're eating I think some vegans have
said that you could get b12 through
eating nori or certain types of seafood
I rather see vegetables and that could
be the case again it's bacteria on the
plants I could produce two b12 then that
you would eat but that's not at all
predictable so I would never recommend
saying like you know forget to b12 just
see what happens you know it's your
health
just take the people right right right
and then in terms of omega-3s we said
algae oil probably but perhaps you're
not as convinced on whether or not
that's a mandatory one what about
something like iron calcium zinc what do
you think of those so each of those is
different the out of the OHS the number
one deficiency
with vegans vegetarians the zinc and
especially among athletes especially if
you do like CrossFit and stuff like that
because you could lose zinc through
activity but you need zinc obviously for
muscle gain you need same for things
like sleep and hormone production other
minerals are a little bit different so
calcium I think overall while it's
really important is a bit overrated
because if you have a balanced diet
where you have enough magnesium vitamin
k1 and k2 k1 is a form found in plants
k2 is produced by our bodies from k1 or
we get in meat I'm already produced by
that animal so that minerals and
vitamins make it so that the calcium
that we eat goes to bones and said of to
our arteries or soft tissue so the first
big studies I was involved in were when
the vitamin D guidelines were being made
in 2009-10 and I was hired to help the
meta-analysis for that so I'd read like
300 Studies on vitamin D calcium and
bone health there is actually no link
between calcium and prevention of
osteoporosis and in bone density which
was surprising to us and then if you mix
in vitamin D and vitamin K and stuff
like that then calcium helps so I think
the calcium need is probably lower than
most people think it is needed as a
signalling compound to play a part in
the nervous system and it's needed for
bone but calcium can easily go bad and
it's the same for iron calcium can go
bad in coronary calcification which is
one of the strongest correlations to
actual heart disease and dying from
heart disease and iron can go bad
because iron is easily oxidized we want
to eat as little iron as we can and
still be healthy basically for longevity
to prevent anemia and stuff like that
but the reason why iron has to be
labeled and multivitamins is because
it's dangerous because a child eating a
multivitamin can die from too much iron
women don't have to think about that as
much because they lose iron through
menses you know monthly but men have to
worry about it especially white men and
especially white men from nordic areas
or with ancestry and Great Britain and
that's because there's a gene called HFE
which literally is h4 high and Fe for
iron the elemental symbol for iron and
something like one in 250 American men
have a proclivity for this gene and what
this gene you could get hereditary
hemochromatosis which just means iron
overload and iron overload is bad not
just because you know you're getting too
much of something that's good it's bad
because you don't know it's there you'll
never know it's there you could go
through early years of your life and not
feel anything and then suddenly you have
some crazy health condition and it's
because an overlord of iron doesn't
acutely make you feel bad and then all
of a sudden one day you're going your
doctor and you're like I don't know I'm
feeling lethargic and some other stuff
and selling you have these health
conditions hopefully there is more
doctor and they test you for this and
then you've had high iron luyt in your
blood and cells for eons and the only
cure really is bloodletting you know
don't donating blood but it means it's a
really easy fix for something that is
potentially really harmful so I think
it's something worth testing for if
either just you're curious or if you're
British descent and especially if you're
feeling symptoms of something and you
but you say those issues mostly come
from iron supplementation or would it
come from too much iron in the diet
both though iron supplementation not as
much these days because when I was first
learning about nutrition in the mid to
late 90s there were multivitamins that
had high levels of iron especially like
the animal Peck type ones that had big
bags of vitamins but nowadays it's not
the case so much anymore really the
issue is if you're taking supplements
plus fortified foods plus cooking meat
and a cast iron pan yeah then you can
get too much iron because cast iron pans
leach iron pretty easily and issue is
that you don't haven't even have to do
it every day because iron builds up over
time and you can't really get rid of it
mmm so if you happen to give blood
regularly
probably don't have to worry about this
but otherwise I'm not saying worry about
it but you know one in 250 men will have
an issue that's interesting um
so back to the vegan people you'd say
probably zinc might be a concern perhaps
considered supplementation yeah zinc can
be a concern
I don't think iron is usually not a
concern with getting enough because you
would know that you have anemia symptoms
yes other minerals iodine sometimes can
be an issue and this is interesting
woman because it's not that vegans don't
get enough iodine because a lot of
plants contain iodine it's that the
average American gets a lot of iodine
through salt through iodized salt and
like you were saying earlier a lot of
vegans are in the health and they do
things that are healthy like exercise
meditating stuff but they also will do
things like replace their iodized salt
with like Himalayan pink salt mmm which
is not iodized so it's much more easy to
go through your diet and suddenly you're
not getting enough iodine and it's easy
to get enough iodine so if you're vegan
and you're eating non-iodized salt but
you're worried about iodine like eat
cult flakes or something because you
don't have to resort to supplement
almost ever there's always ways to get
sea vegetables or other things that are
hiding so come on will pretty much wrap
it up here before we do I feel like it's
it's just like I can just imagine being
a listener and just like you know if
there's a lot of information even for me
who's someone who's pretty well
acquainted with this literature if you
had to boil it down to like you know a
few dieting guiding principles that
people can do to sort of improve their
health or maximize their health
what would you say or is it just too
difficult to say based on the present
state of the literature so from case
studies I've seen like paper write-ups
as well as some clinical evidence and
actually being in a clinic these are
things I've seen and deciding what types
of animals and plants if I need to
include in your diet doing an
elimination diet of some sort is almost
always a good idea unless you're feeling
so awesome every day when you wake up
and go to bed that you'll never change
anything so at its most basic level and
elimination diet is focusing on foods
that you enjoy eating and you know you
don't have a reaction to so for a lot of
those a lot of people those foods are
things like rice white rice not brown
rice certain fruits like berries and
there's reasons for all these but like
brown rice because it has codeine can
have morning anti-nutrients fruits other
than berries can be higher in fructose
so some people have versions to that and
then very basic protein sources so if
you eat meat then it's something just
like meat on the bone you know that's
the most basic kind of meat slow cooking
it for example if you're vegan it's a
protein source that is basically
supplemental because then you're not
getting the Associated fiber and and
some of other things with foods that for
certain people will irritate their guts
so do an elimination diet if you if
you're wanting to get down to the bottom
of what foods you should or shouldn't
eat and if you don't feel like doing
that then fine you know some people
aren't into experimentation I'd say do a
diet log every day for like two weeks
and vary your diet and see your bowel
movements see how you feel see how you
sleep tell your cell you too that some
people will tolerate high levels of
almonds and pistachios some people will
not they'll never know unless they
eliminate it from the diet and same
thing with supplements but you know this
there's always gonna be the next
complicated study but focus on your own
reactions to things and then read
studies cuz studies don't matter if your
body does not agree with it's done right
right right absolutely that's why I said
man so do you have any plan to go fully
vegan yourself or you think you're gonna
stick to the diet you're on now
I'd like to so I've been fully vegan for
long periods in the past but long story
short I have a genetic condition called
ehlers-danlos syndrome where I have
lacks tissue that's why I had to stop
lifting weights ten years ago and I have
weird gut issues because of that so
that's why gut stuff came up a lot in
this podcast cuz I researched it a lot
but I'd like to be on a vegan diet just
because when I'm on my current diet
where I do eat meat I try to eat as
ethically responsible
possible so all the wild caught fish
mostly and then also some other meat
it's almost always pasture but if I'm
stressed out or if I'm traveling or if
I'm a guest at somebody's house I'll eat
whatever's there and I don't feel good
eating factory for meat but if I'm
hungry I don't care you know people
always pretend like they're so high and
mighty but I know I'm not like all eat
like crappy junk food whether it's
plant-based or animal-based if I'm
stressed out so I'd like to be vegan on
a full-time basis I'm not now we'll see
later if that's the case for most people
I'd say just don't judge you know the
next person because we're all just
trying stuff and if you've been vegan
for 20 years congratulations if
somebody's newly vegan great if they
transition from vegan to eating pasture
meat fine as long as you think about
these issues well thanks so much for
your time come on I know you're a busy
guy but this was super informative
really really helpful so make sure you
guys go check out come on stuff if you
haven't yet examined it's an incredible
resource so yeah couldn't recommend it
more highly thanks for having me on yeah
absolutely all right guys thanks for
watching I don't forget to leave the
video a thumbs up if you enjoyed it
subscribe to the channel if you happen
to be new I'm planning to do more
interviews like this at least once a
month as my goal so anyway I'll see you
guys all here in the next one
[Music]