hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization the question today is
about recovery how is it different
between Maddie folks and enhanced folks
if you don't know what that means
Google
's always got you so before we get into
the differences we have to get a few
caveats and sort of framework items set
up first of all please give a look
is right here to our how much muscles do
steroid add video okay so basically we
talk about performance types of
substances and talk about how much
muscle they realistically add in
addition to that we have videos that are
Natty versus enhanced training and Natty
versus enhanced diet once you watch
those you'll have a much better
understanding of what our sort of take
is on how much these substances are
effective and to what extent and it'll
basically set you up with just a more
holistic understanding of how Natty
versus enhanced works
and per that above and these are things
I see in those other videos
all enhanced people in my estimate
including in this video are very
Advanced naddies that have gotten almost
all of their natural gains and
transitioned to enhanced after that so
probably after about 10 years of
training it's not folks that started
training after six months they're like
ah let's go enhanced in addition to that
I will not once address in this video
not a single time the what you can get
away with idea of recovery I remember it
was told to me once I saw two very
muscular very lean gentlemen at the
Arnold that were from Europe and they
were walking around the Expo I was like
holy crap those guys are jacked and
someone told me you know those guys all
take tons of trend and that's how come
they can eat total junk all the time and
stay lean and to me it's like you know
if you're gonna literally poison your
body with insanely bad for you drugs
don't use them as crutches use them as
optimalities right like if you're gonna
blow up something in your backyard might
as well be attached to a rocket to
launch something up into space or some
shit like that don't just blow up your
you know old stove and get shrapnel in
your eyes for no reason so a lot of
people will say well listen if I take
drugs I don't have to get as much sleep
I don't have to eat as much because the
drugs have me covered Well yeah if you
want to take drugs but get Maddie
results you can take Natty recovery
mostly away and still get those Natty
results here we're talking about using
drugs to get superhuman results which
means all of your recovery is already
set in stone and as good as possible and
then we try to figure out what layer of
uh intricacy drugs add to that all right
so per that we have five points of
recovery differences between Natty and
enhanced I'm sure this is not a
completely inclusive list there's a good
enough list to get you guys thinking on
the big picture so first
one Dependable thing you get especially
from anabolic use is an increased
recovery speed from delayed onset muscle
soreness so you still get sore if you
train very hard on anabolics and if you
don't get sore if you train hard an
anabolics you're probably not training
hard enough so if you were an adding and
you're training XYZ amount of sets and
you were getting pretty sore that's
awesome if you were healing on time you
start taking antibiotics you're not
getting sore anymore that's an
invitation to train much harder so you
still get sore but even if you still get
sore usually you heal faster without a
bollocks again so we're quick and you un
get unsore quick as long as you're
taking antibiotics and you're eating
properly and you're sleeping it
contracts the amount of time you're sore
for which is very good because you can
hit it hard sooner and thus get more
growth per any given unit time
point so yes drugs help without recovery
very much
now here is where the interesting things
start to happen when it's not just okay
open and shut
muscle to connective tissue recovery
ratio starts to go into huge favor of
muscle and disfavor of connective tissue
which means your muscles begin to heal
very quickly your connective tissues
here's the complexity
if you take the average General
anabolics
then your connective tissues heal just
about the same because there's a few
classes of anabolics that reduce your
connective tissue healing rates Trend
being an example there are other classes
of anabolics for example to one one of
which belongs is the equipoise boldenone
EQ it actually increases the uh the
speed and completeness with which your
connective tissue heals but on average
those two tend to cancel each other out
so you take the average anabolic you
should not expect a whole lot of help
with tendon recovery you say okay that's
not bad it's not hurting me well hold on
a second your muscles are recovering so
fast and getting big so fast that they
can outpace your connective tissue and
thus pose injury problems so if you're
enhanced you have to give some thought
to one taking more of the kinds of
anabolics and there are a few different
kinds that tend to increase the speed
and completeness of connective tissue
healing or if you take the other ones
that sort of take away from it a little
or just aren't fast enough you have to
make sure to train either a little bit
lighter all the time or take distinct
periods of much lighter training
alternative with period of hammer
training so that the heavy training
doesn't add up at up and up and then you
snap your shit up so that's definitely a
concern but I would say on the net
balance
into a neutral Direction slash direction
of which you have to be more attentive
to recovery now if you take certain
compounds your recovery is helped on
average but I would say for joints and
connective tissues unless you use it in
a very specific way anabolics tend not
to help that problem and if you're
training hard they make that problem
with marginally a little bit worse
because your muscles can get away from
your tendons and ligaments and things
like that other connective tissues and
that strength disparity can increase the
chance of injury which is one of the
reasons why I see really freaky injuries
mostly in people that use drugs and not
natties Point number three more bad news
sleep can be harder to get
stimulants remember we're talking about
all enhancements stimulants Clan For
example uh Trend by itself is a drug and
just a huge burden of anabolics in
general makes sleep worse and that's not
good so at some point you take enough
Trend you know it helps it helps it
helps to recover and everything it helps
you grow muscle but at some point it
starts to interfere with sleep so much
that the help and the hurt and the sound
of balanced and any more time on top of
that is probably in that negative so
sleep can be harder again that's a
problem however Point number four there
are other drugs that you can take with
enhancement that make sleep easier to
get for example growth hormone dosed
appropriately especially before you go
to bed and then potentially in the early
morning slash middle of the night can
make your sleep deeper and more complete
more recovering than you ever thought
was possible after age six or something
you sleep like a child
so can you get better sleep using
anabolics yes you have to mitigate or
you have to decrease how much total
energy and load you're exposing yourself
to and take the kinds of androgens not
trend for example that don't that
minimally interfere with your sleep in
addition to that if you layer in a
healthy dose so to speak of growth
hormone appropriately timed then you can
get some very very great sleep better
than daddy sleep especially towards the
end of a contest prep can really really
help but if you're not attentive you
will get worse sleep which is why when
you know the the big illusion here with
recovery differences is people say oh I
take the drugs and I recover better well
sort of if you don't mind which drugs
you're taking how much in a relationship
to other drugs you can have worse
recovery outcomes rather than better
ones
lastly
sorry second to last you still need as
much sleep as an Addie to make gains
okay absolutely do so this idea that you
can be on anabolics and not sleep and
still grow muscle is true but then
you're not getting the optimum result if
you get as much sleep as you would as an
Addie even more with the aid of
something like growth hormone then you
grow that much more sleep is ultra
anabolic and the most high quality sleep
you can get the better so if you're
taking enhancements it's probably good
to take them in such a way that most of
the year at least they enhance your
sleep and not take away from it if
you're saying yeah I love Trend it gets
me jacked but it hurts my sleep but it's
not a sustainable equation
Point number five pretty much the last
point or almost last point
is that you get anxious and angry or
easier anabolics tend to increase your
Central Drive they increase how fast you
recover from systemic stress so if you
have a hard workout where you feel like
you need to peel yourself off the floor
emotionally if you're not enough
anabolics a couple hours later you're
ready to go and you're super fucking
crazy that's the upside where you can
actually just do repeat Ultra hard
workouts however the downside is that
generally you get anxious and angry or
easier in anabolics so if you're driving
through traffic and you're maybe a
little bit late to your doctor's
appointment if you're drug free
everything else being equal you could be
like ah you know traffic's outside of my
control and my dentist is an asshole
anyway he's always 20 minutes late so if
I'm 10 minutes late I'm just saving both
of us time right on the other hand if
you're in anabolics I'm going to use
somebody cuts you off in traffic same
trip to the dentist you know he has a
Ferrari you start thinking like I wonder
if I could rip open that guy's car door
and stab him with his own car door
wouldn't that be a joyful it's just
blood squirting everywhere
blood squirting all over steering wheel
you just like as his life leaves his
body you get more power right that's how
you feel and then you're like holy shit
the hell am I thinking and somebody
actually Cuts you off and you're like
fuck and you're super anxious you're
gonna disappoint your dentist and what
if you can't get your teeth clean and
it's just this every next step in your
life is the beginning of the end that's
the slip that breaks your tibia that you
get an infection and then they take the
whole leg and then you're in the
hospital and the bills pile up this is
the kind of thoughts you have all the
time it's really fun so the added
anxiety and aggression that you get from
anabolics really does hurt your recovery
unless you know how to manage it very
well it takes a lot of sort of uh you
know psychological presentness and uh
practice right and an awareness and a
desire an understanding that yes I am
it's psychological dis-ease and I have
to proactively work towards a state of
ease that promotes recovery so yeah
what's the what's the bottom line here
you definitely heal the muscular tissue
level faster you heal from systemic
stresses faster you probably get uh to
Healing faster from being sick so like a
thing I've noticed at least colloquially
I'll let you you guys have this little
insight I'm not sure if it's been
studied on a grand scale although
there's some research that alludes to it
if you're an abolish you get sick less
often and if you get sick you get unsick
quite quickly so they do help they do
help however I want you guys to take the
big point away from this lecture is they
help with some trade-offs and caveats
that have to be attended to for example
yes they help your muscles heal faster
but that presents a potential problem
for your connective tissues something
you have to manage something you have to
stay away from going too hard for too
long in addition to that they can help
your sleep but they can also hurt your
sleep they can help your systemic
recovery but through anger and anxiety
they can hurt it so you have to use
these things intelligently with the
guidance of a coach like broader Chavez
team evil GSP or like Joe Jeffrey at the
physique Collective get in touch with
these folks to learn how to do these
things optimally if you're going to do
it if you're in a country that allows
them to be done legal and if you're not
cheating at sport Kudos but remember
these are powerful tools with powerful
good effects and potentially very
powerful bad effects it's not like this
pill you take when just makes everything
better if you want a pill
it just makes everything better when you
take it Renaissance periodization.com
forward slash the pill it's just limited
offer of just 18 easy payments of
9.99.99
it's a lot of money see you guys next
time