[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at how to perform
the overhead barbell press or ohp with
perfect technique so with this movement
we're performing shoulder flexion
basically lifting your arm up overhead
which will be handled by the anterior or
front deltoid and to a lesser degree the
clavicular or upper head of the pecs
we'll also be performing elbow extension
which will hit all three heads of the
triceps and when viewed from the back
you can see that there will be scapular
upward rotation occurring handled by the
upper traps now i like the overhead
press for two main reasons
first being a basic multi-joint barbell
movement it allows for a good deal of
progressive overload although it usually
does take longer to gain strength on
than other exercises so be patient and
second it is a great general strength
building exercise that goes through a
huge range of motion nearly 180 degrees
of shoulder flexion however there is one
thing that i don't love about the
overhead press and that is that it is
quite front deltoid dominant one 2013
study comparing four shoulder press
variations found that dumbbell presses
were better than barbell presses for
targeting the side delts and in both
cases doing your presses standing rather
than sitting was better for the side
belts so if growing the side delt is the
main goal in addition to a lateral raise
you may want to include a dumbbell press
however the range of motion may be cut
shorter here especially as you go
heavier as the bulky head of the
dumbbell might start hitting your
shoulders on the way down ending the
range of motion so in practice i think
it's smart to combine and periodically
vary exercises and while it isn't
perfect on its own i do still like the
overhead press as a core sort of bread
and butter vertical pressing movement
now because the ohp involves multiple
joints and uses a large range of motion
generally speaking it should be loaded
with moderate to heavy weight somewhere
in the 5 to 10 rep zone you want to set
up the bar in a squat rack at the same
height you would for a squat somewhere
around armpit height you want to unrack
the weight by gripping the bar with a
slightly wider than shoulder width grip
so your hands are just outside your
shoulders get your elbows underneath the
bar while slightly bending the knees and
hips and stand up straight lifting the
bar up off the rack take two to three
steps back and firmly plant your feet
with a roughly shoulder width stance and
a slight 15 degree foot flare you want
to point your elbows slightly outside
your shoulders and this will be your
starting position now although i
wouldn't normally recommend a thumbless
so-called suicide grip for anyone new to
the movement as you get more comfortable
with it i think the thumbless grip can
be used here as long as your wrists are
stacked meaning from the side position
the bar should be resting above the
wrist joint not behind the wrist joint
near the fingers so you want to
externally rotate your shoulders pushing
the elbows slightly out at about a 45
degree angle you don't want them flared
too much out to the sides which can
cause shoulder pain and you don't want
them straight in front of the shoulders
which will limit your strength potential
so with the bar resting on your upper
chest or collarbone area you want to
flex your glutes to ensure that your
spine is kept neutral and take a deep
breath into your gut pressing the air
out against your belt if you have one
which is going to increase
intra-abdominal pressure and torso
rigidity as you press while holding your
breath press the bar straight up not up
and forward or up and backward so when
viewed from the side the bar should be
traveling up in a pretty much straight
line so in order to keep the bar from
hitting your chin you'll have to
slightly tilt your head back as you
initiate the press then as you clear
your face push your head forward back to
a neutral position now throughout the
concentric you want to keep your knees
hips and shoulder blades motionless the
common error here is to shrug your
shoulders up to initiate the concentric
off the chest and while this may make
the movement easier in the short term i
think in the long term it really can
weaken your bottom end concentric
pressing ability and end up limiting
your true max strength potential press
the bar all the way up until your elbows
lock out with the bar overhead centered
over the shoulder joint at the end of
the range of motion there should be a
pretty much a straight line connecting
the barbell the shoulders the hips and
the middle of the foot this will keep
everything in balance and prevent you
from shifting your weight excessively
forward onto your toes or backward onto
your heels everything should be balanced
directly over the middle of the foot
start the eccentric by dropping your
elbows down and to the side at a 45
degree angle so not straight down in
front of your delts allow the bar to
come to a full and complete stop here
while you take in another full breath of
air and begin another rep now of course
i think both the seated and the standing
dumbbell shoulder press make for
reasonable alternatives or additions
here since including isolateral
movements can help prevent muscle
imbalances and asymmetries the seated
variation will allow for the use of
heavier loads however the standing
variation will increase stabilization
demands meaning more core and side delt
activation and unlike with the barbell
press here you can just press the
dumbbells straight up with the dumbbells
more out to the sides since you don't
need to worry about smashing your face
on the way up for the dumbbell
variations i prefer slightly higher reps
usually in the 8 to 15 rep zone um so i
would say the most common error that i
see here is just not using a full range
of motion similar to the pull-up many
people will cut the range of motion
short at the top and the bottom not
going to full lockout and also not
touching the chest at the bottom keeping
your range of motion consistent will
ensure you're actually gaining strength
through progressive overload not
progressive decreases in range of motion
and although not inherently problematic
or injurious i am going to consider
doing touch and go reps as another error
here since they're going to create more
inconsistent reps and often lead to
bouncy reps with lots of momentum and
the reliance on that stretch reflex at
the bottom and if any of this gets too
excessive i think it really can hinder
your true brute pressing strength
required to get that bar moving from a
dead stop and a third error that i see
here all the time is not flexing the
glutes like i said the goal of this
exercise is to press the bar as
vertically as you comfortably can and
keeping your glutes waxed will usually
result in the hips being back behind the
bar which reduces stability and more
often than not results in the bar being
pressed forward rather than straight up
and this is a bad habit and it can put a
lot of strain on your lower back and
create more inconsistency in both your
bar path and just form in general okay
so that's all that i have for the
overhead press guys now before you click
out of this one i've just got a quick
rundown of what i have planned for the
next few technique tuesday episodes um
you guys may have noticed that i've been
skipping leg day so far in the series so
what i'm going to do is for the next
three episodes we're going to hit three
different lower body exercises starting
with the squat next week and i should
say here that there is no real
underlying
method or meaning to the order in which
i'm covering these exercises i'm
obviously trying to focus on exercises
that i think are smart to include in
your program but i'm trying to space out
the more time-consuming and longer
videos like the squat bench press and
deadlift so i don't burn out too quickly
on the production from the beginning um
so anyway all those videos are all
coming and i have the whole series
mapped out until about mid-june as of
now so for the release of the first
shoulder related video here i'm going to
be offering my men and women's shoulder
hypertrophy training program or training
manual at 50 off um so for this week you
can get it for 9.99 you can find these
at the discounted rate for the next week
on my website jeffnipper.com or by
clicking the first link in the
description now so guys don't forget to
leave me a like on the video if you
enjoyed it don't forget to subscribe so
that you don't miss future technique
tuesday episodes and i'll see you guys
all here next tuesday for the squat