are you looking to build some forearm
size well let me put on my hat of plus
five looks maxing and let's get into it
here are the best form exercises to
build size according to the
science welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
today PhD in sport Science with wolf
coaching and real mewing enjoyer as you
can tell I've been training my forearms
for a few years I've also been
researching how to lift and how to grow
muscle for a few years Is So based on
both my own personal experience and my
knowledge as a sports scientist here's
what I think are the best form exercises
before we actually go into those we need
to understand what the forms actually do
if we want to Target them the forms are
actually pretty complicated ultimately
they're responsible for moving your
hands around so they get pretty
complicated your hands are some of the
coolest things ever you can do a lot of
things with hands you hear me but as far
as our own purposes go there's three
muscle groups we need to be aware of the
first one is the finger flexors as the
name entails these are responsible for
flexing your fingers so going like this
essentially second we have the wrist
flexors which essentially just flex your
wrist importantly these are going to be
the meat and potatoes of our form
training and that is because they're
twice as big as the next muscle Group
which is the wrist extensors the wrist
extensors as you might expect do wrist
extension however as I mentioned these
are about half the size of the wrist
flexors collectively so if you only
train one forearm muscle it should be
the wrist flexors as I mentioned earlier
the forearm is a really complicated set
of muscles your hands do a lot of things
but for our purposes really we can break
down these three muscle groups I
mentioned into two kind of exercise
categories one will be wrist flexion
exercises where you're also flexing the
fingers and the other is wrist extension
exercises with just these two categories
of exercises will have effectively
targeted a lot of the forearm
musculature at once or at the very least
all the musculature that is big enough
for us to really care about
aesthetically importantly some of your
wrist flexor muscles like the flexor
digitorum superficialis and profundus
are both wrist flexors and also finger
flexors or if you want a more
complicated science we for your day
today metac corop falango flexors nailed
it now one implication of this anatomy
where the wrist flexors are often also
finger flexors is that to maximize the
stretch on the wrist flexors we also
want to fully extend the fingers at the
bottom of wrist curls to get a deeper
stretch on some of the biggest forearm
muscles namely the wrist flexors
unfortunately as you might expect there
aren't really many studies out there
directly looking at form hypertrophy so
in fact that is a PhD project for anyone
out there interested in looking at
getting jacked but in the meantime we
can rely on evidence-based principles to
still inform our programming when
training the forarms and on that note
what do we look for in a good forarm
exercise exercise well in the absence of
any direct studies we look for the same
things that we do in any good muscle
growth exercise and here's what the
criteria that make up a good exercise
are editor pull up the optimal exercise
[Music]
checklist please editor come on man I
just asked you to pull up the checklist
please don't don't do this to me bro
please the first criteria of a good
exercise is that it should Target one of
the primary functions of the muscle
we're trying to Target in this case that
is either wrist flexion or wrist
extension depending on what you're
targeting the second Criterion for a
good exercise is that the target muscle
group should be the limiting factor or
very close to it in something like a
forers walk the chances of the forms
being the limiting factor are a little
bit lower on account of the traps
potentially giving out first or any
other number of muscle groups
additionally Farmers walks are also
isometric holds which may not be ideal
for hypertrophy next whatever exercise
we do pick should be stretch friendly
and there three components that go into
this the first is that it should place
the target muscle into that lengthened
position that is likely beneficial for
growth the second is that in that
position there should be plenty of
tension on the muscle and the final one
is that the exercise would ideally be
lengthened partial friendly lengthen
partials is essentially when you perform
partial repetitions in the stretched
aspect of a movement for example in a
wrist curl that would be just the bottom
half of the movement why is an exercise
being length and partial friendly
potentially important well we now have
five studies in total comparing length
and partials to a four range of motion
with four finding better hypertrophy
following lengthen partials as compared
to a for range of motion we also have
around eight studies comparing partials
at different muscle lengths around five
studies comparing asymmetric holds at
different muscle lengths a couple
studies comparing seated calf raises to
standing calf raises and broadly
speaking this collection of studies does
suggest that lengthened training usually
leads to more hypertrophy compared to
shortened training and so while I don't
have a ton of direct evidence yet
comparing length and partials to full
range of motion if we can incorporate it
it may just give us more growth next up
whatever exercise we pick would ideally
not be actually loaded that is to say
there wouldn't be much load on the spine
and that's where an exercise like the
forer's walk also kind of fails in
comparison to like a wrist curl a
forer's walk does absolutely train the
forearms but it does also fatigue you
overall with the loads being used being
much larger than they would be in a
wrist curl and there being a much
greater degree of St ization involved
all around and so a farmer's walk will
in all likelihood be quite substantially
more fatiguing compared to a wrist curl
but for not much additional direct
forarm stimulus there are a couple of
bonus points that you may want to
consider in your exercise selection the
first is if you're pressed for time pick
exercises that are time efficient
generally exercises involving dumbbells
and stack loaded machines will be a lot
more time efficient than barbells or
plate loaded machines indeed dumbbells
and stack loaded machines or even cables
are essentially just Plug and Play you
set up the weight and you get good and
so these exercises can be a bit more
time efficient all else being equal the
second bonus factor is micro loadability
or essentially what is the smallest
increment you can adjust the load by
relative to how much absolute load
you're using essentially if it's very
micr loadable you can easily progress
weight week to week and not be
constrained to just adding reps week to
week and this is where exercises like
the dumbbell wrist curl may not be quite
ideal in the sense that you're unlikely
to be able to jump 5 lbs on each
dumbbell each week you will have to
resort to reps it's not a huge deal for
hypertrophy as we have one study by
Plotkin and colleagues showing similar
hypertrophy whether we're progressing
via load or VI reps but it is something
to consider all right based on all these
criteria for determining what the best
exercises and on the anatomy of the
forearms what do I think are the best
forearm exercises as I mentioned earlier
I think it makes sense to break it down
into two categories wrist flexors SL
finger flexors and wrist extensors
here's the best exercise for each C for
the wrist flexors and finger flexors we
have the dumbbell wrist curl or the
barbell wrist curl and let me break down
why that's the best pick for form
hypertrophy in my opinion first up
compared to something like a forers walk
this is Nona loaded with the fors
essentially being the only moving part
it is also overwhelmingly likely that
the target muscle is going to be the
limiting factor and going to be pushed
sufficiently close to failure to
maximize muscle growth the big
differentiating factor between a bench
wrist curl and a stack standing wrist
curl is that the bench wrist curl
actually gets you a deeper stretch under
tension and so the bench wrist curl with
dumbbells or with a barbell is likely a
better option for muscle growth compared
to the standing wrist curl because it
allows you to both extend the fingers
fully and extend the wrist fully it
targets some of the primary functions of
the biggest muscles in the forearm why
the dumbbell wrist curl over the barbell
wrist curl well for a couple reasons one
as I mentioned earlier it is likely a
little bit more time efficient because
essentially just plug and play you grab
the dumbbells and get going and the
second reason is that because of the
freedom that dumbbells allow you you're
not locked in to a high degree of
superation that can be uncomfortable in
my limited experience for some people's
risks ultimately give both of these a
try and see which one you prefer but I
do think that dumbbells on average are
just a bit more flexible But ultimately
dumbbells are no less injurious than
Bells inherently it is just my personal
experience and my coaching experience
that people typically experience less
pain with dumbbells when they do
experience pain with a barbell variation
so the barbell bench wrist curl is by no
means a bad exercise and you can
absolutely use it within your routine to
really good effect and the single best
exercise for the wrist extensors which
again are about a half the size of the
wrist flexors so only really train these
if you want to maximize the size of your
forearms looks maxing the best exercise
for those in my opinion is the dumbbell
wrist extension on the bench for the
same reasons as the dumbbell wrist curl
being a good exercise for the wrist Flex
this exercise allows you to get a full
stretch it's time efficient by virtue of
using dumbbells you're not locked into
fullon pronation you have a bit more
freedom and importantly it also makes
for a really easy super set with the
dumbbell bench wrist curl you can
essentially just grab another pair of
dumbbells or even the same pair of
dumbbells by going a little bit higher
in reps on the wrist curls and a little
bit lower in reps on the wrist
extensions you'll typically find you're
using pretty similar loads most people
can risk curl more than they can risk
extend equally if you want to use a
barbell the barbell bench wrist
extension is a great option again I
wouldn't recommend the standing
variation because you are missing out on
that loaded stretch there are two more
things I would like to say to close out
this video first are there other forarm
exercises out there yes are there other
muscle groups that we may not have
trained with just these two exercises
yes but I also think that at some point
you are running into severely
diminishing returns if you want to train
your forearms you're likely of this the
forearms aren't the biggest MUSC group
on the body they do not make the biggest
impact on your overal physique and so
personally I wouldn't go anywhere past
doing wrist extensions at that point
you're already targeting such a small
portion of your musculature that your
returns have diminished severely But
ultimately you do you and the second
thing I would like to say in closing is
that if you enjoyed this video but want
more depth on form training consider
checking out the Strong by science
article on the forums in the description
below it's got a lot of information on
the anatomy including smaller muscle
groups that you may be interested in if
you enjoyed this video please consider
liking commenting subscribing leave a
comment down below letting me know if
you enjoyed the video if there are any
other muscle groups you would like to
see me cover if you would like to get
coaching by me check out the link above
and with all that being said have a
phenomenal day and I will see you guys
my subscribers in that next one
peace all right are the camera's off I'm
going to go get back to my uh routine of
meu now see see you later