hey folks it's me Dr Mike Israel for
Renaissance periodization welcome
welcome welcome it's like a carnival we
have clowns elephants
clowns also
we don't have clowns I hate clowns I
don't think they belong in modern
civilized society but that's not why
we're here we're here to talk about the
best calorie intake for fat loss and how
you can determine how many calories you
should be eating to get the best
possible fat loss results so here we go
we're really talking about the size of
the caloric deficit
how many calories you cut out from your
normal diet in order to get the best fat
loss and here's the thing if you create
a very small deficit enough to burn
something like half a percent body
weight off of your body per week or less
so if you're like 200 pounds something
to lose like a pound per week which
really if you weigh 200 pounds that's
not that much
that's a totally fine way to do things
but that means the total amount of fat
loss you have no matter the goal is
going to take a little bit longer
which is the downside however it's much
easier
day to day and week to week because if
you have a small deficit yeah you need
to diet for longer but at no time during
that diet or you're like oh man this
sucks you could do a 12 week diet lose
only 12 pounds but at the end of that
week 12 you're like yeah I feel pretty
good it's almost like are you hungry
tired irritable and you're like no no no
actually not really the upside is that
you never really encounter any problems
the downside is that well it's only 12
pounds and other people have lost 18 and
you feel sort of like you're missing out
on the other hand if you create a very
large deficit
our definition here at RP of large
deficit is anything above one percent
body weight loss per week so if you
weigh 200 pounds for example it's losing
two pounds or more per week that's
pretty fucking serious
the fat loss obviously occurs much
quicker however it's harder day to day
and week to week you run into more
hunger and fatigue and irritability and
all this other stuff sleep problems and
as long as you can manage those you can
get rate results but manage them becomes
tougher and tougher and tougher the more
the deficit Rises so our question
actually in this video we're going to
answer is between a very easy cut that
gets you not so great results and a hard
cut that gets you really good results if
you can survive how do we find where
between these two is the best place for
us short of burnout of course is there
an Optimum turns out there is
that Optimum is met if you can meet
three conditions you are somewhere
around that Optimum here we go first
condition
is whatever the deficit is it still
leaves you with enough food that allows
you to have a high training energy
soon as you're eating so little food
that your training turns to dog shit man
that's probably not the ideal deficit
for you in most cases right you can
train hard with plenty of food and
enough energy you can you spare all of
the muscle which means you don't lose
any muscle which is awesome
and you have tons of daily energy for
calorie burning activity and just
getting all your stuff done so if you
can have a good enough energy to do all
your daily tasks and train really hard
then man that's a really good thing any
deficit that is deeper than that will
inevitably cause pretty serious problems
it may not be the right deficit for you
number two
no matter how big you make the deficit
if you start cutting in so deep that
your sleep gets disrupted fat is no
bueno in a big way why because sleep is
an incredible fat burner possibly the
most powerful fat burner study after
study shows that if you're not
chronically not getting enough sleep you
actually build fat while losing muscle
fuck all that but if you get enough
sleep you can burn a shitload of fat
while building muscle it's the opposite
so any deficit that you plan to do that
you say oh man I'm going to impose this
really big deficit and I'm going to lose
a lot of fat if it starts to fuck with
your sleep that's not happening anymore
to some extent the worst the biggest
deficit is the worse it gets you are
trading you're still losing tissue but a
lot of it starts to be muscle not as
much starts to be fat and then
everything goes to hell and because your
sleep is so critical and maintaining
your fatigue levels or keeping them low
as soon as you're chronically under
sleeping your fatigue skyrockets and
ruins everything else around you
including but not limited to point
number three which is hunger
if your hunger is overwhelming you start
to stress out about it you start to cut
down on your daily productivity because
instead of typing an email to Janus you
type half the email then you scroll on
Amazon for the kind of chips you're
going to buy when your diet is over and
you go back to typing the email to
Janice and
you're trying to relax in your down
times but instead of flipping through
the TV to find cool shit to watch you're
flipping through the uh Food Network and
just looking at food like this and you
realize that you're so frustrated and so
hungry and so pissed you're not even
able to relax anymore it's very
difficult to relax when you're hungry
that's for very good evolutionary reason
your instinctual proclivities to do X Y
or Z you know stab someone with a spear
or try to get laid or try to take a dump
when you have to it's all controlled by
subconscious and unconscious processes
to make sure you do the right thing in
the absence of culture and still survive
that sort of system also make sure that
when you are hungry you're not able to
relax because if you're hungry and
relaxing you are diminishing in body
weight and it will eventually die you
have to go out there and scavenge for
food or forage for food or kill
something to eat it then when you are
hungry your body's telling you there's
not enough food it's going to make it
very difficult to relax and instead it's
going to get you to get up and go do
something about the shit that's called
stress and you don't want that shit so a
deficit that is very high that doesn't
cause crazy Hunger of course you're
going to be a little hungry but hunger
that's just to really interfere and
overwhelm the rest of your life that is
too big of a deficit it is not the right
deficit for you in most cases
so to answer the question of how hard do
we go on the deficit to get the best
possible results the fastest results
with all these downsides is literally
you go up to as hard as possible
as these three points start to give out
on you right so you can go easier you
can say I'm gonna lose a half a pound
per week never remotely run into any of
these three problems and that's awesome
the downsides that it's going to take a
long time no big deal if you have the
time but sometimes it can be a little
demotivational and you want to get it
done faster and remember the optimum
deficit means the one that accomplishes
the work the quickest with the fewest
downsides so here if you take your
deficit and push it just to the brink of
where all three of these things are
still not problems and if you push it
any further they start to be problems
just to the brink that's where your
ideal deficit is I'm not giving you a
number because it's going to be
different for all of you but if you know
this intellectually if you could say
okay do I have a lot of training energy
sweet
is my sleep still good yes but I tried
eating a little less a few days and my
sleep sucked is my Hunger overhauling no
but those days that I ate a little bit
less my Hunger started to really get to
me I know what I'm eating right now is
the furthest I can push it and for the
next several days or weeks that's as far
as I'll push it maybe I'll change it
later but for now that's as far as I
push it
it's almost the definition of like um
like if you're kind of stupid analogy
can I come up with you stole an alien
spaceship and you're running away from
Aliens you know you can fly that ship
almost as fast as to when it breaks but
if you break it then your death in Space
the aliens come and they anal probe they
only ever want one thing the aliens
that's to anal probe you if you don't
want to get any no probe you push that
ship as fast as it can go but no faster
same idea here you push your deficit low
enough to go as fast as possible but
that you still have a high amount of
training energy and daily activity
energy enough food for that your sleep
is still fundamentally good and your
hunger isn't overwhelming you that's how
you know you're pushing it as far as you
can but no further it's going to take
some trial and error so start on the
easier end and push your deficit a
little aggressively but when you bump
into a problem bump out of it by
increasing the amount of food you're
eating
foreign ing for muscle growth
is never going to be the same
a little bit of some bonus information
all three of these indicators
will tell you how long you can diet for
how the fuck do they tell you how long
you can die for us how does that make
any sense well here's what you do you
set a minimum weight loss goal per week
you say look at 0.75 per week I run into
these problems of excessive hunger
irritability sleep problems and not
enough energy
I'm going to set 0.5 as a minimum weight
loss per week well within that 0.75 so
like a pound a week if you're 200 pounds
and you say if I can't lose
half a percent per week without hitting
these problems I'm done
so what you do at first is you start at
the highest deficit level that these
three conditions still check mark for
and as they encroach on you you know for
four weeks you may not have any hunger
at all but losing at 0.75
after week number five you start to have
hunger you go to a 0.65 not 0.75 you add
a couple hundred calories in to make
sure the deficit isn't as intense and
you keep going
when you stop the diet is when you can
no longer check mark all three of those
factors as still good
and
you reached past your cutoff point for
how much weight you wanted to lose so
put another way if you're starting to
get hungry even at half a percent and
you said half a percent was the most
you'd ever go two weeks in a row if
you're too hungry to kind of sustain it
and you need more food the diet's over
at that point so what you can do is
start out with a rational diet setup go
as far as you can as fast that's kind of
like um
driving your car
until a quarter tank of gas and then
looking for gas stations you don't
really know when you're going to hit a
quarter tank of gas like you know
roughly it's 300 miles but like there's
some hills and there's some turns and
there's some bad weather comes down you
get into traffic you get out of traffic
you go 90 you go 70 you go 50 miles an
hour you don't know exactly when but
because you have a rule of as soon as
they get to a quarter tank I gotta pull
off and get gas that's your rule and
when that happens you cut out so here
instead of saying okay it's a quarter
tank of gas our metric is we have to
lose half a percent at least per week
and we have to not encounter psychotic
energy disruption not encounter
psychotic hunger or not encounter
psychotic sleep problems if we can
checklist all four of those boxes we're
going
if we can't checklist all four of those
boxes because we've already raised our
calories what this means is you actually
start with a bigger calorie deficit at
the beginning and then add a little bit
of food as you go to still coast along
but as soon as you have to add food
beyond that half a percent per week
we caught out we run we stop the diet
and you had a diet you're looking back
on it someone said hey how'd your diet
go and you can honestly tell them I diet
it as hard as I could for as long as I
could
until it became unsustainable and then I
stopped then you go to maintenance fix
all that shit up reduce all the fatigue
Etc and then you can diet again
well shit this works in almost every
circumstance and it's something to keep
in the back of your head theoretically
when you're trying to decide how hard
should I diet for how long should I die
for this is the core theoretical
boundary layer set up for that problem
there are a few exceptions to it first
exception is uh well actually really
just one
something formal that has a certain
explicit goal and then you just have to
reach the goal like contest prep
have to be like five percent bad on
stage and that means hunger and fatigue
and all that stuff is just something you
have to deal with
right
um
I guess the analogy is like you know we
got to get away from these aliens
because they're not going to anal Probus
they're going to fucking kill us so even
if the ship's starting to be real
unstable
we got to keep pushing and even if the
ship is running on fumes we got to keep
pushing because if we crash the ship
into this jungle alien world we can all
scatter off in the aliens and never find
us and then we make friends with uh
Ewoks
we learned that we actually don't have a
mutually intelligent language with them
there's a misunderstanding and the Ewoks
try to stab you you kill the Ewok Chief
now you're in charge of all the Ewoks
and the Ewok female start looking at you
with those Ewok eyes and you're like
Jesus Christ you're like a teddy bear
I'm not gonna have sex with you fuck why
am I here
I've ended weird anyway
folks
see you next time