all of my people are pushing the bottom
of fortune or pippin the block I can mix
20 feet of Bob and 41 so we just
finished up an upper body workout this
is actually the second last upper body
workout of my nine week upper lower
program so I'm pretty much finished with
that now week 9 day 4 I think it was
yeah week nine day four basically what I
decided I was gonna do yesterday is I'm
gonna finish out this program and then
I'm gonna do max tests next week so
they're gonna be conservative tests for
the squat and the deadlift but I am
gonna work up to something of a 1 rep
max attempt on the bench press so you
guys can look forward to that I am gonna
document that I don't know if we'll do
that as like maybe like a weekly recap
where I'll like test my tests my maxes
and show you guys how I did I want to
dig in with this workout from today so
we kick things off with a max bench top
set for a double so I'm basically doing
this kind of to acclimate myself to
heavier weight for that test next week
most of my work when I'm doing like a
hypertrophy or bodybuilding type phase
which is what I do most of the time is
gonna be generally in that like 70% to
80% of my one rep max zone so fairly
light weights as far as like
powerlifting standards would be
concerned and that's just because I'm
able to accumulate more volume in that
loading zone but what I wanted to do
today was a top double so I worked up to
315 it looks like more than that but
these plates are actually 35 pound
plates so this gym only has 35 pound
plates on this like next to this bench
so anyway this is 315 2 reps moved super
smooth I feel like I could probably have
cranked out at least another
for reps too if I'm being honest on the
bench so hopefully my my max lift will
go well I'm probably gonna work up to
like at least 350 and yeah we'll see
from there but I'm basically just doing
this for like confidence and like neural
efficiency purposes really for peaking
there's gonna be a little bit of a
tangent but I kind of wanted to explain
this so this is more or less how this
program was set up over here on the
y-axis we have volume and down here we
have time so this was week 0 this is
week 9 now granted I was traveling a lot
I got sick and so I did take a break
around the six week mark here I took a
little break so I was running this
program a little longer than nine weeks
so it didn't work out perfectly like
this for me but this is how it would go
in theory so kind of start off with like
lower volume here build up in week three
volume goes back down goes up again goes
back down and week six and builds up
again in week nine
so this upper body workout that I did
today was the highest volume work out of
the program and so what you get every
three weeks in this program is like a
mini D load and then it builds up so I
want to talk about this net now I should
say this it doesn't go like this for
every single exercise but as a whole
this is kind of how the volume is
paradise throughout the program and this
is what I would call a wave loading
model so like here you have three weeks
here you have another three weeks and
here you have another three weeks and
you can see volume accumulates goes down
accumulates goes down accumulates so
these would be like mini volume
accumulation phases and then these would
be like many d loads here not really a d
load it's just that volume is a bit
lower now practically speaking one way I
did this and this program was with the
OHP so yeah it was a nine week program
so week one two three four and nine
in Week one on HP we did two sets of
four at 75% of my OHP one rep max so
let's just say a hundred percent one rep
max would be 185 let's say that was a
hundred percent you would just take 75%
of that and that's what you do hopefully
most people are you know up to speed on
that so then in week two we would do
three sets of four with the same weight
week three would be four by four with
the same weight
now week four the weight is increased
but the volume is down again so week
four we would go seventy seven point
five percent one rep max week five now
we're accumulating volume again so three
sets of four with the same weight week
six would be four sets of four same
weight week seven back down to two sets
of four but the weight is now up to 80
percent week eight add another set same
weight week nine now we've got peak
volume and peak load at eighty percent
right so as you can see volume peaks at
the end of the the phase and then we're
also linearly but moderately increasing
the weight so throughout these nine
weeks as the volume is waving the
intensity is basically just linearly
increasing like this so the way it
actually increases is it'll kind of stay
the same and then it'll go up and then
it'll stay the same go up stay the same
and go up so the red would be load so
that's kind of generally speaking how
this program looked that's how the OHP
looked now I want to take you guys
through the workout now I should say
this is a pretty high frequency program
so upper body's being hit three days a
week lower body's being hit three days a
week this is the highest volume week so
that this is actually like pretty
challenging I would say it's on the high
end of what I would would recommend but
keep in mind we're at the end of the
to the phase here so kicked it off with
OHP four sets of four I did 145 pounds
my rationale with OHP in terms of
increasing sets in each wave is that I
find OHP is the type of exercise that
you'll just hit the wall very suddenly
so you might be doing reps and you'll
feel like okay RP 5 okay are PE six boom
all of a sudden you're at an RP 10 and
you can't get another rep so I like to
leave that extra rep 2 or 3 in the tank
on OHP and accumulate volume through
increasing sets mostly from week to week
and then as you can see every third week
you know we increased the weight as well
now with that said I will say I think
OHP is probably my weakest lift and I
don't know exactly why this is I did a
full video on technique I think my
technique is good but if you guys have
any tips or anything that you found
really catapulted your OHP strength or
you think might benefit me
comment down below I'm actually always
looking for feedback on ways that I can
improve my lifts especially the OHP
because it like I said it is a weak
point to me especially in relation to my
bench so if you guys have any tips for
me comment them down below if there's
any that I like I'll hurt them or I'll
pin a comment if I think it'll actually
be really useful and something that I
can apply after all which P moved on to
the wide grip pull up there we did five
sets of six reps so plenty of volume and
here I'm strapping an extra thirty
pounds around my waist for all five sets
and leaving probably about two or three
reps in the tank although by the time I
got to the fifth set I was pushing it
pretty hard so probably wouldn't have
had much more than a repperton
by the time I got to the end now one
thing that I find a lot of people do
with pull-ups is they queue this from
the perspective of just trying to get
their chin up over the bar and I think
you should try to get your chin over the
bar but what you want to think about is
pulling your elbows in down toward your
sides rather than just trying to get
your chin up over the bar the chin will
naturally come up over the bar as a
consequence of your elbows being pulled
in to your sides and I think that's a
much better way to
q your lats to engage then just think
about like externally queuing in a sense
another thing I find a lot of people do
on the pull-up is they'll kind of get
lazy for that top quarter and bottom
quarter of the range of motion so
they'll kind of just like yank
themselves up at the very top and then
they'll just let themselves fall at the
very bottom I think you want to use a
controlled cadence on the pull-up
throughout the full range of motion so
really focus on that intentional squeeze
at the top
getting all the way up and then
controlling on the negative all the way
down to the very bottom okay so after
that we moved on to barbell close grip
bench press three sets of eleven with
the close grip bench press I've been
progressing by adding reps so like add
one rep week to week rather than adding
any weight
now with the close grip bench press I
find a lot of people take that name far
too literally so they'll move their
hands literally directly close together
which is really not a practical or
effective way to train the bench press a
lot of people will get wrist pain if
they go this close I think that for all
intents and purposes a close grip end
should be around shoulder-width
basically or maybe slightly wider so a
full normal grip bench press for me is
probably closer to more like two times
shoulder width somewhere between 1.5 and
2 so a Close Grip would more be little
more like between 1 and 1.5 time
shoulder width and then also what
separates a close grip bench press from
a normal standard grip bench press is
that you do keep your elbows a little
bit more in at the sides I find it to be
a great accessory movement for helping
with lockout strength on the standard
bench press you're also taking the
barbell through a slightly greater range
of motion so it's good from a
hypertrophic perspective there and also
I think an underrated aspect of the
close grip bench press is that it's
going to train more shoulder flexion as
opposed to shoulder adduction so
basically what this means is that the
upper chest is going to get more
involved on the close grip bench press
so you can try this out for yourself if
you just raise your arm out in front of
you like if you did a front raise you'll
feel your upper pecs contract when you
think about what you're doing on a close
grip bench press you're more in the
plane of shoulder flexion
as opposed to shoulder abduction out
here so you're gonna get the upper pecs
slightly more involved with that
shoulder flexion also the front delt
also obviously contributes to shoulder
flexion however it gets more involved as
you get to greater degrees of shoulder
flexion so the front delt really starts
to exert itself more here which is why
something like the OHP is going to
really target the front delt over the
upper PEC even though the upper PEC will
be involved to some degree with the
bench press where you're lying flat
you're at lower degrees of shoulder
shoulder flexion here right so I think
that the upper chest is going to be
quite active on the close grip bench
press compared to the standard grip
bench press also on the close grip bench
press I won't set up quite as extreme of
an arch so I'll still depress and
retract my shoulder blades but I won't
do the full-blown powerlifting set up
like I would have done on my top sets at
the beginning of the workout right after
that we're moving on to three sets of 10
on the bent over barbell row I did these
as Pendley rows basically just because I
find the pen lay row really forces you
to kind of hone in on your technique it
really prevents you from cheating and
also because you're roughly parallel
with the floor or you're at least much
more bent over you will get slightly
more range of motion as far as shoulder
extensions concerned which means more
range of motion for the lats also I find
that if you pull back at about a 45
degree angle you get the perfect mix of
scapular retraction to hit the mid traps
develop that back thickness and also
shoulder extension which is going to
train the lats and also you have the
spinal erectors of the lower back
contract and isometrically
so really you've got the whole back
being activated with this movement it's
definitely one of my favorites
now after that this is something I
haven't shown too much on the channel
but I have been doing it for basically
this whole program two sets of as many
reps as possible on the push up so I
like to do these set up with two plates
to get a little bit of extra range of
motion at the bottom and even though I
will use a fast tempo I'm not doing
these completely uncontrolled where I
just kind of let myself fall on the
negative
I do control the negative and then kind
of squeeze at the top of each rep so I'm
not really just like bouncing even
though it might look like I'm doing the
reps
kind of fast as I play them here but in
any case the first set I did 50 reps
which when you actually control the
cadence of the movement is so much
harder like if I was doing just standard
bounce push-ups I probably could have
got I would guess maybe between like 60
to 70 but when you increase the range of
motion a little bit and go to full
extension and then more of a full
stretch at the bottom it makes them much
more difficult and then on my second set
I think I got thirty reps so 50 and 30
now after that moved on to two sets of
thirty banded pull-up hurts the main
rationale here is to kind of help
balance out all the pressing volume on
this day I like to have at least a one
to one ratio of pushing to pulling just
for a shoulder and postural health to
keep everything balanced front to back
so having these band pull apart in there
are kind of like a prehabilitation
but also are great for hitting the rear
delts one thing that I like to do here
is not just pull the band straight apart
but also think about kind of externally
rotating at the top the rear delts are
not only going to horizontally abduct
the shoulder so basically do what you do
on a reverse PEC deck
they also externally rotate the shoulder
so when you kind of externally rotate at
the top I find you can get a full sort
of peak contraction but the rear delts
and that's something that I find helps
me get a really good mind muscle
connection there as well now after that
in the program it says three sets of ten
eccentric accentuated hammer curls I
think this is a great movement for
developing forearm strength
brachioradialis muscle right here and
also quite a bit of biceps however for
me personally I find I have the exact
opposite problem my forms really tend to
take over on my bicep work so I kind of
want to do the opposite of the hammer
curl so for me I'm really focusing on
supination so what I did was three sets
of ten strict concentration curls with a
focus on keeping the forum supinated and
also kind of driving through my pinky on
the way up and that's a cue that I find
to be really helpful
taking my forms out and really
emphasizing my biceps can also take more
of a loose grip on the dumbbell so if I
squeeze the dumbbell really hard
I find that my forearms start to take
over as well and that's the exact
opposite what I want my forearms I find
kind of overpower my biceps a little bit
alright so to finish out the workout we
have a upper body weak point option put
in here for three sets of 15 to 20 so
for that I did some neck training so I
did 3 sets of 20 neck curls I'm so
basically just like put a cap on my head
and I've still been pyramiding these
because I find if I just jump into the
heavy weight right away my neck gets
really cranky the next couple of days so
I'll start with just head weight then
I'll do a 25 pound plate a 35 pound
plate and then a 45 pound plate and one
thing that I've been finding helps quite
a bit is gripping the plate almost from
the top of the plate you're mashing the
plate between your hands and your
forehead if that makes sense because if
you grip the plates on the sides you can
even without noticing it really use your
arms to help you kind of cheat the
weight up so that's something I've been
doing just gripping the plates from the
top more or less and then also I finally
got my new neck Flex in from the people
at neck flex you guys all know they're a
new affiliate or sponsor here on the
channel and when we were in California
there was a home invasion at our Airbnb
and they stole my gym bag and my book
bag so I lost like a ton of stuff
including my neck flex head harness so
anyway I actually ended up losing a nice
bit of strength because I didn't have
this so I was doing only neck bridges so
anyway I got my head harness back I only
worked up to a 25 pound plate for 3 sets
of 10 which isn't fantastic by any
stretch but it feels good to be actually
like loading head extension with some
like decent weight again rather than
just doing bridges so I just did 3 sets
of 10 on those and that rounded out the
workout I did another video last week
showing you guys an example of a leg day
from this program I'll put that in the
description box down below if you'd like
to check it out also I'm currently just
about finished writing my next program
that'll be on my website so that's going
to be the full body program so
after I finish this program up next week
and test my maxes I'm going to start
testing the waters with the new full
body program so I'm thinking it's
probably gonna be about one more month
before it's available and when I drop
that I'm also going to bring back to
science applied series and do a bunch of
full body workout so I'm thinking I'm
going to do five full-body workout
videos in conjunction with the the
launch of that program and as of right
now I've got a few people test running
the beta version of the program so Marc
fitt is doing it my teammate at Rhys and
he's loving the program so far I've got
my dad doing it as well and a couple
other of my buddies so yeah I think this
program is going to be the best one yet
I have to say I loved this upper/lower
program tons of you guys have have run
it the feedback has been amazing if
you'd like to check that one out before
the the new full-body program comes out
I'll put a button to the program over
here and I'll have it linked down there
in the description box below thank you
guys so much for watching don't forget
to leave the video a thumbs up if you
enjoyed it subscribe if you haven't
already and I'll see you guys all here
in the next video