[Music]
to maximize muscle hypertrophy what is
the exact amount of protein you need
across the web there's split views some
say it's a lot While others provide a
specific amount also how important is
protein intake relative to your training
in this video we're going to answer
these questions by dissecting the most
up-to-date scientific literature on
protein and muscle hypertrophy welcome
to the house of
hypertrophy
in the scientific world metaanalyses are
generally considered some of the best
evidence as they combine the results of
numerous individual studies on the same
topic in the last 6 years there have
been three metaanalyses examining how
daily protein intake relates to muscle
growth here are the relationships
established in each firstly it is
unsurprising that all show a
relationship between protein and gains
secondly they all allude to more and
more protein not necess necessarily
being required the 2018 one found a
plateau at 1.6 G per kilog of total body
weight a day the 2021 found a plateau
with this model at around 1.5 G per kg
of total body weight a day the 2022 one
owing to their different approach to
modeling the data may lead you to
believe that more and more protein does
lead to more growth but the confidence
intervals get wider with higher protein
intakes which suggests there's more
uncertain certainty about these higher
intakes a few studies that have used
methods such as nitrogen balance or the
indicat amino acid oxidation technique
demonstrate this too with the predicted
benefits of daily protein intake on
muscle growth stopping at around 1.5 to
2 G per kilog of total body weight a day
so how much protein should you consume
well before providing an answer I think
it is worth revealing something that is
quite
underappreciated credit goes to Eric T
formerly of the stronger by science
podcast who made a few of the following
observations it is worthwhile to
visually see the data points that go
behind these lines and the 2018 paper is
excellent for this we know this analysis
found a plateau at 1.6 GS but if we more
clearly see the data points that
contributed to this line but remove the
actual line what do you see I see there
appears to be an association between
protein intake and growth but it's truly
difficult to say you're absolutely
better off with a certain intake of
course there's a reason statistics are
used to derive the line of best fit but
the point is it's quite clear 1.6 G
isn't an ultra precise cut off point as
some may believe on top of this if we
only look at protein intakes at or above
1.25 G per kilogram of total body weight
per day things are even more open to
debate in fact the r s value is 0.0 111
which means that in this range protein
intake only explains 1% of the variance
in the gains in fat-free Mass the same
applies to the 2022 analysis we can
visually see that above a certain
protein intake it's hard to say for
certain you're better off with higher
intakes so back to our question how much
protein should you consume I believe
providing definitive and absolute
statements isn't warranted based on the
current scientific lature rather I
believe presenting a spectrum is more
sensible 1.2 to 1.59 G per kg of total
body weight a day is possibly enough for
maximizing gains based on some of the
data we've seen 1.6 to 2 G per kg of
total body weight a day is almost
certainly enough for maximizing gains
and more than 2 G per kog of total body
weight a day is very likely more than
enough and although it's compatible with
maximizing gains it's likely Sim L not
essential for many at the end of the day
it depends on how you think you could
aim for the higher end if you absolutely
want to leave nothing on the table as
some scientific researchers have
suggested but others may be perfectly
fine with consuming at least 1.6 G but
if for a variety of reasons you can't
hit this amount rest assured this is not
the end of the world and you may indeed
be leaving very little to nothing on the
table with somewhat lower intakes other
factors like protein quality and your
age could factor in in some cases diets
that contain a higher proportion of
lower protein quality and or if you're
older protein intakes ner to the higher
end may be a good idea however there is
still Nuance here that will likely
describe in future videos at the house
of hypertrophy besides these there are
three other factors that many say impact
protein intake but do they
actually some hypothesize the harder you
train and the more experienced you are
the more protein you need what does the
research say this classic paper had
novice bodybuilders train intensely for
1.5 hours 6 days a week for 4 weeks
strength and muscle gains were similar
between consuming 1.35 and 2.62 G per
kog of total body weight per day their
nitrogen balance data suggested 1.6 to
1.7 G per kilogram of total body weight
a day may be ideal this paper recruited
eight bodybuilders considered to be near
their maximum muscular potential using
the indicator amino acid oxidation
technique protein intake requirements
were estimated to be 1.7 G per kilogram
of total body weight per day this third
classic paper also recruited Elite
bodybuilders and estimated protein
intakes were only 1.2 G per kilogram of
total body weight a day finally as for
Recovery of the muscle tissue this
intriguing paper had subjects perform
this training session and measurements
of Muscle Recovery were similar between
consuming 1.8 to 2.9 G per kilogram of
total body weight a day thus the
available data does not consistently
suggest harder training or more
experience increases protein intake
requirements again it depends on your
thought process some may prefer higher
intakes to have a comfortable safety
margin
in much of the data comprising the
associations between protein intake and
muscle growth the subjects were
consuming the same or more calories than
needed to maintain body weights but what
about if you're trying to reduce your
weight by consuming fewer calories than
normal in this scenario some say to
protect your muscle mass more protein is
needed there are three areas of the
scientific literature that might support
this this first paper found in trained
men that reduced their calories by 40%
while still training for 2 weeks
maintenance of lean body mass was better
when consuming 2.3 versus 1 G per kg of
total body weight a day the second paper
found in untrained men that reduced
their calories by 40% while training for
4 weeks fat loss and lean mass increases
were greater when consuming 2.4 versus
1.2 G per kilog of total body weight a
day the third area is a review in 2014
that based on the data they collected
suggested that higher protein intakes
May May better protect against muscle
mass loss in trained people having
detailed this data there are some key
considerations two of the papers
involved a 40% reduction in calories and
the lowest protein intakes were 1 to 1.2
G but what if the reduction in calories
was less severe and or if the lowest
protein intakes were instead around the
1.6 G area plus we have some evidence
also with some limitations that indeed
find higher protein intakes on always
better during calorie restriction
overall better quality research is
needed for now although this is
definitely hypothetical the lower your
body fat percentage and or the more
aggressive reduction in calories the
higher the protein intake You may wish
to consume to stay on the safe
side what if you're trying to gain
weight through consuming more calories
than normal we already mentioned how in
much of the data subjects consume the
same or more calories than needed to
maintain weight yet in the literature
some data has led various people to
suggest higher protein intakes on a bulk
can minimize the fat gain we see however
there are some key limitations to This
research that I'll uncover in a future
video on bulking at the house of
hypertrophy for now just know I don't
think higher than recommended protein
intakes are needed on a
bulk I think it's worthwhile to frame
protein intake in the bigger picture as
established and described in the 2018
meta analysis resistance training is the
much more potent stimulus accounting at
least according to this meta analysis
for a substantially greater portion of
the variance in muscle and strength
furthermore this 2021 analysis found
that during 3 days of immobilizing one
of their legs higher protein intakes
fail to do a better job at maintaining
strength and muscle than lower protein
intakes this is not to say protein
intake is unimportant of course we've
seen sufficient protein intake allows us
to realize the best gains we can see
from our training but at the end of the
day you can't force your way to muscle
growth by just eating tons of protein
well-designed and hard training provides
the foundational stimulus speaking about
well-designed training amidst all the
noise online it can definitely be
frustrating and timec consuming to craft
an effective program that gets you
closer to your desired physique but our
highquality partner the alpha
progression app which is fundamentally
your personal muscle building assistant
in the palm of your hand can help you
other apps truly craft garbage programs
but this app intelligently formulates a
program effective for complete muscular
development with the training variables
fine-tuned and inspired by the
scientific literature best of all it is
100% tailored to what you want let it
know the equipment you have how how much
you can train and if you want to
preferentially Target or neglect certain
muscles this can all take you less than
a minute during workouts the apps
algorithm carefully suggests how you may
progress to push you to the next level
aesthetic graphs automatically display
your long-term progress and there is a
huge exercise database of some of the
best muscle building exercises with
simple video and text instructions
behind each try out every single one of
the premium features to your heart's
desire during a free TR through the link
in the comments and description if you
like it and choose to go beyond the link
cuts the price of a subscription by 20%
I truly believe the app is exceptional
with a thousand of reviews speaking to
this before summarizing things there are
two final things worth dissecting
firstly we know the literature we
mentioned considered protein intake in
relation to your total body weights but
if you have significant more body fat
this tends to overestimate your protein
needs considering protein intake in
relation to your fat-free mess can be
more accurate here although most don't
know their precise fat-free Mass so you
may just estimate what you'd
approximately weigh at lower body fat
levels and then use these numbers
secondly some have health concerns about
higher protein intakes but as described
in this position stand this stems from
data on renal failure patients and
educational Dogma that hasn't been
Rewritten despite contrary evidence in
otherwise healthy individuals there is
no indication of harm even in
investigations involving well above 2.2
G per kilogram of total body weight a
day in summary optimizing your protein
intake can help you realize your maximum
growth potential but just don't forget
that well constructed and executed
training is the foundational stimulus I
don't believe providing a definitive
value for protein intake is currently
sensible rather we presented this
spectrum on the likelihood of maximizing
gains across different protein intakes
ultimately it's your choice some may aim
for the higher end to have no doubts
While others may be perfectly
comfortable on the Lower Side knowing
that at the very worst they're getting
the line share of their
gains thank you for watching feel free
to check out the alpha progression app
or our recent deep dive into building
the LS