if you got rich piana's workouts on this
end ofing a lot and you got Mike mener
on this end or Arthur Jones very little
I say you probably get better results in
most cases get a little closer to Mike
mener a little further the away from
Rich Pi but as you get close to Mike
mener volume maybe not one set maybe not
two maybe three four five six sets per
workout per muscle you got to go hard on
those sets rich is using great technique
but is he really driving close to
failure and everything if he is he just
has insane fatigue tolerance the rest of
us don't and he's actually doing all
these sets but you probably would
benefit from 3 to six 3 to eight working
sets per session per muscle and going
each set hard that would be better than
doing the rich and better than
doing the mic Menor