[Music]
do not assume that there's any magic in
Barefoot squatting telling you man we
were built to squat Barefoot we weren't
built to squat at all a full squat with
your chest up for Quad hypertrophy is
not one of the basic movements that
humans are designed to
do hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and I implore
you to stop Barefoot squatting jeez
tough intro Dr Mike what got under
your skin is that what gets under
people's things skin I going to say got
under my ass but then sometimes when
things get under your ass it feels quite
nice what back to the training stuff
here's the
thing when we
squat we are looking generally for at
least four things to be true about how
our setup
looks with regard to the interaction of
our feet and wherever they are on the
ground be that through shoe or not shoe
we want four
things one we want a high degree of
friction between our feet and whatever
it is that connects us to the ground
including the ground
itself that high degree of friction
allows for super stability which means
you can push hard as fuck into the
ground without worrying about slipping
making the lift more effective and you
can push hard as fuck into the lift
without slipping making the lift more
safe awesome second you want a roughly
even forc transduction through the whole
foot front to back side to side side to
side not as important front to back very
important that means you want almost as
much pressure coming through your heel
as through your toes at the very least
some people have a nice Arch to their
foot that means their midfoot isn't as
truc no big deal but at least heel and
toe have to be roughly similar if you
scooted all the way on your heels and
feel nothing in your toes and can lean
back during the squat your power
production drops a ton the lift is not
as effective if you're squatting
exclusively off of your toes your heels
are not even touching the ground or if
they are it feels like you're a super
unstable so you push most of your weight
through your toes your Force
transduction goes down a ton your quads
literally don't contract as hard and you
don't get as much
benefit next in most cases more ability
to dorsy flex the ankle which means have
really good ankle Mobility is a benefit
ankle Mobility is the number one reason
that people have squat mobility issues
and if you solved it it kind of doesn't
matter what else is happening up the
chain enough ankle dorsiflexion can
solve most squat mobility issues
especially in muscle growth or
hypertrophy training where it doesn't
matter how far your knees past your toes
because you don't give a shit about how
much weight is on the bar you care about
how much your quads are being stimulated
to grow so dorsiflexion is at a premium
maximum ankle dors flexion is point
number three that you want to have in
your checklist of things that you want
to connect ground wise with in the squat
a setup be it Barefoot be it with shoes
be it whatever that gets you the maximum
dors of flection or at least marginally
more of it is usually better than one
that gets you less especially if
quadriceps hypertrophy is the goal and
for 95% of the people squatting that's
the goal let's be completely honest and
lastly is just physical comfort you want
to be able to feel comfy if you have an
awesome setup on technical grounds but
it's pushing a let's say you're doing
this all on metal plates because you
don't forgot your weightlifting shoes or
if you're doing it Barefoot and there's
a nail in the gym if you push into the
metal plate and your your heels hurt a
ton even though everything's stable and
everything's good the pain the
discomfort the weirdness it's not
something we want we want to be able to
focus solely on driving hard through the
ground getting big legs that means we
want the shoe or the Barefoot or
whatever it is which however we connect
to the ground to be everything else
other than uncomfortable we want maximum
Comfort or at least enough physical
comfort that it's not front of mind when
we're actually trying to squat so those
are the four things lots of friction and
thus stability to the floor even
transduction of front to back of the
foot maximum or at least more ankle dors
flection and of course lastly physical
Comfort here's the thing I told you at
the beginning of the video stop
squatting Barefoot I will walk that
claim back a little bit as you're
probably used to in these videos if
you're not welcome to the channel this
is where I lie up front and then tell
the truth later I'm like fucking
Pinocchio out here what the fuck is
Pinocchio in Russian
butina that sounds fun also in the
Russian Pinocchio jepetto the fuck his
Russian name was fed Pinocchio an entire
meal consisting of a raw onion onions
being my least favorite food this was
highly disturbing to me on every
possible level and as they had picture
by picture of Pinocchio consuming set
onion my uh heart filled with fear and
and then sarily hatred for Pinocchio and
jepetto it's very Rush reaction of me
this is not threat what's he doing
anyway if you can checklist all these
items if squatting Barefoot gives you a
ton of friction if the toe and heel feel
a ton of pressure if you get a ton of
dorsiflexion a sure shit enough for your
goals and it's not limiting you and if
it makes you physically very comfortable
you have my official RP blessing we do
sell those for
$199.99 to do Barefoot squatting to your
heart's fucking content there is nothing
wrong with Barefoot squatting in
isolation in principle if you check mark
these
boxes however there had to be however
for most people and I mean 95% plus of
people including you watching this very
video right now or listening to it
suppose you could just listen to the
videos if you don't like to see my what
has been cataloged as one of the most
beautiful faces of all time I know I
know I think it's the most beautiful but
one of the most I'll settle
for most people almost
everyone can check mark these boxes way
better objectively by wearing What's
called the weightlifting shoe I don't
know when the fuck it was invented and I
frankly don't care the weightlifting
shoe that is designed for the sport of
Olympic weightlifting with the de Adidas
logo or the Romo Nike thing and it has
the wedge that comes up and it's really
nice and looks cool that shoe is
designed to be a superior way of
generating every single checkbox for a
squatting because you'll never guess
what it was designed for that's right
fucking squat
in how does it do this well it generally
creates better friction to the ground
than your sweaty feet is there a time in
which they look at the Barefoot sweaty
nasty foot they're like man engineers at
Nike are like this is the ultimate grip
implement we can't increase the friction
anymore fuck no it barely has any
friction at all and by the way if you're
working out hard your legs sweat your
feet sweat and how many of you guys get
relatively swe feet from Hard Exercise
your boy sure a shit does I ain't trying
to do the fucking splits with 400 lb in
the squat and if you want to Google some
nasty videos don't do it you won't feel
right afterwards forget the fucking knee
snapping in the leg press shit Google
some Barefoot squatting disasters dime a
dozen now of course they're rare
statistically but that means a lot of
them numerically happen and all of them
could have been avoided if you just put
on a fucking shoe and don't squat
Barefoot sweaty feet are not high
friction Olympic weightlifting shoes are
fucking enormous friction next because
they have that heel and because the shit
is ergonomically designed specifically
for squatting weightlifting shoes
usually create a better balance of toe
and heel forces
check because they have the heel they
increase your dorsy flexion objectively
better than you do with bare feet check
and if you wear proper shoes get them
wide or narrow enough to whatever makes
your feet feel good if you're able to
spread your toes in the shoe and really
grip in they are comfy as fuck and
probably comfier than squatting with
bare feet especially if the floor is not
that nice where you have to have bare
feet put plates under it which the plate
cuts into your feet weightlifting shoes
are comfy as fuck and yes it might still
be more comfortable for your feet to
squat Barefoot but all the other three
check marks are so red xed at this point
that it's not worth it on the net
balance so yes you can squat Barefoot
but you probably don't want to be
squatting
Barefoot if you benefit from bare squ
Barefoot squatting on average please
realize that you are the exception and
not the rule and when folks online tell
you to squat Barefoot you can definitely
give it a try if you like but note how
it affects all of these four factors
that I talked about if your feet are
slippery if they feel weird if you're
coming up too much on your toes if it
feels unstable etc etc then that's not
the right fit put your fucking shoes
back on and get to work now if you are
used to squatting in shoes and they're
just like sneakers um running shoes that
are gelled and cushy and move back and
forth side to side that's great for
running terrible for squatting get you a
pair of squat shoes you didn't fucking
hack the universe by taking your shoes
off go hack Amazon and order a $65 D in
Chinese shoe and you will be in fucking
Paradise because it's better than
anything you've ever squatted in before
do not assume that there's any magic and
Barefoot squatting telling you man we
were built to squat Barefoot we weren't
built to squat at all a full squat with
your chest up for Quad hypertrophy is
not one of the basic movements that
humans are designed to do running
climbing throwing crawling etc those are
the fucking squat is not you can use
some help and the weightlifting shoe was
physically fucking designed to the best
help
possible lastly don't just trust the
influencers at their
word right most of the folks that I've
ever spoken to that were squatting
Barefoot and I asked them why do you do
that they had no idea some folks have
some idea and most of those folks are
that 5% from whom it actually works
better most of the 95% that shouldn't be
barefoot squatting they're like I don't
know bro I just fucking heard like it's
good for your feet or whatever like the
chakras some shit it's just something
they heard fuck that you can do better
if you want to learn more shit by the
way we have a member Channel check out
the link in the description more nerdy
videos usually a video a week sometimes
even more if got the video guys feeling
generous and then of course the team
full ROM forum we can check your squat
technique over the weeks and weeks of
you posting with us alter it modify it
make it almost perfect chef's kiss come
join us that link is in the description
as well and if it's not in the
description shit I'm really fucked up
got to fire someone for that one anyway
I'm off to go fire someone
recreationally I do it every Friday it's
really fun I'll see you guys next
time