hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
spiritization our last video
on breaking through strength plateaus is
video number 10
altering exercises
specifically your assistance work your
assistance work and not the core
competition lifts we'll get to those at
the end of this presentation so
at some point especially the assistance
lifts you're using can become stale
in other words their stimulus to fatigue
ratios begin to fall which is very bad
now for strength exercise the stimulus
to fatigue ratio is calculated or
inferred a little bit differently than
for hypertrophy but it's a lot of
similar stuff so here we go five points
lettered a through e i should have
numbered these damn it
first
a good high sfr exercise targets the
movement that you want
and it challenges it exactly where you
want it to be improved for example if
you're doing close grip benches or some
kind of board pressing and you want to
work on your lockout and that's
precisely where that exercise is
difficult it's not like oh god it's
really tough here and then i get to lock
out easy and someone's like are you
trying to work on your lockouts with
assist movement you're like yes like so
is that really helping like that i guess
not right so it targets the movement
where you're trying to target it or like
some kind of deficit pull is really
helping you move weight really fast and
smoothly off the floor another really
good example
second thing to consider
the exercise feels smooth and strong
here's the thing
breaking plateaus is a topic exclusively
for intermediates because beginners by
definition don't have plateaus so if you
don't know what i mean by feel smooth
and strong
you're probably not an intermediate i
didn't mean for that to come out
offensively my apologies but in all
reality you know when you're just
fucking grooving you get off a set of
bench and you're like ah
get off me right it just feels like
you're supposed to be benching
everything's locked in it's smooth it's
awesome which isn't always the case so
if an exercise is jiving like this this
is a very very good sign
another good sign is you can load the
exercise heavy as heavy as you need to
and you're making good realistic
progress on it session to session to
session you're adding two and a half
pounds five pounds two and a half reps
are staying stable like anyone who would
tell you to trade that exercise off for
another one is probably fucking nuts
because oh my god you're making
incredible progress isn't that the whole
fucking point of strength gains
another one is the exercise doesn't
cause a lot of or really a minimum of
joint and connective tissue problems if
you have an exercise that's really
fucking you up and you're like it's
working great but your shoulders are
really hurting like in the joint maybe
that's not great but if it feels awesome
and someone's like those close grips
okay on your elbows you're like oh
fucking beautiful perfect you give him
the the philadelphia italian explanation
then gee like that's really good then
you're really really jiving and in
relation to all those benefits
especially the first three points that
exercise doesn't drain you a ton
psychologically or physically because
like
you could have a great assistance
exercise but it takes a shitload of time
to set up and it really just beats you
the fuck up psychologically like man i
gotta do these weighted dips i fucking
hate these things and afterwards i feel
like my soul is leaving my body i don't
want to train for days after well it
might be even a very beneficial exercise
but the psychological cost or the
physical cost just may not be worth it
right so it's got to be worth it a good
stimulus a lot of stimulus and a low
amount of fatigue thus the ratio is
really good so
that's what we're looking for now
staleness can be more technically
accurately described as a falling
stimulus to fatigue ratio right what
does it look like when your exercises
and strength
begin to get really stale so
first is the exercise is no longer
really limited by the target muscle and
movement
close grip benches you're starting to
feel in your front delts now and it's
harder at the bottom and easy at the top
well gee you know maybe that's not
really what you're doing that exercise
for and you're not getting out of it
what you think you should be
second point you're actually the
exercise feels off it doesn't feel
smooth and strong anymore you're not
really you don't really feel like you
can express your strength you guys ever
been on a weird shitty machine at some
new gym and it's like a pressing machine
and you're like i don't know why can the
handles move all independently fuck the
chairs kind of wobbly i don't even feel
right on this and that can happen with
any kind of assistance exercise you may
be doing like you know weighted dips for
a while to increase your bench you're
like i love these it just feels so
smooth and awesome and then for a few
weeks they feel weird and kind of like
you're sort of like your balance is off
you don't feel like you can really drive
as much as you used to and that's not a
good thing because those kinds of
feelings propel more and more gains and
if you don't feel stable and like you're
doing a good job maybe you won't be able
to make as much progress
that leads us to our next point uh you
have hit a wall and you seem to not be
able to progress in that exercise
anymore he's just not getting stronger
on it for weeks and weeks and weeks
which is kind of like oh shit like i
really have hit a plateau guess i'm glad
i'm watching this plateau busting series
but you know if you're saying yeah man
you know close grip work has really
improved my bench and someone says well
like how much stronger you've been
getting our close grip working like well
not at all really like okay the fuck is
improving your bench well that strains
credulity a little bit so
who knows how that works right not a
good thing
a really common one is the exercise
starts to cause a lot more joint and
connective tissue problems close grip
benching your elbows start to hurt front
squatting your fucking shoulders start
to hurt or knees start to hurt maybe not
hurt her but feel weird and then a
little weirder and let a little bit of
pain and then a lot of pain it's not a
tenable thing to expect a progressive
overload to occur if you are really
limited by joint connective tissue stuff
and not limited by the actual complex of
working muscles themselves
and of course as from last time
the amount of psychological or physical
burden
is starting to be really high relative
to the benefits and this can also
express itself as just really boring and
feel disconnected from the exercise like
you used to do deficit pulls you got
fucking geeks for them three months
later you just fucking hate them yeah
maybe they feel okay and maybe they're
not hurting your joints we just can't
wait to not do them and if that's the
case there's certainly other better
exercises which you can get excited
about which can fuel a great amount of
progression right
so
if that happens with an assistance move
that you have
what do you do well just a couple things
first you want to survey your options
for alternatives which would fit the
task at hand so you know if you have a
close grip uh bench that you're doing
maybe you can look at incline close
group bench maybe dumbbell bench machine
press overhead press wide work process
weighted dips something like that
there's a bunch of alternative exercises
that roughly do generally the same thing
or a very similar thing
you want to choose an exercise from that
list first of all you have access to
don't choose a machine that doesn't
exist in your gym uh that's actually one
of my favorite like self-answering
questions that some folks mindlessly ask
they're like hey you recommend this
exercise what if i don't have this
exercise in my gym
to quote a friend of mine well
motherfucker don't do it then what do
what
i don't know finance it yourself and buy
a 10 000 machine and just have them
wheel it into your powerhouse at home in
any case rants aside
choose an exercise from that list of
candidates that meets your needs best
and has the highest stimulus to fatigue
ratio as far as you can tell you're like
you know and one of those exercises i
did a while ago i didn't like it but ooh
incline demo press that sounds really
good and you do it maybe you try it on a
d-load you're like oh that feels fucking
great i'm gonna be able to milk the fuck
out of this thing then you're really
really good
take the old exercise out replace with a
new one take weeks
to slowly work in with more loads and
more volumes and really improving your
technique with that new exercise
because it's not just instantly going to
be this fucking hit classic as a matter
of fact when you first started you may
be like dude i'm weaker on this movement
than i used to be that's okay you're not
used to doing it maybe you used to
dumbbell bench you know the 80s for sets
of 10. and then now you pick up the 80s
and you're doing sets of like six and
you're like fuck me so you do the 75s
for sets of 10 and you're like all right
i guess i got weaker maybe not after a
few weeks you might be doing the 80s for
sets of 12 or even the 85s for sets of 8
to 10. all of a sudden you're like oh my
god i am fucking stronger you have to
relearn that exercise not only does that
make you better but once you get up to
being really knurly and technically
efficient that's when a lot of the
strength gains really start to get
milked out so it's all good things what
i basically am not recommending you do
is try and exercise be like ah man like
i remember being stronger on this or i
wish i could use more load and
abandoning and going somewhere else this
is also to directly counter
something that's common in like the west
side barbell method is changing
assistance lifts every week or every
other week i think it's a fucking stupid
idea i think we just do a single pick an
assistance lift for a job have multiple
of them in your program and do the same
assistance left week after week after we
get strong as fuck on them then when
they start to go stale you replace them
i wouldn't just replace them willy-nilly
all the fucking time
um after a month or so
you're likely going to be grooving on
the new exercise making awesome gains
hitting bpr's and that'll probably
transfer at some point to your core
lifts very very cool
now
there is a bit of a
tendency for folks to sometimes say now
hold on a second
how am i supposed to get strong at this
the following lift without doing this
assistance lift that i think is critical
you are you're saying uh clearly my
stimulus to fatigue ratio on front
squats is apparently a coordinator a
little logic here bad and hack squats
would be better but like i've done front
squats for forever and that's how i make
my squat go up you're telling me i'm
going to be able to increase my squat
without doing front squats like bullshit
like there's no way i'm trading them out
i just need a new variation or front
squat so i can be okay
well here's the reality in all
likelihood the exact types of assistance
lifts matter very very little for
progress
what matters is taking
high stimulus to fatigue ratio
assistance lift and putting fucking
pounds on it over time if you show me
someone who's front squatted a bunch and
used that to increase their a barbell
back squat awesome if they get on the
hack squat and it's remotely a good high
standard fatigue ratio movement and they
just milk it out to where they started
hack squatting 400 pounds and after a
few months they're up to doing 500 for
sets of eight or something
horse is going to fucking make their
legs stronger holy shit and of course
that has to translate at some point in
some way
to the high bar squat it is almost
certainly going to work so
doing this thing where you pick a high
stimulus to fatigue ratio move to target
a specific uh sort of subset of your
lifting abilities assistance lift
and over time adding poundage to it
while your technique improves
this with pretty much any lift that is a
high stimulus to fatigue ratio will make
you stronger over time so i wouldn't get
too attached to one lift you know you
typically do stiff legged deadlifts to
help your deadlift try some good
mornings you'll probably like the result
try some glute ham raises it's not like
this one assistance lift is like the key
to progress now i know
there's tons of youtube videos they're
like the top three assistance list you
should be doing most those videos are
total fucking nonsense the best light in
which you can paint them is well at
least they're offering three good ideas
and that's probably true but if like you
must be doing the fuck out of my face
there's no such thing
now
all fun and games what about the
competition lifts
what if stainless develops in my
competition movements
if i'm a strong man and i do axle press
do i just stop doing that if i'm a power
lifter oh my god what the hell am i
supposed to do get rid of my squat bench
and deadlift competitively that's
impossible right you can't exactly toss
them out especially if you have a meat
coming up you got to meet in six weeks
you're like man low bar squats you're
feeling stale think i'll transfer to
front squats not an option you have to
be good at low bar squats and that
requires constant practice totally
totally valid this is why it is highly
highly recommended at least by myself
and my colleagues
after a meet
removing the competition lifts entirely
from your program
so that they refresh like crazy and when
you put them back in
you don't reach staleness before your
next meet and as a matter of fact you
reach stillness after your next meet
precisely when you've removed those
lifts again so what does that mean after
you do your next power lifting me
for the next mesocycle maybe even two no
low bar squats no competition pause
bench no competition setup deadlifts do
derivatives high bar squat with a pause
wide gripper close grip pressing some
combination fuck even inclines
stiff-legged deadlifting deficit
deadlifting etc etc etc these movements
will still put on tons of mass they'll
still develop a hardcore amount of raw
general strength and then after you do
one or two message cycles of these
completely different derivative moves
then you come back in
keep pounding the derivatives really
hard keep pounding the assistant's work
start introducing light versions of the
technical competition lifts a mesocycle
later those light versions become
heavier versions a mesocycle after that
you're getting fucking nonsense pr's on
all those lifts another cycle after that
you're peaking then you're winning your
power lifting meet and then that one guy
who always goes to the powerlifting
meets like hey come here i'll be in the
bathroom in five minutes and you're like
finally i'm hooking up with someone in
the back of a power that you need i
literally achieved everything i've ever
wanted in life
you're welcome
renaissance periodization folks have i
said enough or not nearly enough the
world may never know
for the time being we'll have to cut it
off that's all the 10 videos we have for
the series please like share comment
subscribe do youtube things follow me on
twitch fuckstream
live fuck i don't even know what i'm
saying anymore twitch is real right one
of those is real i got a correct answer
on something folks
peace
you