the discussion of training effort gets
watered down to a simple that's true
failure or not to failure in some older
metanalyses we treat a lot of variables
as if they're binary right like we're
either talking about high volume or low
volume and low volume for example might
mean below 10 sets and high volume for
example above 10 sets or we might talk
about failure AKA actually hitting
failure or non- failure anything that is
not failure three op Reserve six Reserve
everything that is a limitation of older
metanalyses and from the looks of things
that's all bromley's really ever looked
at right like the show filment analysis
kind of categorized volumes as opposed
to treating it as a continuous variable
where you're not saying well there's
certain categories that volume falls
into and kind of just viewing it as a
number rather than something they need
to categorize into low medium and high
and more recent met analyses like for
example the most recent met analysis on
training to failure by Robinson and
colleagues did exactly this he's
mentioning some limitations here but
they're almost entirely applicable to
only older studies