come on push push push push
up
I mean half failure
that's that's hard yeah that's hard man
says with blood in his face and eyes
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here from Renaissance
periodization we have a treat for you
you've seen the targeting the muscle
series now we're going to be trying to
do a variation of that but live in the
gym with actual lifters during actual
workouts today's video is going to be
the cambered bar bench press we're going
to be taking a jack super strong power
lifter through the camber bar multiple
sets giving you tons of cues to really
figure out how this works not just with
me talking about it and demoing it but
in real actual life let's get into it
heck is healthy but coming off a pecked
strain one was your back strain five six
weeks ago so I'm I'm just gonna do a
high level positions cool yeah I'm
healthy just super probably don't want
to load Head super okay the bad news is
you might not have one of these around
the good news is the bar costs like 250
bucks so you could easily harass your
gym owner into getting one now here's
the thing you may not be flexible enough
to go all the way down to touch the
camber but that's not the point the
point is to take your packs through as
big of a natural stretch as they can
under load remember stretch under load
has been now Illustrated pretty
convincingly to be a potent stimulator
of hypertrophy maybe one of the most
potent in a barbell bench press which is
a great lift down here your pecs could
be really stretched but maybe there's
one two or three more inches that they
could go lower and stretch you can do
that with dumbbells but once the
dumbbells get big enough it gets hard to
get them out to outside of your chest
for this lift we can get the combination
of the stability and control of a
barbell with the depth and stretch of an
actual dumbbell or push-up or whatever
machine variant that you'd go below your
chest this is the killer it is probably
in my view one of the most stimulating
chest exercises of them all not for
everyone but for most so just be really
mindful as you approach failure that
you're gonna have the tendency to kind
of cave that's where the big chest is
the most important keep it open yep yep
hmm
but under control
good
ah come on
good
police Centric
pause
um good come on
come on Pete
control control
pause
good come on T you got this big chest
chest towards the ceiling come on
good
better control under control come on
[Music]
I got you one more under control under
control
Oz Drive apart come on push push push
push
I mean half failure
so the thing about the cambered bar
bench is in something like a chest
machine or with dumbbells even regular
blah blah pressing to some extent you
get a really good stimulus just by lying
down and just kind of benching with the
cambered bar bench you want to make sure
to milk it out as much as possible and
the best way to milk out and exercise
is before you arrange your technique for
that exercise you have to ask yourself
what is the purpose of the exercise
specifically how is that purpose being
accomplished the purpose of course is
stimulating chest muscle growth how it's
being accomplished in the camera bar
bench is to stretch the pecs maximally
under load
if that's the purpose we want to line
our ducks up in a row to make sure we're
attending to that purpose facilitating
to that purpose and not working across
it and against it so if you simply bench
like this that's fine what you want to
do on the camboard bar bench is raise
your chest up a little bit that aligns
your strong external fibers into the
movement and you're going to take your
scapulae and you're going to slide them
back and a little bit down but Down's
not as important as the back
your chest is up it already look at how
much pre-stretching I'm getting in my
fibers once I do that not only does this
keep my shoulders tucked away and much
safer on a camber bar which really
exposed under high range motion it
allows me to pre-stretch my pecs and
then the camber bar does the rest all
right good technique here no worries no
rush
reach up yes a little bit longer pause
[Music]
good job
yes
stop
if you pause the next rep will feel
worse that's what we want we want let it
sink
good
yeah no explosion on the bottom he's out
out of the bottom
he's out
yes one more one more last one big
stretch
up he's out go go oh shit one more you
got another one you got another one
might be reach
reach
Drive hard come on go go go go go lock
it lock it
little wiggle never hurt anybody good
stuff man pumped yeah for sure yeah the
taking the extra time to like let it
sink because you think you're in the
bottom yes yeah you're getting like
really close to your chest dude I'm sure
if you did this enough times eventually
you'd be touching your chest this would
be a great Mobility exercise for
increasing your own emotional ROMs huge
so what these guys are saying is at the
bottom of the lift there's a tendency to
try to just stay there and hold it what
you want to do for muscle growth is
consider doing this when you get to the
bottom of the lift be it machines be it
dumbbells be it deficit push-ups be it
cambered bar and at the bottom for one
second instead of holding at the bottom
let your shit sink deeper that painful
extra stretch at the bottom is the
definition of stretch underload also
from a range of motion increasing range
of motion for perspective right like if
you're limited on range of motion uh
like say I mean in this in the bench for
example in his first couple sets you
know without the sinking he was wasn't
coming as deep he came down paused sunk
a little lower and now his uh not active
range of motion he's able to come down
lower right and putting himself in an
even more stretched position with the
same load and that probably just means
more muscle growth I mean if you think
about it your muscles are stretching at
the very most intense load that they're
gonna experience
there's just not a much theoretical
growth mechanism that's left over after
that and you're tapping into every
fucking thing that's like well yeah I
mean until now maximal lengthening yes
to get the most stimulus yeah the
intended tissues huge and so you're
missing out if I don't hit that extra
three inches of ROM with a pep just
fucking rips around them that's the good
Rob yeah that's that good good
let's start the bar
[Music]
good
[Music]
test of the bar
pause
think think good good fuck my feet
standard control let's go repeat one
more control eccentric
nice and slow chest towards the bar
come on
good push push push push push hard
I got you
[Applause]
oh
at work man that will fucking work huh
it's I think it's important to get into
like uh
at first you'll resist this kind of
thing because your ego is attached to
how much weight is on the bar yeah and
it's physically painful to do so you're
like fuck this but then if you like over
time convince yourself that the painful
debilitating stretch that I'm feeling
exposing my muscles to it is the thing I
want producing the outcome yes then it
at some point you start to think wow
it's there's an internal guidance system
I have of what is right and what is not
right if I'm caving away from the bar
and resisting the pain it doesn't feel
right anymore where it used to be like
oh this is the thing I want to get away
from it you don't want to get away from
Pain you want to get into the pain and
all of a sudden the same thing with hack
squats letting your knees come over your
toes slowly your Quad starts to tear and
you're like oh this is a good thing this
is what I want or all right folks that's
it for cambered bar stuff we're gonna go
ahead and do more stuff but this is it
for this video for now catch the full
workout it'll be a link here if we
already have it if not we'll catch it
later hopefully you took some good
take-home tips and remember quality
first quantity layered on top best of
luck in your own training
foreign