you know if it's the last movement of
muscle group I'm not trying to do a lot
of weight but I'm trying to like
make my whatever muscle I'm hitting burn
a lot of people do this backwards will
they'll start with higher reps and then
they'll pyramid up and then do heavy
weight after like five sets of higher
reps what he's doing is much smarter
he's starting with heavier work in his
workout and as the workout progresses to
different exercises he begins to use
higher repetitions because of a fair
simple fact if you are tired you can't
go very heavy and get a lot of benefit
from going heavy but there's nothing
that prevents you from getting a
psychotic burn and when you're tired
locally those muscles are tired they
actually get a burn faster with less
effort the sequence matters