[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike is racquel here for
Renaissance period ization the video
number 12 of a hypertrophy made simple
series beginner versus intermediate
versus advanced training how do we
approach them if you want way more
details check out our hypertrophy guide
central hub on our website and check out
our other YouTube videos that are longer
form on these same subjects here's the
deal first of all which one are you are
you or your clients intermediate
beginner advanced which one well here's
the deal here's how you can tell
beginners just you're just lifting and
you just keep getting bigger and
stronger automatically you haven't put
damn near any thought into it you're
just getting awesome all the time you're
a beginner for sure and that can last
for years and years sometimes when you
have really good genetics and another
telltale sign is you get stronger even
when you're losing weight definite
beginners sign if you're an intermediate
that means you've hit your first plateau
and had some challenges to your muscle
growth you've probably solved that you
figured it out but you're like whew that
was weird
okay never have that struggle before and
you need to the mail the basics to
consistently continue to progress also
you get a little stronger during weight
loss periods but just barely so you're
having mostly maintenance times during
weight loss periods if you're getting
tons of strength during weight loss
you're not intermediate you're just a
beginner if you're advanced your
nutrition your recovery your sleep and
all of your training has to be very
meticulous and well-planned or you
simply don't make gains if all the
pieces don't fit and in the best case
you maintain your strength during weight
loss you almost certainly don't gain it
and sometimes you even lose a little bit
of repetition strength that's how you
know you're advanced what should
beginner training look like for variety
of reasons we've described in other
literature and tons of other videos
here's the deal
beginners should do mostly sets of 5 to
10 repetitions especially for technique
learning they should focus mostly on the
compound heavy barbell basics not a lot
of fancy stuff they should focus really
greatly on improving and solidifying
their technique techniques number one
for that reason they want to avoid
training way too close to failure
because technique
down and without super crazy high
volumes so you want to push them in
volume until they feel challenged and
then go back reduce the volume and
increase the load on the bar and they're
gonna train each muscle roughly two to
four times per week but they only train
two to four times per week so it's gonna
be a whole lot of whole body work which
is super super awesome for beginners
intermediates should do mostly sets of
five to ten but now do lots of sets of
10 to 20 reps as well really good they
should focus mostly on the compound
basics but thread in some isolations and
mostly stick to free weights not a ton
of machines just yet they should focus
on altering their technique to fit their
personal stimulus to fatigue ratios so
you could say here's your basic squat
technique that you learn now does it
feel better if you have a slightly
closer stance slightly wider stance they
should start exploring that in doing
what feels best for them cuz they're for
the first time ever they have a feel of
what actually feels best versus just
what they should be doing beginners have
no idea what feels best number four they
should start to intermediates you start
pushing their training hard starting at
three reps in reserve at the beginning
of the mesocycle and at the end going
one or zero rir in most cases and the
emphasis must be on breaking
psychological barriers and physical
barriers getting stronger every single
month making sure that you're eating
everything you cannot if your muscles
really learning how to train hard
because beginners they need to learn how
to train right with a really good
technique the intermediates can now
really start to push it because their
technique has already settled in to a
very very good margin they want to train
for intermediates between minimum
effective volume and maximum recoverable
you want to burn them every single time
through that whole range towards the end
they should be really faltering in their
performance then you deal with them you
don't have to save them from high
volumes and they're gonna train each
muscle two to four times per week in
about three to six total weekly sessions
cuz they need more training now to
really put the emphasis on muscle growth
lastly advanced training advanced folks
should do sets of mostly in the 10 to 20
range with some work in the 5 to 10 and
some work in
22:30 rep range as well for exercises
they should focus on the exercises which
have the best stimulus to fatigue ratios
for them be that isolations compounds
are any one of those and any mix of
those they should be exploring new
exercises and techniques fairly often to
try to maximise their stimulus to
fatigue ratio how can we do a hack squat
differently a leg press differently how
can I turn the dumbbells differently to
get better feel in my chest less feeling
my gorge so on and so forth that kind of
fancy stuff not really for intermediates
definitely not for beginners but the
advanced can really start to benefit
from it what about training hard they
start training very very hard pushing
two reps in reserve all the way to
failure and even beyond while learning
to cultivate and maintaining a strong
mind muscle connection perceiving the
tension through the target muscle
ripping it apart perceiving the lactic
acid burn in the target muscle as they
have perfect technique as they're
grinding towards failure so very
difficult to do all three of those good
technique hard training and a mind
muscle connection as a matter of fact a
good muscle connection is built on these
other two which is why beginners are
only learning good technique the
intermediates learn how to use the good
technique with heart training the
advanced need to start incorporating the
mind muscle connection as well and
they're the only ones ready to do it
because they have those two requisite
pillars already built any of you Murphy
and most mezzos and it might be a pretty
narrow window now the minimum effective
volume might be 12 cents per per week
for biceps your maximum or comfortable
might be 14 because you're so big and so
strong and so close to your limits so
yes you do go em even MRV for advanced
but that walk might be a very short one
indeed mostly add reps and you add load
and just add sets every now and again as
your body demonstrates an ability to
recover lastly these folks the advanced
want to train each muscle in each of two
to six sessions per week ok a pretty big
range there and really in five to twelve
weekly sessions this is where double
days of training and phasic approach of
pushing some muscles mi vida RV sometime
backing away and go into maintenance
volume on other muscles other time
starts to be a really really good idea
folks thanks for tuning in see you for
the next