the landmine has been forgotten about
and issued by the fitness industry
however new studies suggest that if you
want to maximize your muscle growth you
need to be including t-o exercises
within your
program welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
PhD in sports science with wolf coaching
and today we're discussing the t- bar
the t- bar or land mine has long been
forgotten about by the fitness industry
and to be honest for some pretty good
reasons first the T bar can be pretty
difficult to set up think about a
incline press where you're just sort of
kneeling down and pressing the bar up or
a goblet squat these exercises can be
pretty hard to set up getting the bar
into position with a relatively heavier
load can just be kind of a pain in the
ass as compared to just doing an inine
press or doing a regular goblet squat
instead secondly and this only applies
for the Giga Chads and super strong GS
watching this video and I know it's
pretty much everyone watching let's be
honest but it can be a little bit
difficult in terms of loadability
there's only so much weight you can put
on a t bar before you run out of space
this is much less of a concern with
certain barbells than others and it's
only really a concern for people who are
pretty strong but it does limit how much
load you can use with the exercises
third for a long time the T Bar was
avoided due to limited range of motion
right when you're doing a t- bar Row for
example the plates will hit your stomach
far earlier than the barbell would hit
your stomach during for example a
barbell row and so you're getting less
range of motion at the top of that rep
finally compared to like a machine
that's super smooth or traditional
exercises like freee exercises like the
dumbbell row or the barbell row t-ball
rows have a kind of wiir resistance
curve where at the bottom it's hardest
when the barbells kind of parallel to
the ground and then as the barbell lifts
and lifts and lifts until finally at 90Â°
it gets easier and easier what's
recently changed that somehow now makes
the tar a better choice for muscle
growth there's been some new studies
that suggest the tar might actually be a
good option first there has been some
data over the past couple decades around
25 studies comparing more shortened
training to more lengthened training
this is actually the topic of my PhD so
let me break it down for you a little
bit when you're training a muscle group
one of the choices you have to make is
what position you're going to train it
in right you could train it through a
full range of motion getting the muscle
fully lengthened during a bicep Co for
example going all the way to the bottom
and fully shortened getting a peak
contraction and a squeeze
across 25 studies in the past couple
decades it seems like that lengthen
position is really important for
hypertrophy and so as I mentioned
earlier a tar does two things one the
resistance curve because of the way the
barbell moves is such that it's hardest
at the bottom of each rep when that
muscle is lengthened which as we know
from these studies is good for
hypertrophy second for certain exercises
like the t-ball row it actually limits
the range of motion intrinsically by
having a mechanical stop to the range of
motion in that shortened position and so
one thing that's come out of the
research is that when you compare
lengthen partials or doing partial range
of motion repetitions in that length and
range those might actually be better for
hypertrophy than a full range of motion
there's about five studies there when
you're doing a t-all row it is
functionally a length and partial
because you can't quite shorten the
muscles as much as you want because the
plates simply hit your tors so before
you get a full range of motion and so
the T Bar might actually have two
components the resistance curve and the
range of motion that in line of new
evidence make it a better choice for
hypertrophy than we previously thought
and in fact even better than some
barbell exercises indeed by comparison
at this point I would say the t-ball row
is a better choice for back hypertrophy
than the Barb row and that's a pretty
hot take because recently the fitness
industry has forgotten about the tar row
as an exercise there's been a lot of
credibility given to the barbell row as
a means to develop back density and
other things I guess but the tar has
been forgotten about and personally
based on these two factors I think the
tar is a better option than the barbar
likewise You could argue that the land
mine lateral rise is better than a
dumbbell lateral rise for the same
reason the resistance curve is simply
more favorable in light of the length
position being pretty important for
hypertrophy the same goes for a goblet
squat or a lunge performed with a land
mine or a t- bar versus a dumbbell
simply on account of the resistance
curve involved it may be better for I
approach
another benefit of the t- bar is that
it's a very cool piece of equipment for
home gym lifters the footprint of a t
bar is minimal it's just a small little
thing you put into the ground next to
your rack and you have a whole new piece
of equipment and so for someone who's
training at home who doesn't have the
space for a lot of dumbbells or for a
lot of machines a t-o can be a nice
addition to your home gym that doesn't
cost much makes for a pretty solid
hypertrophy option for the tar Row for
example for a goblet squat for a lunge
so consider it now have sung the Praises
of t-bar rose to no end let me give you
a few caveats to why it might not be as
good as I have just made out or just
some limitations first it's actually
kind of hard to set up if you want to
hit your upper chest for example do a
kneeling t- bar press right or a
landline press you would need to get the
weight into position first and then sit
down or find some sort of way to get
into position so either you're not going
to be able to do it with very heavy
weights for low reps or it's simply
going to be awkward to get into position
and a bit challenging as compared to
like a bar Bell incl press or even a
dumbbell incl press or a machine incl
press those are simply a lot easier to
get started with secondly again the
fitness industry had issued this
movement a little bit for a reason it is
not perfectly loadable compared to a
barble exercise or many machines or even
dumbells you simply can't load it as
heavily as dumbbells or barad Bells you
could simply do higher reps to
circumvent this issue but also for a lot
of people for a lot of exercises that
might not use as heavy of a load like
the incline press or the kneeling land
mine press this might not even be an
issue finally while I'm saying that t-o
exercises are potentially Superior to
Bar exercises on the account of the
resistance curve of the length and
partial right like there's a mechanical
stop when you row that barbell this is
relatively speculative while the
evidence is pretty convincing at this
point that the length and position is so
important we haven't actually directly
compared the t-all row for example to a
barall row and measured back growth my
two favorite exercises on the T for
hypertrophy would probably have to be a
T Bar row as I mentioned limits the
range of motion in a shorten position
and has a lengthened biased resistance
curve and the incline press or the
kneeling line M press hits the upper
chest pretty effectively and does so
with a lengthen biased resistance curve
so those two would probably be my go-to
that's the video let me give you a few
quick takeaways first if you're training
for hypertrophy consider the T Bar it's
been long forgotten about but it might
have some benefits for muscle growth
over the barbell the Tea Bar in general
is pretty slept on especially within a
home gym it's got a really small
footprint and offers you a lot of
options as far as other exercises go
that you wouldn't get with just the
barbell plates finally the T Bar might
be impractical for certain movements or
certain things so just keep that in mind
give it a shot but certain exercises
might not be ideal that's the video If
you like this video please comment like
subscribe donate to me so I can buy a
tea bar from my own home and I'll see
you guys my people in that next one
peace welcome back now real doct Milo
Warfare well let me restart the
video cuz I need to change Hood
cuz I'm fing
to F for