[Music]
what is going on everyone it is
Wednesday December the 20th today I'm
here with Stephanie and Pat's you guys
remember Pat from a video way like way
back I think now we did a chest workout
on the channel but Pat is actually
prepping for his second Pro show so he's
doing the California natural muscle
mayhem which is the show that I won in
2014 and turned pro at and then he's
doing another show when's your next show
in March 31st Washington oh right right
that's the first one so his first show
is the Washington State Pro then the
muscle mayhem in July we're hoping to do
world in November right yeah so you
basically you're gonna be prepping all
year he's 15 weeks out from his first
show the Washington State Pro show and
he's already looking really shredded
we're gonna go for a workout later but
you guys can see like even intuitively
he's just taking a piping pump so yeah
he's really straight he's gonna be ready
super early for this show but I just
wanted to pick up the camera and vlog a
little bit today probably chat to Pat a
little bit about our sort of coaching
strategy and what we're doing for his
prep and also rashon and I John is here
too Jon and I are getting some b-roll
for a new series that I'm gonna be doing
on the channel - this series is going to
be dedicated to myth-busting so we're
just getting like some b-roll for the
intro that I'm gonna do and I thought it
would be cool to like kind of tease
towards some of the topics I'm going to
be covering so we got like a couple
clips of me drinking a protein shake cuz
I think my first one's gonna be on the
health effects of eating a lot of
protein got a clip of me drinking a
glass of milk and need a shot right now
in the hot tub just because I I want to
cover things to do with like hot versus
cold baths cryotherapy which I have
covered before but stuff to do with that
and then we're gonna head to the gym and
get a couple clips of like some
stretching foam rolling that sort of
thing I'm so those are the sorts of
topics I'm going to cover in that series
and you can stay tuned for that also I'm
just getting over my sickness I had a
cold for like four or five days so I
actually haven't trained I think in four
or five days but I released a video on
this called should you train when sick
so if you haven't watched that make sure
you check it out but this is gonna be my
first workout back in the gym today and
later tonight Pat and I
go hit a back workout and I think we're
gonna train some abs too we're gonna
kind of take you guys through what it is
we do it feels really good to finally be
in a spot where I feel like I can train
effectively again so as for right now
we're Sean and I are gonna get the rest
of these clips where Sean is gonna put
to work his like new animation and
motion graphic skills try to get this
we're gonna grab some of those and then
I'll check in with you guys in a little
bit
the idea with these shots basically
we're trying to get like a quick
10-second sequence of different like
myth-busting type topics or whatever
topics that I could MIT basically I
don't know exactly what I'll cover in
the series but that's the basic feeling
I need to use this thing wrong we've
been here for like two months out I used
it this is the second time
so guy Steph is editing her next video
now which is a full day of eating but
eating however much she wants we
basically wanted to figure out how much
she would eat if there was no holds
barred or whatever like she could just
eat until she was full by the time
you're watching this her video will be
up I won't spoil it but she got pretty
freakin close to ten thousand calories
just on like a normal cheat day like it
wasn't a challenge or anything casual
dead case absolutely like just the
craziest appetite I've ever seen yeah go
check out the video I'll put I'll put
the link to in the description if you
want to see I'm in it a bit too but I
don't I didn't use my sidekick that fit
your macros yeah so we're gonna go get
some do shots over at the gym for my
myth series and then we're gonna go grab
something to eat at mucho burrito so
I'll check in with you guys at the gym
[Music]
okay yeah I mean it definitely wasn't
turning though right no it was that's
right looking times yeah we're gonna get
a couple just short clips in here I was
thinking I would do like some foam
rolling because I think that's a little
overrated there's some myths around that
the pocketbook and use some dynamic
stretching right it's that attraction
just like shot up this and then maybe
get a couple clips of us like just doing
something intense maybe we could be
doing like a bicep curl you can do
something like that so yeah this is the
final shot we got was on the basically
unstable surface training I think that
this is another thing that's super
overhyped so can stay tuned for a video
on that's you
oh it's pretty
that's like
I turn my head like that so I haven't
been able to train
oh they're in
so guys here's what I got this is three
chicken tacos not something like cord
and black beans a little bit of
mozzarella cheese guacamole and a little
bit of sour cream on these so they've
had these ones before these are really
good and we're at Weston a misplaced
mucho burrito we're at mucho burrito oh
and we're drink
there's chocolate milk I didn't have any
large so I've got a burrito bowl rice on
the bottom veggies a little bit of sour
cream anyone prep basically like we're
gonna eat this and then I'm gonna
quickly chat with Pat just about like
our basic coaching strategy going into
the show how he makes this food
selection how he makes stuff fit as Max
Rose what I want to do was give you guys
a quick physique update for Pat um so
like I said he's 15 weeks out from his
first show right now but we're basically
doing an extended season so he's not
gonna finish until November of next year
which is crazy so we have to be like
very I guess strategic with our approach
where I don't want you to feel too
dieted or to birds out too early so what
I'm gonna do is I'm gonna roll a few of
his physique shots up on the screen
while we talk about his prep coaching
strategy and kind of how things have
been going so far
Pat is doing men's physique as a pro and
he's also gonna compete in men's open
bodybuilding as an amateur it doesn't
have as bodybuilding Pro car but he does
have his physique program but we're
basically gunning for bodybuilding pro
card this season right yeah okay first
of all what are your macros right now at
15 weeks so I'm eating 225 grams of
protein 300 grams of carbs and 55 pounds
are you doing any refeed right now no
receipts so straight macro so
so like I find that a refeed isn't
really necessary if the client is being
adherent until a little later down the
road when you start to get that like
decrease in energy or you want something
to kind of get you through to the next
week in a way sometimes I'll do one or
two day repeat but I do think that
they're overrated I think that tell you
start seeing some metabolic slowdown you
don't necessarily need or refeed so I
just leave them out and go for
consistency day-in day-out basically
doing the same things and trying to like
instill those habits early on that makes
sense in terms of hitting those macros
is there a certain thing that you do
like do you focus on healthy foods for
the most part how much would you say
you're fitting junk food into those
macros so I would say 70 80 percent I'm
eating old nutrient-dense food 20 to 30
percent like junk food like ice cream
mostly icecream so what would be the
example of like a clean bro style food
that you're eating a lot presented it to
them so lately I've been eating a lot of
rice and vegetables
I'll have salad so a lot of volume that
way and then like chicken just like
typical bro foods and then for junk
foods you say like an ice-cream it kind
of like low fat stuff like that or um
yeah mostly although fat so like I'll
get ice cream and then frozen yogurt it
usually has a little bit of lower fat I
think that this is a good strategy I
think that you should give yourself like
I'd say at the upper end like a 20%
buffer roughly of some junk food and
that isn't because you I think I'm at
the opinion that you could achieve more
or less there could be some slight
differences but more or less the same in
physique with I would say 80% junk it
could it could literally be all junk
food and you can get very lean if the
caloric deficit is in place and if
you're eating sufficient protein it gets
a little bit tangley like when you run
into micronutrient deficiencies so if
you're eating so much junk food that
you're literally not getting enough like
magnesium or calcium zinc you know it
could affect things like your
testosterone levels or it could affect
fat metabolism to the point that it
slows fat loss before the most part I
think it really does come down to energy
balance and total protein intake when it
comes to fat loss and that includes
getting very very frightened but the
reason why I try to stick to that 20%
zone is primarily for health reasons for
adherence reasons and the fact that as
your macros get lower and lower you
basically run more of a risk of
developing those nutrient deficiencies
which can play into things especially
performance you know the gym
now your macros are pretty freakin high
so I would say you have more leeway to
play with that like 20% junk food and as
they get lower you're probably going to
want to reduce that maybe stick to more
bland foods more nutrient-dense foods
that will help I think on a couple of
fronts for one it'll really help with
that habit formation I feel like I'm
prepped it's important sometimes to go
into that like robot mode like whether
it's only tunnel vision yeah and develop
that routine I find if you need too much
junk food it can set up a slippery slope
where you may be tempted to just eat a
little bit more and then a little bit
more other thing is that really junky
foods can sometimes be more difficult to
track especially if they're high fat and
so you could end up eating or overeating
outside of a margin of error that's
higher than you'd like because like say
you're eating like home baked cookies
it's really hard to know what's in that
to any degree of precision that I think
would be appropriate for a contest
product right yeah so yeah I think that
that's good what about cardio right yeah
so five days a week I'm doing four
sessions of list 30 minutes per session
and then one session a hit which was 20
minutes that sounds like a nice bit of
cardio but I think that for someone like
Pat who works basically at the computer
he's pretty sit entry lifestyle-wise
right I think that incorporating that
cardio is a good idea because for one it
allows us food intake to be higher again
less risk of nutrient deficiencies and I
think a little bit more fullness a
little bit better performance perhaps in
the gym with a little more food and then
also it's going to improve his work
capacity so his cardiovascular endurance
is better which is gonna allow you to
perform a little bit more volume and
perhaps add a little bit of a higher
intensity as a result of doing that
cardio so for people who live more
sedentary lifestyles I'm not a fan of
doing preps where you do no cardio or a
very little cardio even mostly because
even though you could do it you could
probably just as lean but it would mean
that your food would have to be lower
and your performance might not be quite
as good in the gym because you may not
have that general physical preparedness
that you have because of the cardio
right yeah we're gonna give you guys
some idea of what his training is like
it's very intense his strength is still
very good and that's the way we need it
to be at this point and my goal is to
have him just basically lose I would say
about one pound per week we're still in
that zone right now
up until I think he's ready and I think
he's gonna be ready really early and
then we're gonna be able to introduce
food in and have him grow into the show
or maybe not grow into the show but like
at least you know fill out to the point
where when show day comes you're not
looking flat to pleat it tired all that
you're gonna be looking full vascular
have that like skin tearing stage that's
the goal anyway and then that could make
you look way leaner too honestly like he
pushes out on the skin more you see the
striations better I'm really excited
absolutely we're gonna head back to the
place and then a little bit later
tonight we're gonna go for we're gonna
hit some back and have it yeah yeah
maybe do a little bit of bicep so it'll
be like a pull workout and then we'll
show your ab routine and as you guys
will see in the close pack that has some
of the craziest ABS especially AB
genetics they're like perfect blocks
just perfectly symmetrical so he's gonna
share a few of his ab secrets tonight
and we'll get into that a little bit
later
[Music]
swear on everyone we're here at the gym
just excuse the audio I'm gonna try to
speak up have only the same but we're in
a commercial gym so there is some music
playing but in any case bring it into
this back work up here to beat start off
with some power strut I'm so I've talked
to this on the channel a little bit but
basically just use a little bit of leg
drive to kind of power the weight up
struck all the way up to your ears and
then catch it on the way down so it's
not really like you controlled negative
it's more of like strong squeeze in a
pitch towards the bottom and I really
lose straps for these just because I
don't want to talk to my for drink too
early in the workout I'm trying to train
my traps my back not microstrain so that
isn't my priority right near the pad has
been doing some direct network we're
probably like the last year right yeah
and like men I can see some huge so I
actually tried on one in my old dress
shirts for a last Christmas again there
is at least an inch neck button down the
back to like you can see
this is my first workout back after
being sick so I'm probably only gonna go
to like maybe 70 80 percent of full
capacity even though I feel good like I
mentioned the last video glycogen is
still probably pretty low and I have a
feeling my strength like even just
having done a couple more upsets is
gonna be a little bit lower but at the
same time I'm not really gonna go back
to too much that makes it three into
this first exercise and yeah
[Music]
so I just finished up that we did three
sets ten to twelve reps and then path
finish off with a drop set yeah because
this is going to be our last upper trap
focused movement I think it's a good
idea then sometimes adding those
intensity techniques to sort of burn out
if it's the last set of the last
exercise for that body part if that
makes sense I think that's the most
intelligent time to incorporate things
like drop sets burnout sets force reps
that's one stuff but I do think it has a
place in a one's program so anyway after
this we're going to hop into a lap
reactivation exercise and the reason I
do the shrug work first because this is
what I'm trying to prioritize I think we
got the most room to improve my upper
traps and so simple priority principle
dictates that actually go early in the
workout you'll be stronger more
energetic move more to load more of a
hypertrophic stimulus and we're going to
move on to a pre activation exercise for
the lats there's gonna be a one-arm lap
win it's gonna be a teaching exercise so
I'm gonna do it the way I feel like most
people do this exercise which is
incorrectly and pad is gonna coach me
through it alright so you want some on
the cable
yeah and then want to focus on the move
you're coming closer to your body verse
just bending at the elbow right as
you're coming down near the ending of
the movement
you want to flex your torso and then
increase range of motion and increased
activation in your lap although I'd a
lot of people do is they kind of think
about it like almost like a bicep curl
and they're kind of just pulling it in
like this is exaggerated but it is what
a lot of people do whereas you want to
think about doing it like the opposite
of a lateral raise and just drive your
elbow down to the ground and minimize
involvement here like my bicep is
actually grabbing here this is not
really doing anything it's just my lab
that's been tracking down and then
crunching into the movement I don't want
to give away too many secrets because
I've got a back science explained video
coming but those are a couple things you
can chew on in the meantime
really heavy pronated grip middle grip
lat pull-downs here we're actually going
lower reps heavier weight then I feel
like a lot of people use on the lat
pulldown but I do like to go heavy on
these find your potential for overloads
a little bit higher that way and we're
gonna do four sets of six to eight reps
and as for the cues and research and all
that kind of stuff
I'm just gonna say before I back a
science explained video you guys can
stay tuned for that one
I've been putting all the research
together and it's gonna be the most
comprehensive back training video out
there I think I'm just gonna save it for
that one and when we get into this one
then move on to some horizontal
[Music]
so next we've got the chest support a
t-bar rub and again I talk with a smack
bit in my back science video however one
thing to keep in mind is that the chest
support I think has two main functions
one it takes a bit of strain off your
lower back I'm just you can save that
for other movements if you're doing
deadlifts shrugs heavy shrugs or what
have you
see if you lower back a little bit it
also helps a little bit with lap
recruitment comes there's been some
research showing that if you do a chest
supported row as opposed to just a
freestanding row like a barbell row you
get a little bit more light activation
and out of it so where we only did one
free activation lat and then one flat
movement proper we're doing a more
focused version of a row to kick off our
horizontal pulling to make the workout
just that little bit more extra lat
focus so for this movement were gonna
move in three sets of twelve to fifteen
reps so a little bit higher reps we're
also gonna go add a little bit more of a
controlled cadence so whereas with our
first movement we're using a little bit
of body English to move slightly heavier
weight with this one lower the weight a
little bit and use a little bit more of
a control tempo freshly on the East
Center and get into that right now
[Music]
so has our next movement is gonna be a
wide loop neutral grip seated cable row
and we're only gonna do two sets here
but we're gonna apply wraps between 15
to 20 reps I actually find this is
really good for your delts exercise and
a mid-table exercise but in my
experience using a closer grip is gonna
train the lats I feel it way more my
last of the Close Grip
but this is a lot harder to feel in your
lats your arms are are wider for their
Blessed Duncan still acts are in or
positioning attract basically your
bootstraps your rear delts are gonna
contribute more to the movement even
slightly restricting the range of motion
and thinking about kind of cueing
yourself to almost pull out instead of
just straight back is a good way to
really engage the rear delts and I do
like training results on my full day
standing two sets 15 to 20 wrap barely
intense and this is meant to be like
more of that like metabolic stress
[Music]
so our last back focus movement it's
gonna be rough face pools as you see
Patton when I'm here I like to do these
kind of half wine with my foot up for
support and I like to pull right through
my eye line basically the reason I like
to do them like that is because you're a
little more locked in which means you
can move more weight and I found a lot
of people when they do them standing up
like there's absolutely no way this
thing waited without feeding because the
Rope is pulling you forward because you
almost have to like use a lot more core
for stability which isn't necessarily a
bad thing
but it will mean that you're gonna have
to go lighter if you're lying down
you'll be able to move way more awake
way more and overloading stimulus on the
traps and the rear delt do them almost
like a high rope so I'm pulling through
my eyes but I'm not doing an external
rotation Pro Facebook which you're gonna
have to go light on more so trains
rotator cuff muscles that external
rotators whereas this movement is
training more again of the mid traps
we're adults and I like to do these
heavy but yet still go in like the 12 to
15 rep range on these I'm so heavy
compared to how most people to do a real
place bull like I'll do the oil stop
here it's all relative because when you
do them lying down you can just go so
much head we're down to three sets 12 to
15 reps the real Facebook and I'm gonna
get
[Music]
so ruin on ABS analysis Jeff this year
really doing the partner assisted
decline and a brunch and using the Met
Ball one of the biggest tips on this one
is you want to make sure you're
shortening at the torso versus you're
spending at your hips on that he just
bend at the hips here to using hip
flexors versus if you're sorting your
torso dude that's bigger absolutely the
main thing I like about this one is that
it's like one of the very few a boxer
sizes I actually like to do I find
absolutely really like just such short
of training especially at the end it
will work out if you have a partner and
you can kind of like throw a medicine
ball back and forth makes it a little
more entertaining and then also you can
almost incorporate like a very explosive
element for the movement so at the top
you don't have to slow down like if
you're doing yourself you can just
continue to forcefully kind of push
through the range of motion you get that
like explosive force at the top that I
like
[Music]
so moving on to the hanging leg raise
couple tips on this one is you want to
make sure you're not swinging using
momentum you want to keep tension on
your core more focus on lower ab
sections also when you're doing this one
another good cue is to tilt on your hips
bring your hips up versus just raising
your legs so one thing I
dislike about this is that I do find I
get a pump in my hip flexors here yeah
is there anything you do to kind of
negate that I might try it activate my
core and flex it before I start my
themselves right so like think about it
first yeah it's gonna do three sets of
12 15 and that's gonna be it
[Music]
all right so guys that's gonna conclude
the workout thank you so much for
watching you want to give a shout out to
Pat he's documenting his whole journey
for the pro stage it's on his YouTube
channel so I'll put his button right
here make sure you go over check out his
channel give the video a thumbs up if
you liked it and I want to do more
videos with Pat because know I'm
coaching him and I want to do that kind
of throw the course with his proud doing
like periodic updates so let me know if
you like the style of IDEO and subscribe
to the channel if you're new I'll see
you guys next time