hey folks it's me again Dr Mike for
Renaissance periodization and it turns
out you have to do the big three squat
bench and deadlift to get maximum
hypertrophy oh wait just kidding that's
a myth
we'll talk about why it's a myth we're
going to talk about some of the good
things about doing some stuff like that
some of the bad things and then of
course the real talk at the end to close
it all off put a bow on it
mail it have someone open it it blows up
in their face building Sirens go off
smoke from whatever floor blew up on
people screaming children running
elevators don't work fire alarms
water sprinklers Jesus what the hell are
we sending in any case
here you go
here's the myth this is a direct quote
I've heard maybe a thousand times you
gotta do the big three for Max gains
squat bench and deadlift three Core
Power lifts amazing
and uh people who say that rarely mean
for one rep max they often mean uh for
reps
uh you know at least sets of fives just
a ten squat bench and deadlift that's
the best way to get big and if you want
to get big big for real for real like
the old school Bros did it like all the
guys I know that are big that I'm not
big but I fetishize them and run an
account where I put up pictures of big
guys and DM other big guys
they do that stuff I know they do
because I follow them physically
everywhere they go
if you're gonna do
reps of squats benches and deadlifts
religiously
you're gonna have some good things
coming your way it's not all bad the
high rep power lifting moves often in
the most effective range for them is
sets of five to ten because they're
Technical and they have some limiting
factors so you get technique breakdown
north of 10 reps they're actually very
good at growing muscle generally
speaking and doing them in an
intelligently planned program is
actually great
so far so good
however there are at least two problems
we can think of the first problem the
big problem
is thinking you have to do them
a lot of times people will do them and
put them in the program even if
they don't gel with their body at all
Everything feels wrong it makes my
joints hurt I don't feel the muscle
getting hit hardly at all I feel the
wrong muscles this is terrible but I
still have to do this because Ronnie
Coleman did it or something like that
another thing is that sometimes they
work okay but from a stimulus to fatigue
ratio perspective how much good you get
out of it versus how much fatigue cost
you pay and if you're new to the channel
just Google sfr Israel or something and
it'll come up with a nice 10 minute long
video explaining that in more depth if
you're curious what that concept is but
basically if something's not as
stimulative for you as it could be and
pretty fatiguing for how stimulative it
is it has a low stimulus to fatigue
ratio compared to other exercises like
you just get a better hit out of incline
dumbbell presses but you keep doing
barbell bench presses because power
lifters are big or something like that
that's a problem because you are not
using the exercises that are actually
best for you in that moment in time and
using exercises that are not best
under the
assumption and presupposition that
they're necessary or mandatory and
that's not true
uh even if you have all of the muscles
covered and you can train them hard as
fuck with other variations and other
lifts sometimes you still include these
lifts because you feel like you have to
do them people will say things like well
you know like it's not really lead
program unless you squat which is wrong
and it pains me to say that it's wrong
because I'm a religious squatting
I was going to say Advocate I don't
Advocate I'm a religious squatter myself
almost all of my workouts that are great
have high bar squats I love them uh and
I wish I could have our squat all the
time it's like my favorite lift in the
world but I can't say that you have to
do it that would be wrong and it would
be wrong to do the big three thinking
you have to do them
and
this idea that you have to do them even
though you're jumping over tons of
hurdles to do them often results in
people including squat mentioned deadly
for reps in their program and it ends up
being that they incur a lot of needless
fatigue their fatigue is much higher
interfering with those lifts themselves
and other lifts and on your ability to
grow maximum muscle
it gives you a higher injury risk
because often these lifts are done very
heavy in their compound and the summit
of total force is very high your chance
of getting injured with deadlifts is
much higher than your chance of getting
injured with pull-ups or rows or
anything else you do for your back for
example and what they do is they
displace other potentially more
effective choices so from the earlier
example if you say well your incline
Domino press really does fry my packs
the best but I do barbell presses
because I have to
I can't do them both because my Pack's
coming to recover from so much so I'm
going to do barbell presses this
methocycle of a Nexus cycle I'll do some
incline demo pressing it's like we
should needlessly doing something that
is not as effective and displacing Away
something that is effective
it's like I was going to make this style
I'll make it fuck it I'll make a
terrible analogy it's like you're going
to potentially go on a date with two
girls and one of them is absolutely not
your type and the other one's like
fucking right on if for some weird
reason you feel like you have to go on
both dates and the girl that's really up
your alley you're like hey Cynthia
listen uh maybe next week or something
go fuck get out of here and hey Janice
it may not be your number one girl
you're like let's do this let's go on
this date you're on the date and she's
like what do you think about me you're
like
you hurt my feelings to look at
but I'm doing it anyway because of
reasons and there are no good reasons
why the fuck you're on the date you need
to be like hey Janice here's the me
paying the bill here's me texting
Cynthia here's me going Netflix and
chill at her house how do we get there I
did the usual thing when I meet up with
girls which is the following
ah and you run away because you've never
been by a girl at all in my case
definitely and in your case probably
also since you're a follower viewer of
this channel you almost certainly don't
get laid I'm kidding stay calm but let's
be honest
probably true also I'm kidding about
that but let's be totally honest
come on seriously that was also a joke
I'll just shut up problem number two
because the big three have the sort of
like religious
annotation to them
it's sort of uh demotes everything else
and assumes an inferiority
when you say to people like hey I do
hack squats I do bent rows I do incline
presses you'll get some people in some
crowd be like really why don't you squat
with a free weight barbell brother
and then you're in Tennessee by accident
there is a thing where hack squats
incline presses and bent rows are in
every single theoretical way just as
effective to build the quads and upper
packs overall packs and back as the
squat bench and deadlift and possibly
even more effective in some cases
but if you have a must do the big three
are the thing I have to do attitude
you're not gonna be able to do other
variances often and you're going to
assume they're inferior For No Good
Reason like every time I post a hack
squat video motherfucker gets in the
comments inevitably and goes why not
barbell Squad and if I had only one
fucking superpower it would be the
ability to fucking teleport right to
when he's almost done typing that
comment and Go Bart Simpson and Homer
Simpson Style just I just choke them for
a while not to the point where he passes
out or even feels his life is threatened
just to teach him a goddamn lesson you
type stupid shit on your phone you're
getting choked
in a fun Cooperative friendly way
like I used to do with my Rabbi back
when I was eight years old
real talk there are zero must-do
exercises uh Scott David guy have we
made a video about the myth of must-do
exercises already I feel like we have
yeah
yeah and if we haven't we will so if you
can find it find that shit and if you
can tell us in the comments to make it
and we'll make it either again or for
the first time ever there are no must do
exercises
you have to choose exercises they give
you good or the best stimulative
stimulus to fatigue ratios
sometimes when you're not so concerned
about fatigue when you're like say a
college student and it's over the summer
and you get to eat at the dorms and
train in a mostly empty gym you're 18
years old you're new to lifting and
fatigue is not really a concern then you
choose exercise with a highest raw
stimulus magnitude just the ones that
fuck you up the most they give you drive
the most hypertrophy fuck up your
muscles the best
you do these exercises the best sfr and
RSM exercises until they become stale
until they are no longer the best
exercises which you can tell through a
variety of ways your your ability to
progress on them stops or stalls your
joints start to hurt you start to get
much less excited about it the pumps and
the soreness that you get from other
movements are much better now than these
you switch to another set of now the
most effective exercises or just
effective exercises and you continue
that cycle for forever and get all the
growth that you're gonna get often the
powerlift squat bench and deadlift will
make the cut and it's totally great to
include them and then you should but
often they won't and you don't have to
feel a damn bit bad about it because
there's no compelling reason to have to
include the squat bench and deadlift in
a perchary plan because hypertrude plans
are always an everywhere highly
individualized and highly situational
it's your choice
you can be hardcore and yes the quotes
around that are there for a reason
or you can get the most effective
stimulus and the lowest fatigue
and with that Captain America type
motivational bullshit I leave you for
next time I would wait
like comment subscribe
and do all the other Tick Tock things
that people do on social media see you
guys next time bye