great day for a grocery haul that's
great all right what's going on everyone
just finished up with an arm workout now
we're on our way to the grocery store
basically I wanted to make this grocery
trip a little bit more informative so I
wanna be sharing some of the secrets
some of the science behind mine and
traditional choices so we're gonna be
getting nothing but the finest highest
quality premium nutrients on this
grocery home let's get it all right guys
we're here at Walmart let's go inside
all right so guys as we go through I'm
going to be sharing with you the three
main pillars of bodybuilding nutrition
and we're going to be starting with
pillar number one which is that the more
protein you can eat the better there is
actually no limit to the amount of
protein that you can absorb in a single
meal and you can actually use all the
protein that you eat for muscle building
purposes so we're gonna actually skip
over the carbs section over here and go
straight to the protein now alright so
guys one of the major staples of my diet
is eggs I like to have egg whites in the
morning as a good source of protein I'm
actually aiming for 450 grams of protein
myself right now trying to get about 2
grams per pound of body weight because I
only eat egg white so I'm gonna get a
few of these should last me about like a
week or so you never have too much
protein one two three four five six
seven we go for ten and one more
should be good for the week all right so
guys another staple in my diet is extra
lean ground turkey basically I use this
as a pre-workout protein source and an
intra workout protein source so in
between my workout I'll run out to my
car have some of this make sure that I'm
staying
anabolic throughout the workout and you
want to basically think of your body
like an on and off switch so you're
either fully anabolic or fully catabolic
you want to stay in that anabolic state
as long as possible including during
your training so if you have a
Tupperware and put some ground turkey in
the Tupperware that's gonna keep you
nice and anabolic straight your training
session now one thing that I'll also do
is I'll buy a few packs of these wieners
and you can actually blend these up into
a smoothie and it makes a really nice
protein rich shake so you not only get
all the protein from the meat in the
wiener but you also get all the
nutrients from all the other stuff
that's in there so you get a couple
packs of these to blend up good to go
[Music]
all right so guys rule number two of
bodybuilding nutrition is that you can
eat as many carbs as you want and you
won't get fat as long as they're coming
from clean carb sources so for me I like
to stock up on a couple of big bags of
rice like this put it in a Tupperware
you can eat it at home eat it in the gym
and it's just a good clean source of
carbohydrate so on to the next thing
[Music]
so guys another thing you really don't
want to neglect in your diet is
phytonutrients phytonutrients are
basically compounds found in fruits and
vegetables that act as antioxidants and
anti-inflammatory so always make sure to
get some kind of fruit flavor drink like
Gatorade or like a melon flavored
Gatorade just make sure I'm not missing
out on any of those nutrients all right
so guys another thing that's more or
less unanimously agreed upon across
multiple online nutrition databases like
the bodybuilding.com forums is that you
really want to spike your insulin
post-workout and you're gonna have all
your glycogen depleted from the intense
training and you want to replenish those
glycogen stores right away so what we're
gonna use for that is it fast-acting
carbs or such as coca-cola over here and
this is going to replenish those
glycogen stores really fast spike the
insulin and basically that's what we
want
[Music]
another thing can't forget water very
important to stay hydrated so drink a
couple of these a day so I'm only gonna
get to two from the house so I don't
have to get another cart but just
something to keep in mind rule number
three the most important rule of
bodybuilding nutrition is that you've
got to eat big if you want to get big
for me I like to stock up on some ice
cream and go straight to the Ben &
Jerry's over here high quality
high-calorie nutrition where's my flavor
fish food it's great a bit of fish in
there a good source of omega-3 I think
get some chocolate chip cookie dough as
well got to eat big to get big man I'm
telling you it's the only way all right
let's keep it going
in the words of now retired American pro
bodybuilder an eight-time mr. Olympia
and Ronnie Coleman ain't nothing but a
peanut so we want to really stock up on
a bunch of high quality peanut butter
today I'm gonna go with this brand for
some good healthy fats so I'll get a few
of these and you can add this to your
you know Ben and Jerry's and even add it
to your protein smoothie and it's just
gonna make for a very high calorie nice
nutrient rich snack definitely can't
overdo it on the carbs as long as clean
look at that I heard that this is a
really nutritious superfood so these are
so good I had these for the first time a
couple days ago I have to get some more
this is great for post-workout as well
mix it up with some milk get that
insulin spike you get the protein
perfect
[Music]
all right now guys when you're eating
big to get big one thing you don't want
to neglect is your vegetable intake so I
always make sure to get a sub but you
know a solid serving of vegetables on
there make sure I've got all my bases
covered
look at this it's actually pretty solid
pretty good information honestly smart
guy pretty good okay thank you
great day for a grocery haul that's
great
hopefully you guys learned a lot I'm
gonna go put this in the trunk
I'll check them in to you guys in a
minute all right guys so if you haven't
figured it out already this video was a
complete spoof I was just meant to troll
some of the bottom of the body building
myths that are still out there so anyway
bro Jeff don't listen to any of the
stuff that he has to say don't take it
too seriously and we're actually just
packed all the groceries in the trunk
we're gonna take it to a local food bank
here now and don't eat it because in a
way I need all those eggs or any of that
stuff so anyway yeah we're gonna go
donate that please leave me a thumbs up
if you enjoyed the video let me know if
you like these type of spoof videos from
me I probably won't do them that often
but every now and then I think they can
illustrate some points and I'm gonna do
a follow-up video kind of clarifying if
that's something you guys would like to
see subscribe so you don't miss that one
and I'll see you guys all here in the
next video