[Music]
morning guys it is Friday June the 3rd
let's cook some breakfast as so I've got
my usual egg whites with some grated
cheese on top and then also Robin picked
up some of this Mighty Maple peanut
butter and I had this yesterday morning
and it's honestly the best peanut butter
I've ever
had it's so good it's kind of got like a
crunchy it's kind of like crunchy like
sugar in it or something so I'm getting
my second meal here now with what's left
of the ground turkey that I packed from
back home and I'm uploading uh the next
Vlog where I train upper potty in
Montreal I've got some basmati rice to
go with the ground turkey and that's
going to be meal number
two better
[Music]
recognize I'm here at the gym I'm going
to hit some arms I decided to come to
good life just because it was a little
bit closer and more convenient so see
you guys in there
I
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
got
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
a
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I'm
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
n
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
all right so I just finished up with the
arm workout sometimes people will ask me
whether or not you need to do an arm
workout when you look at my training
split really all that this is is just a
push pull leg split with the arm work
taken out and given its own day and I do
that just because because for one I I do
consider arms to be a weak point when
every time I've competed all six times
the judges have given me feedback that
my arms need to come up it's usually
biceps and traps and that's the only
feedback I I normally get other than I
could be a little bit more condition in
order for me to prioritize that I think
I should either hit it first in the
workout or give it its own day the
problem with hitting it first in the
workout is that then your subsequent
back work can suffer if your biceps are
fa fued and so I would rather just pull
that out give it its own day and I think
that if we were to create a randomized
controll trial where you had one group
run a push pull legs rest Push Pull legs
and another group run a push pull legs
arm day Push Pull legs rest repeat I
don't think you would see any difference
whatsoever in terms of hypertrophy
between those groups and I think that
Beyond a certain point it just becomes a
completely theoretical argument I think
that when programming for bodybuilding
you really do need to consider what is
your weak point and how can we
prioritize that within your training
split other than that you know I do
enjoy it it's a sort of a fun workout
for me to do and I kind of treat it as a
rest day you know it allows all of my
other body parts to sort of recover and
it's not overly taxing or fatiguing but
yet I still get in the gym still burn
some calories still get a pump and like
I said you know prioritize a week point
it is 8:30 now I'm going to go back meet
my brother I think we're going to
explore downtown Toronto a little bit
thank you guys so much for watching once
again um I hope that you guys are
enjoying these frequent Vlogs I know
that I'm really enjoying making them I
love filming I love editing I love
training and so the whole process of
this is just really enjoyable for me and
so when you guys comment or like uh my
videos um that really means a lot so I
really do appreciate that um and so yeah
if you guys did like the video uh give
it a thumbs up comment if you have any
questions or comments for me at all um
I'm going to do my absolute best to get
back to all comments uh on this video
and future videos for as long as I
possibly can and uh yeah thanks for
watching guys I'll see you in the next
video
[Music]
a
[Music]
[Music]
n
[Music]