Tuesday we start with barbell Skull
Crushers just like Dad did him just like
Grandpa did him you guys remember those
photos your your grandpa showed you from
the um Civil War uh-huh your great
grandpa was doing Skull Crushers and
that motherfucker there you guys try
yourself
hey folks Dr Mike Israel here for
Renaissance periodization
today's topic is to talk to you about a
tricep growth program
the triceps are an interesting muscle
they do a couple of really cool things
one is they look enormous minor so
pumped right now but
uh they make your arm look really big
because they're like oh two-thirds the
size of your arm or two-thirds of your
uh upper arm volume is really triceps so
a lot of people say arms and biceps to
use those terms interchangeably but if
you have small triceps your biceps look
cool and people are like yes your biceps
are cool you don't have big arms how
does that work triceps if they're big
your arms are big
so that's cool also you know it's great
to have people close to you in your life
but sometimes you need to push people
away and how would you do that if not
with overly developed triceps so you get
some toxicity in your life Grandma's
getting on your nerves give her a little
gentle
push away with your jack triceps but you
don't have Jack triceps which is why
you're watching this video to find out
how to get them let's get started first
of all why not just train normally and
then triceps will get bigger why
specialize well first of all you can
train normally your triceps will
probably continue to get bigger
there's a couple good reasons to
specialized one is you just like want
your triceps to be bigger in relation to
the rest of your body as it is now
because if you especially don't have
like genetically gifted triceps
let's say the average
as you gain weight and you go from 180
to 190 to 200 let's say over the course
of multiple years putting on that much
muscle your triceps will be big for 180
Big for 190 big for 200 but they won't
be huge for any of those so they'll
never stand out
but if you want your triceps to stand
out then you have to take them above and
beyond and that is what specialization
is good for
in addition to that you can reduce how
much work you do for other muscles
increasing how much work you do for the
triceps because you're then giving them
much more recovery bandwidth and then
you can get them even bigger even faster
because when you slow down other muscles
and speed up the triceps you get double
the effect of the triceps beginning to
overpower the previous position in your
physique which is sweet doesn't you have
big triceps you can push Grandma away
get out of here grandma
watching basketball tonight on the TV no
no more of your stupid cooking shows you
know what I feel even bad saying that
you shouldn't say things like that to
Grandma watch the cookie show with
Grandma maybe make her something on the
cooking show she'd love that
so
can you train everything normally and
then stack your more triceps training on
top of that potentially yes
but you may get better results by
reducing how much you do with other
stuff
and that may actually get you better
gains
how much of the other stuff do you pull
away
and can you prioritize triceps and chest
and back and legs all at the same time
the answer to that is you have to see
how much you can recover from
so if you're prioritizing a certain
number of muscles which means training
them more than usual
if you try to add in one more to the
priority you might be like holy crap
this is way too much I can't recover I
can't train very hard and this isn't
working
and then you have the answer to your
question of can I train triceps and
chest and blah blah blah blah
so what I would say is start to train
you're probably training all of your
muscle groups normally right now great
keep doing that
and what you can do is take away one of
the muscles let's say a muscle you don't
really care about for a while let's say
your back is really well developed
you're like I'm gonna put my back at
maintenance volume just like five sets
or six sets a week for back
two sessions two or three sets each and
then see how much that affects your
other muscle Group Training and if that
really improves other muscle groups
because it really gives you a ton of
fatigue bandwidth to recovery bandwidth
to play with awesome
if that doesn't change things much and
you can actually increase your volume
for everything else without a huge
effect amazing if that changes something
but you're like man like bought me a
little bit of recovery room but not much
then you need to take other things and
put them on the back burner eventually
folks that either don't have a ton of
time to train or really Advanced
bodybuilders may only be able to
prioritize maybe about half their body
at one time while putting the other on
the back burner and that's just
something you're going to have to Auto
regulate trial and error to see which
one is good for you
so when we say specialization when you
sell tell somebody hey I'm specializing
on triceps in the next couple of months
what does that mean that we think you're
doing or in other words what should you
be doing to really earn the title of I'm
specializing on this because a lot of
people when they say
they don't use the term specializing you
get to the gym you see one of your gym
buddies you know people you don't speak
to outside of the gym but only in the
gym and they're like What's your insta
and you're like I don't have one even
though you do you'll just lie to them a
lot of times they'll say yeah man I'm
really trying to bring up my triceps now
we have to be very clear intellectually
trying to bring up your triceps and
doing a specialization program for your
triceps can be two different things
although the more scientifically and
logically minded of us watching this may
assume that they're the same thing
because if you said to someone hands I
really want to bring up my triceps you
know ostensibly you would be trying to
do something about it in an organized
logical fashion but sometimes people
don't think like that when they say I
want to bring up my triceps it's just a
desire they're expressing and what they
might do is at the end of their typical
tricep work or push work or upper body
work or whatever they'll do a couple
more sets of like rope cable extensions
and really feel a fucking yeah yeah I
feel it right here and that's what they
call specialization but that is not
specialization so what is specialization
it's a couple of things first
you have to check the box of specificity
you have to choose exercises that you
know from prior experience or are best
guessing you know looking forward manner
are your Best Bets for the triceps they
have the best stimulus hopefully the
lowest fatigue at least the biggest
stimulus
like if someone put a gun to your head
and said you better design a program
that trains your triceps as much as
possible and gets them as big as
possible in the next two months you had
better be picking certain exercises over
others you don't want to pick dips when
you know dips are shit for your triceps
you don't want to pick overhead
extensions when you know in your
personal experience they don't do a
whole lot for you he sure as hell don't
want to do close grip benches if you're
like ah truthfully that exercise really
just trains my chest but it's nominally
tricep exercise so I'm going to put it
down you got a gun to your head you
better choose all the best ones you want
to choose the best exercises that really
you know are your best guess at what
stimulates that muscle the most now if
you're very well educated and very long
time training
um or a trainer involved in training you
are not really making guesses anymore
you're making pretty solidified like I
know for a fact these four exercises are
gonna nuke me if you are very new to the
process you're making guesses but that's
okay
you make educated guesses based on you
know I did dips before and they felt
amazing oh I do dips again
another one is modalities let's say you
find that low rep Street sets have
worked really well for your biceps let's
say you find that drop sets have worked
well for your biceps Maya reps even
occlusion training you put an occlusion
band here and do extensions maybe that
has worked well for your biceps you want
to pick the modalities that work the
best because sometimes let's say you
want to train your triceps and make them
bigger someone could say yeah man sets
of five that's the best thing and you
read that in an article somewhere except
sets of five for you just make your
elbows hurt and they do anything to your
triceps that's not the best modality for
you so if you include it into a program
you're not making a serious attempt at
specialization so anytime you make a
specialization program remember we're
sort of like putting all our best forces
of the front lines here to really make a
huge impact and that we're going to want
modalities like rep ranges Etc that are
or types of training that really work
similar with rep ranges
if you know that sets of 20 to 30 really
just fry your triceps like nothing else
but you make a Chrysler specialization
program that has lots of sets of five to
ten somebody can ask you why are you
doing this and you'd be like well it's
important to train heavy right like no
that's not what the literature says at
all it's important to train through a
variety of rep ranges but bias to the
ones in which you get the best effect so
sometimes that means really objectively
analyzing your training because I'm
gonna be totally honest even though I
like to train triceps heavy I know I
don't get shit out of it my triceps get
strong they're drinking big anytime I
try something's gotten a lot bigger it's
been through let's say sets of 15 to 20
then that's a lot of what I'm gonna do
not all but a lot of what I'm gonna do
right so you got to be very good with
the specificity so that your program
looks like a very serious attempt to
grow your tribes in addition to that the
idea of prioritization has to thread
through your program
if you really want to make a biggest
impact on a muscle it is a very good
idea to train that muscle when you're a
very low in systemic fatigue when you
have high mental energy so you can
really put that muscle through its paces
and of course low fatigue and other
muscles that could prevent that muscle
from being recruited super well what
that means is you want to train triceps
first or very early in many of your days
through the week if you're seriously
attempting to grow triceps so for
example if I train upper lower upper
lower four days a week and I'm like I
want fucking bigger triceps on the upper
days I had better be starting either
some kind of pushing movement or trains
or triceps pretty well and then some
extensions right after or even
extensions first and then a pushing
movement or something like that if I'm
saying like my earlier example if I want
bigger triceps but I save my you know
three sets of cable extensions rope push
Downs for the end of the workout which
you assume I'm so tired at that point
that the percent of my tricep total
recruitment I can reach using my very
tired brain is now some fraction of the
total whereas if I show up on train
triceps first or train them second man I
can really fucking fry them up so that
at the end of multiple months of trying
to train triceps I can tell myself very
uh convincingly that I really tried as
hard as I could and there's no way to
really try harder in any meaningful
extent
in addition frequency is a big deal if I
had a dollar for the number of people
that said yeah I'm trying to bring up
XYZ muscle but they train it once a week
I'd have you know at least ten dollars
I'm just kidding I would have more than
that is it so common
but the reality is all almost all the
literature says especially in a short
and medium term weeks to months if you
want to improve a muscle group you have
to trade it with a higher frequency than
you normally do right unless you train
with a very high frequency already but
we're not talking about one time a week
for triceps we're talking about two
times a week at least and usually three
to four times a week can you sustain
three to four times a week tricep
training hard for months and months and
months no but you don't have to because
the specialization phase can only last
eight weeks and then you have much
bigger triceps but your elbows starting
to feel a little weird so you go back to
two times a week and everything's great
your elbows heal everything goes back to
normal we're making sort of uh
intentionally unsustainable pushes
right like if if you're in a war for
example an Old World War II style
conflict you push you know your tank
divisions across the front lines in a
sort of unsustainable push but then
whatever land you grab and it's a 24
hours you sort of start running out of
fuel you put up new defensive barriers
in front of your tanks you park them and
then you get resupplied right after that
you don't have to say hey like we're
going on tank battle better better go
all the way to Berlin with this one like
I don't know Berlin's really far away we
don't have to make it that far we just
have to make it 20 miles and then stop
and then put up a defensive uh posture
and then hopefully hold and and come
back in same with triceps you don't have
to look at your triceps after eight
weeks of training three times a day and
be like fuck they're a lot bigger but my
elbows hurt well that's okay because
then you can pull back and here's this
super super important thing that I have
to say
you many of you may already know but if
you don't this will be a big insight for
you maintaining the size of a muscle
is a trillion times a mildly
exaggeratory is a lot easier it takes
way less effort than getting a muscle to
be bigger
there's actually the analogy for combat
holds a hundred percent
uh the uh offending Army the Army on
offense
typically is down to like a a one to
three advantage or something like that
with a defending Force defending Force
has the advantage so what that means is
if you grab some land
you can hold it a lot easier than you
can take it
so it's okay to do a whole shitload of
unsustainable stuff to take land
and then once you're holding it and it's
stable take some of the forces and
supplies away from that and put them in
other parts of the front same with
triceps same with anything because it's
okay to go three times a week and Hammer
the shit out of your triceps but then to
maintain that new Mass only go twice a
week or even once a week to train
trash-ups and they'll be perfectly fine
and perfectly stable there's a huge
illusion in much of training that
what you did to get there is what you
need to do to maintain there that's I
struggle to find an instance in which
that's actually true
outside of like
fuck maybe nothing
even if you're talking about some very
linear process like you're swimming
Upstream in a river
you assume you know 500 meters upstream
and then you're asked to continue to
swim upstream but not move at all just
stay where you are yeah that requires a
whole lot more effort than staying where
you are in a river that's not flowing
against you but it's still minus the
velocity added for when you swam in so
it's still easier
but in the training it's way way way way
way easier it's not even close
I would think about it probably much
more like uh you know like if you got
rich at some point
how easy is it to stay Rich unless you
do something really stupid and you have
a decent financial plan it's not that
hard it's certainly not nothing but it's
way easier than getting rich in the
first place and you guys know I'm all
about getting rich on this fucking
Channel I'm uh see how my stocks are
doing yeah really good
I got stocks on my watch it just says
like Dow Jones
NASDAQ it's the stuff like the green red
it's got all those things you know
it doesn't have any of those things
I have no idea how my stocks are doing
to be honest
Scott is the stock market uh what's this
what's it doing bad
that means buy more stupid motherfuckers
always buy always buy
or as they say in Brazil beat your coin
all right Bitcoin aside higher frequency
more prioritization training the muscle
first and training the muscle with all
the best weapons and if we want to take
a really serious approach we could
actually produce other training
to make sure that our recovery for our
triceps goes really really well
which can mean that we reduce the volume
a little bit for all the other muscle
groups
or if you're really really serious and
you really need to just uncork the
tricep training you may reduce synergist
muscles more than others so that the
triceps get the least fatigue possible
from other muscle training in which
they're used for example
you use your shit out of your triceps
when you're training chests and often
when you're training front front belts
with presses
so if you want your triceps to be fresh
most of the time and really trained hard
and not be asked to do more work where
their recovery is impinged
it probably behooves you to reduce your
chest training volume significantly if
you really want to make a big push or
try something
can it be possible to prioritize chest
and triceps at the same time yes but
that means you can't get maximum growth
for either one of them you could do
really well but not Max
so
when you're constructing your
specialized tricep training plan how do
we take all the stuff we just learned
and put it in well we have some
recommendations for frequency I would
consider training the triceps three or
four times a week I would start with
twice a week and if that goes well the
next mesocycle the next month or so of
training I would increase to three times
a week and if that goes well consider
increasing to four before pulling back
and going back to maintenance
[Music]
as far as positioning in the week
I would train the triceps
right before chest
all right so let's say you have a chest
and tricep day Monday Wednesday Friday
that means the first couple exercises
are triceps the second couple are chest
I know what you're thinking but Dr Mike
how am I supposed to get my chest jacked
if my chest is being trained after my
triceps are already tired we want the
triceps limit my chest from growing as
much as possible abso fucking lutely
they will limit but
that's okay because your prioritizing
triceps not chest
another alternative is to train your
triceps hard the day after a very easy
chest day which means that the chest has
barely been disrupted and it's not
fatiguing and it's not limiting factor
for that tricep workout
and it's right after that easy chest day
you train triceps which means the
triceps have multiple days to go until
chest is being trained hard again do
because you don't want to train triceps
really hard Monday and then Tuesday
train chest really hard because your
sore triceps will prevent your chest
from being trained as hard as you can
and that extra training could
potentially interfere with their
recovery and their growth so you really
want to cool it and spread out your
triceps such that there's a big
pulsatility they're fresh and then I get
plenty of time to heal they're fresh and
they get plenty of time to heal if
you're prioritizing any muscle
specializing on any muscle and you're
often training it when it's not fresh
and you're often after you train it not
giving it much time to heal before you
hit it again either as a synergist or as
a prime mover
you're not doing the best job you can
as far as exercises we can be completely
honest with you guys and he tricep
Exercise Works really great all of that
comes down to stimulus to fatigue ratio
but a core of heavy extension movements
like sets of 10 to 20 in many cases even
sometimes five to ten is what really
grows big triceps in most cases
what I mean to say is if you want the
biggest triceps possible I wouldn't do
like underhand one-arm cable extensions
in most cases unless you can objectively
demonstrate that your stimulus to
fatigue ratio on that is just Superior
like if you get mind altering pumps from
that crazy delayed onset soreness and
your triceps just jump in strength all
the time if you're doing these fucking
underhand shits hey I'll shake your hand
and you'll probably Crush my hand with
your enormous triceps but the reality is
that most of those exercises
I don't know what to say other than a
lot of times they're just attempted
being lazy and mailing in your training
heavy Skull Crushers heavy Jam presses
heavy overhead extensions
heavy good push Downs with two fucking
hands your palms here instead of your
thumb limiting if you go underhand
that's the kind of shit that really
grows you not the little bullshit maybe
stuff and a lot of times the bullshit's
what people want to sprinkle in because
it's easy remember I also have an
example of how natural training your
triceps to bring them up is to do the
cable rope extension even one arm will
say at the end of a workout no no we
want heavy extensions first
and of course plenty of dips are often a
good idea and supersetting a lot of
extensions to close grip work or to
dumbbell presses
so if you do some skull crusher super
setting into close group bench can be
really awesome
and even better ideas doing some Skull
Crushers or some push Downs some
overhead extensions and supersetting
them to dumbbell presses incline or flat
or shoulder press
because with dumbbell presses your chest
can't help it's not a closed system
so if you have mechanically you if you
turn your triceps off completely
like through the nervous system you can
still do a close grip bench just by
using your chest because the there's no
movement this way for your grip so any
movement here at the at the humerus
pushes the elbow this way and it has to
extend you can extend your arm with zero
tricep involvement if it's a fixed Point
like a barbell
it's not a fixed Point like a dumbbell
you go one way this way one way that way
your triceps have to turn on hard so
then all those dumbbell pressing
movements you do as a super set after an
extension movement are limited by the
triceps almost exclusively and you'll
notice that because your pecs won't get
a lot out of it
your pecs can really turn on and help a
lot in a machine or a barbell extension
or a barbell press movement after an
extension because they can sort of come
in and do extra work with dumbbells they
really can't do that so dumbbells after
some extensions is a really awesome way
because sometimes just doing a bunch of
extensions just doesn't hit you as hard
as you want it to and you end up doing
eight sets of extensions what the fuck
am I doing here
but if you do a set of extensions and
then go right into a set of flat
dumbbell press full deep stretch and a
full fucking lockout right around like
rep number five over here you'll be like
holy balls your triceps are gonna be lit
on fire
all right so that's a really good idea
to do
as far as set numbers as always start
with two to six sets of tricep work per
session
that's not that much
a lot of times people will make the
mistake of saying hey man tricep
prioritization I'm gonna fucking hit it
hard bro so they do 12 sets of triceps
three days a week in their first week
what does that do that fries or triceps
to the Bone it damages them so much that
it does two bad things one the direct
damage actually causes a competition for
Recovery resources between healing you
and growing you you actually end up
growing less fuck that
and two that damage makes you so sore
and so weak that it interferes with the
amount of overload you can impose on the
triceps in later sessions and even next
week so you like took a week of training
and like if you were trying to get a
manicure and you're like oh I gotta get
my nails look a little better you just
got a hammer and you're like bam don't
do that right ease in suit of success is
not that many
but after you get a really good pump and
a good feeling you'll sore for a few
days then your heels you go that was
pretty good and next week you'll be able
to do more and then more and then more
and then more and remember the point is
about to do a lot of steps the point is
to do the correct amount of sets the
challenges you adequately it heals you
just on time to do another hard workout
that's it
that's like when you go to restaurant
the point is not to eat as much food as
possible the point is to eat as much
food as say she's gives you a really
good time
could be as much food as possible but
then
your priorities are all fucked up
so
loaning in reps generally speaking
there's only one recommendation here use
the loading and rep ranges same same two
sides of the same coin
to get the best stimulus to fatigue
ratios possible the best pumps the best
burns the best tension in the tricep
the best perturbation like always shit
my chest was fucked up the cramping
doing weird stuff the best delay
nonsense soreness Etc et cetera et
cetera and that'll be different between
different exercises too some people get
a ton of dips for sets of ten but sets
of 20. it's just kind of your shoulders
start to get uh really tired
Skull Crushers might be great for sets
of 10 to 20 for 20 to 30 your forums
might actually just start burning and
then push Downs might be amazing for
sets of 20 to 25 even 30 reps but if you
do sets of eight with push Downs you're
like I don't know man it's just like
heavy the set takes like 10 seconds
total I don't feel like I'm doing enough
work to actually justify it said so it
really depends on the exercise so that's
as far as king what I will say is if you
have heavier and lighter exercises in a
session
so you're doing dips for sets of five to
ten Skull Crushers for 10 to 15 in the
same session do the dips first it's
almost always a good idea to have your
stuff first because heavier stuff
requires a shitload of neural
recruitment
and you can't go heavy if you're tired
but can you burn out a muscle with
higher reps if you're tired yeah hell
yeah you can
so remember that heavier almost always
goes first
lighter go second
and that means the conventional
pyramiding thing where you do High Reps
first and then eventually you multiple
sets later get to Low Reps is dumb as
rocks and that's fucking backwards I
wouldn't do it
if you have a weekly structure which you
should Monday Wednesday Friday let's say
I would recommend going heavier early in
the week
because what you do is you go heavier
earlier in the week yes your connective
tissues will take a little bit of a
beating but you're fresh then that's
okay
by the end of the week when you're going
lighter you're not asking much out of
your connective tissues for example
let's say you weren't lighter earlier in
the week and your elbows are feeling a
little weird now I'm asking you to go
heavy later in the week with elbows that
are already a little bit pre-fatigued
you might be into some pain and and
might not be able to do much
now if we flip that order and we do
heavy first your elbows will feel not so
great maybe on Wednesday or Friday but
now I'm asking you to do light High rep
stuff which actually might make your
elbows feel better it's like a little
bit of a rehab at that point and still
gets you a great workout
and then you take the weekend off you
really really heal and you go back to
heavy so it's kind of like heavy at the
beginning of the week and lighter all
the way through it's backwards I know
ideally if some kind of manhood shit you
want to do lighter and then heavier and
heavier bro and then we got a high note
but you're not trying to end weeks on
high notes you're trying to grow muscle
we have to follow logical principles
thereof
what about progress we know we start
with two to success but what do we go
from there
if you can heal on times of what you're
no longer sore before your next tricep
session and you feel really strong again
you can add like something like one set
to that session equivalent next week so
if Monday you train triceps you train
them again on Wednesday and by Wednesday
you were completely healed no soreness
and you felt really fucking strong let's
say that that Monday you did four sets
next time you could do five sets
if you barely just healed on time for
that Wednesday and you felt strong but
you were like dude if it was three hours
difference of a workout I wouldn't have
felt so strong don't increase that
period
if you're just barely recovered never
AdSense if you're well recovered and
you're like I could do way more and
benefit add a few sets and see how it
goes so what you don't do is you're not
trying to add sets you're seeing how
your workout goes and if your workout's
a little too easy add a few sets or just
add one cent see how it goes next week's
a little too easy add another set then
usually you get into a group where
workouts are great and you're not adding
a whole lot of stats and that's close to
your maximum adaptive volume right there
wraps in reserve as always or almost
always start with like three reps in
reserve in the first week and then
increase load and or reps five pounds
here 10 pounds here a wrap here two reps
there over the weeks to make sure that
you're getting closer and closer to
failure until your planned failure point
or one or zero reps in reserve is hit in
that last week before you deload
and that's it
and the entire time you're trying to
beat your rep performance or load
performance just by a tiny smidge
I can't repeat this any more than I
already have
little tiny PR's week after week are the
lifeblood of massive muscles and massive
strength levels after some time
the idea of putting a shitload of weight
on the bar
like week one you do Skull Crushers with
100 pounds in week two you're like fuck
yeah 115.
not a good idea you should do 105 and
then 110 and 115.
but also you can raise your reps during
that time if it's really too easy
and then it's sustainable your elbows
aren't hurt your ego's not hurt you
could do that again in another month and
all of a sudden you're doing 130 for
Skull Crushers and you have fucking big
triceps as opposed to going 100 115
120 doesn't go that well you're actually
weaker because you went way too far with
115 you have to recycle deload and then
you don't even know where you are little
tiny additions
are almost always good so that your reps
and Reserve drop by like one every week
three hour in the first week then two
then one then zero then delude
all right
what does that look like so that's a lot
of theory what does that look like here
is a tricep training program you could
try you could try doing this verbatim uh
but remember it's not the program it's
just a program so there's many ways to
skin a cat as I always say the cat hates
all the ways unless it's a really really
masochistic cap then you might like it
uh by the way free promo to metrics
RTD 51 because it has 51 grams of
protein that's an interesting
advertising strategy uh two grams of
carbohydrate and two grams of fat not
bad and it tastes like
huh
oh fucking god
It Coats the throat I don't know what
to find drink to find drink it works it
was on sale admire what do you guys want
all right
Tuesday Thursday Saturday we train
triceps in this plan let me tell you
guys about the RP hypertrophy app with
over 28 preset programs already in the
app you can choose to make your own you
could modify an existing program or you
could just run the programs exactly as
they were written by a personal this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the adjust to your
unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
Tuesday we start with barbell Skull
Crushers just like Dad did them just
like Grandpa did them you guys remember
those photos your your grandpa showed
you from the um Civil War your great
grandpa was doing Skull Crushers in that
motherfucker big ass triceps
slap General Lee across the face
backhand slap holy it's a lot of bone
there bam
in any case
barbell Skull Crushers for two sets of
five to ten reps That's Heavy but for
many people that's right in the money
barbell Skull Crushers again sometimes
we put out our team full-rom programs to
our team full-rom training group on
Facebook and Instagram you guys can find
us there's probably links below to sign
up uh we'll do barbells call Crushers
barbell scar Crushers and people will be
like is that a typo nope it's downsense
so you do Bob Ross call Crushers five to
ten reps of three rir and then you lower
the weight and do them for sets of 10 to
15 reps a lot of times
that can check a few boxes one that
checks your heavy training box which is
sweet and another one is after you go
heavy
if you go light after with the same
exercise you're so grooved in you're so
potentiative for that exercise that that
light work feels amazing and you're
super strong even on that light work
so sometimes a down set is or a few
downsets is everything the doctor
ordered and then after that you go to
incline close grip bench so this routine
we designed to put triceps on the front
burner and pecs on the back burner so
you won't need any other pack days for
this this is all of your pushing work
incline close grip bench for two sets 10
to 15 reps at the end three reps in
reserve of that Tuesday workout
should be right here uh look that's not
gonna get your chest a whole lot bigger
probably not any bigger but it will
maintain it which is awesome that's all
we need and because it's incline close
grip oh my God your triceps are already
pre-fatigued it's just more like Hammer
bashing your triceps this is going to be
this is a tough routine
Thursday
okay we know that our triceps have
multiple ways of working multiple heads
and they work best from different angles
so we're going to go overhead on
Thursday and that's partially by Design
because we're going to go back to a
different plane of motion later on on
Saturday but we sort of want some
variation we don't want to hammer the
same structures over and over and over
we want to give them a break so all of
our work goes like this and like this on
Tuesday on Thursday all of our work is
going to be overhead and then more
horizontal so we're avoiding the exact
same angles day after day after day so
easy bar overhead extensions for two
sets of five to ten reps again Easy Bar
over extensions down sets for another
two sets of 10 to 15 reps amazing should
have really pump triceps by then and
then check it out as we're talking about
earlier flat dumbbell presses for two
sets of 10 to 20 reps really fries the
triceps helps the pecs grow or maintain
a little bit awesome stuff these are all
programs I've done in the past and
they've worked tremendously well
I have like gigantic arms as far as I
can tell but my biceps aren't that big
because my triceps are fucking insane
and I owe it also this kind of bullshit
you know he's like me patting myself on
my head good job Mike you have big
triceps yay
Saturday
we start with weighted dips because yeah
for some people they work really really
well
weighted dips for triceps are kind of
like squats are for quads in a certain
sense
some people do better with leg
extensions and and leg presses and hack
squats but good old-fashioned High bar
squats are fucking awesome and good
old-fashioned weighted dibs can fuck
your triceps up in a big way especially
if you go deep and especially if any of
our technique videos recommend instead
of pushing your chest forward and really
doing this
staying upright and really bending at
the elbow puts a crazy stretch on the
triceps at the bottom of the movement
amazing stuff
weighted dips for three sets of 10 to 15
reps I'm assuming you're strong here
enjoy after that you do a drop set
or drop sets three drop sets of cable
push Downs which means you basically get
in there
and there's a couple ways to do this one
is you could just do Drop shots the
entire time so you do uh you know a set
of 100
or sorry a set of you know 28 reps uh
what is that 10 to 20 instead of 20 reps
at 100
you go down to 75 you do a set of
another whatever how many you can do
three reps in reserve and you go down to
65 and you do another one another set
you can do it like that or these can be
drop sets that are within sort of
clustered within each set so three sets
here could mean you do 100 for 20 and
then you do 60 for let's say 10 you rest
okay you did one drop set situation you
rest for a normal time two minutes or
whatever until all the four Factor check
boxes are done and then you go and you
do another set
of drop set so it's two and two and two
that's three cents that's brutal
interpret this any way you like you can
try one or the other just make sure to
do them consistently
after that
weighted dips got the heavy shit done
cable push down drop sets got the light
shit done your triceps are fried and
then you do deficit close grip push-ups
OMG tricep destruction and your pecs get
hit pretty well this program if you try
it you had better have a really good
volume tolerance for triceps to begin
with
I'll put you this way if I was doing
this exact program I would take a set
off of the priority here and there I
actually can't survive a program like
that unless I'm weeks into training and
I'm really used to right off hand I
can't fucking do this because it's way
too much for me so be careful now
these volumes will change so what
happens with multiple weeks of adding
sets multiple weeks of adding weight and
multiple weeks of reducing how many reps
in reserve getting closer to failure it
could look it could look something like
this just for you guys viewing pleasure
so barbell Skull Crushers we started at
four sets and four sets or sorry we
started two sets and two sets in the
first week final week predeload we could
be doing four sets for each one
inclined close grip bench sorry two sets
could be three sets at the end how come
we didn't increase more frankly close
script because we're on purpose not
trying to increase a lot of chest work
mostly increasing on the triceps
tricep program
two sets and two sets for easy overhead
tricep extension in the first week in
the last week four sets and three sets
flat down below process goal on that day
and that Thursday from two sets to three
sets again same pattern we don't want to
increase chest work a ton
for Saturday weighted dips start at
three sets cable push Downs three sets
and then deficit close grip push-ups of
two sets and then so so three three two
and it ends up at four five three that
five is because a lot of times drop sets
you fatigue so much that's a set to set
that adding uh more and more drop sets
doesn't fatigue you that much more or
give you that much more of a stimulus it
does a little bit but you have to do a
lot more additions like if your third
set was 80 pounds for a set of six and
your first set was 100 pounds for a set
of 20.
and adding another set of 70 for a set
of five
drops that it just there's not that much
more work it's not like adding another
set when you're super fresh and rested
so drop sets you can often add more
doesn't mean you should try to add more
it's just the auto regulation you
realize like oh if I added a set it
wouldn't be that much of a deal
all right
that's the program
next question one of the last how long
to specialize for ideally
you want to specialize for a training
block which means three mesocycles
increases for several weeks a three to
five week increase
deload that's one muscle cycle ideally
you would do three of those stacked
together triceps triceps triceps
start with twice a week tricep training
and the first one then go to three times
a week then go to four times a week your
triceps and elbows and shoulders are
Trashed by the end of that you take an
active rest phase or a low volume
maintenance phase and you come back and
you can either train the rest of your
body normally triceps normally take
another specialization and specialize on
chest now or quads now or you can do
another tricep specialization program as
long as you take that either active rest
for two weeks after or a low volume
sensitization phase for four weeks after
one of those blocks three mesocycles of
tricep training
you can eliminate so much fatigue after
those that you can do another block
after that so you can just perpetually
prioritize your triceps turn into Kevin
levrone Google that and be like holy
fuck the hell happened as triceps
mostly genetics
as you go from one mesocycle to another
in that specialization phase you may
choose to lighten the loads a little bit
or rather not lighten the loads
do more of your training in the higher
rep ranges because as you increase
frequency from two to three to four
times a week your ability to recover
joint and connective tissue wise day to
day to day may drop considerably because
the days are more frequent so you might
start doing lots of sets of five to ten
in the second meso mostly since of 10 to
20. in the last meso many sets of 20 to
30 so that you're not relying on your
elbow Integrity much anymore because
it's just not there anymore then you
take an active rest phase or you take a
low volume resensorization phase
everything heals up elbow shoulders and
you can go back to heavy training a
little bit less frequently in that next
run
you can change exercises when you feel
like an exercise will get you a better
stimulus to fatigue ratio than the
alternative so what does that mean
really that means if I'm doing overhead
tricep extensions and they're just going
unfucking believably I don't take them
out I do a whole muscle cycle with them
and after the meso I think about it
should I do this again well my pumps
towards the end were amazing my elbows
didn't hurt at all I love the exercise
the Mind muscle connection is awesome
fuck it I'm keeping it in whereas if you
had some cable push downs and towards
the end they felt kind of like you kind
of were connecting with them and your
elbows kind of hurt a little bit and you
weren't getting super great pumps and it
took you a lot of sets to actually get
anything to work then maybe you take
them out you replace them with some
other Alternatives yeah GM presses look
pretty cool I remember trying them and
they felt great I'm going to try them on
my deload and see how it goes so that
way exercise deletion and replacement
occurs more naturally sort of more
organically in the sense that when you
need to delete and replace an exercise
you do based on it has a better sfr and
if you don't you keep it in a lot of
times people ask the question of like
should I rotate my exercises every time
I do a new message cycle every six weeks
should I new exercises I mean all that
question is only answered yes if you
you're saying well there's an exercise
here that's really low in sfr now and I
can do much better job stimulus to
fatigue ratio wise if I choose another
exercise if that exercise is still
golden for you fuck man you can do an
exercise for eight months straight and
I'm not bad a fucking guy
voila
that's it that's all we got now
you may have watched this video go holy
shit that's a lot of information but how
do I build my own program or how do I
learn more about this we have some links
in the description for you and I will
tell you about a few of them first we
have a free exercise video library where
tons of exercises program usually or
sorry demonstrated by ifbb Pro Jared
feather so those look really cool you
can see like what the fuck is an
overhead Easy Bar tricep extension what
is he talking about the whole time click
on the video oh okay and I'm actually
gonna you turn off the volume out of the
background talking through the exercise
describing how to do it it's really
simple videos each one's like 30 seconds
long yeah you go on on the right
technique we have a muscle group
training guide where it's basically all
the stuff I said except broken down into
a million pieces with super high level
of detail and complexity that's in the
RP website we'll link it right in so
it's all the muscle groups there triceps
biceps chest Etc all have their own
guide each one's like 10 pages long
frequency volume uh exercises modalities
all that stuff is in there so if you're
really like wow before I try to
prioritize my triceps I really want to
learn a shitload about how triceps work
and how to best train them and all the
exercises I could use read those
articles and holy fuck you'll be way
ahead of the game
if you need a refresher course on some
of these terms and on the general
principles of training because you're
like what the he keeps saying sfr what
the fuck is that
hypertrophy Made Simple linked below 16
videos or something like that each one
of them like eight minutes long tells
you about sets and Reps and failure and
rest times and stimulus and fatigue so
that you can understand all the stuff
that's made super simple so you can get
you going and get you your own triceps
which because that's clearly the
important thing to do in your life if
you want to learn a shitload more at a
very deep level
we have the hypertrophy book scientific
principles of Repertory training
co-authored by myself Jared feather
Melissa Davis and James Hoffman and
that's a sweet book it's super super
highly in depth it's hundreds of pages
long tons of citations and all this
other crap and it's not free but it's
cheap huh see I got you hooked up I
can't do free but I can do cheap
if all this sounds really great and you
want to build your own program but
you're like fuck man
you know Microsoft Excel is that how
people build programs I want a real
custom program what am I supposed to do
do I just make it on my iPhone Notes
program we have our custom Training
template
Builder program it's a hundred bucks for
you to build a six week routine from our
website and it's downloaded as an Excel
file for you thing is though it's not
100 bucks for six weeks it gives you a
routine that you designed you tell us
which muscles you want to train so you
will say I want to train five days a
week and I want to put triceps on
specialization there's actually a button
you can press specialization or triceps
put all the other muscles that you want
the program gets turned into you and you
can drop down all the exercises you want
to use
and thus you can use it for six weeks
and then use it again for six weeks and
use it again for six weeks altering the
exercises and the rep ranges a little
bit to your liking so if you want a
tricep program that lasts for 18 weeks
the entire three muscle Cycles stacked
together you can buy that for just a
hundred bucks and if you ever want to
come back to it a year later it's still
there and you can use it again so yes
it's 100 bucks for a six weeks program
but that lasts you way more than six
weeks if you want it can last you 18 24
36 all those number of weeks so
it's pretty sweet in any case all that
stuff is below so is the like button so
it's a subscribe button hit that shit if
you guys want to know tons more stuff
and get access to much more in-depth
insight and early releases and special
releases of videos you don't get on the
main Channel consider subscribing to our
membership shit which should have like a
join button somewhere around here
and it's fun it's a party so come join
us folks thank you so much see you next
time