in
2022 Brian set a new world record he
published results indicating he reversed
his epigenetic age by 5.1 years
shattering the previous record that
didn't exist because world records are
not tabulated for this sort of thing
back to you Tom oh I'm getting ahead of
[Music]
myself hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength and
today I have a PhD in sport physiology
oh that's every day um and so what I do
is I talk smack about people hopefully
they never see me in real life and beat
me up but I make it try to sound sciency
so you guys can learn things uh in any
case today's Target is going to be Mr
Brian Johnson that's right the liver
King's real given government name no the
lead singer of ACDC no all Brian
Johnson's this ran Johnson of her is
very special he is one of the world's
foremost
attempters at applying the concepts of
longevity enhancement to his everyday
life and what I would say is a pretty
intensive man in other words he's trying
to live a long time and there's a lot to
this and a lot of people poo poo it but
there's tons to it let's take a look at
what he's talking about kind of what
he's doing and let's see what we can
learn from him and maybe I'll pepper in
my own BS than I know about longevity
because believe it or not even though I
don't look like I'm going to live a long
time probably won't I do know quite a
bit about the subject because I'm afraid
of death and I think about it all the
time anyway Ryan Johnson
everybody my objective oh
the I was expecting that usually when
I'm ready to accept that much semen onto
my face I also wear eye covers
my objective with blueprint is to
demonstrate aging escape velocity M you
a vampire bro please folks is anybody
still debating this tell me that's not a
vampire go exactly let's take a tally
really quick he's pale white
check he has long hair Scott am I
correct in that vampire
shit he must be poor no wait he's a
frivolous Rich multi-millionaire that I
think sold venmo to PayPal or some shit
for an absurd amount of money hundreds
of millions of
dollars sounds like vampire cult to me
something you guys have to know cuz I'm
also Mega Rich tons of I was going to
say them but really us vampires for real
it's a thing that exists you have
familiars with the tattoos watch blade
Trinity and that basically explains real
life so this guy's vampire and they
don't age anyway he's just cheating the
system as far as I know I'm the only
person that has publicly posted my data
so I'm not saying here's my protocol and
believe me I'm saying here's my protocol
here's all my data and here's what I'm
experimenting with next this is super
super respectable putting your data on
there is this is about as private as it
gets like here's what my cells are aging
like like holy shit that's really
awesome because you're not just making
just total claims about oh I'm doing
this and that turns out you just have a
really good plastic surgeon on the one
hand it basically mostly this is awesome
but as a scientist I have to tell you
guys that we we do have to mute our
expectations a little bit on this sort
of thing or how valuable it is or what
we can learn because of just one really
simple scientific idea a sample size of
one individual just it gives us a lot of
amazing hints at what might work but it
gives us essentially almost no
definitive evidence that can transfer to
other people of what very likely works
we need to test the same ideas on many
many many many different people at least
20 to 30 people versus another group
that maybe doesn't do these practices
and just kind of lives in the wild and
then we need a comparator group because
for every single thing that he's doing
maybe he's just genetically lucky that
he's responding first of all super well
to these therapies which other people
might not respond to well as a matter of
fact he could be an outlier where he
responds incredibly well and everyone
else just nothing basically happens to
them also he could just have incredible
genetics for aging a sample size of one
is really really awesome but uh we have
to reserve our excitement for like okay
this is definitely going to work let me
try it these are very curious things we
can learn something but not a definitive
oh this definitely works it's really a
stacked process of maybe a hundred
different things I do because you have
to think about the the body and its
entirety okay so we have another problem
he is full send doing the schmorgus
board he's doing all the stuff and it's
going to be an almost scientifically
intractable problem to figure out what
is it that he's doing is actually
lifting the heavyweight for
him I let's say want a bigger back and I
start doing hard training but if you
want to grow the most your training
needs to be hard and smart RP
hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
[Music]
results and I start doing deadlifts and
barbell rows and cable rows all at the
same time for 6 months I get a bigger
back you ask me hey what was it that got
your back bigger I can tell you it's
some combination of deadlifts barbell
rows and cable rows but if you like
which one of those do you think made the
biggest difference it would be
scientifically irresponsible of me to
tell you well I think it was XYZ now I
could say I think it was XYZ maybe but
if I say something definitively we just
don't know because we haven't tried
these things independently of one
another so all the stuff he's doing
because it's so much stuff it's going to
be really difficult for us to say you
know what is it here that's doing the
work cuz some of the shit he's going to
do you got to put gels on your face
$100,000 machine all this crazy shit all
the stuff he does is probably like a $30
every two Monon supplement pill that you
take that might have a decent effect
just on him alone we can't tell which
one it is today I'm going to do the
morning routine physique
analysis can have sex out of 10 he looks
good he's like Scott how old is he like
40 no
bullshit Google
it 46
46 looks real good for 46 today I'm
going to walk you through every single
detail of what I do since doing this 2
and a half years ago I've become the
most measured person in history I'm also
the most measured person in
history down there every day from fifth
grade to eighth grade I measured and you
know what happened nothing I'll shut up
now the first thing I'm going to do is
use this uh Bron thermoscan device I
measure my inner ear temperature every
day the temp this morning was
96 interesting so on a purely
theoretical basis longevity would
probably most enhanced if you had a a
slower metabolism why because metabolism
is uh a chaos generator so entropy goes
up when your metabolism runs faster
technically speaking part of the
measurement of entropy is heat so the
hotter you are the more entropic you are
and when you run your metabolism it's
kind of like running the engine of your
car the faster and harder you run it the
less the more wear and tear builds up
and the less lifetime you get out of it
so in this case we do want to have
kind of running cold which maybe is why
he's measuring that but also now tell me
I'm crazy don't vampires also have cold
blood folks the evidence is clear lizard
people also control the White House I
just want to put it out there I just
want to say after this I'll flip on this
UV light this is 10,000
Lux I love that it's called something
that can also be expanded to luxury look
yes those are luxury units mhm 12 in I
turn this on and I usually just enjoy
thinking about the day for a
minute
huh it's impossible for some of the
stuff not to look goofy as fuck that
doesn't mean it doesn't work um but I
tell you what if you're staring at a
light um for 10 minutes and thinking
about the rest of your day in the
morning even though you're inside a
bathroom and you're 12 inches away from
the light yeah people have done weirder
shit but then again like you know every
morning I wake up and inject steroids am
i g to critique him for Jesus and those
actually decrease my lifespan I'm the
moron here folks that's the real lesson
of this whole Channel and so in place of
the sun I'll use this device it helps
set circadian rhythm it improves sleep
that's all true uh seeing some daylight
in the morning is probably healthy for
almost
everyone it's not a huge effect it's
just not but it is an effect
so you can get your ass out and uh just
be outside while it's sunny good and
unlike what seemingly Andrew huberman
keeps telling people to stare kind of
directly at the sun don't do that don't
do that it's really really bad for your
eyes it will cause your eyes to age
insanely rapidly also you don't want to
spend a ton of time in the sun which is
why he's pale as shit the sun is if you
didn't know if you skipped fourth grade
basic uh science the sun is a giant
thermonuclear bomb that just keeps
exploding and will continue to explode
for the next 5 billion years you know
nuclear bombs typically shit out some
radiation that's like not so good for
you so the sun does really you up you
want to kind of limit as much exposure
to the sun normally as possible but for
two factors one you want to get some you
know 10 20 minutes in the morning
ideally the UV lamp is a fine
replacement if you have access to one
and what you also want to do with the
sun is get enough of it through the day
usually that means an hour or two extra
depending on where you live and the um
part of the earth uh the sunnier places
less and the less Sunny more but you
want to get a little bit more sun for
that uh vitamin D production your skin
that occurs from the Sun uh other than
that uh you know past a certain point a
few hours a day in the sun cooking on
the beach for eight hours flipping over
and cooking again for8 hours not great
for longevity it'll cause skin cancer
and all this other not so great stuff
going to do 5 minutes of light therapy
it's blue light and it keeps my
complexion clear 5 minutes what does
that have to do with longevity though is
that just Scott the video gu just just
Beauty routine at this
point looking oh looking young so this
is a more looking young than being young
sort of situation got it and it's also a
nice time to do a little meditation man
this guy this is like the ultimate rich
guy morning routine that lasts 11 hours
and finally you do some work he like
starts with a 10-minute contemplation in
front of one lamp goes to do another
contemplation in front of another lamp
this is really dope one thing I've added
the routine lately is I do a a
meditation before I start you're kidding
folks there three meditations in a row
now look meditation is amazing this is
starting to get real interesting I
always wake up naturally so it's
somewhere between 4:30 and 6 a.m. what
kind of crazy asshole wakes up naturally
at 4:30 to 6:00 a.m. holy shit if I wake
up naturally I just don't wake up at all
just kidding folks there is still more
video up ahead but there there is also
an extended version that exists in the
members area which you have to pay money
for but there's also sorts of good stuff
in there other than the extended version
of this uh so give it a click and maybe
you'll see there my job is to basically
go through this full process from
identifying the Oregon to do looking at
the analysis and then incorporating it
so sometimes as Ronnie Coleman likes to
call them energy
peels um drugs hell yeah bring it on in
between that time duration we changed
certain things I don't know how many
pills in here I think last time we
reported it was something like over 50
maybe 60 that looks like a lot more so
I'm not sure what's going on here one of
the girls that was her last day she's
like this clown she just puts an extra
random pills tide pod he's like guess
we're testing Tide Pods I'll use red
light therapy I started losing my hair
in my early 30s Scott will you get me a
light up red baseball hat with a cord
behind it awesome I want to go outside
and one people are like what is that I'm
like I'm sorry I'm too important to
speak to you go away they're like yes
sir it's been a difficult thing I've had
to work really hard to try to keep ahead
of hair folks let me give you some tips
on how to keep your head of
[Music]
hair this is super vegy this is what I'm
going to eat after we work out oh he is
a vampire those are animal
organs tell me they're not go there's
been this mindset that you live fast and
die young or that you do things in your
Youth and then you correct things when
you're an adult it's not a good idea so
if you're in your younger years of life
I would strongly encourage you to begin
this and to avoid the traps of
self-destructive behavior that have been
the cultural norm this is a very
interesting thing to say now uh this
video may become very May date itself
very poorly in the future if this stuff
doesn't happen but I'm betting all this
stuff is going to happen quite soon for
a few
reasons maybe in the mid 2030s regular
age reversal becomes a thing whereas
some sometime maybe in the late 2030s
maybe I'm off by 5 or 10 years One
Direction or another this just not
really going to be old people anymore
but for a few folks that refuse the
treatment insane people to live in the
Hills or something and so Brian's advice
to take care of yourself and not let
yourself get too out of hand with sort
of unnecessary aging is unbelievable
advice to teleport back in time to
people that were young in the
1980s um in the 1990s people who are
young then good advice people who were
young in the 2000s 2010s 2020s and young
people
today how do I say this best Brian's
still right and because we don't have
100% certainty that advanced genomic
medicines are coming even though they're
coming you got to take care of yourself
that being said if you make it to like
let's say you were born in the year oh I
don't know 2010 you're 14 years old at
the time of this video recording in 2024
and you see this video and you're like I
got to take care of myself it's good
it's good it's good but if you make it
another 10 or 15 years and you probably
won't die of Aging related disease when
you're
29 you might not have toing worry about
any of this shit because modern medicine
is just going to zap it all out for you
that being the case if you're over 20
years old especially if you're in your
30s like I am for the next several days
and then I turn 40 definitely in your
40s for sure in your 50s and life or
death in your 60s and 70s you had better
be taking care of your longevity in a
major way and as a matter of fact I'm
going to take this opportunity to tell
you guys the big rocks of how to make
sure you enhance your longevity there's
just a few of them that take care of
something like 90% of what's going on
let me see if I got this off the top of
my head time to see if I went to school
for anything at all none of these are
ranked in order but they're all super
important and there's just a few of them
one is make sure you're not excessively
heavy like I am currently right now the
lighter you are so long as you're still
healthy and have a decent level of
muscle mass and can squat your body
weight 10 times or
more the lighter you are generally
speaking the longer you live that also
relates uh to the fact that you just
don't eat as much food that's how you
stay lighter and this your metabolism
just doesn't run as much as fast the
total accumulative metabolic output
you've had over your life decreases and
thus the probability that you'll run
into the fraying issues later goes down
substantially so rule number one is try
to stay on the lighter side of things
and I know this channel is all about
getting jacked and lean but index more
on the lean side and less on the jack
side if you want longevity to be
maximized that being said if you're not
abusing anabolic steroids don't do that
that sh'll kill you real goddamn fast
okay in truth it won't kill you fast but
it takes five or 10 or 15 years off the
end of your life depending on how uh
recklessly you go at it and also has a
chance of killing you kind of any one
time from stroke or embolism or
something like that so as long as you're
staying drug- free if you have a high
degree of muscle mass but low body fat
so that's Point number two try to be
relatively as lean as you can now for
guys that means around 10 to 15% even a
little higher is totally fine getting
below 10% probably doesn't increase your
longevity might reduce it because of the
stress required for females it's
something like being in the you know 18
to 32% body fat range that is totally
fine so it's not so much having high
muscle mass kills you even though it
doesn't help you uh with your longev and
marginally reduces a tiny bit even if
it's drug- free at the extremes if
you're lean that counteracts a shitload
of that so even if you weigh like 190
drug free at like 6'2 could you live
longer if you weighed 170 yeah almost
certainly but because you're a lean 190
we're talking about a few years you know
between you being 82 when you die and 84
when you die and again if you're in your
30s or 40s or 20s listening to this
watching this I I expert opinion on most
of these futuristic grounds at this
point says that people don't have to to
die of diseases anymore after about the
year 2040 so if you can make it that
long you're good to go another Point
your diet your diet should consist of
lean protein
sources veggies fruits whole grains and
healthy fats healthy fats like olive oil
canola oil avocado oil generally a ton
of plant oils are really good seed oils
are also really good for your health you
crazy assholes where do you people come
from with the seed oils nonsense do a PB
bed search and see if you can find
anything about seed oil being bad in any
case rant aside fundamentally healthy
eating and not so much food and by the
way meal timing almost doesn't matter
you can eat one meal a day you can eat
six meals a day for longevity it
basically makes no difference as long as
most not all most of the food is healthy
minimally processed loads of lean
proteins fresh as much as possible
veggies fruits whole grains and healthy
fats that is the core standard now
here's the thing you can have a lot of
lean proteins and very few carbohydrates
and lots of fats you can have lots of
carbohydrates not so many proteins
enough to keep you going but not too
many and lower fats all of it it doesn't
basically matter for longevity as long
as you're not eating gobs of McDonald's
all the goddamn time you're good to go
another part of longevity
is all right folks that's it for this
episode just like Mr Brian Johnson said
you don't want to just copy his shit but
you also don't want to be like oh that
guy's just crazy he's not crazy he's
smarter than probably almost all of us
you don't just shit out of billion
dollar Corporation just by random
chance take what you can from his
protocols from his teachings because he
has a great YouTube channel he posts
pretty often about stuff he's doing
whatever it is that doesn't cost a
zillion dollars doesn't make you have a
three-hour morning routine but things
like healthy eating some supplements
have some promise in uh anti-aging one
of them for example as nmn nicotinamide
mononucleotide say that five times fast
when you're drunk uh there some promise
there so definitely give this guy follow
definitely try to learn and honestly eat
well eat healthy stay lean don't get
supering
gigantic stay
active have friends and family that you
love and care about around you be
passionate about whatever is you're
doing and have some goddamn fun and try
not to get too stressed out for the long
term you do that I'll see you in
hopefully a couple years when the crazy
genomics takes off and we're all look
like Kim Kardashian y
y see you guys next
time okay that was
sweet this video right here could be
even better who knows what that video is
YouTube decided for us in the future
click on it and find out peace homies