a lot of people spend a lot of time this
part here EXA accentuating the the peak
contraction it feels cool it's good mind
muscle connection but you're better off
doing your calf raises like this you go
slow on the way down deep stretch I'm
not exaggerating the timing up deep
stretch
slow up the down side of just a slight
hold at the top two sometimes I just
kind of do it cuz like my my feet start
to slip a little bit so I just kind of
like hold it for a second that's totally
cool readjusting your feet is cool the
downside of doing that like as a matter
of course is you just piss away energy
you could have gotten two or three more
deep reps with on top holding it yeah
also as you get closer to failure if you
try to top hold everything you're going
to stop like three reps shy of where you
could have if you were just like pulsing
at the top