imagine this you're at a party just fuck
it you're at a party to try to get laid
right the only reason anyone parties as
far as I can tell and your friends say
like okay we're doing a bar crawl party
crawl five parties we got to hit him you
are putting in the work talking to a
nice girl at one of these parties and
you know like when conversation is just
kicking it and you know it's just a
fucking matter of time and she's giving
you all the signs you know it's a matter
of time until she's like hey like yeah
you're the fucking man let's get the
fuck out of here imagine like about 5
minutes before you calculate she's going
to be like yeah fuck yeah let's get out
of here your friends are like hey dude
we're going to the next party you're
like oh God damn it can't I just stay
here for a little longer like no man we
get a hill of parties and you're like
but why we're not at any one party to
even fucking get laid we're in and out
what the fuck which is the same thing as
if you train all of your muscles a
little bit as an advanced lifter and you
never train any single muscle enough to
get it to grow yeah you're at
maintenance but I'm going to say that
again you're at maintenance you go to
the gym for maintenance and suffer for
maintenance probably not