Natty training is completely different
from enhanced training yeah it's just
like a fiction designed by two people
one natties that need an excuse for why
they're not getting jacked and two drug
addicted idiots that think that they
don't have to read science papers I
would say enhanced people can probably
recover better um is that not true
either very nuanced topic it's
absolutely true as soon as you become
more jacked that enhanced recovery
difference goes away because you're more
jacked you're stronger you're bigger and
it's way harder to recover so it just
ends up leveling the playing field so
for ents and purposes like training
principles or training principles yes I
agree that the training principles for
Natty training versus enhanced training
likely remain the same but I do think
that generally people on steroids will
have greater recovery and will have been
training for longer as well and that
then predisposes them to have more of
the repeated bout effect in place which
also allows them to train more and still
recover so I just think we need to tread
cautiously myself included when it comes
to saying that they should be different
or they shouldn't be different we just
don't fully know what do you think about
the idea that