the three position isometric pullup to
make sure Patrick has stability in three
different positions in a vertical pole
guess how many positions of stability
may be required in the sport of American
football technically infinite the entire
range of motion of your body should be
trained if you want to pre prevent
injury and enhance resiliency through
the entire range of motion unless you
can predict that there are really only
three major positions of sport of
football there aren't then I don't know
what this is doing he could get all of
this resiliency by just doing pull-ups
through a full range of motion with a
rapid generation of power on the ascent
and a control but an athletic speed on
The Descent and a little bounce out of
the hole to make those tendons and
connective fses stronger so that you can
take a bounce out of the hole on the
football field it's uh again much
simpler in reality than uh than this
kind of stuff there's a huge attempt
been a longtime attempt to over
complicate strength and conditioning it
turns out it's just not that complicated