hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
peration I have a question for you
should you be going hard and heavy in
the gym for your best gains but hold on
European man says uh Dr Mike what does
mean uh hard and heavy and for those of
you interested in getting offended at my
mockery of the European General accent
know two things one it doesn't exist
every nation actually has its own unique
accent so already it's a character of
something that's not real and two uh y
oh snap what language is that I'm going
let you Google that
ish shit we out here International Scott
the video guy you know what I'm saying
I'm F to take a plane to Dubai
ASAP the plane is made of gold literally
and powerered by nuclear Vision because
it's the only thing that can lift a gold
plane that's the type of shit I'm
rolling with that's how International I
am who's that guy Scott the the rapper
that calls himself Mr worldwide pitbull
pitbull Mr 305 Mr 305 is that an area
code he's like simultaneously local and
international that's how you know you're
on that other shit my
man oras he's known in Brazilian Mr
Pichu anyway I digress to nothing what
is mean European guy says hard and heavy
I'm talking about that Ronnie Coleman
Branch Warren type of shit Real Talk
sets of 5 to 10 reps okay the heaviest
end of the bodybuilding hypertrophy
range compound lift hardcore shit take
that leg press throw it through the
window we're doing
squats every set to failure bar dumping
type of shit and even some extra wiggle
room with the technique might not be
ideal to get that last rep in you know
when that you finish that set and you
drop that bar and the first thing you
want to do is flex down like this and
say like get off me baby actually Dr
Jared Skinner one of my uh lifelong best
friends really and a former training
partner of mine actually did that at a
at a meet once he had a really big PR
deadlift and he just did the flex and
ran around and said get off me baby and
I was I thought that was the greatest
thing I'd ever seen in my life still a
big fan in any case that kind of
Hardcore shit bro
shit if you've watched the channel
before you're probably like Mike are you
high I thought you've been telling us
that kind of training is stupid but I
totally hear you and you're not wrong
everything and I mean everything has
upsides and downsides for example
massive asteroid extinction level event
hits the Earth kills everyone what are
the upsides Mike you crazy motherfucker
think about this way you know you ever
had a rough day where you're like I
can't do this anymore if an asteroid hit
the earth then You' be like thank
fucking god at least you would be
relieved of your very temporary Misery
we can find a silver lining in almost
everything including this kind of
training so let's talk about the
benefits of this kind of train training
Rough and Tumble type of
shit first benefit it's fun it's fun I
want to get in there at the gym and
fucking listen to gangster rap punch
people in the face and do bench presses
and rows shit yeah and like paying
attention to technique and shit
sfr sfr is we used to use a word in the
90s you can't use anymore guys fell in
the blank it's
just I can feel like Harry Potter doing
that shit sometimes like I got to get my
technique right shut up get out of my
way watch these rows you little bitch
it's fun second it has a super high raw
stimulus magnitude like when Branch
Warren is doing rows shaking around
doing that shit I'm pretty sure he's
stimulating a living fuck out of his
fucking back bro he's not missing any
fucking fibers it's high raw stimulus
magnitude it will grow muscle huge
stimulus for muscle
growth and another thing is like an
insurance policy in your head of like
there could be reason you're not growing
or as fast as you could be but if you're
doing this kind of training it's sure as
shit isn't because you're not
trying this is
trying those are great
upsides
downsides are kind of obvious and you
probably already know them so I'll just
skim through them it's risky for
injuries increased chance of
injury causes higher fatigue
accumulation than it needs to be because
it's using too much weight and muscles
that are not involved to try to lift the
weight and and it's just not clear that
all people and all muscles will respond
better to it like I could see growing
back and legs with that like really
hardcore gutsy shit but like biceps side
delts like is that really how you get
after it like you guys see people doing
the dumbbell lateral raises where like
they like just jerk the weight up and
they're using like the hundreds is that
really hitting your side belts as well
as you think I think probably like slow
controlled super ROM laterals with a
goody Centric I mean it just feel
different after a set you're like oh my
God my dels are going to fall off I
can't fucking put my arms anywhere we're
after one of those hard and heavy type
of shits with laterals or upright rowes
you just kind of feel like more manly
but not necessarily in the delts and
also your joints kind of hurt so it's
not clear that it's the
answer if you want to do this kind of
stuff there is a better way to do it and
here is what it
is when you are an early intermediate
that means you have basic technique down
right two or three years into training
gains are still going well if you like
the swag the psychological field this
kind of training this is a pretty good
time to do it why first you're probably
still too weak to hurt yourself really
bad I mean Ronnie can hurt himself
deadlifting 800 you're probably not
going to hurt yourself deadlifting
275 especially if you go hard and heavy
and get at it psychologically but use
like some semblance of good technique
you probably won't get
hurt second is you have a lot of what I
just call a ego energy and you need the
reinforcement like now that I'm older I
can go in the gym and be a machine and
do what I need technically for the
muscles but when I was younger man I
needed some I needed a place to suck
just fucking burn off that ego shit like
you know you're not always feeling right
with the world and get a little upset
and you kind of just want to prove
yourself you want to fucking go up
against raw fucking steel and move it
around and just like bitch it out like
fuck you barbell I'm GNA punk you out
you little bitch in the bar say hey man
I no trouble shut up look me in the
fucking eyes when you talk that shit it
feels it feels cathartic it's
therapeutic to just get after that
wartime shit
100% And that shit is fun and fun is
ultra important because you might like
training a lot but you're not in love
with training yet and loving the fuck
out of training like that can can build
that love that when you transition to
high sfr very specific RP style training
that love is still last it's still there
right it's like when you're dating a
girl and she's like so like I in love
with you I think and she looks at you
and you're like yeah oh yeah no you're
great and she's like I mean like
okay okay you're like
I really like you and she's like oh yeah
no cool too I like you too that's what I
meant and you're like no you meant you
love me then I'll Never Love You Because
branch and R are the only two people I
love in this world JK but and honestly
it's good to have some shit that's
really fun just don't kill yourself and
then eventually you can always clean up
your Technique later once you're in love
with the shit because if you bring
people into the gym for some people
putting too fine a point on like you got
to use proper technique and slow
Ecentric and shit
they're just going to be like
man can we getting great
results the gym is like kind of boring
now now once you're on that train and
you've bought in fully to good sfr and
mind muscle connection and good
technique you're in but some people just
won't buy in and for those people I
think a little bit of rough and tumble
type of training is a really great way
to get them to fall in love and once
they're in love with that then they get
in love with the results then they get
out of love with their joints being hurt
it's easy to transition them into better
technique
now to that end to that transition as
you get stronger and bigger training
like this try to evaluate your stimulus
to fatigue ratio how much of a pump are
you getting from this how much tension
do you feel in the Target muscle versus
other places are those laterals really
get in your delts or if you slow them
down and do a more full range of motion
do you actually get a better
feel try to figure out variations in
that training which ones get you a
better stimulus to fatigue ratio you may
start to realize that staying a bit more
stable with your rows actually hits your
back more than swinging around and by
then everything in the gym is fun so
you're like um yeah I know I'm honestly
here to grow muscle and I know heaving
and hoing isn't the thing that's growing
muscle it's the contraction of the
muscle itself and I got to be honest if
I like really calm down and use a bit of
less weight and less swinging on the
rows gee like I really do feel my back
more and I really give a shit about
getting a bigger back so I think I might
do this a little bit more and then try
to exper with training with a little bit
away from failure focus on each rep
quality versus just burning the candle
at both ends try to focus on training
for sets of 10 to 20 reps instead of
just 5 to 10 enough emphasis on weight
on the bar more emphasis on the quality
of the actual set and just see how those
two training Styles compare stimulus to
fatigue
ratio and use the best stimulus to
fatigue ratio which is it's a
non-starter it's a no-brainer of course
you want to use the shit that zaps the
muscle the best and fucks up your joints
the lead
once you have that base of that fun
cocky style of training you can
transition over slowly to do better and
better
sfr keep that in get your covid tests
people I got the vid
baby that that swine flew that bird FLW
will YouTube tag us if we say enough
diseases in any case say what you want
to tag us no should I shut up all right
all right you going to watch this video
it's be like a CO disclaimer like oh
what the hell was Mike talking about you
listening for like eight minutes you're
like there's nothing about Co this oh
it's just a joke all right at some point
lift by lift muscle by muscle you're
going to Trend towards better stimulus
and fatigue ratios anyway when you grow
out of the phase of wanting to like just
run into a brick wall and training and
start to train a little bit with more
Nuance right and eventually you're
likely to do this kind of really
hardcore training lesson
less and you're going to look back at it
and be like man that was fun as fuck I'm
glad I did it I'm glad I got that shit
out of the basement and now I have a
slightly more nuanced view of training
more controlled
Etc and then it'll all be fun it'll all
be really good just stay safe don't do
anything super stupid go out there and
have some fun today godd damn it and uh
bet you weren't expecting this lecture
to come out anyway guys thank you so
much for tuning in
catch you next
time