[Music]
folks I'm do Mike for Renaissance
periodization this is my wife Dr Crystal
gavar we'll get into a second why the
hell she's here this is Nathan Levy he
is an
Israeli professional mixed martial
artist with the
UFC Le oh my God a take down what a move
from naton Levy he can actually beat
people up me I have a slightly different
skill set I talk that shit at a whole
different level and here's the thing
what we're going to do now is going to
teach my wife and I to throw a single
kind of punch we're going to learn how
to do a single kind of kick was that
pretty good not that what you think
about this pretty good okay and uh one
takedown and then one submission on the
ground and then I feel like Crystal and
I are over qualified to settle our shit
cuz we've been I don't want to talk
about this too much we have a lot of
marital problems most the problems I
think about her just not giving me the
the respect I need as a man I'm a man
baby and we about to sort this out full
contact right after this when we know
shit when we know shit you trying to you
trying to you trying to bring it let's
do it bring it let's do
it like what the fuck did I sign like oh
gosh these
goobers
Christ she's been out of hand you got to
teach me how to fucking I'm going to
show you how to throw a jab this is the
most important punch this one is a
little bit like a snake that Charming
somebody until it by needs to be fast
freak me out to be quick it's not as
powerful but the surprise it is what
makes the
damage
one
two and you're also stepping forward
what does that mean it means let's get
in the fight stance the
where's my lawyer so here I'm safe when
I want to engage I need to step forward
with my jab when I'm done I step away
and open the range again so that was
good now when we're going to step in the
number I say is the number of Jabs we're
throwing so one just a jab
two
three nice one one good job
you're going to get it G I'm a fucking
train puncher now we got any kicks yes
let's go let's some kicks so I got my
fight stance I'm going to turn this leg
this
way so I open up my hip I open up I
stretch a like a rubber band and then I
close it with my right leg
kicking Christ and chop the leg down you
ever been in a street fight yeah how'd
it go pretty
[Music]
good let's
go I wouldn't want to get kicked by me
either that's my nuts later let's you
throw one to the ribs same
kick door
oh I can also kind of use it in
different ways I can kick the leg then I
can faint go high all right I can faint
here kick him in the ribs I can faint
who kick back
kick dude that's awesome don't get into
fights with professional fighters it
looks like a bad time I don't know
anything though all right take down take
down you want to do yeah okay once my
hand is here and he has less weight on
his leg I'm going to go so I don't want
to hurt you the most of his weight is on
this leg this leg gets light then I can
pull it from underneath him still pretty
heavy with
my I saw it coming so we're going slow
you lean back I can even grab his wrist
pull
him this way once I'm here I can finish
with some ground and pound I can neon
belly a little bit or I can go down to
the ground with them start
controlling good job hell
yeah oh follow him down oh sorry I was
just focusing on the SLE we ready to
fight uh we one submission and then
we're ready to fight I don't know how to
fight unless I get some submissions
going so I got this knee here right so
you can't kick me exactly I'm gonna
slide to
mount if you're smart you know you're G
to try and push my hip and stuff if
you're an idiot you're GNA try to maybe
push me I just try to reach with my
hands out as far as I can I'm gonna go
to the
arm finish the armor I just do the Roger
Gracie collect all the things
technique good job all right whatever
arm you
want job it's time for us to settle our
difference I feel like yeah yeah I think
so oh easy easy easy coach it didn't
start yet what do you think uh going
open weight division open weight open
weight and open no drug test no drug
test how long is it 3 minutes to four
minutes 5 six what do you think's good
for somebody either tap out or dies you
know Taps out or
[Music]
dies no waiver I don't need a fucking
waiver for this bitch show
fight are you serious that body shit
shit
oh nice let's get to that
mountain oh what a pass
that was terrible arm that was the worst
arm bar
ever it's okay we'll get her we'll get
her next time I'm sorry I let you down
my whole team we pre for this whole
thing and she's just so fast I know I
know you're a disappointment these
people invented Kung Fu how am I
supposed to you're winner by
submission good job shake hands yeah hey
we still got beef round too we got next
time next time coach thank you so much
you did okay you you were all right you
did things you moved around yeah we'll
do better next time yeah next time it's
all about next time couple more fight
camps not on huge thank you for dealing
with our bullshit today my bullshit
she's a normal person just trying to get
along uh where can people find you uh
for me uh they can find me on Instagram
Twitter and
unfortunately Tik Tok Facebook you're on
Tik Tok for real do you do dances and
shit or just no not really okay I move
my body in different awkward ways I also
got a YouTube channel yes starting to
work on it please if you guys really
want me I might beat up mic a different
time I have to keep my face gorgeous for
my work as a what I what do I do for
work lift heavy shit sort of yeah it's
not even that heavy and influence Mr sh
says I'm an influencer I call myself a
masturbation addict if you guys want us
to you want to see a roll or a spa or
whatever I can get a career ending
injury trying to save my own life for Mr
n down Levy Crystal gavara she's got all
her social medias check her out she's a
sports medicine doc so we actually had a
liced sports medicine doctor here if she
got hurt it'd be bad news we don't know
what fuck's going on but if if I got
hurt she could I mean you did get hurt
yeah did did emotionally the most hurt
Nomad kav Maga uh uh get here in Vegas
it's a fucking great place to train and
we'll see you guys next time
[Music]