I feel like making Courtney cry let's do
it
together gorgeous uh-oh we doing things
now miss
Courtney stand
up you got the shit
[Music]
Shing folks Dr Mike is here for
Renaissance puration Jared feather has
rescinded his sonh stood to me I'm no
longer his father is this what you
wanted AB you happy now yes great
someone who's even happier is Miss
Courtney star and her actual last name
is star which is pretty sweet star with
yous was just my only fan name for quite
some time until the platform banned me
for reasons they will not declare
interestingly enough my uh lawyers are
contracted by my Butlers to find out
what happened but in the meantime I
thought I would uh team up with my man
Jerry over here and we're like you know
what we need to do is just beat the shit
out of a female and I'm like Jared what
he's like I meant in a context of muscle
growth training one of her muscle groups
specifically maybe two maybe we'
uppercut the glutes and then jab the
hams even though that was a cross I just
demonstrated uh I used to be box forward
okay in the 50s in Philadelphia they
called me the Jewish nightmare hey
remember that when you remember remember
remember so uh she's already full of
just total hate my bullshit we are going
to do glutes we are going to do hams and
you are going to do the Arnold in just a
few weeks and when this comes out this
will all have been a memory if you do
well we take full credit if you didn't
do well at the Arnold we have no idea
who the you are we haven't done a video
with you roll
camera Jared okay let's have a little
conversation real quick sure Courtney
this is like when mom and dad fight
except for dad and son my household it's
only if there's actual physical violence
oh yeah otherwise who cares yell away
yeah um what do you want to be to we
this family thing right so I'm dad
Jared's what are you TOS in this video
she can be my sister second cousin maybe
she can for sure be my sister second
cousin yeah that's kissing cousins where
you're
from I Miss's probably into that shit
yeah yeah hell yeah I'm from Oregon so
it's no you guys are nice people other
than the cult people they're nice too
too nice little Cy littley folks we have
three exercises today exercise number
one is the high bar sumo squat the width
of the stance isn't super important you
want it wider than shoulder width but
just that wide might be good enough the
onus is in keeping the knees out to keep
the glutes continually contracted the
entire time great mind muscle connection
it's not some super secret hack other
ways of squatting are totally great this
is one that for especially Advanced
athletes who connect with their muscle
can be a really awesome way to limit how
much external load you're using but
maximize the internal load give the
thought you're going to sitting with
your knees out as Q number one Q number
two is chest up Q number three is to
push your butt real far back and go
Ultra deep from that stretch pause at
the bottom and come back sets of 5 to 10
maybe 8 to 12 on this and we'll do other
stuff with a different rep range let's
do it was it easy I'm
like strongish strongish what a great
exclamation that tells me everything I
need to know almost eight years ago now
I won a powerlifting competition on a
boat okay in the South China Sea using
your periodization get out of here yeah
that's just telling him you guys were
popular in the Navy when I was in on
deployment that was so trippy we did a
yeah we did a powerlifting contest the
boat and it was uh a whole bunch of
people participated it was awesome but
yeah you guys like a lot of people knew
about RP string do you want to miss cuz
the boat was like swinging yeah I was on
an aircraft carrier so it was mostly
stable but you got to make something up
girl you say they were they were taking
f-35s were taken off and theing exhaust
blew your girl off a little bit
otherwise I would have got 900 lb that
one p yeah we like to lie big on this
channel lie Bigg or go home
[Music]
good slow
control pause
up keep it up Courtney this is awesome
stuff big
move again we're here to push
[Music]
it one last one make it happen slow slow
pause up push it rack
that's good how did you feel good
pushing you a little bit oh yeah yeah
it's good it felt hard but like my body
feels good like I could push through it
my ex-wife told me the exact same
thing all
[Music]
right hell yeah we're here to try do it
again
[Music]
control again two more got get big chest
sink low get down there and pause deep
convincing one more
slow come up up up up up up up good very
good very good than take a nice little
break we'll be at it
shortly so we're going to go just a
plate on a side here this is going to be
a tough set because Jared and I are
going to be real close we're going to
catch you if you fall but we want you to
push it with good technique as far as
shit'll go
Beyond failure
yeah but don't you just quit on us it's
okay I'm the world's best fake failure
actor so I can tell I can tell when
you're putting the art on okay and look
at Jared's forarms aren't you scared of
that guy that's serious business yeah he
means it I would have mess with him I
wouldn't either I would oh God positive
botom slow exactly the same thing gosh
yep no good news today big gosh darn it
okay
seven there's no R there's no rush to
get down
there no rush control it feel the weight
be the weight on the glutes
yes don't can Rush the paws these are
good but not great pause up more
Courtney we want more we're greedy
motherfuckers up control that descent
but we don't count him come on slow slow
slow he out up up up okay shit that's it
all right you can rack it you want more
you want more let's do it slow
controlled Ultra deep up that's it
that's one double failure back the
weight very good you tried your hardest
well he said past failure I go failure
in like worst case you don't stand up
totally so we got you good good stuff
there very good stuff all right good
news we have a relaxing several set of
brutal deficit lunches next wonderful
exercise number two we are on a v squat
sort of setup you have a lot of these at
the gym the cool thing about this one is
it's elevated it gives us a natural
platform off of which to Lunge we are
going to be doing lunges and as you see
in the explanation here when we talked
to Courtney we're going to be asking her
to put the top of her foot the shoelaces
on the ground what that does is it makes
people get out of the pattern of pushing
off the back leg and our cue to her is
as you come up quickly lift your
shoelaces up so they're not generating
any Force not the shoelaces but that
back leg we want almost everything front
leg the back leg is just a stabilizer
she's going to get her knee all the way
down to the ground slowly under control
she's going to come up accelerating the
weight on the way up but not not a crazy
Rush not Ultra athletic it's a very very
deep position it's going to fry her
glutes like wild we're going to rest a
30 seconds to a minute between each leg
and we're just going to go and go and go
each leg is going to get two sets this
is brutal shit uh maybe three we'll see
how she is the amount of physical mechan
mechanical damage to the tissue that
such an eccentrically loaded and stretch
position does to the glutes is wild if
it's your first rodeo one set is good
enough and then slowly work up from
there I feel like making Courtney cry
let's do it
together gentle slow deep very
good front leg front leg front leg come
on Ultra slow this time especially at
the bottom yeah slow go
slow now up finish yep yep good
slow go go go nobody said rest right
from the start right from the start
let's use that front leg I'm right here
you're good front leg hit it front
leg up finish strong good shit good
shit holy moly that hurt me
watching one minute and we go again
usually I think like unilateral work is
like easy oh it's just one side at a
time yeah no big deal yeah stories I
tell myself before suffering a lot no
you're doing this is awesome effort
awesome work anyway que you get we give
you is only to make it harder so
especially those later reps I'm right
here if you like keep it in the front
leg keep it on the glutes try not to
push off the back leg a ton I'm right
here okay worse comes the worse I just
pick the shit off
you you all right
yeah
gorgeous uh oh we doing things now miss
Courtney oh stand
up you got this shit shaking keep going
stand up Courtney good two more on that
leg slow
reach oh my God
phenomenal yep I don't think anyone's
trained until you one everyone's right
here with you slow
control push front leg front leg front
leg front yeah good shit good rack one
minute
rest oh gorgeous move it you got it you
got
it you're close
slow come on slow come
on leg hit it front leg stand up courtne
yeah good yeah really like good was that
was great okay you should feel like a
wuss if you feel solid at the end of the
set you probably didn't try very hard oh
sure like that felt great like what the
Yeah so we're only giving Courtney about
a minute to rest between each leg so she
does her left leg minute rest right leg
minute rest left leg minute rest right
leg minute rest her cardio is good to go
she feels strong her synergistic muscles
aren't inere anymore her local muscle
can do more of five reps check we are
pushing in the pace a little bit but if
we can check all four boxes all as well
to accommodate for we're actually taking
load off so her first thing was a 10 K
kilo on each side then was one kilo on
each side this last third set we're
going to do is zero kilos on any side
but she's so up this is going to be a
real challenge also like not that I've
been staring or anything it's my job
think your glutes like doubled in size
after last out so when glute girl girl
glute
grow I'll see myself when glutes when
girls glutes grow that's a good thing
for generally good people lot of G's in
there see guys next
time oh way to milk that out Courtney
you're aing animal all the way down yeah
hell yeah go go go go go good shit stay
with it stretch this is all muscle
growth all day long Courtney front leg
I'm right here you're good stand up
front leg front leg front leg that's it
and
rack
slow oh my God Flawless again
Y come on one more
left milk everything you have out of
this oh my God oh my God incredible up
under your own
power good
shit you always rest in between sides
even unilateral or sometimes you just go
from one to the next yes definitely so
if you do a one arm Rose for example and
you just go right to the other hand
there's a systemic fatigue cost you're
breathing heavy you don't feel as strong
your lower back might be a little tight
you want to fully relax fully recover
before you do that other arm and that
other leg so each one of them gets it
good you know it's like if you have U I
used to be in the situation where I was
um uh all consensual I was hooking up
with a girl but I would only ever get
seconds you know after her boyfriend
left it which just not the same Courtney
it's kind of disgusting it's probably
unsanitary definitely immoral but it's
just you know you need it fresh what I'm
trying to say I've got to the point when
the first syllable leaves Mike's mouth I
know when it's bullshit he's got the
best bullshit detector on planet Earth
no it's just I've just been around you
long enough that's why you have the best
bullshit detector on planet Earth for
you for me just mine other bullshit you
fall for Courtney can you lie to Jared
real quick see if he picks up on it say
something that's not true you literally
told her to lie I'm really strong that
was convincing no no that's a lie I
watched you
squat what a dick I set him up for that
what a me until I work hard no don't you
say yes to that young lady you have
civil rights you have recourse fuck you
Jerry Courtney's last exercise is coming
up and it is lying hamstring curls we
were going to do dumbbell stuff a
deadlift but the the torture gym here in
Las Vegas is really really really cool
machines it's worth a visit and the
lying hamstring curl is actually exactly
or very close to exactly properly
leverag what I mean by that the lever
arm is maximally exposing the weight to
gravity at the bottom for that deep
stretch making it harder at the bottom
and then the lever arm comes up as the
weight comes up and that means that it
gets easier as you come up which is
exactly what we want when accentuated
difficulty at the stretch easier on the
way up you're going to watch Courtney
milk every single Ecentric phase for a
few seconds gentle pause at the bottom
full range of motion this is going to
fucking suck probably my rep match it
which means whatever number of rep she
gets on the first set we'll try to match
it with many sets later on the second
and third sets just three sets glutes
hams everything should be popping push
your ass on stage and she'll win
everything at least that's the plan
let's find out how that
unfolds Yep this is fucking awesome shit
Courtney deep
stretch yes pause at the bottom every
rep come on finish again except this
time accelerate out of the bottom throw
it hell yeah yeah do it again slow
controlled deep pause throw it that's it
one more good one touch that
butt and another one you aing violent
machine Revenge go yes
slow again throw it and then slow as if
you're going to do another one easy
release beautiful work my hamstrings
look huge they look so big I couldn't
see anything else I look this way
hamstrings that way hamstrings looked at
my hands I just saw many hamstrings
everywhere okay cool yeah like that was
a little much but whatever yeah at some
point you know that he's just full of
shit jar okay fine fine we'll have this
out on the channel fine what the fuck is
wrong with you lately I'm your father I
try to love you I try to give you gifts
I even called your mom that one time to
try to reconnect I gave you everything
bro name something I didn't give you
everything okay that's one thing
straight from your testicles well don't
have testicles anymore because of your
decisions young man true because of your
decision you also gave me those thank
you poor decisions no no no oh oh you I
introduced you to the world of illicit
drugs I didn't do that AB I tried to
keep you away from that world and what
did you do you spit in my face please
pin my Courtney I worked years in a
factory decades to provide for this man
what does he do spits in my
face great four more and then you rest a
little bit
speed one four slow
control rest for second don't go
anywhere don't go anywhere don't
anywhere five more lock it in yeah you
got
it grab the top of the poles there rest
be easy be easy be easy we got all the
time completely relax relax relax
relax
go yes
slow launch it yes slow I want you to
rest for two whole seconds at the bottom
here rest breathe we got one more rep
launch
it and then slow Ultra slow Ultra slow
keep it going nice and easy nice and
easy nice and
easy and relax oh yeah that's it that's
set two just one more set left oh yeah
that was great
when you laugh your obliques are visible
Contracting and I'm just like
[Music]
oh slow one more and then you rest come
on yes
slow and rack rest a little bit I got a
little lazy on that one you got a little
lazy we all get a little lazy sometimes
four and you're done for the day did it
whenever you're
ready good all the way down to the very
bottom full stretch there it is good
bonus round keep
going
good again come on move
[Music]
it oh that's really impressive I'm so
weak there's left do another full
rep JK you're you're done you're done
you're done there no waight on there
you're not like a half rep person or
we're not half R people you can do some
bottom end partials at the end of a set
but you couldn't even do that anymore so
dumb there was no wait on the bar by the
end folks what can we learn from today
couple things slow
Ecentric full control the entire time
never messing with that bottom end range
getting in that deep stretch and just
being a fucking awesome cheery
hardworking super strong effortful
person like Miss Courtney star uh and
also thank you for your service you're a
former member of the United States Navy
I suppose yes uh enlisted or officer
cored okay sweet I had you for an
officer you look you know what I'm
saying telling people what doing shit um
I've been involved with the Navy nope
wait that was a drag show that was Navy
themed very close Navy people we love
you the same thing yes more Jes I Jes uh
damn that's a lot of fun in the Seas um
all right Navy boys we'll see you in a
few months while Jared and I will expose
our bodies to everyone on aircraft
carryer how many sailors is like 5,000
that's Tuesday right um Courtney where
can people find you uh I'm on Instagram
as that nutrition chick that nutrition
chick you're that nutrition chick I know
I know awesome folks thank you so much
see you next time
[Music]
yeah yeah