this is the most effective quad biased
leg day I could design using scientific
principles first we're going to start
with a squat pattern I recommend the
hper squat or the Smith machine squat
it's going to train your quads glutes
and adors pretty effectively next we'll
move on to hip hinge either the dumbbell
Romanian deadlift or the Smith machine
good morning this is going to train your
hamstrings and your glutes and adductors
reasonably well next we'll move on to a
super set of seated leg curls and
reverse ntic curls this will round out
the quad and hamstring stimulus by
hitting some muscle groups that
otherwise wouldn't get targeted very
well next we'll do an optional super set
up hip abduction and adduction machine
some of the smaller glute and adductor
muscles otherwise don't get trained very
well within this session and finally for
those of us choosing to train the Cals
and abs directly we'll do an optional
superet of the leg press calf Ras and
the ab wheel roll out if you repeat this
legely twice a week you'll get an
effective amount of volume the exercises
were picked on the basis of scientific
principles like making sure the
exercises load the length in position
Target one of the functions of the
target muscle and finally using Anatomy
we're making sure to Target all of the
major muscle groups within the lower
body that's why I think