I think I'm pretty close to 100 right on
this and I do think a lot of people are
just straight up wrong
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video is about
the stiff legged deadlift versus the
Romanian deadlift
and the fact that this is an illusory
dichotomy in fact these are basically no
they are the same thing
controversial I know
and I know because there are tons of
other influencers most of them very very
sharp and making great videos that have
made entire videos talking about what
the difference is between an sldl and an
RDL a stiff-legged deadlift and a
Romanian deadlift and what I'm going to
tell you is going to be potentially
controversial but I think I'm pretty
close to 100 right on this and don't
worry I'll support it even with sources
that actually it's the same thing
weird and I do think a lot of people are
just straight up wrong with all due
respect I've been wrong many times in my
life
here we go maybe this is one of them
let's find out
what is an RDL I think it's a an SL deal
sldl stiff leg and deadlift
and it is an SL deal as described to the
attendees of a weightlifting seminar in
San Francisco in 1990 by the Romanian
lifter NICU Vlad and his coach durgamir
kiraslan that's my best pronunciation of
that I am not Romanian but close close
man Romanians have the sweetest names I
would pay good money to have my name
that's fucking awesome you know that
guy's on your way class you're fucking
losing in any case
this Romanian deadlift was actually
named by U.S Olympic coach at the time
Jim Schmitz as the Romanian deadlift
because he asked during training uh
these folks were uh Nico was doing the
stuff like a deadlift and they asked him
hey what is that movement what do you
call that and they didn't really know
they said uh deadlift it is a deadlift
and they couldn't really explain it so
so Romanian deadlift and so Jim Schmitz
named it right there how do I know this
it is well described by Jim Schmitz
himself in the iron mind article that is
linked right over here maybe Scott will
drop this link in the description as
well but you can just look at it it's
written up and just Google it it comes
up really quick by the way for serious
strength athletes iron mind magazine is
the fucking bee's knees it is
unbelievable I used to read it literally
20 years ago and it was just great is
great amazing can't recommend it uh more
than I already have
now how did Jim Schmitz himself and this
is directly from Iron mind directly his
quote uh describe the lift okay
he said and I'll just read so forgive me
for not looking at the camera you grab
the bar with your clean grip pull the
bar to the tops of your thighs but don't
complete the lift
that is don't lock out your back the
knees are not locked out the chest is
out the back is flat
and then lower sorry you then lower the
bar to about two inches from the
platform keeping your back perfectly
flat or arched and your knees slightly
flexed then you return to the almost
erect position have been almost erect a
few times that's me not him saying that
but it is a very critical here not to
fully lock the knees then repeat
two very important details are number
one your back stays flat or arched at
all times and two your knees stay
slightly flexed at all times this lift
is almost all low back glutes and
hamstrings now
color me fucking completely crazy
but that is the stiff-legged deadlift
that lots of lifters have been doing
around the world for decades even at
that time in 1990. no well let's find
out again here is Jim Schmitz
quote an interesting side note here is
that yoshinobu Miyaki Japan's 1964 and
1968 Olympic champion in weightlifting
was at the clinic where the Romanians
were and he said he did the same
exercise back in his prime in the 1960s
I let that sink in
I'm calling them Japanese deadlifts from
now on
weird
in addition to this my PhD chair Dr Mike
Stone who's one of America's best ever
Sports scientists wasn't is
used to say very angrily I might add
when you called it an RDL in front of
him we used to do stiff-legged deadlifts
before the Romanians visited
they did not invent that exercise they
did it like many many other people
around the world had for decades
now
let's get into the weeds of the refined
technique
technically speaking the RDL is a
variation of the stiff-legged deadlift
it is a type of stiff-legged deadlift
which is a broader category of potential
ways of doing that exercise but it's
actually the most common way of doing
that exercise and it is probably in most
cases the most proper technique
the stiff-legged deadlift is designed to
hit mostly the hamstrings and RDL style
which Jim Smith's just described for us
is exactly almost exactly how most
people would do it it's nearly ideal
now I just said that the RDL is one type
of a universe of stiff-legged deadlift
it's a spectrum of ways you could do
that exercise and so some of the stuff
that was said in the way to do it like
stopping a few inches from the ground we
could critique and say aren't there
different ways of doing that yes and
here they are first
all stifling and deadlifts can vary on
the degree of back arch you can be ultra
super arch in your lower back or you can
be even very rounded
number two
they can vary in the degree of knee band
you can have a significant amount of
knee Bend or you can do technically
speaking a stiff-legged deadlift with
completely straight knees and everything
in between
number three the degree of bar and hip
travel you can keep your hips relatively
stationary and let the bar swing out
really far you can try to keep your hips
stationary this is very challenging and
keep the bar super tight to your legs
you can try to push your hips back
really far as you descend and have the
bar travel very far away from you as
well or most commonly you have your hips
travel really far back and the bar stays
very close to your hips and the rest of
your body
number four depth differences
you can finish a stiff legged deadlift
at the bottom at just around or below
the knees or generally if you're very
flexible you can do them all the way to
below the floor which means you're
standing on a platform or lifting with
smaller weights and those are deficit
stiff-legged deadlifts
number five is the grip you could have a
narrow grip or a wide grip or even a
snatch grip these are all variations on
a theme of the stiff-legged deadlift and
the RDL is one subtype of the
stiff-legged deadlift more generally
okay
now there are a few other more minor
distinctions and I'm sure I haven't even
covered all of them but here are some
other things to think about one is the
degree of eccentric control you'll
notice that rdls you descend relatively
slowly hypothetically you could do a
stiff leg and then left to redescent
more quickly
retracted versus rounded shoulders you
could have a stiff leg of that of where
the shoulders just hang you could have
ones where you Arch and pull back your
scapulae the entire time
you can choose to pause in the bottom
position or not to pause you can touch
the ground or not touch the ground and
about a million other smaller changes
you could make
now because in my humble view probably
the best use of stiff-legged deadlifts
is hamstring training let's review what
the best practices are for using
stiff-legged deadlifts
to train your hamstrings how would we
change these variables we just talked
about that could be different between
different approaches to the stiff-legged
deadlift to actually train our
hamstrings the best well here it is
first you'll see by the way many of
these most almost all overlap with how
an RDL is described
first you want to have anterior pelvic
tilt which means that you have a neutral
back or an arched back your hips are
tilted up and back that pre-stretches
the hamstrings allowing them to get into
a more favorable position to be
stimulated for growth
two you have a slight knee bend it means
you're not going to be really
uncomfortable with no knee Bend at all
and you can produce a high a loading
situation for the hams without concerns
for safety so it's really good you don't
want too much of a knee Bend because
then you just have to move the bar a lot
further to get the hamstrings actually
stretched out
number three you want a slow descent to
maximize that nasty eccentric hamstring
stimulus and to stay safe the hamstrings
are a finicky muscle any of you guys
have ever played Sports know the
hamstrings like to get injured every now
and again and those are really almost
always really nasty injuries you don't
want uh they're pulls they're this
they're that you want to go nice and
slow because you lose nothing going slow
and you gain an extra margin of safety
and even probably a bit of stimulus as
well
another advantage to going slow on the
stuff like a deadlift is your knees and
hips tend to go off track because they
counteract each other if you go slow you
can always reinforce that you're still
using your hamstrings and they're being
pulled apart painfully if you go quickly
you could do a thing where you do a wrap
you come back up and you're like fuck I
bet my knees too much but if you're
going slowly you can auto adjust make
micro adjustments pushing your knees
back keeping it Forward back and forth
to keep the right amount of tension on
your hamstrings number four you wanted
to send deep enough to painfully stretch
the hamstrings which is where that
advice for stop two inches above
probably isn't the best advice in the
world from the RDL proponents because if
you're really flexible in hamstring
stopping two inches above the ground can
be just not enough of a stretch and you
don't get really sore or make a ton of
progress but if you're in that case you
would want to do some deficit work and
really go below the floor so to speak
but if you have very poor flexibility in
the hamstrings then you would have to
round your back a shitload in order to
get two inches above the ground once you
round your back your posterior uh your
pelvis tilts into posterior tilt it
takes tension off of the hamstrings and
then it's just not much of a hamstring
exercise anymore so really what you need
to do is the height where you go to is
the most Auto regulated part of the
stiff-legged deadlift and you go until
you feel a deep painful stretch on the
hamstrings not much further than that
and definitely don't stop until you feel
that deep painful stretch let me tell
you guys about the RP hypertrophy app
with over 28 preset programs already in
the app you can choose to make your own
you could modify an existing program or
you can just run the programs exactly as
they were written by me personally this
app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
so to wrap this up
if someone asks you do you like sldls or
rdls bro what do you think about RDL
versus sldl it's tantamount to asking
someone do you like fettuccine alfredo
or the kind of fettuccine alfredo to
make it most Italian restaurants
RDL is the common and basically the most
effective type of stiff legandella for
training hamstrings so it's just kind of
damn near the same thing or you could
think about it as a stiff legged
deadlift is a very large Circle and an
RDL is a also large just slightly
smaller Circle that is entirely
enveloped by that large Circle trying to
do a stiff legged deadlift that is also
not cataloged as an RDL usually means
you're not training the hamstrings
anymore and it's just not really clear
what it is you're doing you can do very
bent knee rounded back stiff-legged
deadlift but really if we're putting a
fine point in it that's just a fucking
deadlift so again RDL and sldo is almost
exactly the same thing and in fact the
RDL is entirely encompassed by the
stiff-legged deadlift category
instead of asking do you prefer the RDL
or sldl and also a lot of people don't
know what these two things mean so
they'll just give you wrong answers they
think an RDL is this where it's really
not this
it's much more clear to ask things if
you want to know how a person trains and
what they do and want to try to copy
them a little bit to get some similar
results ask them things like this do you
like to pause at the bottom of your
stiff legged deadlift or rdls I don't
care which one to use I'm not a person
that gets pissed if you use RDL it's
totally fine the Romanians are sweet
how much do you like to pause at the
bottom or do you like to pause at the
bottom how much knee Bend do you prefer
very very straight knees or somewhat
more bad news how wide do you like your
grip to be questions like that questions
that answer where on all of those
margins do you prefer to do stuff like
adults and actually
there's no one correct answer because
you can use slightly different
approaches as new variations snatch grip
stuff like a deadlifts conventional grip
stiff-legged deadlifts stiff legged
deadlift where you push your bat your
butt really far back but bend your knees
a little more ones in which you
basically almost bend your knees not at
all but you keep your butt relatively
stable those are all totally fine as
long as they are doing the job of safely
and effectively loading your hamstrings
out of stretch that's the exercise
feature that we really really want and I
think it's one of the reasons why the
Romanians didn't like to do the lockout
portion is because that top end really
just doesn't offer a whole lot of
stimulus and if you get almost all the
way up to the top you don't have to
re-enter anterior pelvic tilt you're
already in it you can simply go right
back into the movement and it ends up
being a loaded partial and those are
showing literature to be very effective
why are we saying just ask for
variations
because there is not this contentious
battle between sldl and RDL the RDL is
just a well executed version of a very
common type of stiff-legged deadlift
which means most physique folks will do
something and should do something that
looks like an RDL and if your stuff like
a deadlift looks very different than an
RDL that Olympic weightlifter is doing
there's more of a chance you're doing it
wrong than you're just doing something
clever that is not encompassed by the
RDL category folks I know this is going
to have a lot of comments I'll see you
in the comments if you like the video
please like it if you hate it just like
it anyway I want to be your friend
please I need I need likes I count all
the likes and
if I get a thousand likes on a video I
buy myself a cookie and I eat it
watching the likes go up if you like
this kind of nerdy stuff we'll see you
in our members area that costs more
money because I need Lamborghinis
desperately but there's extra videos
there every week for nerd stuff like
this and if you want help with your
stuff like a deadlift or RDL technique
come join us in the team full ROM Forum
we'll analyze your Technique will make
it better over time we'll give you a ton
of programs and a ton of interaction and
questions answered every week and all
that good stuff that's all in the
description and I'll see you guys next
time