[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of mythbusters' gonna be looking at the
idea that fresh fruits and vegetables
are healthier and more nutritious than
frozen fruits and vegetables so first
why do people think that fresh is better
I think it mostly just stems from the
idea that fresh implies less processed
and less processed implies healthier and
of course while highly processed highly
refined foods can and often do
contribute to overconsumption of
calories and the replacement of
nutrient-rich foods with nutrient devoid
foods food processing has also helped
improve our collective health in many
ways such as by providing easily
accessible nutrition for infants elderly
and pregnant women and just looking at
this graph from Weaver and colleagues
it's clear that collectively canned and
frozen fruits and veggies do in fact
make up a greater contribution to total
nutrient intake than fresh fruits and
vegetables at least amongst these
nutrients and in the US and this is
probably just due to their convenience
and affordability and enriching and
fortifying foods with added nutrients
through processing can drastically
reduce nutrient deficiencies compared to
relying on just naturally occurring
nutrients alone the red arrows emphasize
the nutritional gap between naturally
occurring foods enriched processed foods
um so the bottom line is while I think
food processing is to blame for many of
our overconsumption patterns as a
society I don't think we should throw
out the baby with the bathwater and
assume that any level of processing is
always bad and of course there are
levels to food processing at the top you
have very minimally processed foods so
say just simply washing and packaging
fruits and veggies another level down
you have simple preservation methods so
things like canning tuna or freezing
fruits and vegetables and then as you
move even further down you start to get
into the in my opinion potentially more
problematic levels of processing so
stuff like TV dinners and frozen pot
pies now so processing doesn't equal bad
cases but what does the science have to
say about fresh versus frozen fruits and
vegetables specifically let me just
start out by saying that there
definitely are nutritional differences
between these categories and it's
complicated because as it turns out
which method is better seems to depend
on what fruit and vegetable you're
looking at for example looking at this
2017 analysis from linen colleagues
beta-carotene content a precursor for
vitamin A was higher in fresh broccoli
than frozen broccoli but actually lower
in fresh compared to frozen corn and
lower in fresh green peas compared to
frozen green peas so first I think it's
important to clarify that even amongst
fresh produce there can be differences
in terms of nutrition because you can
consume a fruit or vegetable freshly
picked right off the tree and so say
something like from a fresh farmer's
market or a roadside fruit stand or you
can consume something that was picked
and sat in the back of a truck and then
sat in the grocery store until you
bought it and what research has
suggested that all else equal the longer
the transportation and the storage time
the worse the nutrient quality tends to
be even this isn't 100% accurate because
in reality there are so many other
factors that can come into play like the
specific fruit or vegetable you're
talking about the soil quality season
whether the growing methods used the
rightness of the fruit or veggie when
harvested post-harvest handling and on
and on and according to one nutrition
report from Harvard the vitamin and
mineral contents of fruits and veggies
depends on decisions and practices all
along the food system from seed to table
whether or not that system is local or
global so it is complicated but to give
us something a little bit more tangible
to go on let's take a closer look at the
results of that 2017 Lim paper so this
study compared the nutritional content
of various fruits and veggies in three
groups fresh frozen and fresh stored
where the fresh stored group represents
fresh produce after sitting in the
fridge for five days
the author's note that this is an
important consideration since fresh
produce may often remain in the
consumers home for a number of days
prior to consumption since like I said
it's been suggested from earlier
research that storage of fresh produce
can decrease nutrient quality now
looking at the table for ascorbic acid
or vitamin C you can see that for
broccoli fresh and frozen come out just
about exactly the same
while fresh stored was a bit worse and
this pattern followed for corn green
peas and strawberries yet just taking
spinach for example vitamin C was
highest in the fresh group then lower
for the fresh stored and then the lowest
for frozen yet when looking at the Foley
content in spinach it was the opposite
more Foley was found in the frozen
spinach than in both fresh groups so
what do we make of all this noise well
the author's summed it up by saying that
all in all the majority of comparisons
yielded no significant difference and in
the cases of significant differences
there was generally a consistent
observation of five days of refrigerated
storage having a negative association
with nutrient concentration and
ultimately our findings do not support
the common perception that fresh produce
is nutritionally superior to frozen
produce and other research has supported
this conclusion one 2007 review notes
that losses of nutrients during fresh
storage may be more substantial than
consumers realize depending on the
commodity freezing and canning processes
may preserve nutrient value but
ultimately a diet filled with diverse
fruits and vegetables is ideal the
results presented here suggests that
canned frozen and fresh fruits and
vegetables should all continue to be
included in dietary guidelines so to
conclude and borrowing from the
conclusions of a science-based medicine
article from dr. Steven novella the most
nutritious produce is the produce you
will actually eat even the worst fruits
and vegetables still have a higher
nutrient density than other types of
food if affordable and convenient
produce allows you to eat more that's
more important than slight incremental
gains and some nutrients but not others
by obsessing over the details so
bringing this full circle I would say
the idea that fresh fruits and
vegetables are across-the-board
healthier and nutritionally superior to
frozen or canned fruits and veggies is
busted I think the best advice is to
simply have a diet filled with a variety
of different fruits and vegetables
different colors from various sources of
production and as long as you're
focusing on variety and consistency
they'll be getting enough nutrients from
these foods to reap their nutritional
benefits and one thing I didn't mention
here is cooking method there is some in
resting science to cover their so just
let me know if you'd like to hear me
cover that in a future video and I'll do
my best to do that but for now I think
I'm gonna leave it at that for here
before we go guys I want to thank
Skillshare for sponsoring this video
Skillshare is an online learning
community designed to help creators turn
their passion into a full-time
profession so whether you want to step
up your photography game for Instagram
learn the ins and outs of running an
online business or just start making
more money running an online business
Skillshare I think is the perfect
resource for it Skillshare gives you
access to more than 19,000 professional
classes and videography photography web
development business productivity and on
and on so I'd like to recommend two
courses to you guys I think you'll find
very helpful the first is visual
storytelling with Final Cut Pro 2nd
edition for just 37 classes
explaining the ins and outs of my
preferred editing software and the other
is fundamentals of DSLR photography
which is another thing that I think is
really important for increasing
production value here on YouTube
Instagram or really anywhere else where
you're sharing photos or video so a
premium membership usually begins around
10 bucks a month
however for viewers of this channel a
skill share is going to offer the first
699 people to click the first link in
the description box two months of skill
share for just 99 cents and I think that
in those two months you could easily
learn the new skills that you may need
to take your editing or photography or
business skills up to the next level so
make sure you go and check out that link
in the description I really think that
you guys will find it to be helpful and
I just want to say thanks again guys so
much for watching if you did like the
video or find it helpful don't forget to
leave me a like don't forget to
subscribe if you happen to be new and I
will see you guys all here - Mondays
from today