these are my testosterone levels right
now as a lifetime natural bodybuilder
485 nanog per deiler for most natural
lifters the limit for how high your test
can get without juice is around 1,000
remember that this is the world's most
honest steroid user his blood work came
back this month too and his test levels
were over 10,000 steroids work flat out
if you took steroids for a year you
could add something like 10 to 20 lbs of
muscle that's 10 times what you'd gain
from creatine but steroids might make
you dumber MRI skins revealed that the
brains of steroid users aged faster than
the brains of Naturals they can also
cause acne hair loss heart problems
anxiety paranoia and seem to shorten
your lifespan a new study found that
steroid users had 2.8 times the death
rate of NES for some people these risks
are worth it for their goals and I can
respect that but at least be aware of
the risks and come to an educated
decision