hey folks Dr Mike here with Renaissance
computerization hypertrophy myths number
three today doing this same rep pyramid
during your warm-up so that's a strange
myth what the hell does that even mean
before I get going we're going to talk
about what the myth actually is
talk about how it might make some good
points
definitely talk about how I make some
bad points or not so great points and a
little bit of real talk to
get our sense of where we are in space
about this whole thing so
the myth is that you should train like
this you pick a rep Target let's say I'm
you know sets of 10 or sets of five to
ten
and you pick just like one actual rep
number let's say 10.
and you do it for all of the warm-ups
while linearly adding weight and then
you do that weight at least some of the
sets for the top sets when you get
warmed up so here's what this looks like
for example on the leg press
let's say you want to use 585 for at
least one set of ten
and then maybe sets of less than 10
after or even drop sets or whatever 585
six plates on a side for the leg press
those are your top sets this is how in
this style you would warm up for it you
would do 135 for 10 225 for 10 3 15 for
10 405 for 10 for 95 for 10 and then
finally your first work set of 585 for
10 begins
after that you do a few other sets let's
say a set of eight seven and six you're
done training and you go have sex in the
locker room
hell yeah brother
it's fun it's fun to do in the locker
room in any case all that aside
you'll notice that it's 10 10 10 10 10
the entire time
should it be like that well maybe there
are some good reasons and here they are
first of all warming up is really
awesome right and warming up nice and
slow is much better than the opposite of
rushing it
this is very nice and very slow so at
least it does that well and also down
sets sets that are not super maximal
your best performance ever slowly off of
your best can also be helpful so we
could say that that 4.95 for 10 warm up
that last warp you did probably is hard
enough to where it has some hypertrophic
value it does actually drive a little
bit of muscle
on the other hand there's some bad
things
problem number one is a Time problem
warm-ups are generally not stimulative
of growth in advanced lifters so all of
this time you spent warming up if you
could have condensed it to the
appropriate amount of time you'd have
saved yourself a ton of time of
non-growth promoting non-beneficial
lifting
so number one problem is Giant waste of
time problem number two is this is a
waste of energy energy you could have
been driving a stimulus with
how if you condense the warm-up to
something more rational which I'll show
you in a bit
stop doing five sets of ten before your
first set actually began condensed it to
maybe four sets of declining reps
you would save a lot of energy which
means that 585 for 10 wouldn't be a 10
at the same reps in reserve it might be
13 14 or 15 reps
you're so energetic at the end of a
proper warm-up versus so much more tired
at the end of one of these crazy long
extended warrants use sets of 10 and 10
and 10 till the cows come home
that you actually end up getting more
out of your first and second and third
working sets because you have a higher
performance relative to your ability to
perform
and you get very close to muscular
failure as opposed to systemic failure
we're just so fucking tired of doing
sets of 10 that you just can't do any
more than 10 reps of 585 right
you essentially
don't want to continue to warm up after
you're already warm you want to warm up
and when you're warm get into the sets
that matter with as much energy as you
have but you're pissing away energy on
sets that as we learned do not stimulate
much if any growth at all and lastly is
a problem of cumulative fatigue warm-ups
have a very poor stimulus to fatigue
ratio
they don't fatigue you a ton normally
but they don't stimulate you hardly at
all however in these extended warm-ups
I'll put it to you this way let's go
back to the example one-third if you can
find if 585 for 10 is something you can
do let's say two reps in reserve that's
how strong you are at the end of all
this 135 for 10 doesn't fatigue you
hardly at all doesn't stimulate you
either
225 for 10.
it's not going to fatigue you much
oh it's okay to do definitely doesn't
simulate any growth either
315 for 10 definitely some fatigue not
much growth stimulus because it's like
20 reps in reserve
405 for 10 for sure fatigue again not
much stimulus 4.95 for 10 maybe a little
bit of stimulus but a ton of fatigue so
those ladder heavier sets still 10 and
10 and 10 and 10 those confer a ton of
fatigue and that's not that is
independently a problem with energy
which you won't have enough energy to
train hard right after but it's also a
cumulative fatigue problem if you're
always doing these sending sets of the
same number of reps with more and more
weight all the time then you're just
adding a ton of fatigue to every session
of your program and thus cumulatively
your fatigue will Skyrocket much faster
maybe after three weeks of accumulation
rather than four so that you could have
had one extra great week of training
kind of every month that instead you're
doing just this bullshit warming up that
is again not stimulative as that one
last fresh week absolutely would be
so real talk you got to learn how to
warm up properly which means in a
descending fashion here's how it would
look in this example if
well no not if I modified in all the
proper ways so let me just read off the
screen here shut up Mike and read off
the screen so here's an example of how
to do this right
same setup same exercise 585 for reps is
our goal at the end of this on the leg
press 135 for 10. got it
3 15 for eight
because you don't fucking need to do 225
man that's like the body weight squats
if you weigh 225 which if you're like
pressing 585 for reps you probably do
135 for 10 to just get really easy into
it 3 15 for eight I promise if you can
do 585 for 10 plus 315 for eight is not
a fucking big deal you should go right
to it
the rest of this we're actually being
really careful with you only maybe need
three warm-ups before getting to 585 for
sets of 10 plus but we really took our
time this is the extra careful version
so you could even do much less than this
405 for six notice it's not ten anymore
it's ten then eight then six four ninety
five for four reps what you're getting
out of 4.95 is here's the thing you're
already generally warm physically your
tissues are warm from all the other
warm-ups
you don't need to do 10 reps to get the
nervous system adapted to that amount of
load which only takes a few reps those
are called potentiation reps you just
need a few of them four is more than
enough and because we're being extra
fucking careful just to really draw
drive home a point
585 for two reps rack rest and then go
into the work sense just to really get
adapted to that whole thing because this
is let's see one two three four five
warm-up sets
the other was also five warm-up sets
it doesn't have to be we could have just
done three and been totally fine fine to
be extra safe four fine to be super
super safe five just so the comparison
is good but because the Reps descend
you're getting all the warm-up all the
potentiation all the Readiness without
hardly any of the fatigue any of the
time pissed away and any of the energy
loss that will end up getting you
shittier results and because I'm trying
to be very accurate with this example
you're more likely
to get something in 585 like 15 then 13
then 11 then 9 reps
and you're way getting way more reps on
the first and even second set of this
example because you're not tired from
one million fucking warm-ups you've had
a great workout without any of the fluff
the thing is people do this kind of
stuff the 10 10 10 10 all ascending
mostly just because it's Flawless and I
don't even mean that in a mean way they
just never really thought about it you
know like
there's all kinds of cool tricks to
learning shit and that saves you time
and here's one of them so please do it
course
to keep the example similar afterwards
definitely sex in the locker room again
why would you get rid of the best part
of your training plan you meet people in
there
they look at you you take your clothes
off
they're like what are you doing you're
like it's a locker room and they're like
oh my God I'm so sorry but I I'm I don't
know how to say this but
you are just
and you're like hi
it's just it's just me you know but I
think you want to like
I don't want to but did you wanna and
they're like
let's go in that let's go in the
bathroom stall and that's every Tuesday
for me I'll see you guys next time