sit up Med ball throw what this helps
Patrick do is understand how to use his
body from the waist up yeah so I'll tell
you right now that's not what it's for
what this is actually doing is allowing
him to practice generating a load of
power so that he can move his whole body
athletically in that anterior chain
position so the posterior chain is
something that lets you rise up like
this the anterior chain lets you fold
over like this it uses your abs your
triceps your lats your hip flexors your
quads everything down to move as much
force downward as possible that it will
do but it doesn't teach you to move in a
certain way because this guy doesn't
need to be taught how to move he already
knows how to move from probably 18 years
of football and being born perfect so
yeah