hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video is about
reasons you may not want to copy a pro
bodybuilder or the jacked guy at your
gym can be a stand-in because there
could be some interesting confounding
factors that won't get you exactly as
jacked as that person doing whatever it
is they're doing so here's kind of the
situation
you see a pro on Instagram on video in
your gym in your bedroom oh hello sir
ma'am uh
or just somebody really jacked that
you're like wow I love to look like that
doing something let's say in this
instance uh just as an example it's
they're turning their palms in on cable
flies at the top like Palms in okay
you are tempted to conclude as I am
tempted to conclude that that's how he
got that big and I'm gonna do that shit
and get big just like him and then
someone's like hey why do you put your
palms in like that on camouflage while
you're putting in and up you're like man
so can I sell Pro doing it and he was
huge you're like God damn and then your
buddy's doing it and everyone's doing
okay
that may actually be the case
the pro may be onto something really
interesting and voila you're doing it
and then you're onto some good stuff
Maybe
but to consider a few things
here they are
first
the only thing proven by the observation
of this Pro doing this technique in a
special way
is that someone can do that do this
thing and have success at the same time
right it's unlikely that you'll see a
pro doing heroin and meth at the same
time and lying under an LA overpass for
three days on end and be like wow that
guy's jacked away he's passed out on
this uh this overpass I'm trying to
start doing math and heroin pass out an
overpass is clear that's growing your
packs nobody's doing that but we know
that people who do this with their cable
flies are also jacked we don't know for
sure that that's causing the jackness
right
why don't we know that that's causing
jackness you know obviously for those of
you who know some formal statistics and
probabilistic reasoning you know it's
just a logical fallacy to conclude that
because this thing correlates it's also
a cause but we can give you more counter
examples just to fill the brain with
good
easy ways to understand all out this
could have totally nothing to do with it
because when you see a pro in real life
and you watch them do the weird exercise
and you watch the PEX Traditions going a
shit's out to here it's tough to not be
like man fuck that that has nothing to
do with it you just want to be like why
am I not doing that I should be copying
everything this man is doing even if I
get some stuff wrong hold on a second
first it could be something less optimal
but the pro is doing it to manage injury
I have done lifting that looks a little
weird on occasion I no longer Arch from
a track for bench pressing much even
though he should be doing that he's a
weird old Peck injuries that means if I
flare my shoulders out more they get
less irritated
I'm literally doing it in a sub-optimum
way because I've been hurt before you
know the pro might be like man I get a
much better pet contraction if I keep my
Palms down and not put them in like this
but like my shit is just too fucked up
man I have three surgeries here five
here and if I do this it takes the
tension off I don't get as good of a
workout but it is what it is remember
you never talk to this person you just
saw him do it this applies to all social
media Tick Tock Instagram fuckswipe
um swipe fuck
and every other platform you don't
there's no rationale when you look at
the caption it's like sponsored by dildo
labs and you're like that doesn't
explain anything so that's it like
you're just going off of what you see
you they could be hurt and doing
something purposefully less optimal to
just not hurt the area anymore it's not
growing more muscle it's growing less
next thing
it could work well for that person's
anthropometry the way their body is
designed but not work well for you you
could try it and be like I don't know
feels like shit maybe they have longer
arms maybe they have shorter arms maybe
they have wider packs maybe they're
packs in certain way yours don't and
that that exercise variation works
really well for them but for you it is
neutral or backwards where it actually
works worse for you and there's tons and
tons of ways in which this happens but
remember you're not that Pro and that
means that you may not be able to just
get a direct transfer like that
third thing is it could just be one of
the many ways to get the same results
right that specific technique
may make no overall notable difference
in muscle size so even if you talk to
the pro if they're relatively
intelligent be like dude why do you do
up like this with your shit he could be
like yeah it's just something I use
every now and again for variation and
you're like this is what makes you big
right and they're like no no I don't
know I think doing it this way or that
way or this way is going to make you
equivalently big if you're tired of
doing it this way that way you might
which want to do something new I don't
think this is the the way the thing that
gets you big
um I actually have uh one of my buddies
um
um he used to troll people who said like
you know the way you get a big bench
press is rear delts and the best way to
train rear adults is like do band pull
aparts he'd be like oh I gotcha how much
do I have to Bam pull apart to bench 600
pounds and they're like well there's no
answer that question he's like that's
right because that is a very wrong way
to look at benching there's no amount of
weird else is going to get you to push
600 pounds he actually just need big uh
chatural triceps so the thing you think
may be the thing like oh he does it this
way that's why he's jacked like no it's
just another way of moving up and down
like a pro could have a wide stance on a
hack squat or a narrow stance or his
feet could be pointed out or forward and
you'd be like huh that's what it is
that's how you get big quads you
actually talk to them or you talk to a
sports scientist and they're like it's
just the up and down of the quads and
your stance matters almost not at all
guys remember that the direct literature
as limited as it is shows that leg press
stance width they basically makes no
difference for how much quad hypertrophy
or stimulus you get in the short term
probably hits your adductors more if you
go wider but really if you get the same
knee bend the quads kind of do the same
work so you don't want to like invest
your time into doing this quirky
bullshit if it just gives you the same
results at the very least you want to be
kind of aware and intellectual level
that like this isn't the thing that's
going to get you Ultra Jack because it
would suck you'd be like oh my God this
fucking thing I'm gonna do this for a
couple weeks I'm just fucking shredded
and jacked when I finally ask that that
one girl I've Loved for forever and a
couple weeks later you're like hey fuck
uh I look the same what the fuck is
going on well you should have known that
maybe it could just make you the same
and no real difference there another
thing is it could be worse for results
so Point number four or D here is this
could be sub-optimal it could fuck your
joints more it could cause less muscle
activation it could uh allow for less
intense Peak contraction and maybe if he
keeps his palms up the whole time less
stretch and the only reason that he's
jacked in a pro when he's doing it is
because he's getting big in spite of it
he's a fucking monster with insane
genetics and the same amount of drug use
for 15 years straight motherfucker you
gotta be big bro and none of the fucking
this this that shit that doesn't matter
because maybe some of that's worse and
you still do it like does this happen
yes go Instagram any pros training
videos and they're going to be doing
some dumb shit every now and again and
that you know like you're like okay I
don't know much about training but I
know that's half of the range of motion
it's at the top end way too much weight
anything back instead of down how's this
even training as quads well if you have
unreal genetics anytime you bend your
knees at all your legs grow then you're
fucking Gucci and you know you don't
want to be learning that from somebody
so it could actually be making you worse
but in a world where he altered and
stopped doing this and started doing
this he could have bigger pecs himself
and then you're like oh shit why the
fuck did I follow that guy I remember
there was a distinct thing where
um who which Lila Bridge was it I think
Eric Lillibridge uh one of the best
powerlifters of all time he was
squatting only High bar High bar
position and powerlifting and he was
squatting damn near the world record
high bar and he was like yep that's how
I do it he didn't say much about it and
then a bunch of nut Huggers were like oh
man fuck low bar lobar stupid look at
Eric he's fucking squatting High bar he
doesn't need you fucking idiots low bar
doesn't it's just stupid ipf rules
bullshit you can get just a strong High
bar look at him and then over some
period of time he moved the bar down
slowly but surely he actually did this
very very well and and then he started
squatting low bar and after a few months
he started repeatedly breaking his own
world record in the spot
that's like all the people that were
like see it works for him were like oh
oh it it doesn't work for him this other
thing works for him and now I feel so
stupid for promoting it to myself as far
as far as I'm concerned
um so that could definitely be the thing
you lots of problems here lastly it
could be entirely absurd reasons that
the pro was doing that and if they
simply told you you'd be like oh my God
I feel so stupid
um uh
here's one
you see the pro doing this and you come
up to him and you're like why are you
doing this and he's like yo Real Talk
the lighting in this gym makes my
fucking inner packs look so sweet they
see those prostrations I just love it I
was doing it like this and again but a
couple sets like this I love that
fucking look bro and you're like
okay
purely vanity he's like uh-huh yeah
that's why I run the gym to have fun you
know I I know that all these grips don't
matter so I do the one that makes my
packs look cooler and you're like fuck I
thought this was the reason that your
chest was big kidding me and then you
feel so stupid for doing it so I'll save
you all the stupidity you don't have to
feel so stupid
just don't copy people and just leave it
there learn how shit actually works
stay tuned to our Channel hit that
subscribe button follow some other uh
many many sharp people in the fitness
industry learn the principles learn how
training Works listen to your own body
and over time you can take insights from
people and inputs from Pros a lot of
times they know their shit and you can
filter for ah this is probably stupid or
I mean I don't know I'll try it but I
won't have super high hopes or ooh that
that's definitely a great idea I can't
believe I haven't thought of that I'm
gonna take that shit and integrate it
right but you need to know stuff you
can't just copy people it's not good
enough
the ultimate example of this
see if we can get demonetized on this
shit yes Johnny Sins
adult film star can do a standing 69
right where the girls think here and her
shit's down there and he's standing up
and boom
but if you ever actually try that shit
no commentative stuff I have tried this
shit before you will realize that it is
uncomfortable for everyone your quads
start to burn and cramp and no one
actually likes doing a standing 69 and
you think about it you're like oh yeah
he's a porn star he's doing this for the
camera because motherfuckers get bored
at jacking their shit to just regular
shit in reality actually pleasurable sex
for you and your partner or in my case
for me and old Betsy here he's my girl
easy Sally don't get jealous right
actual sex should be comfortable like
sitting reclining lying down and to be
completely honest even that's too much
work sex is hard fuck sex don't have it
read religious scripture and be a good
person and I'll see you guys next time