folks dr mike here for rp uh listen have
you ever cried i mean really
just cried let your tears create rivers
and oceans
because you felt true sadness i had
never experienced this prior to last
week
when your boy was thrown in instagram
jail that's right dr mike banned from
instagram crazy i know
answering a few very commonly asked
questions so far
why were you banned i actually don't
know
i had posted a few racy jokes
but seemed to be well tolerated i had
posted a side picture of myself no
genitals completely nude cool
conditioning
they don't tend to like that sort of
thing but i don't know if that picture
got flagged it did cost me like maybe a
thousand followers when i posted that
which begs the question of who follows a
bodybuilder and can't look at a strided
side glute answer that in your own head
or in the comments
also
i had had a couple of uh prior flags and
i think they add up instagram doesn't
ever tell you how many you have how many
more you have left there's no score the
whole process is mysterious the whole
appeals process of they're like hey like
do you want to fight this yes every time
i hit yes and some of it gets resolved
within a week some of it gets resolved
within months i'm usually not ever
notified
right before my insta shutdown this
thing popped up of like a post of me and
it was a picture it was just like my
face and me like looking kind of funny
so i figured i'd make some kind of
sexual joke in there and it was like
this post is up for review right now and
then five minutes later i couldn't log
into my insta anymore so any questions
as to what actually happened i possibly
can't solve because i couldn't log into
my insta
so
i'm banned on instagram i'm not sure why
and
that's that's folks that's situation in
my life right now i walk outside the
trees look different the sun looks
different why because i usually look
through my insta filters i can't even
see
all right the great arbiters on high
have returned
i am back on instagram
r p d r m i k e lives again
and maybe with your help i can get to
200 000 followers i'm at like 184
something 183
remember if you break into an
arbitrarily high round number of
followers you experience true happiness
for the first time in your life jk none
of that happens but come follow me on
insta i post my training i post tons of
little uh links to articles and stuff
like that uh if you like to learn and
have a little fun i'll see you in there
probably less fun now that insta wag the
finger at me but uh still we'll still
have our own little fun huh huh so if
you like youtube rpdr emma key on
instagram uh the party's back on you
know it's like the neighbors call the
cops so we turn the volume down a little
bit but we're still partying see you
there