what I eat pre and post-workout
pre-workout I have a bowl of jasmine
rice ground turkey sour cream cheese
Sriracha blueberries and a kiwi and here
are the macros and calories the latest
research shows that simply not being
hungry during your workout is the most
important factor for pre-workout
nutrition rather than nitpicking food
sources or macro ratios I'll chill for
about an hour to let that digest and
then after training I have a shake with
50 g of protein now there's no need to
stress about the anabolic window but
this shake does make it easier for me to
hit my daily protein tar of 150 g a few
hours later I'll have a chicken sandwich
made with Ancient Grains bread lay mayo
lettuce rotisserie chicken and a cheddar
cheese slice with some crispy mini rice
cakes and raspberries and here are the
macros and calories for that meal so now
you know