respect words due that full movement
that he's doing right there is called a
Candlestick not a modified Candlestick
because his shoulders his hips his knees
and ankles are all in one straight line
an Ecentric control all the way down and
a concentric movement all the way up
keeping completely rigid ising hard it
is hard on your triceps it is hard on
your lats it is hard as on your abs if
you can do a few of these you're going
to have big juicy muscular abs and
brunettes that end up wearing a shirt
later come with you from the club in
your Lamborghini to go home with you to
sleep so that they can watch you wake up
and have only sparkling water and then
try to bring you the RP hypertrophy app
what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours now