guys what's up so in this video I'm
going to be covering why it is that I
switched to a meal plan about three
weeks out from my pro debut so
essentially how this would work is when
my coach would send me my macros for
that week I would simply adjust the
amounts of the foods that I had already
plugged into my Fitness Pal for each
meal for that day and I would just need
these same meals every day so it was
five meals a day there are five main
reasons why I decided to do this and in
retrospect that you think it was a good
idea I do think it helped me both
psychologically and physiologically so
the first reason is that I simply got
less cravings and less hunger when I was
on the meal plan now this might seem
counterintuitive to some of you guys who
have been familiar with the research on
flexible dieting versus rigid control
strategies and all that kind of stuff
where typically we find that the more
flexible a diet is the more that tends
to be associated with success in terms
of weight control it isn't as cut and
dry as if you follow flexible dieting
you won't be cravings or you won't be
tempted to overeat or anything like that
that probably will work for some people
and this has been pretty well fleshed
out in the literature where you find
that some people are way more responsive
to food cues particularly foods that
they enjoy some people who say deprive
themselves of a specific food that
they're known to be cravers of will
crave it even more if they're deprived
of it and then on the other hand you
have people who when given just a little
taste of that food it's a sufficient
enough of a reward for them to want even
more of it and then this can be
exacerbated by what's come to be known
as the to hell with it
effect so essentially you know what I've
already had this Ries Cup my dad's kind
of already off track
might as well just overeat on this I
think I fall into the camp where I'm
more sensitive to food cues and when I
get that little taste I tend to crave it
even more especially as I get lower and
lower below my second week and push my
body to limits that it doesn't really
want to go to and I would say that the
majority of the bodybuilding population
also applies to this sure there are
certainly some people who can just have
that little taste and then that
satisfies them and they don't have that
desire to eat more and more for me I
found that my cravings were better
controlled by simply just restricting
these foods it also worked in terms of
hunger
since the foods that I tend to want to
eat more are the foods that have less
satiating power and so reason number two
is that it basically just freed up a
whole bunch of time for me to do stuff
that I actually wanted to do so as I was
nearing the end of my prep I found that
I was spending a lot of time in putting
foods into MyFitnessPal or trying to
plan out my meals so that they would be
exactly what I wanted at that time and
so what I found was by having this set
structure throughout the day I was able
to take that time that I would normally
spend you know putting foods into
MyFitnessPal and use it to do more
productive things if you don't want to
go the you know full milk meal plan row
you can do what I was doing for a while
which is just bracket your day with the
same meals so I would have the same
breakfast and the same bedtime meal and
then in between those two meals I would
fill it in you know with foods that I
enjoyed or was feeling at that
particular time and that can give you a
little bit of structure in terms of you
know consistency from day to day and
getting your day started right and
ending the day right and then also allow
for that little bit of flexibility in
between so reason number three is
increased performance in the gym so
we're all probably pretty familiar with
the idea that nutrient timing around the
workout is relatively unimportant when
compared to things like total
macronutrient intake for the day and
actually training properly and all that
kind of stuff but I don't think anyone
would argue that it isn't important at
all and I think that if there is an
effect of timing your nutrients around
your workout which they're almost
definitely is then this effect is
probably greater and greater the leaner
you get since you just simply don't have
that much energy to go around and so
timing things like your pre-workout meal
becomes that much more important now you
you're essentially limited to the amount
of energy that you took in in that meal
when it comes to your training sessions
so the timing of those and the choice of
the foods becomes increasingly important
I think the deeper you get into prep you
don't have to have a meal point in order
to have you know a proper pre-workout
meal you can do that completely flexibly
but for me it became a matter of
actually ensuring that I would do that
and I do know if we're speaking to other
flexible dieters that sometimes we tend
to not quite have the self-restraint
that we think we do or we think me or we
wish we had
and sometimes we overeat on foods that
you know aren't satiating or don't give
us that sustain level of energy that we
want in a pre-workout meal parry workout
nutrition shouldn't be at the top of
your priority list especially if you're
someone who's doing this for like say
lifestyle reasons or you just want to
put on some muscle or lose a bit fat
you can absolutely achieve those goals
without worrying about nutrition
pre-workout or post-workout however
might want to take advantage of every
little bit of muscle and every little
bit of fat loss that you can I think
that these are tools that can sort of
can come into play so reason number four
is sort of another mental thing and that
is just more consistency with my
weigh-ins even though I fully know and I
say to my clients all the time that what
we're looking for is the general
downward trend or upward trend if you're
gaining we shouldn't concern ourselves
with little fluctuations along the way
when you're actually there in the
trenches
especially towards the end of prep it
can be a little bit frustrating when you
see your weight spiked up two or three
pounds and you're just wondering what's
going on there and it's also a way of
sort of honing in on the data that you
are collecting in terms of your
individual weigh-ins and getting them to
be a little bit more precise towards the
end of your prep um so what I found to
be useful in this sense is keeping my
sodium somewhat stable by following the
meal plan also different foods have
different weights so you know foods that
are very high volume are probably going
to weigh more they might have a greater
impact on your next day weigh in then if
you ate a very low volume low residue
type foods and if this varies from day
to day then your weight is obviously
going to vary from day to day - this
doesn't actually have any long-term
impact whether you eat high volume foods
or low volume foods or your sodium goes
up and down this isn't going to actually
impact on fat loss over the long term it
might impact on your look to some degree
due to water fluctuations but for me
this was more of a psychological thing
and a pragmatic thing in terms of being
able to report my weigh-ins most
accurately and consistently and then the
fifth reason is a kind of just a
personal reason but it sort of made me
feel like a bodybuilder again there's
something just about eating foods that
bodybuilders eat or historically have
eaten that I just found motivating you
know while I do enjoy you know the
occasional snack and all that kind of
stuff I think that my route sort of lie
in the chicken and rice tight meals and
the sweet potato and that kind of stuff
and so it felt good to get back to that
and what it reminded me of was you know
what I went through and what I was able
to push through earlier in my
bodybuilding career and so it sort of
served as a daily reminder that you know
I've done this before and so I'll be
able to do it again and then also it
just sort of made me nostalgic for my
old preps I loved competing I still love
competing
I love bodybuilding I love the journey
to the stage you know certain foods can
sort of elicit this nostalgia and then I
I was able to kind of harness that and
then use that as a motivator for me
that's why I switched to a meal plan
there's nothing magic about meal plans
there's nothing special about any of
these foods that you guys saw me eating
it was simply just a matter of improving
my adherence improving my performance
and then also just kind of making me
feel as good as I could that close to
the to the show I hope you guys like
this video if you did enjoy the video
hit the like button for me I do
subscribe if you haven't already and
thanks again for watching in the next
video I'll be showing you guys some
training footage and I'll be covering in
quite a bit of detail my plans for the
upcoming offseason alright thanks again
guys and I'll see you next time