hey folks i'm dr mike for renaissance
periodization and today's weekly tip
is the use of whole foot force
production in quadriceps training
what's that you may ask at home young
viewer and i will tell you check this
out
foot positioning on pressing movements
during quad training so leg extensions
whatever by the way bonus tip the which
way you turn your feet on leg extension
potentially either matters not at all or
so little for quad training that if you
think about it at all you could be
thinking about like when are aliens
going to attack and that'd probably be a
better use of your time as a matter of
fact do you have an aliens attack plan
if you do you're stupid because if
aliens could travel intergalactically
and attack us it doesn't matter we
already lost the war but i'll tell you
about that in other videos where i go
off on tangents for now whole foot force
production in pressing movements for
quad training which means hack squats
leg presses lever squats and of course
good old squats themselves
if you push off only your toes which
people do every now and again you see
that at a planet fitness you're like oh
what's that like pushing off only your
toes or even mostly your toes where you
don't really feel the heel unfortunately
something you might have to do if a leg
press is designed really crappily which
most of them are unless your arsenal
strength and a few other companies
you're probably producing dog leg
presses anyway and supporting this if
you push off only your toes during quad
training
you reduce your stability of the
movement which reduces the forces
generated by and experienced by the
quadriceps and thus per every repetition
you get probably less muscle growth now
you may say aha ah i'm smarter than that
dr dr mike i press off of my heels like
these are feet by the way today i would
put my feet up but they're disgusting
thanks brazilian jiu jitsu if you pull
off only your heel sorry push off of
only your heels it is better than just
pushing off your toes however you still
don't get maximum stability you still
don't maximize quadricep forces and a
matter of fact pushing off your heels
can engage the glutes a little bit more
preferentially than otherwise which
isn't a bad thing for the glutes that's
sweet but not exactly what you want
because you're literally doing it for
quads
and you also grow probably less muscle
per repetition so
if you push off you on the plate here's
the plate here's your foot you push off
of your toes and your heels full force
for the whole foot
you produce the highest forces you very
likely stimulate the most amount of
growth and it's probably a safer
movement because of the enhanced
stability and no biasing towards one
side of the leg or the other
and everything is good now how can you
make sure you're pressing off of the
whole foot you have to experiment where
on the plate for the hack squat and leg
press where on the platform you're
putting your feet you might even have to
put them out or in a little bit more
because sometimes your feet are really
far in it's all on your toes it's all on
your heels you put them out it actually
distributes the force better sometimes
you have to turn your feet out or turn
your feet a little bit more straight
again something you have to experiment
with and i highly highly highly
recommend weightlifting shoes what kind
of shoes dr mike which ones are the best
doesn't matter you can get them
shoes from china the do wins or some
 no offense to that company but
they're like a dollar or some i
don't know who the makes them but i
know they have a steady day job jk
that's a harsh joke in any case even if
like whatever 50 bucks they're golden
they're gonna work and you can throw
them away after a year or you can buy
more expensive shoes that last for three
years and cost triple that either way i
wear a shoe called the adidas iron work
too don't bother looking for it i'm from
like the 1970s in the stock production
in 1955. good luck finding them anything
adidas makes is really sweet as long as
it has a really hard heel and transition
smoothly into the toe a weightlifting
shoe will revolutionize your quad
training i'm not paid by anyone to say
that as a matter of fact nobody pays me
at all if you ever encounter mr nick
shaw ceo of renaissance periodization
you tell them i'm hungry and rent is due
i don't know what to do for money in any
case
have fun experimenting take your time
make sure your back isn't rounding a ton
if you're trying to put your feet up a
little too high on the platform so there
has to be a balance between getting the
foot firm and making sure your lower
back is nice and tucked if you do that
hack squats leg presses lever squat
squats etc turn into magical magical
movements that give you big quads and at
the end of the day big quads are like
more magical than anything else i
watched all three of the lord of the
rings movies their fine movies are some
of my favorites but it's not quite as
good as having big quads so sauron
sarman ma you the same person to me
by the way
quad flex
boom how about that lord of the rings
right there folks i'm going to see
myself out my jokes are no longer funny
piece next week
you