welcome to the house of hypertrophy what
are the most effective and efficient
exercises to maximize quadriceps
hypertrophy the findings of a brand new
study have some potentially important
details it has compared two different
leg extension variations some of you may
be thinking why leg extensions aren't
squats and leg press variations the best
way to grow the quads as we'll see later
these exercises absolutely can grow the
quads well but they aren't enough
because they fail to meaningfully grow a
certain head of the Quad leg extensions
on the other hand have been documented
to grow all four heads of the quads well
especially the region that squats and
leg presses minimally grow we'll also
mention some underappreciated
alternative two leg extensions if you
can't train
[Music]
them 22 untrained men were recruited
with one leg subjects trained the
typical leg extension the hips were
flexed at 90° and they moved the knee
joint from one 110 to 0° with the other
leg they train the leg extension with a
Hip Flex to 40° with a knee joint also
moving from 110 to 0° so the only
difference was this variation has us
leaning back the subjects trained both
exercises with these variables whenever
subjects reach 20 reps on the first set
load was increased to keep them in the
15 to 20 rep range the fact each subject
trained with both exercises was great
since this means the same subjects were
in both conditions therefore differences
in genetics nutrition and outside
lifestyle factors likely won't confound
the study the quadriceps consist of four
heads and the researchers measured both
rectus femoris and vastus lateralis
growth each at an upper and lower region
the result rectus fous growth at both
regions was 1.4 to 2.7 times greater
with a 40° Hip Flex leg extension how on
Earth is this possible the rectus
femoris is what we call two-joint muscle
it crosses both the hip and knee joints
so besides contributing to knee
extension it also contributes to hip
flexion consequently with a leg
extension leaning back allows us to
lengthen the rectus femoris more that is
it's in a relatively more stretched
position this is important as mentioned
previously at the house of hypertrophy
training muscles at longer length seems
to build more muscle and this new study
adds to this body of literature with a
rectus growing better with a leg
extension variation that positions it at
a longer
length the other three quad heads are
one joint since they just cross the knee
so all contribute to just knee extension
so provided we're moving the knee joint
through the same range of motion which
was done in this study we'd expect these
muscles to grow similarly between both
variations as they're moving through the
same muscle lengths indeed vastest
lateralis growth at both regions was
fairly similar between the two leg
extension variations
there are at least three questions you
might have the subjects were previously
untrained what about trained people what
about laying down to 0 de of hip flexion
and what about alternatives to leaning
back leg extensions a paper from Japan
published last year potentially answers
the first two questions nine
bodybuilders were recruited they
performed the leg extension with 0 40
and 80° of hip flexion during each
muscle activation was indirectly
measured with MRI both the zero and 40°
hip flexion leg extensions produced
higher upper and middle rectosis
activity than the 80° variation lower
rectos morus activity did not
statistically differ between them but we
still see the values tended to be higher
with a z and 40 degree variations
therefore this study suggests trained
individuals might also benefit from
leaning back leg extensions but there
doesn't seem to be a greater benefit for
0° compared to 40° of hip flexion if
anything the raw numbers favor the 40°
variation however I will note that
although this muscle activation
measurement has been associated with
actual muscle growth in previous
analyses the context of these papers are
important none of these papers verified
that this muscle activation measurement
successfully predicted muscle growth
when comparing exercises at different
muscle lengths and I think it's possible
this measurement fails to fully account
for Passive forces that occur when a
muscle is at longer lengths I say this
to say it's possible these results
underestimate the muscle growth
potential of 0 degree hip flexion leg
extensions thus hopefully we get
research comparing the 0 to 40°
variations for now we can at least say
it's likely both zero and 40° hip
flexion leg extensions are better than a
traditional variation for overall rectus
sorous development but what if you can't
perform leaning back leg extensions the
reverse Nordic curl and squat are
both potentially great Alternatives both
are performed with virtually no hip
flexion just like the0 degree hip
flexion leg extension but unlike the Z
degree hip flexion leg extension both of
the exercises allow us to bend our knees
to an even greater degree of flexion so
in addition to lengthening the rectus
furus even more all other three quad
heads are going to be trained at even
longer muscle lengths than what we
achieve with leg extensions does this
mean these two exercises can grow these
three quad head even more than any leg
extension variation maybe but it is also
possible that there's a threshold to the
amount of muscle lengthening that's
beneficial for growth such that these
two exercises don't build the three quad
heads more than any leg extension
variation there are also some other
subtle differences between these
exercises hopefully future research
Compares them to tease out any potential
differences in growth for now at least I
believe we can hypothesize both of these
are going to be excellent alternatives
for growing the quads particularly the
rectus femoris depending on your current
level these two exercises may be too
hard or easy to perform but I've
mentioned some training and progression
tips in the pinned comment if you're
interested this discussion so far has
been centered around maximizing muscle
hypertrophy but I will say if you just
rather train with normal leg extensions
that is perfectly fine at the end of the
day although it may not be the biggest
bang for your buck it still will build
mus
[Music]
musle the exercises mentioned so far
largely involved to isolated knee
extension but the quads are commonly
trained with combined knee and hip
extension exercises we have multiple
studies suggesting all of these
exercises likely minimally grow the
rectus phorus but develop the other
vastest muscles well the lack of rectos
moros growth from these exercises can
likely be explained by the simple fact
that rectos morus is a joint muscle
during the bottom position of any
combined knee and hip extension exercise
we need to produce both knee extension
and hip extension but since the rectus
sorus is involved in hip flexion the
opposite of hip extension a strong
contraction would fight against us
trying to get up the other vastus
muscles are just involved in the
extension so are free to highly
contribute to the extension in these
exercises so it makes sense these grow
well from these
exercises some of you may be Be
Wondering the leg extension also still
grows the vastest muscles how does this
growth compare to that achieved from
combined knee and hip extension
exercises most of the electromyographic
analyses I found comparing leg
extensions to squats lunges or leg
presses showed that the latter exercises
elicited higher activity of the various
vastus muscles now as mentioned at the
house of hypertree previously
electromyographic Studies have
limitations but as described by
researcher Brad shanfeld there seems to
be an upcoming study finding When
comparing leg extensions to leg presses
leg presses grew the vastest lateralis
better and that the leg extension Target
direct as for moris which is the mid mid
quad muscle MUSC that goes down the
center of the quad and the vast
lateralis one of those three vast
muscles ler on the lateral aspect of the
Quad was targeted to a greater extent
with the leg press some degree of upper
to lower Regional differences could
exist this study compared Smith machine
squat to leg extension training in
trained subjects unsurprisingly the leg
extensions grew the rectus foror as more
especially at the lower region as a note
based on the data we've seen we can
hypothesize if leaning back leg
extensions were performed much better
upper and middle rectus morus growth
would have been seen vastest lateral
growth at the upper and middle portions
tended to be better with the Smith
machine squats while growth at the lower
portion fascinatingly favored the leg
extensions I should note there were a
couple of limitations with this study so
I would like to see another study like
this but in total the available evidence
leans towards the idea that growth of
the vestus muscles at least in certain
regions can be better with combined knee
and hip extension exercises so to
maximize overall quad growth having both
an isolated knee extension and combined
knee and hip extension exercise is
probably a great idea we'll have future
videos at the house of H pery exploring
and comparing different squat leg press
and lunge variations so stay tuned for
that considering the conflicting
information across the web things can
get pretty confusing about how you may
want to train I hope the videos at the
house of I pery go some way to clearing
up this confusion but our highquality
partner the alpha progression app may
also assist you an extremely
well-designed plan generator can help
you generate an evidencebased muscle
building program 100% tailored to your
needs this can take you less than a time
you take to brush your teeth there are
over a quadrillion input combinations on
which your plan is based and you can
still personalize things during workouts
the app analyzes your performance and
suggests how you may progress to sustain
muscle gains graphs display your
long-term progress and there's a huge
exercise database of some of the best
muscle building movements with simple
video and text instructions try out all
the premium features free for 2 weeks
with a link in the description and
comments and if if you like it and
choose to go beyond the link gives you
20% off a
subscription thank you for making it to
the end of the video here's the summary
points feel free to check out the alpha
progression app or our recent deep dive
into building the triceps