hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
purization today's topic is targeting
belly fat and loose skin
myths and realities
very very popular topic first question
is can you spot reduce belly fat what is
spot reduction it's the ability to burn
fat from a specific chosen place like i
want to burn fat from here or not from
here i want to burn fat on my abs but
not for my
butt youtube algorithm doesn't let me
swear i think that a word is a square
word in any case we have some good news
some bad news and some worse news so the
good news is that a few actually very
well conducted very precise studies have
shown that fat comes off a little bit
more off of areas of high adjacent
muscle activity versus low ones so if
they've had a few studies i think where
folks trained one leg and not the other
or trained one leg more in the other and
the subcutaneous under the skin fat
on the trained leg reduced a little bit
more than the fat on the other leg so
interesting curious result makes a
little bit of physiological sense so
that's kind of cool that's kind of cool
very very hopeful the bad news is that
this slightly amount is so tiny it is
almost immeasurable
and
there aren't actually even enough
studies to replicate this effect to tell
us that it's not just measurement error
so
good news on those studies bad news is
maybe they don't say what we want them
to say
and unfortunately we have worse news
your abdominal region can only be so
active i mean you can move your arms and
legs around a lot how the hell do you
move your abdominal region a lot without
really just doing crunches or doing sort
of hardcore work that requires a lot of
effort then even if you could burn fat
in a spot reduced way from working your
core more than everything else you'd
have to do a completely unrealistic
number of crunches or back raises or
something like that because we're
talking about tiny tiny differences
you'd have to do like 5 000 crunches a
day do not try that at home for the love
of god uh in order to get some kind of
effect that is maybe detectable on some
sort of scanner maybe after months and
months of you doing it as detectable on
your body so certainly the fatigue the
time use all that stuff just does not
add up right
you know versus like if you know
if it's true that areas of high effort
really are uh you know promote local fat
burning then you know what's always
active your foreign muscles are always
active with your fingers when you're
walking around your calves are always
active and that actually would make some
sense because your chasm forms usually
much leaner than everything else there's
an alternate explanation for that
you tend to have people tend to have
what's called central adiposity more of
your fat is stored in your core for at
least two reasons it doesn't slow down
your limb movements if you stored your
fat in your limbs it'd make you much
much worse at athletic pursuits or
moving limbs quickly uh in an
evolutionary perspective that's not
really a good idea and also generally
speaking your fast door around your core
because it keeps your organs both safe
in the sense that it's an extra
boundary layer for any kind of injury
potential like if a lion bites you and
you have a lot of fat it could just bite
through your fat and not through your
muscle you somehow get away and then it
heals up and you're fine whereas if
you're super lean that line's getting
into some of that muscle and might just
kill your ass or make you permanently
maimed and also your fat protects your
organs from extreme cold so
that's the thing is very very big
reasons why central adiposity tends to
be a tendency in almost all human groups
and almost all individual humans and why
that local fat burning effect for more
movement may not actually be the thing
that explains why your calves and
forearms are so much leaner than the
rest of you so
uh some not so great news
so at the end of the day for most
intents and purposes
can you spot reduce your belly fat uh
pretty much no and i'm really sorry i
wish i had better news but for the most
part the answer is not really
now what does determine fat loss
well genetics and a calorie deficit are
really the huge factors there so fat
tends to come off most rapidly from the
places onto which it is placed most
rapidly so if you gain fat and you gain
it around your abdominal area when you
start losing fat you usually lose the
most around your abdominal area that's a
very good thing because generally if you
have a problem area then that's the area
that's going to get the smallest when
you actually a diet for fat or it's
going to get the smallest the fastest
it's like you start dieting for fat and
all of a sudden your calves are
competition lean a week later and your
abs are just as flabby as before that's
very very unlikely so it tends to happen
in the similar proportion of how you
gain to how you lose and if you run a
sustained caloric deficit you almost
certainly will lose fat and you will
lose plenty of it
in addition to that if you uh weight
train regularly and you eat plenty of
protein you know train three to five
times a week sort of whole body training
and eat a gram of protein per pound of
body weight or so then you can pretty
much lose almost exclusive unless you're
very exotically big or exotically lean
already you can pretty much lose
only fat or mostly fat and lose zero or
very little muscle and that's going to
make you much healthier much fitter and
it's going to make you look way
different probably make you look more of
how you like so these are very
attainable goals
most people can get much much leaner
than they are and it's not some kind of
magic thing you have to figure out it's
regular weight training plenty of
protein nice healthy diet create a
sustained deficit and voila months later
you're much leaner take a maintenance
break hit it again for a few months and
you're way way leaner and that's usually
people can can operate like that pretty
well and a really cool insight is a lot
of folks and this is a really big myth
seem to think that it takes drugs to get
really lean like oh well i'm not on
those crazy fat burners it turns out
natural body but this is something that
um
people in the actual bodybuilding
community know that most people outside
of it don't you know drug using
bodybuilders that are familiar with
natural bodybuilding actually know that
natural bodybuilders tend to get and
especially look leaner than drug-using
bodybuilders okay
if you actually look up natural
bodybuilders that consistently win shows
they have what's called like a natty
look a natty leanness that just baffles
the imagination and most drug-using
bodybuilders would love to look like
that what if it's a body water thing try
as you might anabolic steroids
specifically tend to hold body water
more
so natties can actually get crispier
because they don't have that problem so
to speak now of course they're much
smaller but they do get super super lean
and i don't know how much of it is them
looking lean and being lean but i'll put
you this way um
google or instagram search this
gentleman named marvin physique okay
he's one of jared's father's clients he
lives in hong kong and if you look at
some of his competition pictures or some
of his few days out before competition
pictures so he has striations on his
glutes leading all the way into the
nether regions the is just baffling
natural bodybuilders have gotten so lean
it makes no sense their strations when i
met him in person like all up and down
his face it was insane never taken a
drug in his life so don't get into your
head that you can't get super lean
without drugs you can't get
super lean at 250 pounds without drugs
but at 170 160 150 you can be shredded
out of your mind and you don't have to
take a single drug so that's actually
the really really good news
now on to the next very related topic
what about loose skin okay
when you put on lots of weight
especially rapidly skin has to be grown
to fit around it all otherwise you would
feel like a popping balloon all the time
which would be terrible
so when you lose weight
some skin resorption does actually occur
you actually do reduce how much skin you
have when you lose weight but it's not a
ton
and you do end up keeping a lot of the
skin around it's now a little bit looser
and if you gained a lot of weight really
fast and then you lost a lot of weight
doesn't really matter how fast you lost
it you're gonna tend to see that
visually and if it was a lot a lot you
can see it pretty substantially
there are cosmetic solutions that
temporarily tighten up the skin certain
creams you can apply and that works
pretty well but in reality once you have
a lot of loose skin it's probably going
to be there more or less for the long
term okay
now this is to say you should not fall
for products that are gimmicky that
promise to tighten the skin they're
mostly bs
and they pretty much don't work outside
of like you apply them your skin gets a
little tighter four hours later they
come off your skin and your skin go back
goes back to normal so there's products
that proclaim to tighten up your skin
substantially over the course of time
that you apply them for weeks and weeks
and your skin stays that tight that
almost just certainly doesn't happen and
if it happens to a very very tight
extent for huge amounts of loose skin
surgery to remove the cut out the loose
skin and sort of clip it back together
is actually incredibly effective however
the big downside is
surgery is surgery for the time being
they have to open you up they have to
sedate you they have to cut there's
going to be a scar all this crazy ass
 there's going to be weeks and weeks
and weeks of recovery time potential
sensation issues where you can't feel
your skin on that part anymore because
the nerves deaden
it's a serious thing so it's not for
everyone and it's not for every occasion
if you have tons of like if you've been
450 pounds and now you're living life at
200 pounds you have tons of loose skin
yeah get the surgery it's a really good
idea in most cases as long as your
doctor proves it of course but you know
if you were 250 and now you're 200 oh
man you know like people probably can't
even tell you have loose skin unless you
really bend over and take the world's
shittiest photograph into the worst
lighting so i wouldn't bother with the
surgery then because it's going to be a
lot of really intense a lot of
recovery for maybe no apparent visual
difference to everyone or to most anyone
you say hey i've got my skin removal
surgery what do you guys think and
people are gonna be like i didn't know
you had that problem didn't seem like
you did and now it just looks you have a
big ass scar congratulations not the
greatest thing in the world best
protection against loose skin and this
sucks to say but most of you don't have
loose skin yet and you shouldn't is
don't gain a ton of fat really rapidly
or at all at any point so if you're a
bodybuilder you want to get jacked which
is what i was an ammon which is what i
wanted
don't get enormous and lose sight of
your abs
always like if you don't have abs now
don't worry about it when you get abs
eventually and you start messing back up
as a bodybuilder just make sure you
always see a little bit of your
faintness of abs if you completely miss
on your abs if you gain from there
you're probably going to get some loose
skin unless you're genetically really
lucky and your skin is really stretchy
right so don't get to be a super fat
mess i did that back in my 90 days i got
to 270 drug free i gained a load of
fat and now in like my most musculars
and stuff i have some loose skin on my
lower abs and it blows and i hate it
it's not the worst thing in the world
but it sucks and i just wish i never did
that so
some hard earned wisdom from me to you
now
to leave on a positive note
it sucks for now that the options for
targeted fat loss and sort of skin care
are super limited okay but this will
change over the next approximately 20
years that's a pretty pessimistic take
it's highly likely that advanced medical
techniques will get really really crazy
slowly and steadily and then
exponentially at some point and probably
will get a solution to spot reduction
and very likely get a solution to loose
skin as well that works at some
nanoscale micro level and all of a
sudden you don't need surgery and voila
your loose skin is gone it's coming so i
guess what i'm saying is invest in
biotech i don't have any crazy scams to
sell you on that but i'll think of some
and then you can invest my biotech
company it'll be called biotech company
uh to register trademark in any case
this is all in the future these will be
solved problems they're not yet but
they're well on their way go to school
learn science help become part of the
solution go to a laboratory work and
make some crazy things the future will
be amazing and hopefully i'll see you
there
until then see you in the next video
you