[Music]
hi guys it's Lori Shaw Renaissance
period ization today's episode is
sponsored by Bob's Red Mill and we are
going to make an airfryer cookie today
so for those of you who have air fryers
you know that they're great for proteins
you can really make some great moist
chicken and them really quickly but you
can also make sweets and so I'm gonna
make a cookie today using a lot of good
things from Bob's Red Mill so we're
gonna use egg replacer today from Bob's
Red Mill so this is a teaspoon of egg
replacer and two teaspoons of water and
we're just gonna add that in and then
stir it up really good with the fork get
all the chunks out of it just keep
stirring and then just let this sit off
to the side while you mix everything
else and by the time you're ready for it
it'll be nice and thick like an egg and
we're gonna mash up half of a banana
try to get one that's really ripe you
don't want one of the pretty ones then
I'm gonna open up so this is an oatmeal
with flax and Chia and this is gonna
become your mixing bowl so we're gonna
add the banana right to the ono pack
we're gonna add in some dates sugar some
baking soda cinnamon some salt chopped
pecans
non-dairy chocolate chunks I put some of
those in there and raisins in these
raisins i soaked these were just this
was actually one of my kids little boxes
of raisins and I took the raisins out of
it and added them in a bowl and just
poured hot water over and I usually just
let that set for 20 minutes or so while
I'm getting ready to make something it
just plumps them up and makes them more
juicy because you know sometimes they'll
get kind of dried out and I don't want
that and then I'm going to do a splash
of vanilla not going to measure it
doesn't have macros okay I'm going to
add in the egg replacer and then just
mix it all together with a fork this is
a little baking pan that's made for the
air fryer so my air fryer didn't come
with any pots and pans but I was able to
buy a set on Amazon that includes like
some racks and a couple of different a
baking dish that's deeper and one of
these pans which I use all the time for
cookies and brownies and things like
that so I'm going to spray this really
well with coconut sprit coconut oil
spray and then don't put the cooking
back just in here
you just want a uniform thickness on
this it's kind of the perfect amount for
a cookie size of a small airfryer all
right so I've preheated my airfryer to
360 for about 10 or 15 minutes the same
as you wouldn't want to put a cookie in
a cold oven
you know preheating isn't absolutely
necessary but since I want to mimic an
oven as much as possible I went ahead
and preheated the airfryer so I
preheated it for about 10 minutes at 360
that's not the temperature that we're
going to cook with in the airfryer the
temps are always gonna be lower than
what you would have in a typical oven so
I preheated to 360 and open it up and
I'm just going to put the cookie right
down there in the basket and then I'm
gonna air fry it at 310 and it only
takes like five to seven minutes it
really depends on how crunchy and how
golden-brown you want the cookie if you
still want it kind of gooey that's up to
you but check it after five and see how
it's looking all right
so let's check on this it's been five
minutes so it looks like this again if
you want it to be a little bit more
Brown leave it in for a couple more
minutes and check it I kind of like mine
gooey the banana makes it like nice and
gooey so I kind of like that and then I
just use this to take it out you can
like run a knife around the edge and put
it on your plate I just really like
eating it out of the hot pan like a hot
you know molten cookie or something like
that so I really like that I am going to
sprinkle on some coconut flakes
[Music]
this is sea salt caramel and lightened
tuna put it's already melty because I
left it out to get soft you've got to
try this so good and it's so easy and
fast I really hope you like it
[Music]