if you bench with a relatively narrow
grip as a beginner it's amazing stimulus
for your pecs great for your triceps
great for everything shoulders don't
hurt it's awesome as an intermediate
individual you might continue to do this
and then you're like man I really want
more PEC growth I'm already doing all
the stuff for pecs and someone could say
well do your pecs get really pumped or
really sore from when you do those
closer grip bench presses and they go oh
I don't know I've never paid attention
to it tada as an intermediate lifter you
have to start to learn how to figure out
your body that way you start to alter
your techniques even alter some exercise
selections alter some rep ranges so that
the amount of muscle stimulus you get is
awesome High stimulus and a low fatigue
especially your joints and connective
tissues