if you are a club F boy and you go to
all these Raves you probably need to
take a week a weekend off anyway from
like cocaine and five ecstasy pills cuz
one just makes you feel normal at this
point might as well mini cut through it
a lot of you uh folks can even tell your
uh you know more earthy friends that
it's a
cleanse hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and today I
have to speak with you not talk speak
this is a formal engagement something so
important it is how to stay Shred
All Summer Long you're welcome oh and
still enjoy summer that's a big deal
that one we are going to attack
so here is the setup for what we're
talking about and
why you want a summer bod do you guys
remember those soap commercials from
back in the day like it's called like
BOD Man or something it was basically
softcore porn there's lots of guys
playing basketball sweat dripping down
and like there's girls in the background
that like ha bod nice bod and at the end
she was like I want your bod and I was
like damn why can't I look like those
guys and uh so that girls like that
speak to me or even acknowledge my
existence neither one of those things
happen to me luckily that doesn't have
to be you so what most people well maybe
not most most of this is a joke let's
continue what most people want in their
summer is the following look great
amazing and that's what this video is
going to be about which allows you to
have fun another thing this video is
about because if you cut through the
summer that's kind of stupid because
you're never allowed to have a lot of
fun because cutting means you can't eat
or drink anything fun be
noticed this is where the meat and
potatoes of this video really start to
boil up and be asked things like ideally
this is if your summer goes ideally you
know uh females will come up to you and
say things like for example sir excuse
me but can I trouble you with some hot
sex now would be great later would be
also fine they may say things like oh
excuse me I don't mean to be rude but
could you please use my body for your
pleasure and then discard me as so much
garbage common thing females say to
males if you are sufficiently lean body
of course this happens all the time
lastly forgive me but you look like you
can perform Keling us expertly could you
please ravish Me by chance perhaps
behind that parked car right over there
typical female pickup lines on male
listen Fe if you're female lgbtq plus
find your own Fillin the blanks there
with those Preposterous sentences the
fun is for everyone so no matter who you
are you kind of need to be really lean
for the summer and not be dieing through
the summer what the fuck isn't that a
contradiction how is that possible if
you buy my program
for there's none of that in here all
right so for all this incredible
pointless hot sex to occur to you with
your with your physique a few things
need to happen one you need to have a
lean body because as we know sex never
happens to people who are not
lean we'll let you guys figure that out
that's a joke on your end all right and
two okay lean body is fine but if you're
at the club and Girl's like oh my God
you should take shots with me you're
like yeah I would but like I'm car
backloading and I've got a hard workout
tomorrow so like I can't be over my
macros she's like oh my God like what
even is that and she promptly finds the
next chisel dude second most chiseled
cuz you're number one and then uh begins
to try to place her sex on top of him
now that's not a good thing so you
should also have lean body number one
number two is the ability to have fun
that is to say not be hypocaloric
dieting for the vast majority of the
summer how the hell can you be lean but
not cutting that doesn't make any damn
sense I thought we only um lean when we
were cutting well here's the thing this
video is going to be super awesome or
super awesome later or kind of a let
down depending on when you're watching
it if you're watching it during its
release and you live in the Northern
Hemisphere the real big presupposition
is you're already lean and then the rest
of this video will work for you this
summer that's right you could be having
truckloads of sex all summer long if you
were in this position if you're not lean
this summer then you might have to wait
until next year or if you live in the
southern hemisphere don't know why you
would but if you've been Australian for
some time then maybe this is going to
kick in right in December when you vile
heathenous satanists have your Christmas
um in doing barbecues which is nonsense
it's not American I guess that's implied
anyway oops so in any case if you're
already lean that's good now good news
is a lot of you watching this I mean if
you're in that mood of I want to be lean
for summer you probably already got to
being lean now we all know you got to di
through spring time to get your summer
bod but there's a barely big confusion
of what is supposed to happen after that
right so you have to be super lean and
then you have fun during the summer our
automatic assumption in many cases would
be ah
maintenance that's a fine idea but it's
not good enough and here's why first
maintaining during the summer when you
have a lean physique is kind of a pain
in the ass you get lean and then your
hunger signaling tells you need to eat
more food you're around tons of junk
food all weekend long if you're partying
appropriately and then you gain a bunch
of weight during the week and you have
to sorry during the weekend you have to
diet it off during the week and every
food you eat you're like I don't know
will this throw me off maintenance it
kind of blows dick it's not super fun it
makes you a little neurotic fuck
that secondly if you have to maintain
All Summer Long your commitment to the
Bro lifestyle of having as much sex as
possible during the summer is cool but
it's missing out on like literally
months of gains maintenance blows like
really just kind of standing still and
unless that maintenance phase is much
shorter and has a place in your fatigue
management and sensitization over the
course of your macro cycle which the
Sher fuck doesn't then you're kind of
pissing away some time so maintenance is
fine but fuck that man I think we can do
better what the hell are you talking
about Dr
Mike so the other
assumption is that okay we can't do
maintenance we're sure as hell not going
to continue to cut because like we
already lean where the fuck are we
cutting to and also cutting makes you
miserable so that's off so we take a
look at massing muscle gain phase
hypercaloric to gain weight every week
more or less and you think okay yeah but
if you master in the summer the first
couple weeks are super fun but then you
get fat and you try your same lines in
the club you're like hey what's up baby
I noticed you had breast you know what
I'm saying I'd like to sure see him more
and she's like oh my God can you get the
fuck away from me you fat fuck and
you're like Jesus do you really talk
like that that's my first question but
you know it's just not going to work
because you then you look you your face
looks like mine and I've never received
any attention from Wom
much of that is probably because they'd
have to look down to see
me whatever I say
online I'm actually for foot7 in real
life I know let that sink in so in any
case you don't want to be getting fatter
during the summer because the summer
could be baller as fuck but then you're
really leaning into that Dad bod shit by
the end of July and like you know that
that's not going to cut it in all
circumstances you want to be lean as
fuck and you don't want to be cutting or
maintaining what the fuck does this mean
how can we do this properly there is a
solution and that is to Mass really
slowly for the beginning of the summer
so every week for the first almost half
of the summer a little short shorter
than half you would gain like a quarter
of a percent of your body weight per
week which keeps you in a hypercaloric
state which is really
sweet and that's going to be good and
since it's such a slow rise I'll give
you some numbers later but you really
just won't get fat uh doing that for
like six weeks you will not get fat
getting a quarter percent of your body
weight for six weeks out with an example
of it then like if you keep doing that
eventually you will get a little pudgier
so what you do is you do a very slow
massing phase for the first 40% of the
summer roughly in mid to late July you
take two weeks and you do a hard fucking
mini cut zaps away all of the minimal
fat that you gained during that slow
mass in the first half of the summer and
then the last 40 or 45% of the summer
like Late July all the way through
August or whatever the fuck your summer
ends and you know the Carolinas like
October or some shit you continue to do
another slow Mass but because the mini
cut Zapped away all the fat you gained
it's like replicating the first part of
Summer again so over the entire part of
the summer you are massing most of the
time you gain a tiny bit of net fat only
towards the end you have only two weeks
of super hard cutting and mini cutting
in that time and the rest of the time
you are using your penis to give
yourself Happy Feelings inside fucking
mission accomplished unbelievable if you
get all these things right and do this
plan you can be lean the entire summer
amazing you can eat to gain which is
awesome and not have like not be guilty
all the time you have tons of guilt-free
fun because like throw a piece of
cheesecake in your mouth when you're
fucking drinking with a bunch of
promiscuous ladies I assume and you know
cheesecake bite or some shit like that
you don't have to be like fuck my macros
you got be like I'm fucking gaining
sweet and I'll gain less fast on the
week or something like that that's easy
if you have to like cut during the week
and gain during the weekend that blows
if you gain during the weekend and then
just maintain during the week hey it's
easy stream right so you're not dealing
with crazy hunger pains and all this
other stuff you never get fat because
you get a little fat and then mini cut
zaps that and you get a little fat and
then Summer's over so who gives a shit
then you then you go work on your real
your bare body you guys want me to do a
breakdown comment below do you guys want
me to do a breakdown of how you would
get that stupid physique little
Instagram post that people share like
rabbit physique wolf physique bare
physique otter physique you no no I'm
just back in the gay
club yeah
hter anyway so and also because you
never get fat and you're always lean and
you're always having fun except for
those two many cut weeks we'll get to
those in a bit then you can just
literally have sex delivered to you by
truckload because no other mechanism of
Transportation can uh sufficiently
enclose the amount of sex that you're
having you fucking did it you are a hero
move aside Superman Here Comes Jake of
course your name is Jake so here's an
example of how this would work we do a
fat loss phase during March April May
duh you are suffering to win the summer
sex Olympics or whatever and by the time
end of May rolls around then you are
super fucking lean and let's say you
know uh real talk is you would di it
down to whatever body fat percent that
you want and feel like you can slay with
during the summer uh we'll just pick 10%
because you know I assume you're a
clubbing Euro fuck boy um honestly this
entire channel is dedicated to one
archetype of an individual it is someone
who lives with their parents probably in
Suburban Germany somewhere and who
watches the videos very cynically and he
goes to a rave every now and again but
it's not really that fun because you can
connect with people and like that that's
my ideal human being in any case that's
who this is about so 10% you want to be
10% you know Brad Pit from Scott what's
that movie Fight Club how fast did Scott
know that I assume he has a queued up
for masturbation
so oh yes I know them all in my head so
Fight Club Brad Pit that whole physique
cigarette hanging out the mouth and
everything so you're 10% so what do you
do let's say you're 150 pounds at the
beginning of June you put on 0.25 * 150
is 375 pounds per week which is a tiny
fucking amount to gain but it's
nominally gaining so the psycholog is
very different and I will say that does
make a difference psychologically if you
know you're gaining even if it's slow
it's a different kind of feel when
you're having fun to if you're
maintaining because maintaining you're I
don't want this to get out of out of
hand with gaining you're like I have a
buffer zone anyway right so here's the
really cool part by the time late mid to
um depending on how you structure this
let's just say July let's say mid July
so if you started at 150 pounds or so
with 375 pounds gained per week on
average even if you go on the high end
you might be something like 152 to 154
PBS
what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now before your mini cut you might have
gained four let's say somehow you gained
five pounds that actually means that
during the time that you were going
through June you gained a pound a week
here's the thing if you were anything
like lean at 150 at 153 154
155 man you're fucking close enough
unless you have a physique judge looking
at you you're still well into the fuck
boy range right so no problems there but
here's the thing if you know like the
last week before your Min cut you're
like hey ladies you want to fucking talk
I got abs one of them's like I mean like
do you the other one's like oh my God
and then you're like fuck fuck fuck fuck
fuck I'm not lean enough anymore don't
worry that only lasts one week because
your mini cut hits in mid July all you
got to do is take two weeks of mini
cutting now this is a tough mini cut as
they're supposed to be you take it
straight to the face you're trying to
mini cut at about
1.25% of your body weight lost per week
and that's a forward-facing assumed
caloric deficit you create you won't be
doing any kind of Auto regulation
adjusting to your weight and how you
feel because it's only two weeks it's
all body water that you can actually
perceptually measure from day to day to
day to day there's no adjustments to be
made so for a person who alwayss about
150 lbs that means they're going to be
pushing A 950 calorie deficit daily that
sucks right so that means if you're
eating 2500 uh calories per day with a
decent level of activity you're gonna be
eating like, 1500 fucking Cals a day or
like 1,700 but you do some extra cardio
or increase your step count on your
super magical step watch don't ask me
what brand it is it's it's new it's
experimental it's that my FIT shit from
China from like five years ago but it
was at some point new and
they probably stole it from someone in
any
case here's the deal it's going to blow
the mini Cut's going to fucking blow
good news is it only lasts for literally
two weeks so you can even do a whole
weekend of partying start your mini cut
Sunday skip one fucking weekend of
clubbing let's say you know I don't know
DJ Testo that ages me doesn't it doesn't
show up to London until the week after
so fuck you're going to skip a week of
clubbing you skip a whole weekend of
clubbing and then you can probably like
be ready by next Friday to that's like
more or less two weeks you're fucking
good and with that mini cut if you are
150 lbs or so or 155 is when you start
you can lose three and a half to four
pounds of fat tissue you probably lose
no muscle over the course of like two
weeks so basically unless you really go
outside the line somewhere you're going
to be able to get back all of your
leanness that you had in first of June
and now it's mid to late July and you
just do the same thing you did in June
so you just slow gain all the way up to
the end of August and voila that's a
whole lot of sex you're going to be
getting yourself into amazing right and
all the benefits and the big downside
here is it just one mini cut for two
weeks in the middle of the summer but
that's also probably good for your
otherwise Health psychologically and as
it relates to drugs because if you're
the proper kind of European Club fuck
boy then um by the way all my
impressions of Europeans are based on
Nick croll's much better impressions of
Europeans my offense uh is not intended
here in this case so um if you are a
club fuck boy and you go to all these
Raves you probably need to take a week
weekend off anyway from like cocaine and
five ecstasy pills because one just
makes you feel normal at this point so
it's a good idea to skip it anyway might
as well mini cut through it a lot of you
folks can even tell your uh you know
more earthy friends that it's a cleanse
right isn't a mini cut kind of look a
cleanse it sure as hell is spiritually
now this is a way that fucking works for
full transparency there are for sure
other ways of of doing your summer many
of them have massive advantages and uh
deficits in other areas but give this
one a thought it might be the thing for
you it's really cool because it really
lets you have tons of fun during the
summer and be lean and still make like
decent muscle gains and train fucking
hard because if you're on maintenance
all summer God damn that can just drain
the fuck out of you maintenance for
three months sucks this way you're still
making gains and you're making gains in
the gym you're making gains in the club
your drug dealer knows you better Rec
drugs not steroids and uh gez if that's
not the three checklist to a good summer
I don't know which way is up or down so
lastly I'll say learn about condoms and
consider using them I'll see you guys
next time