hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization this is Nick Shaw CEO of
Renaissance periodization and ifbb
professional men's physique athlete good
news he's here because we are doing a
pull workout with only dumbbells this is
something you can do at home we're going
to hit shoulders we're going to hit back
we're going to hit biceps you're going
to learn how to train super well even if
you don't have a ton of equipment let's
get
[Music]
started all right folks we have just a
few exercises to do today so this
workout won't take long and it's going
to be ultra effective we're going to
actually start with shoulders and I want
to explain to you why you can start with
back or shoulders or biceps it doesn't
matter a ton but here's the thing in
this workout we're starting with
shoulders because back is tough to train
and it makes you really tired and back
training utilizes your biceps as well so
we want to hit shoulders first to get
them while they're fresh and the thing
is when your shoulders are tired it
doesn't really interfere with any of the
other back stuff we're going to be doing
if you want to rep prioritize you want
biceps to be most important you want
back to be most important this workout
is more for an allaround look whatever
you want to prioritize you just move to
the beginning of your workout if you're
using the RP hypertrophy app link in
description by the way then you can
always move your exercises to wherever
you want start new programs where you
rearchitecturing
is going to start doing bent lateral
raises which hit the side part of the
shoulder here and the back and you'll
notice he's bringing the dumbbells all
the way up as high as he can and he's
controlling The Descent because your
muscles grow a ton when you control the
Descent and as soon as he's done he's
going to go right into the side laterals
that means that his shoulder is going to
be pre-exhaust it now he's in a
mechanically more advantageous easier
position so he gets real close to
failure in the bat laterals and then
real close to failure again in the side
laterals and that's going to Nuke his
shoulders right off of planet Earth this
also hits the traps to give you that Tom
Hardy yolked look I'm still working on
myself but I got a waste to go we are
going to do three sets total but they're
super sets which means he is going to do
one set of bent laterals no rest a set
of side laterals we're going to write
our reps down in the RP hypertrophy app
we're using to plan this whole workout
and then after that he rests about a
minute wherever it takes to get his
breathing back and then he's going to go
another boom boom rear and side rest
again rear and side three total sets
that's
it slow
[Music]
yes let's go three
more
yeahoo
good stuff very good 15 lb dumbbells
will humble you they
[Music]
will now it's time for back training
delts are done this is the dumbbell
pullover you got one dumbbell in your
hand there's just one simple goal it's
to stretch your arms back behind you as
far as possible keeping them relatively
straight he's going to go Ultra slow to
stay safe and to load the musculature
you can tell his lats are stretching
like crazy and he's going to come back
up and remember it's going to get
hardest at the bottom that's a great
thing because when you do a lot of
tension under stretch it grows the
muscle even more but you have to be safe
you have to go down super slow and find
a place where your shoulder joint
Comfort is saying hey it's okay to keep
going
more
awesome
yes
good beautiful
beautiful yeah man that stretch is
pretty wicked good excellent what the
dumbbell pullover allowed us to do was
to actually train our lats and here's
the thing if you start with something
like a dumbbell row which we're going to
do next you end up hitting all of the
muscles of your back really well except
your lats aren't positioned Ultra well
in a dumbbell row to be stimulated very
effectively because that stretch
component is missing if you're in a
dumbbell row you bring down here down
here there's not a ton of stretch on the
lats lat stretch occurs over here but we
already hit the lat stretch with
multiple sets of pullovers Nick's lats
are pre-exhaust it they are now going to
be one of the limiting factors along
with the rest of the back in next
exercise the bent over dumbbell row
let's kick it to that warm up and show
you the
[Music]
technique Nick is going to get into the
bottom of a stiff-legged deadlift
position you're going to notice that his
lower back is going to be totally flat
he's going to stretch as deep as
possible while keeping his chest up we
want the scapula to come forward but we
don't want to round here nice straight
back
Big Stretch he's going to come back
squeeze the dumbbells up here for a
split second and then slowly control the
Ecentric technique is a big deal on this
we're going to do three sets 10 to 20
reps but really anything from 5 to 30
reps works just depending on how heavy
the dumbbells are that you have at
home good keep that back flat stay a
little bit more
upright four
more one chest up even at the bottom two
chest up there you go now that's tough
three and then one last one big
moves perfect slow and rack you guys
notice at the top of that last rep Nick
really struggled to complete the
repetition with good technique we never
ever want to break our technique down
you want good form from start to finish
but as it gets really tough to do the
good technique you know you're in that
challenge Zone you're close to muscular
failure and that's where a lot of growth
is stimulated so if all your reps kind
of look the same and they kind of feel
the same and everything's nice and easy
yeah you're working out but you won't
get the best results every set you've
got to push it and not maximum the idea
is challenge in every session with
excellent technique and over the weeks
progress progress progress just a little
bit a little bit more weight if you have
multiple dumbbells or a rep here and
there added in addition if you have the
same dumbbells if you have the RP pery
app it does this planning for you so it
sets a goal for you but even if you're
just doing this without the app just
challenge yourself a little bit
[Music]
more all right folks last exercise of
the day is the dumbbell standing bicep
curl there are many different curls you
can do at home there are many different
kinds of dumbbell curls there are many
different kinds of technique to each one
we're going to do one of the variants
that's very effective that doesn't mean
it's the only one there's a ton of
different ways to skin a cat and
remember the cat hates all the ways in
any case you're going to want to keep a
very upright posture actually arching
your back and lifting your chest up
because you want that bicep to stretch
at the bottom a little bit more than
usual giving you a bit of extra growth
and what Nick is going to do is he's
going to curl in an arked fashion all
the way up to here can you stop here
totally this is just a slightly
different variation allows you to feel
the peak contraction of your bicep a
little more get a little bit of a mind
muscle connection and then on the way
down he's going to control that Ecentric
really slowly Arch his back chest up
reach back and come all the way back
just 20 lb dumbbells he has huge arms
he's a professional bodybuilder that's
all he's going to need after this whole
workout but it has to be high relative
effort it has to be close to failure if
we don't see suffering faces he's fired
no way they work for him I'm
fired slow yes that hurts more it's
supposed to hurt
more good slow five more one slow no
breaks either
[Music]
two
3
four five oh a couple more couple more
couple
more yes go go and then slow as if
you're going to do
another amazing good
stuff ouch that hurt me just looking at
it got guys what you just saw is
something really important Nick finished
his last rep barely you didn't see him
do any of this no bad technique that's
Point number one no matter how close you
get to failure just do your good
technique if you fail no big deal just
write down however many reps you got no
problem the second thing is also super
important when you've gone just almost a
failure and you finished the rep the
Ecentric The Descent the controlled
lowering is the next thing left over
it's not just like it ends and you throw
the way the dumbbells you could but
consider this muscles grow the most when
a crap load of tension is imposed on
them when they are the most fatigued
when is your muscle the most fatigued
when it's just reached its Pinnacle of
performance here you use that
opportunity to kick the muscle while
it's down so that you can slowly lower
and this is going to be awful and
painful as if you're going to do another
repetition and then you put it down that
extra lengthening contraction that extra
Ecentric even though it's half a
repetition has a vastly disproportionate
effect on your muscle growth from from
that whole
[Music]
set two or three
[Music]
more one
[Music]
more
slow Nick how do you
feel tired man it's a lot harder than uh
than it looks than you'd think yes crazy
your Technique was excellent you pushed
yourself hard great at home dumbbell
workout even though we're in a recording
studio but uh I actually live here I
have no home and we're going to end this
on a sad note folks Link in the
description check out the RP hypertrophy
app we have an awesome diet coach app
too that can help you with your dieting
needs and anything RP we generally think
we have some decent products check it
out let us know good ways to help you
thank you so much for tuning in we'll
catch you guys next
[Music]
time