it's just another toy that Hollywood can
use to pretend they're training hard and
effectively doesn't matter if you do it
wrong or halfway send with
technique at a pace you could honestly
just fall asleep to um nobody cares
about that actual effect who gives a
 this is
[Music]
Hollywood hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am in fact a
professor of exercise and Sport Science
and I'm here here to appraise Mr Hugh
Jackman's training for the slink slink
slink slink I hope our editors can do
something it it would be quite funny if
they just left me doing that by
myself Wolverine he's ferocious he's
vicious his bones are made of adamantium
and when I'm talking about Wolverine I
get a bone of my own it's made mostly of
pathetically undersized anyway let's get
to the video and see what the training
looks
[Music]
like uh Scott you trying to get my blood
pressure up yes started it off right
baby I know where to go there are two
types of things called the
clap one of them is something you do
with a push-up and it is not Ultra
effective because we're training for
Hollywood want to look like Wolverine we
don't actually do any of the crazy
Wolverine does like slice people in half
so body composition is really what you
want to go for there's an impact factor
here when you come back down and hit
your hands and that actually causes a
vastly disproportionate amount of
fatigue particularly to joints
connective tissues in addition to that
he's not doing a push-up all the way
down to depth which means he's not
getting a good stretch on his chest
shoulders or triceps which means the
marginal gain in muscle growth stimulus
from this exercise is considerably lower
than just a regular push-up way lower
than a deficit push-ups where you put
your hands on a plate plate and then you
go down super deep for that stretch so
clapping push-ups are cool because if
you're some combination of strong enough
and usually just light enough then you
can do them and it's like oh just pure
show off because not only can
you push but you're man I've got time to
clap I don't even need all this
time so yeah that's cool and his
technique sucks cuz his breaks down
his hips sink and um yeah this is not a
great movement for enhancing uh body
composition oh and the second type of
clap is a is a street slang for a
particular kind of venial disease hey
Scott which one's
clap can you please be useful for one
day in your life Scott the video guy and
go Google it garia it is garia yeah
she's got the clap what about the jack
the jack that's chyia yeah yeah she's
got Jack you remember that folks for
when you go to school and find find out
STDs are real I
[Music]
guess good old clapping pull-ups in a
hotel gym excellent clapping pull-ups
again just like uh clapping push-ups it
just illustrates that you can generate
sufficient amount of power such that you
can get some Hang Time and clap before
you get back to the handles um again
it's something that people do to show
off it's fun but as a way to enhance
your body
composition um is just not uh amazing uh
at all again he's not going all the way
down for that deep stretch so he's
getting a cool clap going which getting
the clap is really fun especially when
your classmates find out post it all
over the
school I'm just kidding your boy wasn't
getting laid no clap for me ooh Some
squats Mr Jackman so you guys will see
right there he's squatting in flat shoes
which most people should squat in
properly healed Olympic weightlifting
shoes this is something Olympic
weightlifters or as they like to call
themselves properly weightlifters the
sport starts with a w it's
weightlifting they kind of lock the
down if you wear an Olympic
weightlifting shoe you're going to be
able to squat a lot better because it
expands your ankle Mobility by putting
you on a heel it makes you super super
stable lets your knees go really far
forward on the way down keep your chest
Ultra upright and make sure the stimulus
is both maximum and almost entirely for
your legs instead of much more curtailed
if you have to cut your depth leg like
he does and not as much for legs there's
some glute stuff going on there a little
bit of quad stuff too but a lot of back
because you can see he's leaning a ton
so yeah not the ideal technique also you
notice if you're a like me you
pay attention to the weights he's
lifting it seems to be nominal amount of
weight according to my gym math that's
like 100 PB for an adult man in his
prime mother you better be hurt or some
 like that oh but who the is
this guy
no it's not some bald dude you're
kidding Scott you got a mislabeled video
here my
friend
[Music]
see oh okay so this deadlift technique
is quite
good the utility of the deadlift to body
composition enhancement to looking
better naked and in Wolverine clothes
is high but not usually worth the
fatigue
if you want a bigger back
rows pull ups pull Downs things like
that can give you just as big of a back
with much less
fatigue I will say the deadlift is
something that taller skinnier lifters
with long arms and not so strong legs
love to do because they can lift a ton
of weight with it so if you have long
arms if you're taller and skinnier you
can't bench a lot almost as a rule
anthropometrically just doesn't make
sense because you're tall you usually
have a short sitting height like he
probably does which means your torso
short relative to your femurs and cuz
you're skinny you probably can't squat a
lot so that's two lifts out of the big
three that like you're just never going
to be impressive on at least for some
time the deadlift though especially if
you're you have a short torso and your
arms are normal or longer than normal
then they hang down to youring knees and
then you can pick up anything God
stapled to the Earth and uh Mr he
Jackman's lifting a lot of weight there
cool Great Lift Mega accomplishment and
a fine way to get in shape for Hollywood
probably not the best way and I suspect
the reason he's taken to deadlifting as
much is well cuz he's good at it and
sometimes you get some you just
want to do it like me and not getting
laid what do you think of that look for
him oh my God it's terrible get that out
of my face it's Blackbeard he looks like
uh Captain Morgan in like
a post institutional schizophrenic
episode where they finally calmed him
but he's already been shaved and
processed you know Touch and Go lifting
is cool if you want to get a bunch of
reps but it uh eases up on you precisely
when you want to be hard deadlifting in
competition is about being strong from
the first pull and you don't train like
that when you do touch and go because
the first pull is hard but then the
other ones are easy also you get a lot
of muscle growth from the deep stretch
position now the deadlift isn't that
deep of a stretch to begin with but he's
making it even less of a deep stretch by
getting into that bottom quarter of the
deadlift and just quickly bouncing out
of it letting the weights do a lot of
the bounce and thus sparing the muscles
from doing much of that Force transition
for him so if he slowed the weight down
on the way down if he gently touched the
ground waiting half a second and then
came up or even put the way down
completely unloaded and then came up
he'd be getting just kind of more all
around from this exercise so the
question is why isn't he doing that one
maybe just do know you know I lifted
touch and go for years and I already had
an undergrad and actually science still
didn't know so no big deal but another
reason it's like you could just lift way
more reps with a given weight like this
if you can do stop and start three reps
at 315 you can almost certainly do at
least six reps touch and go at 3:15 same
person especially if you get good at the
timing of touch and go which everyone
does through practice so a lot of people
do touch and go deadlifting precisely
because they can do a lot but just cuz
you can do a lot
should you I submit that the answer is
no because remember you're there to get
the most out of the gym that you can
you're there for results not just a
deadlift if you want a deadlift dope can
touch and go all you want but then you
have to ask yourself a question of like
well if I really want to deadlift a lot
cuz I'm there for the deadlift shouldn't
I do it like powerlifters do could they
get stronger than me then they don't do
touch and go either so Touch and Go is
for people that like to do touch and go
you know every time he comes back
there's almost this kind of rush
back into the next rep that's because
intuitively I think your body
understands that the longer you hold on
to a deadlift bar the more it drains
your energy away people learn this
through multiple workouts and eventually
they just try to get through everything
really quick they click click click
click click and I'm out and that kind of
thing degrades the quality of the
movement is that the worst thing in the
world but you want to be in for every
rep as a quality rep slow Ecentric
control Gentle Touch full lockout that's
how typically people train for the
deadlift on the RP hypertrophy app with
over 28 preset programs already in the
app you can choose to make your own you
can modify an existing program or you
can just run the programs exactly as
they were written by me personally this
app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app
today oh my God I want to come up to
that guy I don't know who that guy is in
the frame I assume it's his trainer and
be like come here come here come here
you need to go back to school nope nope
shut up I don't give a f read
this instability training what does it
do folks I will continue to repeat this
CU clearly not all of us have gotten the
memo
when you are working on a task that
requires a crapload of stability your
body turns off its ability to produce
High
forces because it's trying to keep you
safe because if Hugh Jackman rocket it
up off that ball he'd flip right off it
kill himself your body's smarter than
that so when it finds you standing on
ice for example it won't let you jump or
run really fast because that'll get your
ass hurt or kill so because it caps your
nervous system's ability to activate the
muscles of your lower body
how the is it supposed to push those
same muscles to their limits to grow the
answer is it doesn't so when you're on a
bosu
ball the
muscle fraction of your muscle called
motor units the part parts of your
muscles and the nerves that inate them
that grow the most are up here the ones
that grow not so much are down here okay
it's all an even spectrum and standing
on the bosu ball Cuts your maximum Force
right here just below any
that would have really grown you another
way to think about this is you have
someone really jacked you had them a 10B
dumbbell and you say you can't do any
more than 10 reps without taking two
minutes of rest and it's got to be with
this 10B dumbbell nothing heavier get
bigger to be like but there's no way I
can push myself hard
enough get creative it's a non-starter
the bosu ball does not belong in the gym
one of my mentors in my master's
program came back from some something
and the lab had a bosu ball we were
testing for some one one or another
thing we actually were testing to see
Power production of course it failed all
the tests and he walks in and the ball's
just sitting there and he just like
walks by and kicks it as far as he can
across the office greatest use for boso
ball I've ever seen and that's about all
that's good for I just don't think these
things should be in gyms um the gym is a
place to transform your body with
effective modalities it's not a place
foring toys you want a toy buy a blowup
[Music]
doll if this video was going okay and
you guys want more racy juicy stuff you
can finish the video or you can head
over to our member section where the fun
is just getting started totally almost
completely mostly unedited XX content
See in the members
area oh God this figure eight
guys I I got a great solution to this is
take one dumbbell in each hand at the
same time both hands have dumbbells it
auto balances you and now you can do
walking lunges and focus exclusively on
which part is the lunge part that's what
you're there for that's what grows you
this pass around the around the
Back Fade Away J it doesn't do
anything it's a waste of cognitive
bandwidth it has extra complexity to
this T Scott is this a Joel seedman
video again well are we back to 90°
isometric concentrics or whatever the
that dumbass motherucker talks about all
the time guys this is Peak Hollywood
take some that works dilute it add
in a Sprinkle of that looks
fancy and you sell in Hollywood water to
rich people it's a good business
[Music]
model Christ it's every single thing
Scott sled pushing is really good for
people that want to get good at pushing
the sled but typically when you want to
get good at sled pushing that means you
want to do it for a short Sprint
because in games like
football wrestling rugby being able to
push someone really hard especially
Summa wrestling is a big deal and a
great way to train that is to put some
heavy fing weight on a sled and push
that motherucker for 2 M 4 M it call it
6
M at what we in sport Science call a
maximum intent to
move I'm not gonna say fast because the
result on speed is low because the
is so heavy but you're trying to go as
fast as you
can
this is like getting ready for
theing slavery scene in Conan the
Barbarian or whatever the f where like
he just slowly pushes aing winch around
until they're like ah the Empire is not
even around you could just go man what
is the point of this what is being
trained it's not a very high rate of
calorie burn you can't complete it for
enough repetition i s you're not going
to do this for 3 hours and burn a
crapload of calories 30 minutes you're
not going to do
this it doesn't convey a lot of
hypertrophy because it misses the
Ecentric phase altogether it's
concentric
only and uh it's not being done at
athletic Pace it confers no Advantage
there what is what is it for I have an
answer for you it's just another toy
that Hollywood can use to pretend
they're training hard and effectively
because it's hardcore and athletes do it
quote unquote then we're in doesn't
matter if you do it wrong or halfway
send with technique at a pace
you could honestly just fall asleep to
um nobody cares about that actual effect
who gives a this is
Hollywood love bit Yeah goblet squats
for people that are not weak suck if you
simply put the weights behind you on
your back your legs could create much
more tension you would not be limited by
your ability to hold the dumbbell and
your arms which is almost certainly what
hug acan is being limited by that's the
most challenging part of this movement
is holding dumbbell and because it's
ostensibly a leg exercise how could that
possibly be whatever it is that is the
thing you're training or trying to
hypertrophy the most that should be a
limiting factor if your quads give out
on you while you're leg pressing you're
doing it right if your arms and
shoulders give out on you while you're
doing goblet squats goblet squats
suck I hate a
b love a b
love it
anymore stop seemingly Infinity reps
from failure typical I understand that
you have three different sets of clothes
for the different sizes of hue there's
boxes in my storage uh fat suits skinny
suits normal suits when was he
fat
and um and right now in this shape I
don't have any suits so I just s he's
got veins his veins got veins it looks
great I just wear track pants a lot hey
Scott you see this footage right M how
close are their feet in that shot oh
like on top of you on top of each other
that like cuz I've been in real shoots
before now when it looks like people are
far apart on camera they're in real life
 next to each
other this is cuz he's really like here
be like yes yes I'll answer your
questions get out of my face please but
to be close to Mr Hugh Jackman the world
what what's the diet like the diet is
the Wolverine diet Scott could you do
faces that chummy if they paid you for
it the
Wolverine I guarantee that guy finishes
the shoot he's like out of here I used
to be a great reporter God damn it oh go
interview who Jackman who the is that
I'm number one I guarantee you that
guy's thinking that The Wolverine
died is strict it's about 4,000 calories
a day strict in 4,000 calories seem like
they line up call me crazy uh maybe four
and a half as I'm bulking up and then it
gets drops down as I'm leaning up drops
down to about three three and a half
thousand calories that's a high level of
physical activity that's a lot of
calories um not the fun calories this is
the chicken fish maybe steak always
protein six times a day that's cool that
works you can get Justice Red in Lena's
jacked probably eating protein four
times a day four five and six there's
almost no difference perhaps none at all
in almost every case and if you like
eating frequently dope but don't feel
like you have to eat six meals a day
four meals a day is a really good start
that's how Grandpa did it that's how dad
did it steamed vegetables and
occasionally some brown rice or
something like
that H it's unlikely that you got to 3
and half thousand calories occasionally
eating brown rice I promise you there
was quite a bit of it and 4 and a half
thousand I bet you you ate quite a bit
protein shakes and just like that no
alcohol no sugar pretty not pretty much
nothing that's fun if you're bulking you
can have a lot of sugar if you're
cutting and your hunger isn't driving
you crazy you can have plenty of sugar
especially around your workouts and and
be totally good this kind a needless
puritanical obsession with Fitness is
it's old news it's pre-2010 all right so
that was fun if by Fun you mean
reviewing people who are in the
spotlight doing things that are neither
very efficient nor
effective but but Mr Hugh Jackman will
forever be in my heart as the original
Wolverine I know comic book people he's
not the original
Wolverine and he's also Australian
nor rather
S I can't really hate him and so I give
Mr he Jackman a 10 out of 10 for being
an awesome human being as far as I know
and they give his workout
practices
oh 6 out of
10 the general idea of training and
doing hardcore stuff is there with the
implementation and the actual hardcore
stuff
itself I've had
better I've had better all right time to
go get an anim mantium bone in
me seriously I'm going to go do
unchristian-like things ah see myself
out see you guys next time all right
that was fun if you want more fun you
can continue to Doom scroll through
YouTube by clicking on this video here
which is probably quite
good