I've been in the YouTube Fitness game
for a decent while now in this video
I'll be ranking different Fitness
channels in terms of how good the
information and entertainment they
provide us next up we have Mike Isel or
in fact Dr Mike Isel my stance on Mike
is that he's an absolute beast at
putting out YouTube videos consistently
and he's very knowledgeable he keeps up
to date with the existing evidence
that's coming out reasonably well and I
think he gives out solid advice my only
gripe with Mike Isel is that sometimes
he and I differ in how speculative we to
be in the recommendations we give for
instance Mike really likes to rely upon
soreness and the pump and other
experential variables as a means to
individualized training for me for
example I'm not yet willing to make that
recommendation and sometimes speaking as
a fellow content creator it can be
difficult to communicate when I'm saying
something that is actually
evidence-based versus when I'm saying
something that is speculative or that is
merely based on my coaching experience
or what have you but all that considered
I think Mike is incredible so I'm going
to put him into high a tier