hey rp+ James Hoffman here welcome back
thanks for tuning in today we are gonna
start a really interesting talk we're
gonna talk about applied periodization
so in the next couple lectures my goal
for you is to have a better
understanding of how to start putting
together a strength conditioning plan
specifically an annual plan for the
sport or team of your choice which is
something I think a lot of people don't
quite understand how to do so I'm
basically gonna walk you through it
so this first half of this series we're
just going to talk about how we actually
start integrating periodization into an
actual training plan so we talked a
little about periodization in the
training principles lecture now we're
going to talk a little bit about how to
do it so I'm gonna be using the
PowerPoint as usual we're gonna
hopefully have the pictures on there and
hopefully we'll have some slides for you
to follow along with so let's get going
let's start right away so one of the
first things we want to start
identifying is that periodization is an
inherently non-linear process and this
is something i think people get mixed up
all the time where they say oh you can
follow this plan you follow this plan
you can make linear improvements you can
do non-linear this whole thing is a
crazy crazy process where we are
emphasizing de-emphasizing adding
subtracting constantly throughout the
year right so one of the things that we
like to say is periodization is a
nonlinear process meaning it doesn't
follow a straight and narrow path it
follows a wave-like pattern all the time
sometimes it's like this sometimes it's
like that sometimes it's stepwise the
point being it's not just a clear-cut
straight path whether we're talking
about volumes intensities exercise
progressions sport practice you know
conditioning all these things are gonna
shift around and be kind of fluid
throughout the year as we train as we
get closer and closer to competition so
we want to keep in mind periodization is
an inherently non-linear process not
always following a strict straight path
the definition I like to use for
periodization is the one hopefully you
guys can see on the slide here and that
as the logical and systematic sequencing
of training factors in an integrative
fashion in order to optimize specific
training outcomes and predetermined time
points now couple key things here right
first one predetermine time points so
right off the bat with this definition
we know that there are certain points
throughout the year that are more
important to us than others
hopefully no-brainer these are our
competition periods right so we're
setting up our training plan with a
couple things in mind particularly our
competitions in months so that our
athlete is maximizing preparedness for
their competitions right so you don't
want to be the gym hero the guy who sets
all the huge PRS in the gym but then
when it comes to game time right that
you you stink and can't put up the big
numbers and vice versa right you don't
want to stink on the field right you
don't want to ever not perform as well
as you could so we want to make sure
that we're getting our athletes or
ourselves prepared at the appropriate
times which in our case is going to be
competition times and then it also says
the logical and systematic sequencing of
training training factors in an
integrated fashion so now we're taking
all these different modalities that
we're working on for any given sport
right so we're going to have usually a
strength training component a
cardiovascular component sports skills
and tactics that we have to work on
possible speed power agility stuff we
have to start putting all that stuff in
a plan in a way that is sequenced to
give us the best possible outcomes at
those predetermined time points so
periodization is the tool in which we do
that we can take all these different
training components and we can start
emphasizing some of them throughout
certain times the year and then maybe
de-emphasizing those and emphasizing
other ones and other parts throughout
the year so that we can have a nice face
potentiated model going across our time
line so let's move on to the next slide
a couple big goals of periodization
first one optimizing an athlete's
performance at predetermined time points
or maintenance of performance for sports
that have a specific season so what this
is basically saying is we want to make
sure our athletes are performing at
their absolute best at specific points
in time for example if you had a
marathon or triathlon or powerlifting
meets weightlifting meet or maybe even
like a fight like a MMA fight or a Thai
boxing match or something like that
that's a specific point in time right
that is a single competition that we
want them to be prepared for the best
that they can or on the other hand for
sports that have a season like American
football soccer rugby baseball we want
to make sure that they are maintaining
their performance capacity throughout
the entirety of that season right so
what we don't want to see is them actual
actively detraining or experiencing
adaptive decay when there are two months
in to their sports season right that's
no good so we don't want them to have a
great first half of the year and then
tank the second half of the season so we
want to make sure that for specific
points in time we're getting our
athletes truly peaked out for
competition and then for sports with the
season we're trying to make sure that we
are elevating our potential as high as
we can not a true peak but getting close
and we want to maintain that throughout
the entirety of the sports season the
best that we can
number two men excuse me managing the
training stressors to avoid the
potential for overtraining so that's
going to include not only the training
stressors so that's going to be our
fatigue management strategies or
recovery adaptation strategies that's
also going to include psychological
stressors emotional stressors as well so
part of this process is managing
stressors from all sources we tend to
just think about training nutrition and
they may be like some sports psychology
stuff here and there but really we want
to start thinking about how can we
manage the training stressors on a much
more holistic level throughout the year
to make sure that they are fatigued when
they're supposed to be and then we are
reducing fatigue periodically so that
when they're trying to actually compete
or trying to perform well we make sure
that they're able to do them so that's a
big one right we want to make sure that
we're promoting the long term
development of the athlete periodization
is another great way of doing that we
want to make sure it's not only are they
performing well now or this season or
this upcoming fight or whatever it is
they have going on but we want to make
sure four years from now they're still
getting better right so you can have
somebody that you fear a collegiate
strength coach or maybe you started
working with a youth athlete you might
be working on what they're doing right
now in this season but you also want to
keep in mind you might have four five
six years with this person you want to
actually have a long term plan so that
they can be a completely different human
being later on down the road
right that is a real possibility having
worked in collegiate athletics you can
actually get somebody to be very very
different over the course of several
years as long as you make some good
plans and don't focus too much on the
short-term there are some cost benefit
analysis that we can do so we can say
you know what maybe I'm going to take a
little bit of a hit this season so we
can do more training so that two years
from now they're gonna have an amazing
senior year or something like that right
so that's a cost benefit analysis that
we can do but we also want to keep in
mind the
long-term development of the athlete and
then certainly not last but not least
structuring precise training
interventions to target the specific
fitness characteristics for the sport so
before in our needs analysis we said hey
there are certain Fitness
characteristics that each sport needs
right most of them tend to be in the
strength power domain except for
endurance sports but we have to figure
out what do I need to be successful in
my sport right usually that's something
to the tune of maximal strength power
and then some type of intermittent
endurance periodization is going to
allow us to achieve the highest levels
of those things so on is that we
sequence them in the logical way and I'm
going to show you how to do that so
that's the big goals we want to make
sure we're training for the fitness
characteristics that we need we want to
make sure that we are peaking and
maintaining our performance when we're
supposed to we want to manage all the
training stressors and we want to make
sure our athletes getting better in the
short and the long term let's go on to
the next so there's another point of
contention with periodization that a lot
of people have where they'll say hey
have you heard of daily undulating
periodization hey have you heard of this
other weird sh Meg periodization hey
have you heard of like the Schmidt
method all these other crazy things
right and what we find is that this
concept of periodization this concept of
integrating different training factors
in a systematic way is a universal
concept right what I like to say is you
can call it turn po but it's still
right no matter how you want to phrase
it no matter what method you're
following this idea of periodization is
largely the same it's largely universal
it's the way that people implement it
that tends to be slightly different
right so if you read so-and-so's method
or like the this method that method
whoever's method dr. Hoffman's method
right all those things are examples of
good abuses of periodization it's the
slight changes in how they implement did
that make them different and what I
really like about periodization asks
kind of a whole concept is it's
something that really we saw huge
advances in the field before we saw
advances in science right we owe a lot
of the information that we know today
thanks to a lot of the Eastern Bloc
countries like our Romania's our Germans
our Russians are Chinese folks from like
the 1970s 1980s who were doing these
things out in the field and just
producing these unbelievable phenomenal
athletes and all of us and the Western
countries were like what is going on
some of these guys from Russia and
Romania they're so strong they're so
good at the Olympic Games what's going
on right well they started figuring some
of this stuff out a long time ago and
then only later on did science come back
and validate a lot of these processes
which i think is really neat so this is
an example and exercise and sports
sciences where what we're doing in the
field actually sometimes is ahead of
what we actually know in science so this
is one of those cool instances where we
figured out periodization was a really
good idea a long time ago and then later
validated the process through good use
of science and mathematical modeling so
pretty cool I think and I think there's
still lots of room for advancement in
the field as always so let's keep going
hopefully we've seen this one before
right
one of the things that we want to avoid
with our periodized model is getting
this blender effect right what I like to
call the big ol smoothie no good
right so just because your sport is
multifaceted meaning you have multiple
Fitness components multiple training
components that you're juggling at any
given time right something like CrossFit
or MMA comes to mind where there's lots
of different Fitness components lots of
different skills lots of different
techniques and then there's also
potentially tactics that you have to
work out just because you have all these
different things going on does not mean
that you can and or should train them
all at once what we find is that there's
probably a better idea to train a couple
things at a time and then face
potentiate throughout the year so what
we find is trying to train for
flexibility try and train for power try
and train for strength trying to frame
for cardiovascular endurance trying to
train for agility and hypertrophy all at
the same time ends up splitting the
difference so finally that you end up
making no progress no significant
progress in any of those areas whereas
if we just focused on maybe one or two
like gaining muscle mass or gaining
strength we can make some serious
progress in the course of several months
and then as we face potentiate
throughout the year if we want to
transition into power and speed
development we can maintain all of those
gains and strength that we made so long
as we're hitting a very very low
maintenance level of volume which is
very easy to do so again we want to
avoid this blender effect this drives me
nuts don't train everything
at once it's just not going to work try
it if you don't believe me go do it see
what happens right try doing this for a
year
and you'll be like damn I just wasted a
year of my life doing this nonsense so
keep in mind we're gonna follow a phasic
model of training and that phasic model
means we're not going to do everything
at once we're probably just going to
focus on one maybe two things at a time
do those as hard as we can and then
we're gonna face potentiate and choose
some other things down the line as we
get closer and closer to closer
competition so we're gonna move on to
the next one and this is just a friendly
reminder this is something that we've
talked about before we just want to keep
in mind fitness characteristics don't
decay as rapidly as some people what
have you believe right just because you
trained for work capacity or
cardiovascular endurance a few months
ago and you have transitions moving into
strength or maximal strength doesn't
mean necessarily that you're gonna lose
all that work capacity it doesn't mean
you have to go back and circle back and
start training it again as you approach
competition that is largely not true so
don't forget we have this great chart
here that kind of illustrates hey as
long as you're doing something as long
as you're doing some basic level
overload training you are probably
hitting the maintenance volumes
necessary to maintain all these
previously obtained fitness
characteristics that you have worked so
hard for so this kind of goes back to
our blender effect we say we don't have
to train everything at once I can train
a couple things really hard and then
those things will stick around with me
for a long time and I can start training
other things like strength power speed a
high intensity intermittent endurance
all those different things and it won't
go away that's the beauty of this model
it works really really well so this is
just a friendly reminder right don't get
caught up in this adaptive decay thing
where you think oh I didn't train for
strength so I'm getting weaker right
nope nope that strength hangs around as
long as you're doing some type of
overload training if you stop training
altogether then yes you will be subject
to adaptive decay so this was just a
friendly reminder let's go on to the
next one okay this diagram is kind of
the nuts and bolts of what we're going
to be talking about in terms of applied
periodization so what you see here is an
exact I'm down a very simple example of
an annual training plan and what we have
are some different categories within
this plan so if you're looking at the
first one here it says the annual plan
and then on the top left we have the
first major phase which is the
preparatory phase right this rep
that's a really really big chunk of time
in our annual plan we're primarily
training for all the fitness
characteristics that we need to be
successful in our sport if you go across
to the right you see the competitive
phase the competitive phase is the phase
where all of our major competitions are
going to be occurring now for some
sports there might not be that many
right you might only have one or two
triathlons throughout the year that
you're gonna run so that might be
relatively small or if you're in a sport
like hockey or baseball it might be
gigantic because they played seemingly
for like six seven months out of the
year I don't understand how they do it
they're crazy nonetheless right the
competitive phase is going to include
all the major competitions that we have
going on throughout the year whether
they're scrimmages season world
championships Olympic Games whatever any
major competition that has a major
standing on how we're doing is going to
be there and then last but not least we
see the transition phase and the
transition phase is something kind of
cool that we can do a lot of different
stuff with so those are the big three
and I'm gonna go through and break down
each of these down for you so we get a
better idea of what all these mean but I
want you to kind of soak in this model
for the moment because we're gonna keep
coming back to it so again the
preparatory phase is that big one on the
Left we're gonna break that down into
two sub phases over in the competitive
phase we have all of our major
competitions we're going to break that
down into two sub phases as well and
then at the end of competition we have
that transition phase where we can see a
couple different things going on so if
you need to circle back to this as we're
discussing so it makes more sense for
now kind of lock this image in your
brain so hopefully it'll make more sense
as we go so let's go and talk about all
of these a little bit more specifically
and how we actually start setting trip
our setting our training program up
using this model so when we're starting
to make our annual training plan first
of all we have to have a time scale
right we have to be able to organize
these things by time by some magnitude
so the first thing we're going to start
doing is identifying all the different
micro-cycles mesocycles and macro cycles
that we're going to be using throughout
the year right so just for those of you
who are not familiar with this
terminology a micro cycle is a very very
short period of training right this
could be as little as one day typically
we use upwards of seven days so the trip
traditionally for exercise science
purposes we usually say one micro cycle
is a week
have to be a week can it be 12 days
absolutely it can be whatever you want
right but this is going to be the
relatively short period of training
usually on the scale of like one weekly
cycle something like that right building
up if we have a series of micro cycles
so like a series of weeks of training
that encompasses what we call a mezzo
cycle which is usually around about one
month or so in time can it be a little
bit more a little bit less absolutely no
problem rent but for calendar purposes
we typically program them and usually
like four or five week blocks so about a
month or so so a measure cycles kind of
represents kind of a block of training
where we say we did a couple weeks four
or five weeks focusing on something
specific so we did like a strength block
or a power block or a Peking block
something like that right where we had
four or five weeks where we're really
focused on one or two things right and
then if we start to sequence multiple
meza cycles together we can actually put
together a macro cycle which is several
months of training upwards of years of
training and that can be variable
depending on how you want to set it up
but that's the terminology that we're
going to be using from now on so if you
hear Mike recycle that usually means
about a week to here mesocycle that
usually means about a month and if you
hear a macro cycle that means several
months maybe upwards of a year hopefully
that makes sense okay
so when we're sequencing these training
factors together the first kind of one
that we generally are going to work on
is that preparatory phase this is the
biggest kind of phase of our training
plan generally the preparatory phase is
used primarily to start elevating things
like general physical preparedness and
sure most of you have heard that term
before really what we're trying to do is
elevate some of the basic fitness
characteristics that we need for success
in our sport so if you take a look at
the slide it has a big list of goals for
this preparatory phase and they are very
very important so one of the ones first
we have to establish is to improve
fitness characteristics required by the
sport or the needs analysis now the good
news is if you did a good job on your
needs analysis which was one of the
first things that we talked about you
should already have a pretty good idea
of what's going on here so you should
say you know what I'm training for rugby
I'm training for boxing I know which
fitness characteristics are most
important right so that's a no-brainer
if you've already done a good job you've
done your homework
if you haven't done that make sure you
go back watch the needs analysis video
and make sure you know exactly what it
is you're trying to look for right
a couple other things we're going to
improve just general physical training
capacity the term that we like to use is
work capacity right so this can be both
central and peripheral meaning we're
working on things like your basic basic
cardiovascular tolerance to exercise and
also basic basic peripheral tolerance so
like your muscular tolerance to exercise
so we want to start building up some
basic endurance right so that you can go
forth and do hard training later on as
we get into some of the more specific
training phases a couple other things we
want to think about cultivating
psychological Drive this can include
things like determination willpower
perseverance grit things like that
absolutely important here one of my
favorites to talk about and you'll
notice it's underlined on the slide to
develop improve or perfect technique
technique technique technique
man I got a drill home cannot be under
emphasized technique is going to include
not only their basic sport techniques
right so what are the basic things you
need to be able to do in your sport do
you have to pass you have to catch do
you have to run sprint jump tackle punch
kick whatever right all those things but
then also we want to start elevating our
training based techniques right how good
is your squat form your bench press your
deadlift your weight lifting movements
your sprint form your plan metric form
this is the perfect time to make sure
that your athletes or yourself is really
really working on technique so that when
you go and start doing harder stuff
later on that technique is already
locked in and you can start relying on
it when that training gets really really
tough couple other things we've worth
mentioning we want to familiarize our
athletes with some of the basic
strategic maneuvers that we're going to
be doing throughout the training plan so
for example you might not decide to
Train weightlifting movements really
really early on in your training plan
but you might introduce them to your
athletes and say hey here's some second
pull derivatives right here's some
mid-thigh pulls from the pins I want you
to be familiarized with some of these
movements so that when we train them
later it's not completely foreign to you
right same thing can be applied to other
things like squatting and sprinting or
other sports specific type movements so
we want to actually start familiarizing
them with things that we're going to be
doing later on as well not just exactly
what we're doing right here and now and
then certainly last but not least is to
teach the theory and methodology of what
we're going to be doing to the athletes
so one of the things that you'll find is
if you just take you know a purely
authoritative
roll and just say like do this right now
because I said so and STFU about it
right that works for a little while but
usually people will be a little bit more
compliant if they have an understanding
of why it is that what you're doing not
just how or what you're doing but why
are you doing what you're doing so you
want to give those athletes an idea of
hey here's what we're doing now this is
going to build up and transition at some
point to something else and then when we
get to our competitive phase we're going
to work on some other things right so we
want them to be familiarized with the
training process so we want to make sure
that everybody is on page everybody
knows what's coming next and we can move
forward so that's the big goals of the
preparatory phase as a whole now what
we're gonna do is we're actually going
to break down that preparatory phase
into two smaller sub phases this might
seem like nomenclature kind of
semantical weird arguments but trust me
trust me trust me this saves you so much
headache when you actually do this and
go out into the real world because a lot
of people just jump in and they just
start writing training programs they
don't sequence them out in a good way
and they don't organize them in a good
way and then when the real world happens
when happens when the coaches do
funny things and your training plan goes
to hell
they got nothing back to fall back on
having this done and mapped out ahead of
time will save you so much headache and
hair pulling out later on trust me on
this one
so we're gonna break down that big
preparatory phase into two sub phases
the first one is what we're calling the
general prep phase right and as the name
implies it's kind of a more generalized
fitness training period where we're
really just working on some basic stuff
right the first thing we're really just
trying to develop work capacity meaning
we want the muscles to be able to do
voluminous training we want them to be
able to handle it from a cardiovascular
level as well so we just want to make
sure that they're getting their basic
endurance - weight training basic
endurance - whatever cardiovascular type
activities that they're going to be
doing whether it's running or sprinting
or swimming or anything like that even
if you're a golf right right you have to
be able to walk 18 holes with that thing
on your back there's a cardiovascular
component right so it might not be huge
but it's there so we want to make sure
we're working on their work capacity
their tolerance to exercise that's first
and foremost right a couple other things
basic techniques again we've already
kind of mentioned this we want to make
sure we're introducing all their sports
skills all their training skills and we
want to
sure that we are working on those things
might not be perfect just yet but we're
working on making them perfect for later
on right we're not going to spend a ton
of time doing team tactics at this time
this is a time where we're mostly
focusing on developing fitness for sport
so we see basic tactics are listed on
there if your sport requires some amount
of tactics we're really just working on
some really fundamental individual
tactics like what is your role in the
sport what types of things are you
responsible for doing not really
coordinating with teammates yet not
really coordinating against opposition
yet just really really fundamental like
this is what I'm supposed to do I'm
supposed to get rebounds or I'm supposed
to you know make three-pointers whatever
something like that and then one of the
most important things that we can
mention in this phase is trying to make
improvements in body composition this is
something that I think people completely
forget about and we have so much trouble
with a lot of our RP clients who think
about all-terrain body composition for
sport when it's already too late right
so we want to actually think about
altering our body composition as far
away from competition as possible which
is this general prep phase again this is
fitness training training for fitness
we're really working on things like work
capacity so what we're going to find is
this phase is the farthest away from
competition and it's going to have the
highest volume loads of any of the
phases that we're going to do throughout
the year so this is the time where we're
gonna spend the most time in the gym or
training for fitness well it turns out
that's actually a really good strategy
for improving body composition so we're
talking about improving body composition
we're talking about two potential things
either increasing muscle mass or
maintaining muscle mass while we
decrease body fat probably can't do both
of those at the same time unless they're
a total newbie for most of our trained
athletes we got to pick one this is the
perfect time to do this why well it
turns out to gain a lot of muscle mass
you have to train at high volumes hmm no
surprise there the same is true for
trying to maintain muscle mass and if I
want to lose a lot of weight well I have
to create a big energy deficit how can I
do that well I can either eat less food
or I can exercise more or some
combination of both well if I'm training
at the highest volumes of my training
plan throughout the year I'm already
generating this huge energy expenditure
therefore trying to lose weight during
this time if that's my goal will be much
then later on so this is where we are
going to see most of the major
significant changes in body composition
whether we're trying to gain weight or
lose weight is going to happen here and
as we move on to our different phases
later on we're going to start
stabilizing that body weight hopefully
within about 2% of our competition goal
body weight so again the general prep
phase is the one that's farthest away
from competition no competitions in
sight were several several months away
from even any remote competitions and
this is where we're gonna see the
highest volumes of training occurring
throughout the entire annual plan so
that's the genophage mostly basic stuff
working on our strength endurance
cardiovascular endurance body comp basic
techniques let's go on to the next one
so if we're gonna kind of break this
down what types of things should we be
doing in the general prep phase well if
we're training for hypertrophy or
training to maintain muscle mass while
losing fat that's gonna happen here
absolutely a perfect goal for that we
know that the rep ranges in which
hypertrophy can't occur is a little bit
variable we can see it in happening in
low reps and high reps but generally
we're gonna probably take that strength
endurance style approach so we're gonna
see kind of things like strength
endurance three by ten or eight to
twelve and then we might see some basic
strength peppered in here every now and
again right three by five or in that
four to a prep range so let's go on to
the next one let's talk about the
specific prep phase the specific prep
phase is still within the preparatory
phase as a whole but this is going to
have a market transition from training
for fitness to training for competition
right so now we're no longer just trying
to train on being a little bit buffer or
a little bit stronger for sport now
we're actually saying all right most of
the fitness stuff we got covered however
now I'm making a very very big right
ninety degree turn saying I am only
really doing sports specific training at
this point so everything that I'm doing
is going to have a direct positive
impact on my ability to play my sport or
activity so the specific prep phase has
several goals just like her other one
big ones here
technical mastery what does this mean
that means whatever sports skills that
you're working on should be about as
good as they're gonna get for this
training season right they might not be
perfect yet
but they're gonna be as good as they're
supposed to be for this particular phase
your training skills as well so your
squat technique
weightlifting technique your plyometric
and sprinting technique whatever stuff
that you've been working on should be
looking about as good as it gets
now again there's some wiggle room for a
long-term development improvement there
but for this training phase for this
year this is the best that it's going to
be right so they should be really really
refining all their different sport and
training related techniques at this
point it should be really crisp
everything should look really good and
we shouldn't really require a ton of
coaching at this point we're gonna start
moving into working on team tactics
right so now we're not just working on
individual tactics we're working on
coordinating amongst our teammates and
we're working on coordinating against
opposition as well in terms of fitness
characteristics this is where we're
gonna see a market shift from training
and higher volumes to now training it
more moderate to low volumes so we're
going to start training for things like
maximal strength power development speed
development and then sports specific
style endurance now each sport has its
own kind of unique cardiovascular
component for endurance sports it's
going to look a lot different than it is
for strength power sports so we're gonna
say a sport specific endurance right so
if you are doing longer events we're
going to start training for that if
you're doing more intermittent
high-intensity bursts we're gonna start
training for that more more more
specifically so usually what we see here
is a very very substantial decrease in
the total training volume what we find
is that the MRV for these different
fitness characteristics like maximal
strength power and speed much more
sensitive to what we saw in the general
strength or work capacity hypertrophy
training so what we should see here is a
pretty substantial reduction in the
total training volume upwards of about
40% from what we were doing before so
this is a pretty big drop in our total
training volume from what we are doing
in strength endurance and hypertrophy so
again here we're seeing that distinct
shift now we're doing very very specific
endurance training we're doing very very
specific strength and power training and
all of our sports stuff is really
starting to hone in on what our
game-like scenarios and things like that
are going to be so let's go on to the
next one for the specific prep phase
we're going to have phases that include
some basic strength you are there so
that one kind of overlaps between the
two depends on how you want to integrate
it in but this is where we start to see
some big differences we're going to
start working on maximal strength right
so that 1 2 3 rep range power
development and speed development so
this is really where we're gonna see a
ship
from working on developing muscle mass
and large forces to now taking the big
muscle mass and transitioning into the
most amount of force I can generate or
increasing the speed of movement at
which I can move at any of those given
force outputs right so really really
important here we're gonna do all of our
maximal strength power speed stuff in
the specific prep phase so let's move on
again now throughout this preparatory
phase as a whole one of the things that
you want to consider is using and
overreaching and D loading paradigm the
entire time so some of you already know
what that means for those of you who
don't know that what that means I'm
gonna explain it to you real quick so
throughout this preparatory phase week
to week what we want to see is a
progression and either the volume of
exercise the intensity of the exercise
or some combination of both so what we
want to see is week to week the training
should be getting slightly harder a
progressive overload so what I did
during week one of training
hopefully was overloading but when I
come back to it during the second week I
have already started making some acute
adaptations to that exercise I need to
continue generating overloads by making
it increasingly harder the way that I do
that is generally by adding volume so
either more sets or I can increase the
intensity make the weight a little bit
heavier or I can do both right so
throughout this phase what we want to do
is start progressing week to week into
what we call an accumulation which is
where we have a baseline that we're
working with and then we start making it
harder each subsequent week so it builds
on itself up to the point of the
overreaching period this is a planned
overreaching period meaning this is the
hardest deliberately most hard week of
this messy cycle where we're really
pushing the amount of weight that we can
lift for that rep range and the amount
of sets that we can do in that rep range
so this should be teeter-tottering kind
of right around that nav m RV kind of
borderline we're really going to try and
push our athlete to do as much training
as they can basically tolerate without
breaking once we get through that week
we're gonna follow it up with that d
load week which hopefully you guys have
heard us talk about at nauseam at this
point so after that deliberate period of
hard training that overreaching week
where we're really pushing them to the
brink then we're gonna have that D load
we're gonna have a series of light days
and we're gonna really really stimulate
recovery so I have an example listed on
the slide hopefully you can see this is
just
meant to be taken orderly literally this
is just an example of what that might
look like so we might start week one at
like three sets of ten for a major lifts
somewhere around 85% of our relative
effort and then as we progress from week
two we might get a little bit heavier so
instead of 85% we go up to 90 and we add
a set week three same thing we add
another set go up a little bit heavier
and then that's our overreaching right
there right so hopefully by the time
they get through that five by ten at our
ninety five percent effort they're gonna
be pretty beat up right week four comes
around we got D load two by five
somewhere around seventy percent of that
same relative effort so there's a
graphical representation on the next
slide of what this would look like if
you were plotting their volumes over
time and as we can see we see a nice
kind of accumulation from week one to
week two to week three where the volume
is going up very substantially and then
week four we see that big reduction in
the training volume to try and stimulate
that fatigue alleviation in that SRA
process right so that's what we want to
see throughout the entirety of this
preparatory phase the use of those
accumulation and D load phases to really
really Drive that overload as hard as we
can and get the most out of these
training blocks as we can this is not
nonono wag the finger not something
you're gonna do during the competitive
phase when they are actively competing
you do not want to be using these
overreaching and D loading paradigms now
every now and again you might have a
couple weeks where they might not be
competing they might have like a bye
week or just a two weeks or so or they
might not be competing it might be good
to ramp up the volume a little bit but
what we're not going to do is
deliberately overreach them during their
competitive season the reason being is a
it just generates too much fatigue so
their performance is going to go down
but what comes with that is also an
increased risk of injury on the field
right so it's a really unfavorable
trade-off where we're saying we're going
to overreach you while you're competing
they're going to perform poorly and the
risk of getting hurt
definitely goes up just from being
overly fatigued so we're not going to do
that instead
during the competitive cycle we're
actually just going to do kind of more
of a lower volume training phase where
we're really focusing on speed power
characteristics high intensity
intermittent endurance really really
just sports specific stuff at that point
so our volume of training are going to
be very very low approaching maintenance
level values which again is pretty
pretty low but we're not going to come
to a full true peaking and tapering
style drop
in the training point so let's talk
about a little more specifically now the
competitive phase is kind of where we
have the culmination of all these
different things that we have been doing
so we've been busting our hump
throughout that entire preparatory phase
maybe I did like two months of
hypertrophy training and it did maybe
two months of strength and then I
eventually transitioned into maximal
strength and some power stuff I've been
training my butt off for months now our
actually gets compete right so now I get
to take all that fitness that may be
lying dormant and really start
expressing it to its maximal ability
which is really really cool and fun so
our competitive phase is used to make
continued improvements and fitness for
sports where we're doing like peaking
and tapering style activities or
maintenance of sport specific fitness
characteristics so what we do is really
start reducing the training volume
instead of doing things like 3 by 5's 4
by 5 5 by 5's we might be relatively low
into like our three by two two by two
something like that really really at
maintenance or just above maintenance
level volumes so we're trying to
minimize the amount of training fatigue
that they're carrying around so that it
can spend as much time possible doing
their sports specific stuff which is
really important we want to keep
enhancing those psychological
characteristics like desire to win we
want to keep perfecting and
consolidating technique so if there's
anything that they haven't really
mastered yet for this training phase we
want to make sure we lock that down so
that when they actually get in game
scenarios it's looking good looking
sharp we want to make sure we're
elevating performance by reducing some
of that extra training fatigue we're
going to make sure that we are
perfecting our tactical maneuvers and of
course we want to make sure that they're
gaining competitive experience a lot of
times people just especially if they're
young like if you have a collegiate
athlete who's not used to competing at
high levels yet or you get somebody who
just made it into the league or maybe
just made it into the UFC you better
believe they're gonna have some
competition jitters so one of the things
you want to actually get it's just
getting them used to competing at the
level that they're competing at so it's
more familiar or less scary right so
that's another big part of the
competitive phase I think is a little
underrated what's going on to the next
one so we can try to break down the
competitive phase again into two smaller
phases we don't necessarily have to do
this but there's something that we can
do one of the things we want to keep in
mind within these phases basically about
90% of the things that we're doing
should be highly sports specific meaning
should be directly impactful on success
in sports we're really taking out a lot
of superfluous things anything if we
can't pinpoint something that has a
impact on sport performance it's gone
right so if you were doing something and
you're not really sure if it belongs
there or not it's gone right we're only
doing things that lead to success in our
sport now within this competitive phase
we're gonna break it down into two
phases again the pre-competitive phase
is where we start to see peaking at a
prank for things like endurance sports
or things that have a single time point
that we're competing at we can also see
other things like exhibition and
friendly games games that are kind of
not super important to us or don't
affect our actual standing and our
organization or in our ability to make
nationals or state championships or
world championships anything like that
so this is kind of where we see either
peaking and tapering occurring or we
have competitions that we're not really
overly concerned about the second half
is the main competitive this is where
we're having all the actual competitions
that are significant to our athlete
meeting they actually have some type of
standing on their ability to go on to do
bigger and better things so this is
where most of the main competitions for
your sports season or for anything
that's going to lead to you going on to
a you know state local national World
Olympic type championship scenario is
going to occur right and that's how
we're gonna break that down so we
basically have kind of like preseason
stuff and actual main season stuff
pretty simple last but not least on our
list here on our main phases is that
transition phase now this is something
that I think people don't give enough
credit to the transition phase is kind
of awesome in a number of different ways
so as the name kind of implies the
transition phase is used kind of as a
transition period between different
training plans right so if you have
sports that have multiple seasons like
track and field has an indoor and an
outdoor season you might have two
training plans that you're working on
and this is a way to link those together
or if you do something like rugby where
they do kind of like spring fall summer
all the time kind of thing you might
actually have three training plans that
you're linking together this is what the
transition phase is useful now the
transition phase is typically used at
the end of major competition periods
where they've done really really hard
training for a long time they had a
really really tough competition period
and now they generally need a little bit
of a break so the transition phase comes
in three main forms and then I actually
like to keep a fourth one in there that
I'm gonna explain in a sec the first one
that we use in the transition phase is
what we just call complete rest where
the person has literally pushed it to
the limit they are psychologically
physically over it right this is when
you're going to the gym you lied I can't
I want to see another wall ball I don't
want to look at a barbell or dumbbell
I'm gonna puke if I have to do anything
related to my sport ever again right I'm
just sick of it I'm over it this is a
great time to actually just do some
complete rest where you say look you
know what homie go do your thing right
try not to be a piece of crap
don't lose muscles don't get super fat
don't lose you like your basic
cardiovascular endurance but you know
what we're not going to give you a
prescription of exercise or nutrition
just go do your thing come back see me
again in two three weeks right complete
rest that scenario is okay it's not a
great scenario you want to find yourself
in but it does happen and there's some
really epic stories I've heard dr.
Israel talk about some Russian lifters
who after their powerlifting season are
weightlifting season they just like
peace out they just like disappear they
got off the grid for like three months
at a time or something just totally
ridiculous right is that the best way to
do it I say probably not but there are
definitely times when that's warranted
absolutely so complete rest is an option
the one that we usually use more often
than not is what we call active rest
where we might not be giving them an
actual prescription but the person is
continuing to train continuing to at
least maintain some some part of their
diet and some part of their
cardiovascular fitness so they might
just be going to the gym doing some bro
workouts hitting some shrugs and some
curls right maybe just doing some light
press knee extension that's fine they're
just doing training to help them
maintain fitness maintain lean body mass
not get super fat not get super out of
shape and it doesn't necessarily have to
be super super crazy sport specific
training can kind of just be whatever
let just go to the gym three or four
days per week have a good time come back
and see me in a few weeks and we'll
start training hard again right no big
deal another all we can do is kind of
what people will call an offseason which
is where the person comes in they're
still highly motivated they're not super
beat up they're not carrying around a
lot of damage or baggage from the season
and they still want to train now we can
actually put them through like a really
really tough offseason workout where
they come in and they really just do for
lack of a better term like physique
bodybuilding style training really just
to put on lots of work capacity lots of
muscle mass and it's mostly just for fun
right so they're not doing super
grueling sports specific training or
they're having to do sprints and repeat
it sprints and all their different sport
skills this is just hey let's go to the
gym get really fit and have a great time
and then eventually we're going to
transition back to doing sport training
but for now let's just go let's just get
after and have a great time in the gym
right if you can get that on board with
that that's really great because we
don't have to worry about them D
training and losing fitness they're
probably gonna actually gain Fitness at
this time it doesn't always work out
unfortunately because if they were
training hard throughout their season
and competing hard they're probably
going to be carrying around a little bit
of baggage physical and psychological
baggage so active rest is probably what
we go to more often than not and then
last kind of the fourth option which I
like to include in this is what I like
to call a return to fitness so sometimes
one of the problems that you have is if
you have sports that have a long season
where they're competing for four or five
six months hockey baseball come to mind
what ends up happening is you end up
doing low volume training for a very
very long time which is not inherently
bad but it does put you at a very large
risk for adaptive decay in the long term
the problem that you run into is a lot
of coaches have picked up on this and
they say man I noticed my athlete lost a
couple pounds of LBM over the season why
is that well it's probably because they
weren't training at sufficient
maintenance volumes anymore because they
were competing so much it happens so
what do they say they go hot damn we
need to get back to training right what
do they do they throw the book at the
athlete now they're going in and doing
four by ten five by ten six by ten after
coming off of a phase including two by
twos four months well what happens well
it's just too much too fast and the
athletes break down one of the things we
see in collegiate athletics all the time
is that some of the highest injury rates
that occur throughout the year are
actually after break periods so when
they kids go off to winter break you
know like over the the Christmas time
holidays whatever whatever it is people
are celebrating when they do that and
when they go on summer break what
happens when when they go on break
periods unfortunate let's keep it real
here they don't do right they just
go home and eat pizza and hang out with
their friends and family they don't
train right so they basically just take
a month off same thing goes in the
summertime they're just hanging out at
the beach chillin having some beers with
their homies they come back to school
it's training time they start doing hard
training they start breaking down right
away simply because they weren't did not
have the work capacity that they needed
to do that hard training yet so why am i
writing about all this stuff well one of
the ways that we can ameliorate that is
by using this transition phase where we
have a return to fitness phase so if
they have been doing very very low
volume training for a long time you
cannot throw them back into strength
endurance or hypertrophy and expect to
have really good outcomes they're going
to just go
into overreaching right away and it's
going to be a fatigue management
shitstorm the entire time so what we're
going to do is actually just use a
couple weeks to build up some real real
basic work capacity again so they're
gonna come in do some 2 by 5 s 3 by 5's
4 by 5's nothing crazy right 5 most
people can handle 5 reps no big deal
right it's when you get up to like 8 10
12 15 that's when it starts to get
really really challenging right they're
gonna do that eventually but we're going
to use this transition phase to help
them return more gradually so if they've
been doing like two by twos 3 by 2 is
even like 1 by twos
don't throw the book at them don't hit
them with the 5 by 10 right have them do
a return to fitness for 2 or 3 weeks at
a time and just keep it in the basic
strength range so kind of like our 4 to
8 repetition range I would say you know
5s is a good number six is a good number
and just have them do a 2 by 5 3 by 5
for 2 or 3 weeks it builds up just a
little bit of work capacity and then
when they get back into their general
preparatory stuff when they're doing
their strength endurance work their
hypertrophy work it won't break them
down right away they'll have a little
bit more tolerance to that training so
that's something I really like to do
hopefully you guys can incorporate that
as well
so those are the big phases and those
are how we actually use those phases as
well so here's that diagram again
hopefully you haven't forgotten about it
and hopefully it makes a little bit more
sense now that we're looking at again so
right we have our preparatory phase our
general preparatory phase is the
furthest away from competition we're
just working on basic fitness basic
skills as we transition into the
specific prep phase we start working on
more maximum strength more power speed
developments kind of stuff and we start
working a lot more on our sport practice
and our sport skills and tactics and
then of course as we move into the
competitive phase we're completely
focused on competition and winning and
then we have that transition phase at
the end which can use in a number of
different versal ways so I think it's
really cool to kind of break these
things down and it makes it really
really easy to organize into a plan last
thing I wanted to touch on for this
lecture I know it's a lot of information
bear with me is integrating some
nutritional concepts into this plan as
well this is something that we're really
passionate about here at Rp is not only
getting the training down but also
integrating the nutrition as well so we
can take those same sub phases we have
the preparatory phase the competitive
phase the transition phase and all of
its various sub phases we can actually
also pair that with a corresponding
nutritional phase that we can integrate
so we have this kind of more holistic
approach to periodization so let's start
furthest away right and our preparatory
phase in the notice
category in our general preparatory
phase one of the things that we're going
to do in our general preparatory phase
is what I like to call a body
composition alteration nutritional phase
this will be just like we mentioned
before nutrition that focus is not
gaining muscle mass or maintaining
muscle mass while we lose fat one of the
things that we want to work on is just
developing some basic dietary and
hydration habits for our athlete if
they're not used to dieting and as a
more scientific structured way this is a
time where we start introducing some of
these things to them like how to
actually prep their food how to make
some basic measurements like hey make
sure you're eating enough protein make
sure you're eating enough carbohydrates
not too crazy just yet we're just trying
to develop some basic habits like eating
pre intra post before bedtime having
something for breakfast like all those
kind of things really really easy and
then what we want to start doing is
start monitoring their body weight this
is something that we want to get them in
the routine of doing a lot of people
don't keep track of their body weight
can be very detrimental when you're
trying to actually hit anthropometric
standards for body comp right so we want
to make sure that we're getting them
used to some of these eating habits
getting them used to hydrating getting
them used to monitoring their body
weight and now we're going to start
getting them to either eat more to gain
a muscle or eat a little bit less to
lose fat hopefully as we transition into
the specific prep phase we want them to
have already achieved before they get
here a body weight within plus or minus
2% of their goal or competition body
weight now their goal weight might not
always be their ideal competition body
weight but whatever we want to compete
at for this season whatever it is they
need to be within plus or minus 2% of
that body weight before they transition
into the specific prep phase so this
dietary phase that goes with the
specific prep phase I like to call it
stabilization so at this point we're
going to stop doing any body composition
alteration we're not going to try and
keep gaining weight we're not going to
try and keep losing weight we're going
to move into maintenance level calories
so that means if they were doing a mass
phase we're going to reduce their
calories to maintenance if they were
doing a cut phase we're going to
increase their calories to me right once
they hit that we're going to continue
refining those eating and hydration
patterns now we're going to say you know
what you've done a good job making sure
you're eating certain things at certain
times now we're going to start getting
those quantities down a little bit more
refined so I'm going to say hey instead
of just eating some protein you're gonna
30 grams of protein at this time you're
going to have 45 grams of carbohydrates
and you're gonna have 30 grams of fat I
just made those numbers up don't take it
early right but now we're actually
giving them a little bit more
prescription we're saying there are
times I want you to eat and there are
quantities of certain foods that I want
you to eat it's not just kind of eating
whatever anymore so now we're actually
saying hey these things at these times
in these amounts right absolutely and
then one of the big things that we want
to start doing as a result of
stabilizing their body weight is just
alleviating some of that die fatigue for
those of you who have ever done a mass
or cut that before you know it's tough
massing it's tough when I get to the end
cutting is always basically always tough
right so we want to start taking away
some of those stressors right we're
going to move them into maintenance
don't worry about changing your body
weight anymore don't worry about having
to just be Skeletor starving all the
time or being super Jabba the Hutt fatty
bloated all the time right we're gonna
take away some of those stressors so you
can just be normal and really focus on
just having a great great training
leading up into your competition as we
move into the competitive phase we
transition our diet into a recovery and
performance style diet and what this
really is is we're gonna keep that
maintenance level calories and now we're
gonna go a little bit more carb heavy so
we're gonna start swapping out some of
our calories that we have from things
like fats we're gonna move them down to
pretty pretty low getting closer to
minimal values and really really start
increasing the amount of carbohydrate we
have if we have a little bit of protein
to work with we might bring that down
but for the most part proteins probably
gonna stay the same unless they were
already kind of on the heavy end on the
protein if they were on the heavy end we
can take some of those calories on from
protein and swap in some carbohydrates
but that's primarily going to come from
how much fat they're eating so we're
going to move our fat down more like
basic kind of minimal levels really
really ramped up the amount of
carbohydrates and really make sure
they're having great training great
recovery we're gonna help them maintain
their hue hydration so make sure that
they're staying hydrated and then making
sure that they're maintaining their lean
body mass that is huge it's another
reason why we don't want to start
reducing protein as the training volume
goes down they'd yet they can become
more susceptible to losing muscle mass
over time so we want to make sure
they're still getting lots of carbs
still getting that big anabolic
carbohydrate response still getting lots
of protein maintaining all that muscle
mass and then last as we transition into
that active rest phase again the active
rest phase is meant to alleviate that
that's psychological and physical
fatigue from that hard training stimulus
right so really what we're doing with
the diet is we're just saying look don't
be a piece of crap
eat enough protein don't overeat on the
junk if you want to have like some fun
foods here there if you want to go to
IHOP and have some pancakes you want to
have some pizza here and there that's
totally fine just don't get over fat
don't lose a ton of muscle mass because
you're not eating any protein and you
know don't don't get dehydrated things
like that
one of the things that we do have to
emphasize here is they have to still
maintain a reasonable body weight what
is a reasonable body weight I can't tell
you what a simple answer a simple answer
for that because that's going to depend
on the person and their goals but
ideally right we don't want them to
become a little skinny mini nor do you
want to be a fatty boom bladdy
right that's the scientific way of
saying that so ideally we're just saying
hey you're gonna take a little break
from structured dieting I don't want you
to put on a lot of extra fat nor do I
want you to shrivel up I mean right so
just make some smart choices but if you
want to have fun eat some other foods
and not stress too much over that that's
perfectly fine well that was a lot huh
so we got through all the training stuff
and we actually looked at how we can
integrate some nutritional concepts into
our periodization plan pretty cool all
right well thanks for joining me today I
thought this was really awesome
something I like to talk about next time
I'm gonna show you how to actually start
constructing your annual plan into
whatever medium that you want to use so
thanks again for tuning in rp+ see you
guys next time
you