so it's not a bad technique at all if I
was critiquing here what I would love to
see is Chris maybe put on some
weightlifting shoes to get extra heel
support and thus increases ankle
Mobility if that's a limiting factor for
him just in case I recommend that to
most people so you see his feet are up
in the Middle top side of the platform
I'd love to see them as low as possible
that would allow him to have less degree
of hip flexion you train a lot of glutes
and lower back leg pressing like this
but you want to train quads which means
you want as much knee flexion as
possible so if you take your foot and
you lower it on the platform you get
more knee flexion and that way you get a
better quad stimulus now the downside of
that so to speak is that you don't you
can't use as much weight as you normally
would well Chris is using all the weight
in the gym so not a problem for him if
he would used to use less weight he
would have to spend less time putting
plates onto and off the machine that's
actually independently fatiguing it's
also that position is just overall less
stress through your body less force and
probably better for all your joints so
something definitely to consider if
you're training uh leg press like this
in your own spare time with your workout
routine