consider getting yourself a step tracker
this means also you get tons of stuff
done so for example if you have a cardio
session later and you have to go grocery
shopping for your family like damn I
have a lot of to do this sucks but
if you have a step tracker you just go
grocery shopping 3 000 steps later
you're like holy crap I'm almost done
with my cardio take a couple walks
around the block and you're done what a
step tracker does is it kind of Records
all of your meaningful physical activity
throughout the day sums it up so that
problem of your physical activity
dropping to make up for cardio just
can't happen anymore as long as you hit
your minimum 10 to 12K then you're good
to go some people 8K is enough other
people like to do 14k plus 10 to 12 is
somewhere you can start and go from
there