hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization fitness myths number 15 of
the series you must do cardio to lose
fat
this is a myth interesting let's find
out why so the claim here is
something like the following
when a fat loss program begins most
people do oh about three things they
generally cut out junk which is good
idea a lot of them cut carbs which may
or may not be a good idea and almost
everyone starts doing some kind of
cardio
the major ways in which they do the
cardio
is for example like early morning runs
that's a huge thing people on fitness
journey seem to love love love
is they're like all right i'm gonna wake
up every morning at 5 00 am and run i
can't think of too many things that set
up failure more than the early morning
run bs because
sleep is a motherfucker you love getting
it so do i
and if you're cutting into your sleep if
even from a physiological perspective
it's stupid for fat loss
why exactly are we running that early in
the morning what ends up happening is
as the weeks go by you skip a couple
sessions you realize you like sleep more
and you just get out of the habit
because you really designed a habit that
was the hardest possible thing to do at
the worst possible time
and it's kind of designed to fail
ideally fitness habits are easy and very
integratable into your life in early
morning runs are the opposite opposite
opposite of all that it can work for you
and i'm super happy it does if it does
but this is a terrible mistake a ton of
people make or they'll do a thing where
they'll say okay i do
three or four or five whatever number x
number of weekly sessions in the gym on
a cardio machine for x y z amount of
time 30 minutes an elliptical four times
a week and a lot of times they're like
that'll take up loads of time especially
if they drive to the gym to go use the
cardio machine which is kind of curious
you could just walked around the block
by then and gotten the same amount of
calories burned uh and also like they'll
be super hard weight training and they
say well i still have to do cardio
because i got to lose fat so they stay
after the weight training they get on
these cardio machines they do it for 30
or 40 minutes after the weight training
and it probably blunts the adaptations
of weight training which is to say it
becomes more difficult to hold on to
muscle mass and strength because you're
sandwiching cardio right after training
ideally you would do it very very far
apart
but people don't want to give up these
habits they still want to get up they
still think they should be getting up
early in the morning to go running they
still think they have to make it to a
physical gym four times a week to do
cardio they still think they have to do
cardio after training because they say
okay i'm in a fat loss plan that means i
do cardio that's what fat loss plans are
you got to control your diet you got to
do cardio because everyone says that's
the truth now
apparently that's wrong apparently it's
a myth so i said in these slides let's
find out why
first
fat loss
is always and ever about calories in
versus calories out
if you're weight training and nutrition
mostly eating enough protein a few times
a day training hard in in the gym with
weights
if it is designed to prevent muscle loss
which is not very hard
then if you generate a caloric deficit
fat loss will occur cardio or not it has
to occur there's nowhere else for the
tissue to come from
cardio can dig the deficit deeper so if
your diet deficit plus your normal
physical activity is 500 calories below
maintenance if you do 300 extra cardio
calories per day and you don't make up
for it by being lazy or other times then
now you're 800 calories in the hole
it'll dig the deficit deeper but it's
not some kind of magical fat loss tool
as a matter of fact almost all pills and
potions and powders even that work they
just dig your deficit deeper for you
like people you know will do the other
side of you know sort of drugs that are
have to be approved by doctor are not
super legal they'll take thyroid drugs
they'll take drugs like dnp and oh it's
a fat loss drug like it just digs a
deficit hole it just burns off calories
for you you could be burning them in any
other way by reducing food or increased
physical activity and they seem to just
like they say oh i gotta take this drug
to get lean that's not true so i gotta
do cardio because cardio is the special
thing that's outside of a caloric
deficit somehow makes me lean and that's
just not true cardio for fat loss only
really does one thing it just creates a
deficit that's it okay and if you can
get the deficit done some other way
you're actually maybe better off here's
to the second point
if you work a physical job or are pretty
active anyway you could already be
burning tons of fat that way you're
already generating a huge deficit so
let's say you're super active and you're
160 pounds you need to eat 3 500
calories per day to just keep your
weight all you got to do is cut your
calories to 3 000 which is like super
easy just cut some junk foods out
through the week and then all of a
sudden you're losing like a pound a week
having changed nothing and say well
aren't you doing cardio like i work as a
factory supervisor i walk 25 000 steps
every day that is fucking cardio just as
a baseline low activity is under 5 000
subs a day moderator is 5 000 to 10 000
steps a day 10 000 to 15 000 is
considered high 15 000 plus is
considered like question mark question
mark question mark so i physically know
people that are factory foreman or
supervisors and they walk around all the
time they get 20 000 plus stops per day
they ask me like should i be doing
cardio if i want to lose fat the only
thing i say is cut out your junk or cut
down on junk cut down the amount of
refined sugar and extra fat you have in
your diet and watch and they do it
they're like holy crap i'm losing two
pounds a week for the last eight weeks
it's super easy if you're already super
active you don't need the magic potion
of cardio
on the other hand there's a downside
here potentially
if
you do extra cardio on top of that it
may interfere with your schedule imagine
being a factory supervisor and working
10 and 12 hour days and then also having
to do cardio what the hell for you are
already super active
it's a terrible for your schedule and
you're very likely to start to try to
quit and then if you quit on cardio some
people think put on the cardio why the
hell am i even controlling my diet i
know from the other youtube videos i've
seen it's cardioplus diet got to do both
if i can't do one i might as well not be
doing the other and that's just not true
point number three
if your diet fatigue
starts to rise very high
which means one of the things that
really the thing that predicts that is
the magnitude of your deficit how much
in the whole are you from calories
consumed versus calories produced right
if your deficit gets really big by
adding a ton of cardio for example what
can happen is your non-exercise activity
thermogenesis just your normal amount of
movement you have through the day starts
to decline your body's exceptionally
good at conserving your energy and
trying for you to not
sort of
whittle away all of your body mass so if
you're starting to do a ton and this has
been shown in some very interesting
studies as your cardio levels go up
what ends up happening is the amount of
physical activity you do at other times
of the day start to go down so for
example if you know your wife's in the
kitchen and she's like honey can you
take out the trash it's trash day
tomorrow if you've done a ton of cardio
that day you're more likely to be like
oh baby i'm super beat can you please do
it she's like yeah no problem i'm on my
way out there anyway and then you don't
take out the trash and that's calories
you didn't burn you just sit on a couch
like this so normally you'd burn a
thousand calories just walking around
through the day now you're burning 500
because you turned into a lazy asshole
we say well where are the other 500
coming from were you doing 500 calories
of like cardio and a machine instead of
doing the machine cardio you can just do
a thousand calories of moving around
you'll accomplish more in your life and
it won't lead to this crazy reduction
where you feel like crap all the time it
interferes with your work and your life
enjoyment and everything
there is
this idea that the more cardio you do
the better but that cap of where your
body stops letting you do more activity
will hit and if you power through during
cardio it will hit you in other points
of your life walking to and from a
mailbox moving around and when you talk
to your friends on the phone instead of
pacing you just sit there all this other
stuff it turns out adding more cardio at
some point doesn't even burn any more
calories or very few
and if you
keep the cardio in
you say okay well i hit on my cardio
sessions you may still think you're
generating a huge deficit but because
you're now less active your body's like
whoa cool we can't have this much
activity
the deficit's still the same size so you
could say ooh i'm hitting my cardio i'm
fine i should lose lots of weight week
after week after week
you don't lose a lot of weight you could
think like what the hell is going on why
am i not losing the weight i'm supposed
to be it's because you reduced your
regular activity and increased cardio i
don't know about you guys but doing
regular stuff accomplishes things that
cardio does not cardio just accomplishes
you doing this on a treadmill and maybe
you watch a video or listen to music or
a podcast you can do that stuff doing
chores around the house
generating the same deficit and being
more useful to everyone including
yourself
now
that's a whole lot of anti-cardio for
one slide
what about grains of truth where is this
more or less correct
if your daily activity is very low just
naturally you don't have a lot to do
around the house or something like that
or you work a very sedentary job you sit
at a computer all the time cardio can
help
however i would encourage you
to get a step tracker and just be more
active walking doing stuff here's my
step tracker
it's the myfit mi.fit it's a chinese
company i'm probably being hacked right
now but uh who knows jk it's a fine step
tracker any one of them works and i just
have a goal that on my massing phases i
have to do at least 9000 steps on
average per per day over the course
averaged over a week or so
and then on a fat loss phase i'm like my
average is like 11 000. that's it as
long as i hit those numbers i'm good to
go and i know i'm creating enough of a
deficit where the diet adjustment does
the rest of it right
because if you get a step tracker
it actually monitors all your physical
activity mostly walking but also just
taking stuff off of shells and stuff
like that it registers that as well
what you can do
is count all of your physical activity
through the whole day to generate
deficit it's it's uh scientifically more
accurate because when you say to
yourself you get out of trouble say oh i
did 500 calories on a treadmill you're
actually not measuring the you know 15
other hour 15 other waking hours of the
day where you could be doing a lot of
activity or little and then your
activity is actually fluctuating a ton
and when you're not losing weight in a
more linear pattern like you think
you're like fuck what is it i think i'm
eating properly well you could be but
your physical activity could be all over
the map if you get a step tracker you
more or less automatically know to a
much higher degree of precision what
you're actually doing on the calories
outside and since you control the
calories inside with food it really
closes the loop and it makes your life
so much less stressful because you never
have to question am i doing enough
cardio because you know like even if
you're doing enough on the elliptical
you're ooh but am i not being energetic
enough in my other parts of the day and
am i slowing down to make up for it to
give my elliptical cardio a bit more
energy you never can tell unless you
have a step tracker huge recommendation
point number two
if you like cardio machines or you like
your morning run then by all means keep
doing them
i'm not trying to talk you out of cardio
cardio is great if that's the best
solution for the problem and if you
actually like doing it and it fits your
schedule i would still consider adding a
step tracker
to the rest of your life and even while
you're on the machine to make sure your
total activity is at your baseline level
for what it isn't maintenance or a
little higher when you're trying to lose
fat because that way you don't get into
this sort of conundrum of like oh i know
i'm hitting the cardio
but am i slacking on everything else if
you have a step tracker you can still
hit your cardio just like you like but
because the step tracker is always on it
counts your cardio and it counts all the
other stuff for the day so you can say
ah okay
you know i hit 12 000 steps every day
every day every day i know i'm doing the
right thing the out of the equation is
taken care of the anti take care of with
diet it's a closed loop and no problem i
can lose all the weight that i
programmed to lose no problem
all right best practices
first diet always comes first control it
or your chances for losing fat and
weight are going to be very low
there's tons of infographics about this
i'm sure you can search but if you
search like what kind of activity levels
require the
burning off of various calories of junk
foods like ice cream cone or donut or
lollipop
fuck lollipop who the hell eat the
lollipops we ate
i guess i don't know i'm in a lollipop
mood
if you look at those charts
good god it's depressing because like
one donut you gotta run like three miles
to burn that shit off what fuck that so
if you're like yeah i would control my
diet but i love donuts too much i'll
just do more cardio like you have no
idea what you're saying there's marathon
runner training levels of cardio you'd
have to do to compensate for five or six
donuts it's unbelievable control your
diet and you could start losing weight
without any cardio at all without even
fucking step tracker when you get more
serious or more meticulous you can get a
snap tracker you can do formal cardio
diet has to be in there
the idea that i'll just do it with uh
with you know training only and i don't
have to worry about my diet it's going
to fail for almost everyone you're not a
trained marathon owner so you're
probably not going to work for you
second
make sure your physical activity is on
the moderate high side not on the
extreme high side because as mentioned
earlier that's excessively fatiguing and
it's unsustainable you'll you're just
going to peter off and eventually going
to be so tired you're not going to be
able to keep it up if it's on the low
side you'll have to cut your food a
crapload in order to see the results
that you want as far as weekly
weight loss and that sucks you'd be
starving and low on energy
moderate to high for most people that
means somewhere between ten thousand and
fifteen thousand steps and there's no
bonus going from ten to eleven eleven to
twelve twelve to thirteen ten to fifteen
anywhere that matches lifestyle is good
if you can do more than fifteen
sustainably and you're not super
fatigued after a few days or weeks
by all means keep going
if anything close to seven eight or nine
beats you up and you're just too much
hey respect it's okay do what you can
but ideally the goal is like around 10
000 and between 10 and 15 especially on
that lower side between 10 to 13 or
something
that's the golden zone for many people
not all but that's really good
if you think well the more i do the
better remember fatigue can catch up to
you and then sustainability is out the
window if sustainability is out the
window oh look you're not losing fat
over the course of a week that's visibly
different in your body it's weeks and
weeks and weeks and that way something
sustainable has to be a thing
point number three
if your pre-planned cardio like the
elliptical or my morning run if it fits
your schedule is sustainable and you
like it by all means keep on going super
super awesome to do but
point number four if you're losing
weight and fat just fine without any
kind of formal cardio there's no need
for formal cardio of any kind and that's
really the myth the idea that you need
formal
cardio you got to get on a machine or
you got to run
in order to get results and all the
stuff kind of is very well exhibited in
like office conversations where people
are like man you're losing a lot of
weight i can tell you like oh thanks jim
that's really great and he's like what
are you doing for cardio like there's a
need to have to answer that question
right and it's a little disappointing
when you go actually you just have a
step tracker and our ten thousand steps
and that's it jim's gonna kind of be
like huh
so you're not doing cardio and there's
like kind of a subtext of like oh you're
lazy asshole or you could get better
results none of that's true if you
generate a decent deficit like 500
calorie cut and you keep your activity
level from falling and you keep it at a
moderate high level so maybe two or
three hundred calories more than you
normally would on maintenance holy crap
at 700 800 calorie deficit that's like a
pound and a half a week you could
potentially lose a fat
that really is that golden zone that
sustainable zone give it some thought
folks see you next time
you