hey everyone uh so I wanted to do a
quick update for you guys uh today is
February the 15th
2016 um and as of this morning I started
a mini cut phase uh so I've basically
work my way up to 170 lb uh I'm just
about 6 months post show uh so typically
I won't recommend anyone doing uh any
sort of formal fat loss phase uh within
6 months after a competition um just
because I think that that's more or less
around the time uh that it takes for
everything to sort of re-equilibrate for
testosterone to get back to normal uh
for energy levels mood hunger and
everything to sort of settle into place
uh at least from my experience and from
the very limited data that we do have um
in my case I actually did start to feel
normal after probably uh about a month
or maybe two uh after two months I was
you know setting PRS in the gym and uh I
was basically like had less appetite
than I would normally expect um so I
feel
like how good you feel and how quickly
you sort of return to normal um might be
dictated by how fast you're willing to
gain weight and to gain fat um and in my
case I was willing to put on fat as kind
of as fast as I as I wanted to um and
then when I got to the point where I
felt like I was at my set point I had
the wherewithal and I had the restraint
to um just simply hold it there uh so I
I knew how much I could get away with
eating and I was careful not to to push
that too far um but at this point I
think that I've reached that sort of
upper limit of where I'd like to be in
my offseason in terms of body fat and so
um I yeah I would like to drop down uh
probably 10 lbs or so what I'm going to
be doing over the next probably 6 to 8
weeks is aiming to lose about 1 to 1 and
1/2 lb per week uh so where I'd like to
end up is around 160 lb um and my main
reason for doing this uh one I think it
would be smart for me to stay a little
bit closer to my competition weight uh
at this point in my training career I'm
not going to be making massive strides
in terms of of building new muscle
tissue uh so I think that for me as a
competitive bodybuilder the smartest
thing to do is really focus on nailing
my conditioning and making progress at a
lighter body weight furthermore I think
that the best I ever actually looked in
my offseason uh in terms of like just
walking around uh was in late 2013 uh
right before I began my prep for the
muscle Mayhem and this was at the end of
a reverse diet which followed a mini cut
uh so I did cut for a couple of months
um at the end of my cut I was on
something like 2600 calories per day uh
and at that point I began a reverse diet
and over the course of 3 or 4 months I
was able to get my calories from
2600 um all the way up to 3600 and as
many of you guys probably know I'm
typically not a big advocate of reverse
dieting uh much less low and prolonged
reverse dieting uh but typically this
criticism from me comes within the
context of a post show reverse diet uh
so for people who are just trying to say
get lean for like a photo shoot uh which
I plan on doing in the near future uh or
for someone who just wants to get like
beach lean or whatever uh I think that
doing a reverse diet is a really good
way to increase your food intake um and
sort of fill out your physique uh while
maintaining Main in the level of
leanness and I think that provided that
caloric intake doesn't get excessively
low and you're not experiencing the you
know the hormonal changes and CH you
know like drastic changes in mood and
hunger and that sort of stuff that tends
to go alongside with a contest prep uh
then I think that a reverse diet can
absolutely be the most uh applicable
thing in in a in a situation just want
to talk briefly about what I believe it
is that allowed me to get my calorie up
by a th000 calories per day um
physiologically speaking uh so I think
that there are probably four main
factors uh that were contributing to
this increase in energy intake without
gaining any weight the first one would
be increased exercise activity
thermogenesis uh so increased eat so
essentially this just means I've got
more food coming in uh I just tend to
push myself harder in the training
sessions and expend more energy that way
the second would be increased neat uh
which stands for non- exercise activity
thermogenesis uh and this is essentially
anything that involves energy
expenditure that doesn't have to do with
digesting your food uh sleeping or
actual formal exercise um so things like
fidgeting you know walking around a
little bit faster uh just having a
little bit more energy throughout the
day and moving around a little bit more
um and this is probably the main factor
when you see people who
have largely successful reverse diets in
terms of drastically increasing their
energy intake I think that most of that
increase in intake can be attributed to
an increase in output uh in the form of
neat the third Factor would be um
potential hormonal changes uh so things
like increasing testosterone increasing
thyroid hormone decreasing cortisol um I
don't think that these account for as
much as some people might like to think
uh but it certainly could go along with
the other other factors fourth would
have to do with uh an increase in muscle
mass uh so you know when you are
training harder and you're eating more
uh seems plausible that I could have
actually gained some uh lean tissue and
so that is more metabolically active
tissue so even though it may not be
quite as metabolically active as some
people uh would have you believe um it
none nonetheless does burn calories uh
so if I did add muscle mass that could
be sort of like a smaller fourth Factor
that could be contributing so yeah I'm
not going to be uh tracking macros at
least not to start off um I just find
that that can be a major time suck for
me uh so I have a really good idea of um
what I'm taking in in terms of of
macronutrients and micronutrients um and
so I'm just going to be basically
following uh more of a set structure
with uh a focus on Whole Foods foods
high in fiber lean Foods I'm really
going to try to limit my fat intake uh
to kick things off and then to be my
main guide I'm just going to pay
attention to the to the scale so to my
body weight and if it starts to get uh
ahead of me in the sense that I'm losing
a little bit too fast uh then I'll
simply uh increase my food intake a
little bit uh and if it's being a little
bit slow uh then I'll start paying more
attention uh to where my calories are
coming from and so then at the end of
the cut what I'll probably do is start
tracking a little bit more meticulously
and then try to reverse diet again uh so
that I can fill out my physique so guys
that's the basic update from me I had a
few friends visit from New Finland uh so
Phil Snellgrove and his girlfriend Jess
best uh were in town for a few days both
of these people I'm actually prepping
for uh a competition in May um and
they're just both incredible athletes I
think Phil is probably one of the best
amateur natural bodybuilders in Canada
uh he just has an outstanding physique
and the same thing goes for Jess she has
literally probably the best back
development that I've seen on on a
natural female um it's really incredible
uh so we went and and demolished a leg
workout uh with my friend from from
Halifax here uh Patty lifts uh who is a
guy that I'm prepping uh for the natural
muscle Mayhem in California uh and I
actually make frequent appearances on
his channel um we basically do weekly
updates uh so coaching updates from me
uh in terms of changes to macros changes
to cardio um we dive into some of the
details of his training program um and
all that kind of stuff uh so if you guys
would like to see more from me or more
from my sort of in-depth coaching
perspective uh then I'd recommend
checking out his channel and subscribing
so that you can follow along with our
journey uh more specifically his journey
uh to the stage I'm going to roll the
clip from the leg workout uh shout out
to my brother for this awesome edit and
I hope that you guys
[Music]
enjoy ran
[Music]
l hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey
hey he hey hey
[Music]
heyy
[Music]
hey hey hey he hey hey hey he hey
heyy hey
[Music]
heyy
[Music]
he
hey
heyy hey hey hey hey hey heyy hey
[Music]
hey
[Music]
ran
[Music]
LEL