you don't need to train heavy to grow
muscle if you're a micro Mentor family
this video might offend you several
recent review papers have all found that
you can grow muscle just fine whether
you're training heavier or lighter
provided sets or taking close to failure
should you still include heavy training
in your program for muscle growth yeah
you probably should at least if you're
looking to optimize Apple retreat in
fact a recent analysis found that when
combining a variety of rough ranges that
seems to lead to more hypertrophy than
if you just do one rep range the heavier
training does carry over better to
maximum strength if you want to get a
pretty big squat a pretty good bench
heavier trading like say doing such a
five would generally carry over way
better to your owner Max than doing says
20. heavier training may or may not be a
bit more pain inducing or injury causing
strength Sports generally have higher
injury rates I'm not going to say
training heading is going to injure you
but there's a chance that training
heavier in general may cause slightly
more injuries to trading ladder there's
some research comparing sets of between
about two and four repetitions two sets
of about eight to twelve repetitions you
need to do a lot more sets of two to
four reps to get the same effect as you
would get from sets of say five to ten
go no lower than about five reps
perceptible and you're likely wasting a
bit of time and fatigue for normal
traditional benefit as far as
hypertrophy is concerned