we have an announcement theoretically we
may have stumbled upon the world's best
chest
[Music]
exercise hey folks I'm Dr Mike ell for
Renaissance periodization and
technically for Stronger by science this
is Milo wolf that's me right you're a
coach for SBS I'm a coach for my own
company for SBS you know oh you've got
your own company my
word Milo is the the world expert on
range of motion in training and that's
not an exaggeration because he really is
you are the author of the most
preeminent review and your entire
doctoral work is essentially on range of
motion and training that's correct we
have an
announcement
theoretically we may have stumbled upon
the world's best chest exercise because
we are both scientists we have to make a
caveat because of individual differences
because of
variation you can't actually have a
world's best anything
exercise why an amazing exercise that
theoretically checks all the landmarks
could for one person be fucking
beautiful and could for another just
hurt their shoulders and or just not
give them a big pump or big soreness or
big progression or anything and all of a
sudden you're like okay well theory is
Theory but it doesn't fucking work like
if someone says who is the best
restaurant in the world you can take a
hundred people to it they love it you
can take one guy to it and he's like I
didn't like it you're like what are you
going to tell him that he's supposed to
like it all right whatever it's not for
everyone variation even if you have a
king shit exercise stainless is real and
at some point 9 months into doing that
exercise you're like you know what fuck
this anything else will be better at
this point you try that anything else it
gives you less joint pain irritation
less psychological uh I don't want to do
this anymore bigger pumps more soreness
for Less volume and all of a sudden even
if it's just for a few weeks or a few
months that different exercise is better
there is an analogy to this that I
probably shouldn't say but I'll say
anyway when you know I'm saying you've
been with the same girl for a long time
anything else is better
watermelon Cole cut in it the world's
best chest exercise with the Nuance
context that did real yes of course
there's all this Nuance my proposal and
I want to see how Milo takes to it the
cambered bar bench press here are the
advantages number one it puts you in an
accentuated loaded stretched position
which your research has leaned is
probably the most
hypertrophic big green check mark yes so
far so good second this Implement allows
you the stability loadability
and small Progressive element of a
barbell you can put 2 and a 12 pounds on
there you can put five you can put 10
you have the ability to make it
Universal for all humans and body sizes
because like if you say a machine is the
best you get someone who's 5 foot one on
there like your girlfriend or whatever
and she's like I can't use this and
you're like oh God damn it you put
someone who's 6'3 on there and they're
like I can't use this you're like okay
fuck but for most people a camber bar
bench really just it accommodates almost
everyone unless you're so big that you
can't fit through the camber holy shit
then why the hell are you lifting you
want already it's got all those benefits
and the barbell tends to be a relatively
stable thing with dumbbells there's some
instability that may be a little bit
less hypertrophic because you spend time
stabilizing all the research we have on
bosu balls and standing on them the
hypertrophy is really dog shit because
you're just balancing not the same thing
with dumbbells but with a barbell man
you track and you're good to go so far
so good so far so good and then lastly
we have the idea that for machines
anytime you have a machine the Ecentric
is a little bit reduced because of the
friction but the friction is added to
the concentric which means the ratio of
concentric Ecentric is concentric
loading is is a bit higher fractionally
the Ecentric but from theoretical work
we understand that Ecentric is probably
really grows a lot of muscle maybe a
little bit more than concentric even if
it's tied it's probably a little bit
more in the Ecentric realm so because
it's a barbell free weight movement you
get all the Ecentric
loading is there a chest exercise you
can think of that on those or other
metrics is theoretically hypothetically
superior to the cambered bar bench which
the closest I can get and again caveat
of individualization a lot of people for
example find this exercise difficult in
their shoulders MH would be the dumbbell
fly yes dumbbell fly is relatively
stable not as stable as the bench
relatively loadable though you have to
add reps at some point which is totally
fine adding reps I was on that study shf
felt study about rep Edition it works
totally great um it's it's an isolation
movement so it's not compound movement
which isn't a dig at it for chest it's
fine for chest it's totally fine so the
camber bar bench press I can make
another dig at it it is really the
Golden Fleece but oh godamn it everyone
has dumbbells to do presses and flies
with where the fuck are you going to get
a camber bar my best recommendation is
if you're serious about lifting honestly
the thing costs like 250 bucks you can
just fucking get a ship to you as far as
barbell go that's fucking cheap and if
you don't have $250 just save like20 $5
a month for 10 months and then you have
$250 anytime people say I don't have
that kind of money I'm like you just
don't want to save money which is
totally cool but because I'm Jewish it's
not totally cool and it's anathema to me
and it offends me if you can't save
money what are you doing being that
you're Austrian and I'm Jewish you a bit
of a history there don't we a little bit
yeah it's all love now now back then I'm
saying back then back then they didn't
want me now I'm hot they all on
me so camber bar bench if you have
access to it if you can talk your gym
owner to buying you or if you can get a
by yourself big tip is control that
Ecentric mhm if you can get all the way
down amazing if you can't no worries
just go as deep as you can pause for one
or two seconds at the bottom it makes
the exercise safe it makes the exercise
super effective because you spend even
more time pulling your muscles into bits
lockout doesn't have to be full you can
get just to above parallel or something
like that and then come back down or you
can do a full lockout no problem the
camera bar bench has a double sticking
point it's really weird you stick here
and then you stick here again it's the
weirdest thing in the it's so
challenging and my last recommendation
is load and set take your normal bench
press weight cut it at least in half do
the normal sets you do for chest cut
those also in half because this is such
a stimulative movement and so
challenging it'll fuck you up with
almost nothing do not put your regular
bench press weight on there as soon as
you get down to the bottom you're like
holy shit it's going to be
terrible
lastly if you really had to think it
through
have you ever considered going to Art
School in
Austria yes and what kept you from art
school in
Austria I going to get myself canceled
if we keep going down this joke because
I think I'm allowed to make Jewish jokes
but you never can tell can you can't
history in it in it it's G long
before folks I've talked myself into a
whole bunch of nonsense as usual Milo's
been more than happy Milo if people are
curious about your body of work and
about your body in general where can
they find you you can find me on
Instagram wolf coach that's my last name
wolf do you actually coach wolves I
don't you should get into it I didn't
just Pi an animal either it's an actual
last name right which is cringe you have
two wolves inside you at any time and
what are they in doing one of them is me
I'm enjoying myself and the other one is
whatever wolf you personally have
exactly great yes excellent wolf coach
on Instagram uh Milo wolf on YouTube and
my actual body of work by which I mean
my studies that would be if you Google
Milo wolf research gate you'll find oh
excellent excellent so folks look into
that and uh Milo huge pleasure having
you on the channel thank you sir try the
camera Revenge press see you guys next
time
peace what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now