you can build muscle with as few as five
sets a week per muscle and the same goes
for strength when you look at the
results of two met analyses on
hypertrophy and strength from shenfeld
and Rosman colleagues you can
potentially get up to 60% of your total
hypertrophy gains from as few as 1 to
four sets a week if you want to get 80%
of your hypertrophy gains you might need
to do 5 to 10 sets a week now if you
wanted to optimize your hypertrophy
gains you'll need to do more than 10
sets and potentially all the way up to
30 sets According to some recent high
volume studies for strength the same
numbers apply but are a little bit lower
according to analysis by Roston and
colleagues importantly this is more so
for untrained lifters for more trained
lifters it may be closer to 5 to 10 sets
to start seeing some muscle hypertrophy
another metanalysis in exclusively
trained lifters by basalin colleagues
showed really solid hypertrophy between
12 to 20 sets a week and so in just an
hour or two a week you could be building
muscle size and that is why I think