okay welcome everyone to episode number
two of technique Tuesday before we get
started with this episode I just want to
quickly say thanks to everyone for all
the amazing feedback on the last episode
on the bench press I do tend to get a
little bit of pushback especially when
it comes to setting up that arch for the
head exercise but honestly the comments
in that video we're just amazing so
thank you so much for all the support so
in this episode we're gonna be taking an
in-depth look at the pendulum row which
we can actually think of as a sort of
very strict variation on the standing
barbell row now the original Pendley row
coined by american olympic weightlifting
coach glen Pendley was originally used
to develop explosive power off the
ground for Olympic athletes but for our
purposes here which will mainly be to
build the muscles of the back we're
gonna be modifying the exercise in a few
important ways so with this movement
we're gonna be performing shoulder
extension which will be carried out
mainly by the lats in to a lesser degree
the long head of the triceps transverse
shoulder abduction which I'll hit the
rear delts and then scapular retraction
which will be handled by mostly the mid
traps also but the Pendley row because
you're so bent over there will be an
isometric lumbar extension contraction
held by the spinal erectors at the low
back throughout the whole movement and
this is important because not only will
bigger stronger erectors help to
strengthen your deadlift
they'll also lead to the appearance of a
bigger back overall since they run all
the way up the spine leading into the
lats and traps sort of enhancing their
appearance as well so we're really
hitting the entire back with this one
with no real loose ends and while the
biceps will assist with the elbow
flexion component of the lift I would
consider this exercise more the back
builder and not a bicep builder so to
set up the Pendley row make sure the bar
is evenly loaded on both sides and
you're using the safety Clips safety
clips are actually pretty critical here
because an unclipped bar almost like we
cause the plates to progressively shift
off the bar on each rep and it could
lead to increased risk of injury now
generally speaking you want to load this
movement in a more moderate rep range
usually in the
eight to 12 reps own and if you just do
too much weight with these your form is
inevitably going to break down you'll
probably start using a lot of leg drive
hip drive and so forth and because the
Pendley row puts your back in a
mechanically disadvantageous position on
purpose if you're either loading it too
heavily or doing too many reps it can't
accumulate fatigue in the lower back
which might interfere with any dead
lifting that you have later in the week
now just as a point of reference here
you can see dr. Mike is Rotel at around
250 pounds of body weight and with
extremely impressive lat development
using 235 pounds here and just notice
how his form is perfectly controlled and
each and every rep looks more or less
exactly the same so with this exercise
rather than thinking why is someone this
big so weak you instead want to think
why is someone this big using less
weights than I'm using so just for
reference here something just under 1
times body weight might be a good high
end strength standard to aim for in that
moderate rep zone all right so you want
to approach the bar similar to how you
would a conventional deadlift setting up
with roughly a shoulder-width stance if
you have longer legs you may need to use
a slightly wider stance or externally
rotate your feet out a little bit so
that your knees don't get in the way of
the bar path you want to bend down and
grab the bar by pushing your hips back
so that your shins are kept in vertical
with the barbell positioned in the mid
foot to toe area when viewed from the
side grab the bar with a double overhand
grip going slightly wider than shoulder
width you want to make sure you pick a
grip width that allows your upper arm
and lower arm to make a 90 degree angle
at the top end of the range of motion
you can use chalk or straps to help with
the grip is it allows you to focus more
on pulling with your back muscles
but since the loads shouldn't be that
heavy anyway I don't think they should
be necessary from here you want to
anteriorly rotate your pelvis or in
other words pop your butt out like in a
bikini pose to pull your spine into a
completely neutral position now remember
that the spine is naturally curved so if
your lower back is totally flat it is in
fact slightly flexed which under load
and in this position certainly is less
than ideal now if you aren't able to
reach the bar on the ground without
rounding your lower back I'd really
recommend elevating the bar up on some
bumper plates or using aerobic risers to
help shorten the range of motion and
that allow you to keep that safer
neutral spine position you want to start
each rep with your scapula a slightly
protracted and then initiate the
movement off the ground by pulling your
shoulder blades together I'm going to
drive your elbows up and slightly back
so that when viewed from the top your
arms are traveling back at about a 45 to
65 degree angle relative to your torso
over tucking here is really going to
prevent the traps from working properly
while over flaring may take the lats out
of the movement and put your shoulder in
a more compromised position so generally
speaking more flair will mean more trap
involvement and more tuck will mean more
Latta involvement now but all in all I
would say a 45 to 65 degree pulling
angle is gonna hit all the muscle groups
back there pretty evenly the burner
should make contact with your lower
sternum just around nipple level and to
finish out the concentric you can think
about really squeezing your shoulder
blades together at the top to really
nail the mid traps lower the bar under
control while focusing on keeping your
shoulder blades retracted until the
plates are just a few inches above the
ground at which point you'll want to
protract your shoulder blades and what
the plates come to a dead stop on the
floor and to keep more constant tension
on the back you can just do a controlled
touch on the ground however a true
Pendley row does have the weight come to
a full and complete stop to reset the
stretch shortening cycle and force a
dead stop pull on every single rep now
throw out the entire positive and
negative you want to maintain a lumbar
spine isometric contraction forcing the
low back to stay neutral and you want to
keep your head in a neutral position as
well a little bit of neck flexion or
extension shouldn't really hurt jerking
your head up or down might make it
harder to fully retract your scapula and
maximise on the lift okay so by far I
would say the most common error that I
see here is just simply going too heavy
most of the time if you just strip the
weight back and focus on getting the
form right all of these other errors
will automatically correct themselves
and you want to really try not to be one
of those lifters who let their form slip
in the name of progressive overload and
remember that adding weight to the bar
really only counts as progressive
overload when form is consistent now the
second most common error that I see is
using too much leg drive or hip
extension to force the weight up you'll
want to remember that while there will
be exceptions
the best studies do show that full
ranges of motion tend to be better for
maximizing strength and size gains and
in order to maximize range of motion for
the lats on any row your torso should be
close to perpendicular with the line of
pull meaning that your chest should be
pretty close to parallel with the floor
throughout the range of motion if you
look up and you can see the lettering on
your shirt at the top end of the range
of motion your chest is probably rising
up too much I also want to quickly
mention a good substitute exercise here
which is gonna be the Helms Row where
you'll have your upper chest positioned
against the top of an incline bench
resting it on a towel or a pair of knee
sleeves and you want to still row with a
nearly ground parallel back angle but
this time using dumbbells and this
alternative is great for people who
can't help but use excessive leg drive
on the Pendley row since here your chest
is forced to stay pinned up against the
bench I do find that the Helms Row is
best performed with slightly higher reps
or in the 12 to 15 rep range and while
this isn't nice very strict alternative
because you'll be rolling back a little
bit more than rolling out I do think of
this alternative is more of a lat
dominant row than a trap focused row but
with that said if you do focus on scalar
retraction throughout the ROM you'll
still hit the mid traps to a pretty
significant degree
now one potential downside here is that
you may not be the spinal erectors
quite as much especially if you don't
deadlift or squat regularly now since
you're gonna lose that by symmetric
lumbar extension contraction with this
variation so if you can do it properly I
still think the pendulum is an important
part of any complete training program
and if you want to completely maximize
your back development I would consider
this to be about as close to an absolute
must as there is alright so that's going
to conclude this week's episode of
technique Tuesday over here next to my
head I'll have a link to the last
episode on the bench press now make sure
you check that one out if you haven't
already make sure you hit up the button
over here to subscribe to the channel so
that you don't miss future technique
Tuesday episodes hit the like button if
you're enjoying the series so far and
I'll see you guys all here next Tuesday