what's going on guys sean nalewanyj on
Elcom real science athletics calm and in
this video today i want to talk about
why when it comes to building muscle in
a lot of ways fast equals slow and slow
equals fast now i'll explain what that
means in a second here before I dive
into it if you're new to the channel and
you do find this advice helpful don't
forget to hit that subscribe button
below to stay in the loop on future
videos and also make sure to follow me
over on Instagram as well I post there
every single day with additional
training nutrition supplementation and
mindset advice that you'll definitely
get a lot of value from it's at Sean
underscore nalle' wani that's where
you'll find me when I'm not here on the
YouTube channel so fast equals slow and
slow equals fast basically what that
means is that the more you're
approaching your muscle building goals
with a speed mindset the more you're
trying to rush things and force the
muscle building process the more likely
you're gonna be to make certain mistakes
that actually slow down your rate of
progress over the long term or that even
possibly throw you off track altogether
and I'll give you a few examples of this
one very common one is the issue of
excessive calorie intake you know a lot
of people out there just want to pack on
overall mass as quickly as they possibly
can and they figure the more food they
eat the more gains they'll make and so
they're just force feeding themselves
all day long without realizing that a
large percentage of the calories they're
eating aren't even being used for muscle
growth and are just being stored as fat
instead now I've talked about this a
million times before but there's a limit
on how many calories your body can
actually use for building lean mass over
any given time which is usually
somewhere around 200 to 300 calories
above maintenance per day and once you
go beyond that point
the rest are basically just pointless
calories that end up being stored as
body fat and when you put on an
excessive amount of fat during a bulk
not only can that cause you to lose
motivation and possibly fall off track
altogether because you just end up
really unhappy with how you look and
feel but it also increases the total
amount of time during the year that
you're going to need to spend cutting
and so you end up building muscle more
slowly in the overall picture because
there's less time left over for bulking
so that's one example of how fast can
actually equal slow another example
would be increased injury risk so if
you're being impatient in the gym you're
trying to add too much weight too
quickly your ego lifting and you're
sacrificing form just to put more weight
on the bar trying to make those gains as
quickly as possible
that's going to significantly increase
your risk for injury whether it's a
shoulder elbow lower back knee or
whatever else and if you get injured
not only can that have potentially a
permanent negative impact on your
training if it's a more severe injury
but even if it's just something a bit
more minor that you need to take time
off from that's another way that your
progress ends up being slowed down
overall a third example would be just in
terms of general motivation levels so if
you're expecting too much too soon in
terms of muscle growth if you have
unrealistic expectations because you
haven't been given the proper
information in terms of realistic growth
rates for a natural lifter and maybe
someone online promised you a certain
result over a certain time frame and it
isn't being met even though you're doing
everything you were told to do then that
can easily lead to discouragement and
cause you to possibly abandon the whole
process pretty much right out of the
gate so these are just a few examples
but the bottom line here is that before
you even get started in the gym you have
to accept the timeframes that are
involved up front and the weekly and
monthly rates of progress that should be
expected because building a significant
amount of muscle isn't a game of days
and weeks it's more a game of months and
years okay the truth is that building an
impressive physique doesn't actually
take that long when you put it all into
context against your life as a whole and
there are other life goals out there
that take much more time to master than
building muscle or losing fat due but it
still doesn't happen overnight neither
if you're a complete beginner in the
first year of training then about two
pounds of overall weight gain per month
would be a standard rate of progress I'd
say 3 pounds at the most and then from
there it'll slow down by about half for
every year of proper training after that
and as a rough ballpark guideline you
can probably expect to achieve about 50%
on your total genetic muscle building
potential by the end of the year one
assuming you're on a proper program and
you stay consistent and then about 75%
by the end of the year 2 and about 85 to
90 percent by year 3 so after three
solid years of training you should be
pretty close to your genetic potential
and then in the years that follow that
you can still make gradual progress but
it's gonna come at a much slower rate so
in order to transform your physique in a
significant way depending on your
definition of significant and what
you're specifically aiming for you're
probably looking at somewhere between
about one to three years depending on
your journey
and depending on what you consider to be
an amount of muscle that you're happy
with and there are definitely outliers
of course some guys with really good
genetics can make pretty significant
gains even within a period as short as
like four to six months but I'm just
talking on average here for the typical
natural lifter so before you even get
started if this is something you're
truly serious about if you're committed
to this for the long run and you want to
build a strong lean muscular physique
and maintain it for the rest of your
life then take a breath slow down and
orient your mindset toward the bigger
picture stop trying to hit huge homeruns
out of the park every single day and
just aim for consistent singles week in
and week out aim for gradual progression
in the gym you don't necessarily need to
be adding weight to the bar every single
week on every lift even one extra rep
with the same weight as good progression
keeping your form nice and solid all the
way through just write down your
workouts and let those small little
improvements add up over time in the
kitchen just a moderate calorie surplus
is all you need 200 to 300 above
maintenance you don't need a ton of
extra calories to maximize your lean
gains you don't need any more than about
0.8 grams of protein per pound of body
weight daily just eat in that controlled
surplus and again it will add up over
time if you're patient and consistent on
the supplementation side just a few
basics will get the job done you know
spending a ton of cash and all these
different overhyped muscle builders and
fat burners is not gonna be necessary
most supplements out there are not
effective and they're not properly
formulated to begin with and you can
check out real science athletics calm
the link is up here or down below for a
few solid high-quality science-based
supplements that I personally formulated
that you can including your plan to
fully round out your results and then
again on the mindset side of things stop
checking the mirror every five minutes
expecting to see huge changes because in
reality the physical changes between any
two individual weeks probably won't even
be visibly noticeable okay it takes a
few weeks or even a few months to really
see clear significant changes but if you
keep those timeframes in mind that I
mentioned before in terms of what's
realistic from week to week month to
month and year to year that'll help to
keep you grounded and it will let you
know that you're on the right track even
if it does mean only half a pound per
week or two pounds per month or four
pounds in two months or whatever else so
bottom line guys stop trying to rush
things stop trying to force it take
time and focus on quality training and
quality nutrition because in the overall
big picture that is actually the fastest
way to get to your end goal if you found
this advice helpful and you're truly
serious about achieving your physique
goals you're ready to commit to this for
the long term and you want to learn
exactly how to structure your workout
nutrition and supplementation plan for
the very best results then make sure to
take my physique quiz over at quizzed
Shawn nail calm because that'll get you
started on the proper step-by-step
program that you need based on your
specific goals body type and experience
level you can also get more daily tips
and updates from me by following me over
on Instagram again it's at Sean
underscore now awanee and don't forget
to hit that like button leave a comment
and subscribe below if you haven't
already
in order to stay up to date on future
videos thanks for watching guys and I'll
see you in the next one
[Music]
[Music]