new studies suggest that using length
and partials in your training as opposed
to a full range of motion leads to more
muscle growth what are length and
partials and how do you use
them welcome back now real Dr Milo wolf
here with wolf coaching and today we're
talking about length and partials first
why would you actually use them well it
turns out we have about five studies now
comparing length and partials to a full
range of mo Motion in four of these
studies length and partials resulted in
more muscle growth compared to a full
range of motion therefore if you want to
optimize your growth compared to a full
range of motion length and partials
might be the way to go additionally we
don't just have these five studies we
have 20 to 25 studies more broadly
looking at the concept of doing more
lengthen training like a lengthen
partial to doing more shortened training
for example a shortened partial very
consistently Within These 20 to 25
studies we find better hypertrophy AKA
better muscle growth after lengthened
training versus more shortened training
now you might be asking why would
lengthen partials be better for muscle
growth than a full range of motion well
there are about three potential reasons
reason number one has to do with how
close to failure you train think about
it when you're doing a full range of
motion set you end the set when you
can't quite get a full rep anymore for a
row for example that might be when you
can no longer touch your chest or your
stomach with a barbell if you're doing
lengthen partials instead you will
terminate the set when you can no longer
complete a lengthen partial rep and so
failure will occur much later in the set
if you were to try doing partials at the
end of your 4 R Motion Set for example
you'll find you can do at least five
more reps typically and so by doing
partials You're simply training closer
to True failure quote unquote the second
reason we've seen in the evidence is
that length in partials or length in
training in general results in different
Regional hypertrophy compared to a full
range of motion so what you see with
more lengthened forms of training like
for example lengthened partials or
lengthened isometric contractions is
that they result in substantially more
distal hypertrophy when you're measuring
hypertrophy you can measure it at a
variety of sites within a muscle you can
measure it at more proximal sights
closer to the origin point of a muscle
or at more distal sights closer to its
consortion point and it seems like
overall lengthen partials might result
in more distal hypertrophy versus a for
range of motion which then leads to more
overall hypertrophy the third potential
mechanism behind additional hypertrophy
stemming from lengthen training comes
from certain signaling proteins like for
example Titan Titan and other signaling
proteins that are involved in the muscle
growth response may be sensitive to what
muscle length you're training at so not
only do they initiate the muscle growth
response when you're exposing your
muscles to tension but they may
specifically respond a little bit more
strongly when you're at certain muscle
lengths in this case at longer muscle
lengths so now that you know why you
might want to do lengthen partials in
your training as opposed to four range
of motion let me explain to you what
they actually are in brief length
partials or half reps in the most
lengthened position of a muscle in the
given exercise importantly don't think
you can just do half reps at any point
in the lift and get additional
hypertrophy specifically it needs to be
in the most lengthened part of the lift
and from this a question arises how do
you know where your muscles are
lengthened within a given lift many of
my clients have trouble figuring out for
example where the lengthen partial or
lengthen range of motion takes place
within an exercise here's how to do that
the easiest way I found is to have
clients or yourself dear viewer
conceptualize lifts as being broken down
into a lifting phase and a lowering
phase when you're lifting the weight
weight go up when you're lowering the
weight weight go down the easiest way to
think about this is during a squat for
example if you break down the lift into
these two phases here's the rule of
thumb the first half of the lifting
phase also called concentric phase is
that lengthened half of the repetition
so if you just do the first half of the
lifting or concentric phase you will be
doing half reps in that length position
AKA lengthen partials another word for
lengthen partial could also be stretched
partial so whenever you feel a deep
stretch in your muscle during an
exercise it's being stretched out that's
where we want to do the partial
repetition your next question might be
where are lengthen partials most
beneficial well they likely are most
beneficial on exercises where the
shortened position is usually most
challenging if we go back to the earli
example of the lifting phase and the
lowering phase on exercises where the
very end of that lifting phase is the
hardest think of a barbell row or a
pull-up with the top of the repetition
is really the most challenging those are
the exercises and the muscle groups for
which lengthened partials are likely
going to be most beneficial for your
muscle growth let me give you some
examples for most back training for most
side belt training for most bicep
training and for most calf training the
hardest part of the lift for most
exercises will be in that shortened
position for muscle growth we don't want
this therefore for these body parts and
for those exercises is where lengthen
partials might be most beneficial for
example let's say you're doing a bob out
row instead of doing a full range of
motion repetition and ending the set as
soon as you can touch your belly by
doing length and partials you're
inherently making that lift more
lengthened so certain muscle groups
might benefit more so than others not
necessarily because of how they're built
right but more so because of what the
exercises are used to Target them
typically have as a resistance curve
there's been some discourse around
online around certain muscle groups
responding or not responding to quote
unquote stretch mediate
hypertrophy the truth is with the 20 to
25 studies we have on the topic now it
does not seem as though any muscle
groups don't respond so well I will say
that the back muscular chir the side DS
the biceps the calves might respond most
favorably to this lengthened training
style most muscle groups should respond
pretty similarly in fact we have
evidence in the quads and the calves in
the hamstrings in the glutes in the
biceps in the triceps so we do have
mounting evidence that this principle of
lengthen training being better for
hypertrophy generalizes to most if not
all muscle groups at this point you
might be sold on lengthen partials or
you might not be and in fact people in
the past have reported a certain number
of issues with lengthen training or
lengthen partials that I'm going to
address now here are some common issues
the first issue is St standardizing
range of motion or tracking performance
the truth is when you're doing a full
range of motion standardizing the Reps
can be a little bit more straightforward
you're getting a full stretch you're
getting a full squeeze and therefore
range of motion kind of takes care of
itself week to week and is pretty
consistent with length and partials you
have to be a little bit more mindful how
do you make sure that week to week your
reps look the same and thus you can use
your performance as a gauge of progress
for example well here's a few ways
number one on machines try and find a
certain feature of the machine that you
can consistently end the rep out let's
say you're doing a machine roll there
might be a pad of some sort that you can
pull to and once you've pulled to that
pad you know that that's your signal for
ending the rep and starting the lowering
phase again likewise for most compound
exercises with free weights I'm talking
about stuff like benching stuff like
pulling stuff like squatting for those
exercises you can typically find a
position of 90° right so when you're
talking about a squat ending the rep
when your knees reach an angle of about
90° or when you're pressing stopping the
rep when your elbows reach an angle of
about 90° those things can really help
landmarks to tell you when you should
stop the rep likewise for for example
Romanian deadlifts and for bent over
rows pulling to just past knee level and
then going back down can be a really
helpful way to standardize a range of
motion ultimately when it comes to
standardizing range of motion and
tracking performance week to we just
keep in mind that you do this exactly
the same way as you would for 4ange
motion track your weight track your reps
and in all likelihood you'll find it's
not that difficult to keep things
consistent week to week using the tips I
just mentioned the next common issue
with length and partials has to do with
safety specifically how do you safely go
to failure using Linkin partials when
you're doing a full range motion rep on
the squat for example you can just rect
the weight after you set after all you
just finished a full rep you can just
walk it straight back into the Rock so
that takes care of itself with length
and partials you have to be a bit more
considerate it seems like the barbell is
kind of the worst tool for the job with
length and partials dumbbells you can
typically safely fail a rep without
needing a spotter right you can simply
drop the dumbbells likewise a Smith
machine you can just rack it any time
and so this Smith machine can be great
for stuff like squatting where otherwise
you might have to finish the set with a
full rep or get a spotter to safely do
the exercise with length and partials
finally machines are also great
typically they have some sort of safety
feature where you can just rect the
weight safely and get out so Smith
machines dumbbells and machines are
great tools as opposed to barbells for
length and partials specifically on the
squat and bench this is where it seems
to be most beneficial however if you
don't want to use these or you want to
use the barbells instead you can do one
of two things one simply end the set
when you can just about get a full range
of motion rep at the very end so you
would start the set on squats for
example do 5 to 10 length and partials
and then for your last rep you would do
a full range of motion rep and reack the
weight the issue there is it does
preclude you from going quite as close
to True failure because you need to keep
enough in the tank to finish that one
last 4 R of motion rep strong
alternatively you could simply get a
spotter for your squatting or bench
press work when using linkon partials
and a barbell that is an option but
generally I would recommend using
something like Smith machine dumbbells
or simply a machine to circumvent the
safety issue altogether the good news is
recent that analyses have found no
difference in hypertrophy between using
free weights or machines so just because
you're using machines does not mean
you'll see worse hypertrophy the third
common issue with length and partials
has to do with having multiple goals
right not everyone wants to be a freak
of nature like myself and just get
jacked some people also want to get
better at the main lifts like the squat
bench that lift or the over press some
people also want more flexibility here's
my general advice weigh up your goals
and structure training as a result of
how important each goal is to you if
your main goal is hypertrophy guess what
most of your training can and probably
should be length and partials as opposed
to full range of motion likewise if
hypertrophy is a secondary goal to you
and for example strength in the three
main lifts is more important most of
your training should be in the range of
motion of those three main lifts a quick
note on flexibility the good news is
that lengthen partials probably improve
your flexibility to a similar or greater
extent than 4 R motion
after all when you're talking about
flexibility you're talking about the end
range of motion of a joint with length
and partials you're spending the whole
set there and as we know from previous
met analyses range of motion
improvements or flexibility improvements
from lifting and from passive stretching
are actually reasonably similar and so
lengthen partials are actually likely a
decent tool for also improving
flexibility however when it comes to
goals simply consider how important each
one is and construct your training
accordingly the next common issue with
length and partials or really any
specific range of motion is increased
pain some people will experience more
pain when training at a certain range of
motion versus another specifically there
is some research suggesting that
training either extreme of the range of
motion either in that very contracted
Peak squeeze position or training at
that very lengthened position like a
lengthen partial may increase pain
symptoms a little bit in people with
pre-existing conditions like chronic
lower back pain so if you experience
pain maybe don't do it or maybe do it
for movements that that don't hurt right
maybe don't do it or maybe only do it on
movements that don't hurt the next
common issue people have with lengthen
partials is that it's harder to gauge
how close to failure you really are
realistically it's actually the exact
same as with full range of motion while
in some exercises you might be able to
lift more on account of the exercises
usually being quite challenging in that
shorten position that you're now
avoiding and for some exercises you'll
be able to lift less like for example in
a squat where you're sort of keeping
constant tension on a muscle nothing
really changes compared to a full range
of motion as with full range of motion
try and be explosive on the concentric
phase that lifting phase and keep track
of your bar speed if your bar speed
isn't slowing down you're not that close
to failure equally if your bar speed is
slowing down and you're barely able to
get the same range of motion as last rep
that's a good sign that you're just
about reaching failure the final
potential issue with using length and
partials is that some people just don't
enjoy it right so what are some
alternatives to length and partials well
there's a few I can think of the first
would be to use a Tempo that really
emphasizes those lengthen positions as
we know length and training is really
beneficial for muscle growth so we want
to find ways to emphasize it one of
those ways is Tempo by controlling the
lowering phase or the Ecentric phase
more as you reach into that deep stretch
and less so at the top of the rep when
you're getting a full squeeze by pausing
in that fully lengthened position in a
deeply stretched position and by being
as explosive as possible during the
conent or lifting phase on the way up
out of that lengthen position in all
these ways you're spending more time in
that lengthen position and getting more
tension in that length and position the
second way to emphasize those length and
positions without doing length and
partials is certain machines I'm not
sure if you've seen these around but
certain brands like Prime Fitness or
strive equipment or certain other
machines simply have a more lengthen
resistance curve with equipment like
strive or prime you can actually load
the machine more heavily in the
lengthened position as opposed to the
shortened position so if you have access
to that stuff definitely use it and in
fact what I'd recommend is putting about
80% of the weight in that lengthened
position on the lengthened pin 20% in
the middle range and 0% in the shorten
range likewise if you have other
equipment let's say for example you have
two machine rows at your gym but one
just feels kind of harder in that
shorten position and one feels a little
bit harder in that lengthen position
pick the one with more tension in the
lengthen position pick the machines that
allow you to get the deepest stretch
those machines are going to be the ones
to give you the most growth in line with
certain machines being a bit more
lengthened biased certain exercises are
also just straight up more length and
biased compare a cable pullover to a
dumbbell pullover in the cable pullover
you have a relatively even resistance
curve you have a decent amount of
tension throughout the whole lift and
you're getting a full range of motion
for your lats and potentially for your
chest right with a dumbbell pullover on
the other hand you're getting the most
tension in that fully lengthened
position and just by the design of the
lift it's getting easier and easier as
you shorten the muscle and you actually
don't get a full Ranger motion the
exercise is by design a length and
partial the same goes for dumbbell flies
versus cable flies for example the
dumbbell fly by Design is already a
length and partial so just by
incorporating a full range of motion
quote unquote on the dumbbell fly you
may not actually need length and
partials anymore the last two
alternatives to just doing length and
partials are what I call in ated
partials and length anded supersets when
you're doing integrated partials you're
mixing and matching full range of motion
reps with length partials in the same
set for example you would do one 4 in
motion rep followed by anywhere from 1
to five length and partials after that
rep and then another full range of
motion rep the exact ratio between a
full range of motion rep and a lengthen
partial doesn't really matter what I
will say is the more length and partials
you include within that set the more
length that set will become and likely
the better will become for hypertrophy
the final tool is called a lengthened
super set in a lengthened superet you
would simply do four range of motion
repetitions until you get pretty close
to failure or to failure and then you
would extend that set by doing just
lengthen partials this is actually the
most intuitive way for most people to
apply length and partials in general
however I think it's worse than just
straight up length and partials or than
integrated partials for a couple of
reasons number one is safety as I
mentioned earlier length and partials
have a safety concern by doing
lengthened partials only at the end of
the set you don't really get the same
benefit because you don't get as many
partials or as much lengthen training in
but you get the safety concerns anyways
because you're doing partials at the end
of the set so as I mentioned earlier you
either have to stop the set when you can
just about get a full range of motion
rep at the end to react the weight on
say a bench press or on squat or you'll
have to get a spotter the second issue
is that compared to integrated partials
where you can do say a ratio of 3 to 5
length and partials for every 4 range of
motion rep you do or compare to length
and partials where you're exclusively
training in that lengthened range
lengthen suets typically don't actually
shift the emphasis of a set that much
when you're done doing say 10 full range
of motion reps on the pull down you
might get two to five additional length
and partials compared to just doing say
15 length and partials or doing say 10
length and partials and five full range
of motion reps the emphasis of the set
isn't shifted by that much the average
muscle length that you've trained
throughout that length and super set is
actually pretty similar still to what
you get during a full range of motion
set and thus you may not be getting the
benefit from those length and partials
let me give you some takeaways first
more lengthened training like lengthen
partials might give you an addition
about 10% of muscle growth I would say
try it first on back and side DS and
calves and biceps and see how you like
it but ultimately don't feel restricted
to just these muscle groups in all
likelihood all muscle groups do respond
to lengthened training and you'll grow
more muscle using length and partials
versus a full range of motion finally if
you don't feel like using length and
partials in your training there's other
tools you can use to emphasize that
stretch position for example try
integrate partials try lengthen
supersets try picking machines that have
a more lengthen biased resistance curve
try certain exercises that bias the
lengthen position like for example a
dumbo pver or Dumbo fly or finally try
and use a more lengthen emphasis Tempo
control that Ecentric into that stretch
pause briefly in that stretch position
and then be explosive out of that
stretch position that was the video If
you enjoyed the video please comment
like subscribe and I'll see you guys my
subscribers in that next one
peace