he has enormous pecs especially his
upper pecs if you look at Superman on
the comics you're like I'm mother fuck a
benching at least 550 for reps on the
incline what the fuck and then you
forget that he's Kryptonian that it's
like 550 septian tons or some shit like
that hey folks Dr Mike here from
Renaissance periodization and in my
previous several videos several dozen
now I've been known to do a bit of
critiquing of Hollywood
training and it's not all bad there's
just a bit of crap in there if down
again and so sometimes when I critique
the video say oh this is really good and
sometimes I'm like oh these folks could
be doing better and a lot of folks have
asked well if we could be doing better
why don't you make some workouts that
make us look more like folks in the
movies and since the average actor or
actress doesn't really look any
different than a normal person we're
going to relegate ourselves to trying to
look like superhero movie actors and
actresses are really just fuck it just
go straight to the source we're going to
turn you into a literal superhero so
that you can be like like homelander and
save the day and Massacre tons of people
and the government just covers it up the
boys on Amazon by the way is a fucking
sweet show I love that show I only hope
that full immersion of virtual reality
comes soon enough before I croak so that
I can go in there with Dragon Ball Z
powers and beat the living shit out of
homelander with my own two
hands fuck what we talking about oh
that's right so we've already done one
of these videos and you can search for
it if you like or maybe Scott or
somebody will link it we did Thor how to
look like
Thor the Viking God but this time we're
switching universes pushing Marvel aside
getting into DC and we are going to try
to get you that's right you to look like
[Applause]
Superman is that a bird or a plane or
can we shoot that down with
anti-aircraft artillery nope it's
Superman and sure as shit can't shoot
him down with Conventional Weapons
however what we can promise you if you
do the plan that I'm about to in detail
describe to you is you could look
marginally more like Superman than you
do now and that's dope as hell cuz
Superman was a fin looking
man in almost every rendition and there
are a few different Renditions so what
is it the look that we're actually going
to be shooting for because there's a
couple different eras of
Superman 1930 Superman could pass for a
reporter when he was in a suit you know
just like regular guy and like that's
all they kind of that was all the
imagination stretched out in the 1930s
and so uh we're not we're not going for
that we can do a little bit better uh
modern Superman and especially in the
modern Justice League versions on the
cartoons motherfucker you know what I'm
saying couldn't pass a drug test
somebody else took for him so holy shit
and we're try to get you looking like
that but what we can do is make some of
your muscles bigger than others I'll
talk about which ones in a second but
really the reason that we all want to
look like Superman it just comes down to
just one name and that's lowest Lane why
you think Superman got all these
superpowers is it to save the Earth yes
what is the purpose of saving the Earth
two Factor one so that one particular
citizen of the earth lowest Lane can
also be saved and two so as to impress
Lois Lane and see bitch I save the whole
earth don't you think that entitles me
to a little bit RNR damn Lois Lane must
be fine as hell if you're Superman you
can sort of get it wherever you want and
Lis Lane's the one that uh that he wants
so
do you want to get your own lowest Lane
uh consensually of course uh then yes
then yes then you want to look like
Superman let's cut to the chase about
what the hell that even means to me just
to me there are different
interpretations about this feel free to
write your own workout in the RP Birch
for
you Superman's physique especially as I
most commonly remember it from the
Justice League cartoons of the late '90s
early 2000s is the ultimate triangle
shape which is to say he has enormous
pecs especially his upper pecs if you
look at Superman on the comics you're
like I'm motherfucker benching at least
550 for reps on the incline what the
fuck and then you forget that he's
Kryptonian that it's like 550 septian
tons or some shit like that he also has
enormo popping side delts the Kate
barely fits on this motherfucker delts
are out to here so PCS are out to there
delts are out to there in the back he's
not known for like lower back thickness
or some shit mostly villains are known
for that I guess me he's known for them
sweeping lats that crazy V taper huge
upper back super wide lats that to me
those three muscles pecs specifically
upper pecs or more upper pecs than not
side delts and lat SL upper back is
where Superman really shines and if you
have muscles that are bigger those
muscles on your body than usual you will
look more Superman ass and that one girl
at your work that sort of looks like
Lois Lane that you're sort of too not
confident enough to talk to when you get
those bigger muscles she may be like
Frank right and you're like yes that's
correct and also Frank Wright was um a
great famous person in his own right and
she's like what like never mind I'll
never get late she's like what I it go
somewhere else but after you finish the
plan you going be like hey what's up
Lois Lane and she's like darling and
she'll fall into your arms you'll grab
her you'll Fly Away in any case getting
a superhero physique takes some pretty
serious work you can condense the plan
I'll give you down to a 3-day plan if
you want but it's going to be a 5-day
plan 5 days Real Deal to get you started
get you looking like Superman 3 2 1
workout what's the plan day one day
three and day five of this plan are
going to be focused on chest delts and
back but not in that order every time
Superman has an equally impressive chest
and delts and upper back so we want all
of those to get their Just Desserts and
if you train back every single time last
you're not nearly as energized the
stimulus for back isn't as high the
fatigue is very high going into the
training and th the total amount of back
muscle growth you can do if you always
train back last is just no bueno so it's
going to throw off your physique if you
do this so what we did here is on day
one you go chest then delts then back on
day three you do back then chest then
delts and on day five you do delts then
back then chest every single one of
those muscles gets their time in the sun
to be first in line second in line and
third in line that also because it
doesn't cook your chest too much during
the plan or overcook your back or
overcook your delts is a really good
fatigue management throughout the week
such that at the end of this week and
the beginning of the current week
everything chest and back and delts
feels healed and strong and ready to go
so day one is two exercises for chest I
have them sampled here you can take a
look at them I'm not going to just read
exercises off to you feel free to pause
the fucking video if you want then we
have two exercises for the delts and
just one exercise for the back at the
end because when something is dead last
you're out of energy anyway it would be
the fifth exercise of the day at that
point fuck that just one exercise keep
the back cooking a little bit for all of
these I want you to start at something
like two sets per exercise and around 10
to 15 reps on all the lifts that that
rep range is really just up to you but
10 to 15's how I like this program to
look I'm not putting my foot down really
hard on that it's dealer's choice now
I'm going to talk about day three and
then day five and then come back around
to day two and four you'll see that
there's a symmetry there day three
you're going to start with back two back
movements now the exercises if you want
to pause and take a look at them that
I've selected absolutely do emphasize
the width component which is gained more
through vertical pulling than through
rowing if you want to look like Bane you
do a lot of rows if you want to look
like Superman you do a lot of vertical
pulling so here for example I have
overhand pull-ups and overhand assisted
pull-ups as the first two exercises and
the only two exercises for the back that
day so we're emphasizing that width
there's an incline movement in most of
these days to emphasize that upper peck
so on and so forth so we have two back
movements on that day three we have two
chest movements and then we have just
one shoulder movement some cable upright
rows to finish off the deal same rep
range Etc now here's the caveat for
pull-ups you might not be able to do 10
to 15 reps of pull-ups especially if
they're strict especially on second
third and fourth sets so just do as many
strict pull-ups as you can whatever shy
of failure that you need to and then
that'll take care of the rest but for
assisted pull-ups and stuff 10 to 15
reps is probably a good range you can go
higher and lower if you like dealer's
Choice then day five so day one day
three day five day five is that last day
of focus on those Superman muscles and
we start with two delt exercises we go
into two back exercises and then just
one chest exercise at the end some
deficit push-ups to cook everything and
here on the first two days of the plan
or rather the day one and day three
we're going a little heavier 10 to 15
reps on this last day just for a little
bit of variation because that's been
shown literature to potentially cause
some more muscle growth in the short
term we're going to do mostly sets of 15
to 20 so this is like maybe a Friday in
your program it's a bit more of a high
rep day still intense just a little bit
lighter and a few more reps now days two
and four are for training the rest of
your body just at maintenance mode we
don't Superman I'm sorry I love huge
legs but Superman just doesn't have big
legs and if you ever look at his calvs
in a lot of the comics you're like bro
even if his calvs are jacked his quads
are like bro and he's not known for big
glutes that'd be kind of weird like
Superman saves you and you're like damn
dad ass I mean it's not so weird Lois
Lane sure shit knows a lot about that
don't you Lois I wonder if she's
watching this and Superman might beat me
up speaking ill of his girl day two is
for legs and arms now does Superman have
big arms yeah he's Superman but not
compared to his chest his delts and his
back and so here you will train arms and
your arms get get a lot of work from
pulling and pushing for chest notice
most of the exercises I put in there for
chest and for back are compound
movements that involve the for flexors
the biceps and evolve the triceps
significantly so we don't need to do a
whole lot of arm training for our arms
even to grow quite a bit in this program
but not grow as much as the chest and
the delts and the back because look like
Superman means look like Superman if you
want to look just like a jacked person
then go download the RPI perf app and
just pick any of the templates that you
see and they're all designed to
maximally get you jacked as much as
possible so day two is going to legs and
arms something like high bar squats High
bar good mornings takes care of the
essentially the whole lower body fuck
Cals nobody cares about Cals get at me
in the comments and I care about Cavs
Superman sure shit doesn't and then
dumbbell Skull Crushers and dumbbell two
arm standing curls you'll notice
something here that the high bar Squat
and the high bar good morning use the
same Implement same setup same barbell
you have to warm up very little from one
to the other you're already there you're
already going to get it kicking we want
most of our effort in this program spent
on days one through three and five and
so days two and four are going to be
intentionally simpler and if you can use
the same Implement and not walk around
the gym to find in a room off for some
other completely different machine it
saves you cognitive bandwidth and
fatigue so you can really just Breeze
through that day get to that day three
and really crush it so that day two ends
with dumbbell Skull Crushers and
dumbbell two arm standing curls which
means you can use the dumbbells for
Skull Crushers after you've done a few
sets you just start doing the sanding
curls you can warm up a little bit you
don't even have to change positions it's
going to save you a lot of time same rep
range here start with two sets
and 10 to 15 reps on all lifts or an
average of 10 to 15 reps dealer's choice
that finishes off day two and then day
four is not legs and arms it's arms and
legs we're flipping the order so we
start with cable curls then we go to
Cable push Downs that's biceps triceps
then line leg curls then leg presses
again you can switch all these exercises
out for whatever that you want them but
very very straightforward it's not a ton
of work it's just to make sure that your
arms and legs are still at least as
muscular as they were when you began the
plan so that as your chest and delts and
back grow you're still looking awesome
in the other muscle groups and then you
just look extra awesome extra like
Superman you get extra lowest Lane
attention yeah yeah they have kind of a
weird romance not very like me too
because it's it's office shit you know
like what what are the ethics of that
but like hey Scott does Lois Lane know
that Clark Kent is Superman I think at
some point she does she finds out she
finds out all right fuck around and find
out yeah how come you don't Scot video
guy is it cuz you realize that with your
genetics you were never going to be
Superman likee and you chose other
Heroes like Harvey Weinstein I was like
the that scarecrow guy the Batman you're
a piece of shit
Scott he was cool though people Tri
balls that's a sweet bro I'd be charging
if I was him that's $80 you think you
know how much money I gotta spend to
make this industrial acid you dumb
motherfucker it's all bad trips but you
know bad trips are the most therapeutic
and that's actually probably true don't
go out there start having bad trips in
any case that's how the plan's designed
but how do you progress week to week to
week that's an important detail I'm
going to hook you up with right now you
start at sort of like three reps in
reserve shy of failure in the first week
with all the lifts and then the
progression is twofold for Tuesday
Thursday or the day two and day four
you're going to do like very simple
progression you just add five pounds to
each lift most weeks or add a rep teach
lift most weeks and you never change the
sets it's just going to be two sets of
everything the entire time by Design
just to get you to maintain what you
have we don't want to increase your leg
and arm size a ton on this program
because that would be for a different
program different look and it saves a
bunch of fatigue from being generated to
give us a ton of fatigue that we can
generate and still recover in the ultra
important Days 1 three and five AKA
Monday Wednesday Friday if you like to
train like that and that really lets us
pound the chest the delts and the back
to look more like Superman so for those
days day one day three day five AKA
potentially Monday Wednesday Friday
absolutely each week you want to put
maybe five pounds on the bar and or add
one rep to keep things progressively
more difficult just gently and if the
exercise wasn't super challenging last
time and if the target muscle wasn't
really sore in the next training session
and wasn't really tired and you feel
like I could be doing more add a set in
the next week that you do that exercise
and if you got really really beat up and
really fucked up and you're super sore
take a set away but if everything's just
right you're healing just before your
workouts and if you did a little bit
more a little bit less it would throw
things off change nothing that's Auto
regulation now the RP hypertrophy app
which you do not have to buy to use this
program you can use this program just by
yourself you can put it in Excel or
whatever other fitness app you like to
use that's totally cool in the RP
hypertrophy app the auto regulation of
how many sets you do week to week is
handled entirely for you by the apps
algorithms all you have to do is answer
like how tired am I how sore am I uh and
a couple other questions they're super
easy they ask you after every single
exercise that you do just a few
questions and if you fill those out the
next week automatically gets regulated
to whatever volume the app is coated to
reflect for you to get you to exactly or
as close as possible training exactly as
hard as you need to barely recover but
still progress as much as possible
that's what we want if you want to do it
by yourself no big deal at all now you
do that progression for long enough
adding five pounds and adding a rep here
and there and increasing some of the
sets and then eventually flatlining and
just crushing out a ton of volume you're
going to get really tired you're going
to start to underperform and it's going
to be pointless for you to keep coming
back into the gym so once every 4 to8
weeks depending on when you stop getting
stronger and feel really fatigued you
take a D Lo week which my recommendation
for a real simple approach is just go to
the gym only twice that week not five
times a day just go Monday and go
Thursday reduce the weights sets and
Reps by half now if you do the RP
hypertrophy app it's going to plan the D
Lo for you you don't have to write
anything down no notes required but if
you do this it's a real simple way to
get it all done and you spend so little
time in the gym that week that you
conserve all the muscle you build but
you eliminate all of your fatigue and
then you can crush this program out
after how long should you do this
program for I would say give it 8 to 16
weeks of really diligent programming and
and good nutrition and good execution
and then you'll start to see some
serious changes more Superman esque in
your body and then you see how you look
you can always just repeat the program
Again by changing a couple things one is
keeping the exercises that you liked if
pull-ups are going well don't change
them next time you set up your next Mesa
cycle keep the pull-ups or you can
switch to analog exercises variants of
certain exercises that uh got a little
stale on you let's say cable rows are
kind of getting annoying and you're not
having so much fun with them anymore but
you try a machine row at your gym and it
feels awesome for your back switch out
cable row go to machine rows for example
and then go on your Merry way and then
you can just hit that plan again and
look even more and even more and even
more like Superman progressively now if
you want to switch the script and go do
some powerlifting training or you know
train to look like Thor and use our Thor
program or some other superhero or
something else entirely you can always
back off and do it and you know you'll
look a little bit more like Superman
maybe even for the rest of your life a
lot of a lot of muscle gain is sort of
semi-permanent and then maybe you'll
have just a little bit of that bit of
that Krypton in you no wait cry Krypton
is uh poisonous right cryp
kryptonium fuck if I know anything about
comics in any case can you do this all
by yourself off an Excel sheet or your
notepad Absol fucking lutely I'm never
going to push a single product on you
guys that you don't want to buy but
legit the only reason we manufacture
these apps at RP the only reason we make
them is to try to help you and also to
try to get Folly rich but even that
second point doesn't really apply to me
anymore because I'm so rich I actually
have to burn physical cash in a gigantic
earn in my house so that I don't get
taxed extra on the extra weight the
money takes up on planet Earth that's
the kind of fucking Rich I'm talking
about I don't need the money anymore I
never really did I was born insanely
wealthy already more like um what's his
name Batman except my parents never
croak they're just Jewish and um they
really care about me and text me and
call me all the time all the fucking
time
anyway downloading the RP pery app can
take care of all of your programming and
progression needs it really does save an
unbelievable amount of time it organizes
everything and here's the really great
news this Superman workout and the Thor
workout we already put up and no doubt
to many future workouts in the superhero
theme are already in as templates in the
app you don't have to build shit you get
the app you download it you click save
to home screen the app pops up as a real
app on your phone you click on that
motherfucker you set up all your shit
and by that I mean like hey what's your
email blah blah blah how much do you
want to pay us click and as soon as it
goes through and opens up the app you go
to templates you go and hit Superman
template or Superman workout or whatever
the fuck it's called Superman workout
and you can hit Thor workout if you want
you click it and boom it loads right
away even down to the very exercises
that we've included do you have to use
those exercises nope you can change them
right away you can change them later
it's all yours or for less than a dollar
a day that's pretty fucking sweet Link
in the description to sign up for that
shit um and that'll be cool now what
about diet yes if you use the RP diet
coach app you can get a ton of help but
the RP diet coach app is a really blank
slate you decide what you want to do and
then it Honors that decision so what
should you do you have two options
generally if you're a bit on the fatter
than you like side then you can do uh 8
to 16 weeks of kind of slow fat loss
with a little bit of muscle gain
basically you get into a 500 kilo
calorie average deficit um a little bit
less food than you like to eat aim for
around 10 to 12,000 daily steps and then
uh great things happen you're still
going to gain plenty of muscle but
you're going to lose a lot of fat and if
you have some fat kind of to get off
then your shoulders are going to pop
more your pecs are your back and your
are going to look absolutely much more
like Superman and on the other hand if
you're on the skinnier side leaner side
of things you can do well 8 to 16 weeks
of slow gaining with minimum fat gain
and that's kind of like a 250 calorie
daily Surplus just a little bit more
food than you normally do and you're
looking to gain about 2 lbs per month on
the game plan looking to lose about 4
pounds per month to know your you're on
the right track for the for the loss
plan either way they kind of bring you
towards a very similar look depending on
where you start from so uh I think
that's about it and if you guys have any
questions comments concerns we'll see
you in the in the comments below like
subscribe do YouTube things and hey uh
good luck looking more like Superman and
if by some weird coincidence you do the
Superman workout on your RP hypertrophy
app around like radiation and you
actually inherit Superman's literal
Powers uh be kind don't be like
homelander see you guys next time
[Music]
w