hey folks Dr Mike here from Renaissance
periodization and today's quick tip is
how to arrange your intro workout
nutrition
very cool let's get into it so
first if your workouts last less than
about an hour you probably don't need
any intra-workout nutrition
outside of just being hydrated when you
start the workout and staying hydrated
all the way through like if you get
thirsty before leg press you just go
have a drink of water at the fountain
you are totally good to go it's just a
matter of fact that the amount of time
processing the nutrients that you're
taking in intra is going to be right
occurring at the very tail end last
several minutes and after your workout
it's not going to help intra at all you
can have an intro shake for short
workouts but there's just no
scientifically reliable benefit I can
describe to you of that occurring
especially if after workout you go and
you have a post-workout meal within 30
minutes to an hour you're fucking good
now in workouts that last one to two
hours now I won't cover up two hour plus
workouts that's whole other thing other
thing if you want a video that covers
all that stuff get over to the YouTube
channel alacrity endurance or my fellow
RP co-worker and
um uh super PhD in sport physiologist
performers Alex Dr Alex Harrison he runs
that him in
um Michelle Howe does Michelle Howe have
a PhD yet oh yeah she has a master's
degree for sure she maybe has a PHD
already in any case super sharp folks
they'll take care of your Advanced
Nutrition needs if you're on the
endurance side and have two three four
hour long rides and all that stuff
definitely go check them out for one to
two hour long workouts sometimes you
know I'm saying like training legs can
take fucking an hour and 55 minutes
absolutely
here are some recommendations you could
choose to use and I'll loop back at the
end of what the could part is about
first you want to sit on the shake that
you make or shakes plural because it
might be enough fluid volume to separate
into two containers
uh during your whole workouts after
every exercise take a couple sips or if
you get thirsty take some sips and you
basically should aim to finish the shake
kind of like right to where you finish
the workout if it's a bit much you can
finish like half the shake or two thirds
of the shake and then crush the last
half for one third as soon as the
workout is over
what goes in the shake
obviously water
I like to make mine with vodka as the
base don't try that at home
whey protein
because it is probably the most quick
digesting and anabolic and
anti-catabolic protein they've ever made
glycemic carbohydrates Gatorade Powerade
you can buy them in powders or the
actual drinks uh dextrose vitargo shit
like that actually Target I take that
back I think it's actually a slow
digesting uh Pro carbohydrate so just
dextrose and Gatorades and stuff like
that
and a pinch of salt
the salt
actually speeds up the rehydration
process it takes all those nutrients
including most importantly water and it
shows them across the intestinal barrier
faster which is really good
now ratios in that shake we'll talk
about total amounts in a second but
basically for every one gram of protein
you add in roughly two to four grams of
additional high glycemic carbohydrate
more carbs for longer workouts and
higher volume workouts so if you have a
workout that takes two hours but it's a
lot of resting and just some power lifts
then you can do even a one-to-one ratio
of protein and carbs and maybe one to
two if you have a workout that's two
hours of like you're fucking moving the
whole time sweating fucking bullets then
one to four even is a totally fine ratio
for protein to carbohydrate
and this is really important
for every
80 grams
okay there's other ways to say this
fuck it I'll say it another way for
every eight grams
of
the carbs plus protein that you have you
count those in grams that you put in the
shake
you need to use a hundred milliliters of
water so for every 80 grams of protein
plus carbs which is a more realistic
measurement
you have a thousand milliliters of water
the reason for this is that a eight
percent solution seems to be the
solution roughly that gets quickest from
your digestive tract into your
bloodstream to actually give you those
nutrients and it optimally rehydrates
you as well so give that some thought
you're gonna say when you make this
you're gonna be like that's a lot of
fluid but remember you don't go to the
drinky Fountain anymore you just have
the shake
one legal guys right here a little milk
jug type fish and the shake is the only
thing you go to that's it
which is kind of sweet because then you
get adequately hydrated and adequately
resupplied with nutrients at the same
time awesome
amount wise how much do you put in the
shake well generally you take your daily
protein intake and you divide it by
about six to eight so that's the amount
of protein that goes in that Shank
and the carbs are as you saw from the
other slide
layered on top of that they have a
multiple so if you know the protein the
multiple tells you the carbs are ready
so for example if you have a 200 gram
daily protein intake because you weigh
200 pounds or something like that then a
typical Shake of yours can have
something like 25 grams of whey protein
in it and have 50 to 100 grams of
carbohydrates and will be something like
gee whiz
like
a liter and a half of fluid that's a lie
that's fucking serious it's not the end
of the world you're not gonna like you
know piss your pants halfway through the
workout but it absolutely will go a long
way towards rehydrating it
so
Point number three this shake should
provide you with all
of your nutrition and hydration needs
for the entire workout but and a couple
of pointers first it won't make really
any difference in performance for the
first hour because you're running on
stored fuel already
it'll make a small but meaningful
difference in the second hour and the
way it does this is it usually makes you
allows you to finish much stronger than
usual like you guys know you do your
whole back workout and you get to biceps
and you're like
I don't want to be here if you have an
intro shake that whole time and sip on
it you get to biceps and you're like oh
okay huh weird this is going a lot
better than usual it's not night and day
but it's definitely something you can
notice
under the hood that shake will reduce
muscle breakdown theoretically at least
catabolism and set you up for anabolism
after the workout you finish your shake
you go home when you have your
post-workout meal and you've completely
seamlessly sealed off the pre intra and
post-workout window to be as anabolic
and anti-catabolic as possible voila
you did the thing now here's the thing
lastly
do you not want to do this and think
it's Superfluous bro I usually don't do
the shit I've been doing it more
recently and I have to gain mass now
I've got a mass phase
and I if I just don't eat during my
workout it's two hours spent not eating
and I have to eat so much after and the
rest of the time that I want to throw up
so I'm doing this now just to get him
more calories it absolutely works
it's just a little bit of extra just a
bit of an extra boost like a percent or
something to your overall gains over
your fucking career
if you want the Boost and you like
having the shake
go for it if you don't and you think
intra-workout nutrition is absolutely
sensationalized to be more important
than it really is you're correct
now if you like this video well but hold
on a sec there's more
like subscribe to all that stuff
two other offers for you we have a
members section we pay like five bucks a
month and you get at least one extra
super in-depth educational and or
training video per week real nerd level
stuff if you want to learn learn for
real for real more more
then you can subscribe to that and if
you're the extra super high level nerd
that wants to do things like talk to
other people in a private Forum ask for
feedback on your physique and feedback
on what you should be doing next be
offered a crapload of I was going to say
free included programming and diet
advice and get to ask myself Jared
feather and a bunch of other highly
qualified people questions that are
answered live in the group once a week
teamful ROM Forum that's where you want
to be Link in the description give it
some thought you have any questions
about the offerings shoot them below
we'll try to answer the comments
lastly
Maybe not today but sometime this week
get out into the world get into the sun
take off all of your clothes and just be
my favorite place to do this is the
local Walmart parking lot I'll see you
guys next time