when you eat high protein meals first
off it allows you to fuel your muscles
properly ah excellent it turns out your
muscles don't really rely on protein as
fuel what do they rely on as fuel first
answer anything they can get proteins or
carbs or fats but much better answer
realistically much more likely carbs and
then fats and then way down the line if
they run out of everything else a higher
fraction of protein or amino acids used
for generating energy so protein doesn't
fuel your muscles properly this is
simply wrong mythical and if I'm going
to give him some social responsibility
which I don't really believe in morally
myself and also it's a bit asking much
for vishr to know these things but he's
kind of poisoning the well it's not
great to give a lot of people when you
have a big audience nonsense nonfacts
that they can learn wrong I would much
rather an ignorant person than someone
that knew things that were the opposite
of the truth or just totally wrong dare
I say that that process of social media
influence is broken nope it's just slow
like V Shred