good morning so Steph just told me that
apparently there's a laundry list of
instructions for the pool in this place
we're in Sacramento California
I should say we made it here for Pat's
show my good friend client Pat he's
competing tomorrow at the natural muscle
man I wish is the show where I went pro
in 2014
I'm so we're all here just hanging out
I'm feeling super good because I got so
much work done before I came and I
figured you know what I might as well go
ahead and vlog all the stuff that we're
gonna be doing here I just finished
filming my third episode of the
fundamental series I just finished my
fundamentals eBook program right before
I came here so that's gonna be coming
out with that video and then was another
video I filmed Oh a mythbuster that
one's done I've got a mythbuster coming
out on water just like a ton of content
but anyway I think Steph is planning to
do a photo shoot out here by the pool or
the hot tub I don't even know if this is
is a hot tub no it feels kind of
lukewarm to me water is definitely not
cold it's it's really nice there is a
look at look at this handy woman that's
amazing Bombo water features
oh yeah let me see
whoa this is so sick
good job I feel like we could get some
of the like coolest shots would you jump
off that roof 4,000 bucks it's like
10:00 in the morning Pat is one day out
he's still sleeping
which is smart because he doesn't do
nearly enough of that what I'll do is
I'll probably give you guys a little
tour of the whole place this is actually
in an enormous place so there's five of
us staying here so me her
rashon Pat and Eddie now Eddie is Pat's
friend he's helping him out with some of
the filming and stuff here so there's
five of us here but this place is so
sweet I'll show you guys all that oh
yeah this is my Airbnb there's my travel
agent actually yeah if you guys need a
travel agent I will link my resume down
below and you know she's expired
she's extremely overqualified travel she
can also research cancer but she knows
that Expedia website pretty efficient
Thank You E and one scoop of alpha me is
PE signs off for me sometimes I'll just
put these kind of down the middle like
that into quarters that's a nice name
you e I know I brought it I literally
brought this from Coleman we've modeled
it in I declared this at the border
going through the border and he's like
you're bringing food in he's like yeah
yeah
one key we have just texted me saying he
slept in and missed his polygon it was
today
yeah so in the WMV f you have to pass a
lie-detector test before you can compete
I'm sure he'll be able to do it later
[Music]
one good morning we're gonna have to do
the polygraph right here bro are you
slight change of plans because pata
needs to go do this polygraph test I'm
not going to talk too much about the
polygraph like photograph isn't the most
reliable way to figure out if someone's
lying or not but I think it's a
deterrent so like if you are
legitimately using banned substances
you're not going to want to have to pass
a lie-detector test it's like kind of
uncomfortable so why bother if you don't
have to do a natural organization that
doesn't polygraph test that just does a
urine test which you could probably get
around more easily so I feel like it's a
deterrent more more than anything right
but it is something you gotta you got to
do which i think is awesome that's one
thing you have to do I usually recommend
doing it like Thursday like don't leave
it for the last minute get your whole
body shape because you don't want like
razor burn or anything usually even I'd
probably go but it depends on how fast
your hair grows back out too because you
don't want to have it like quickly on
stage so weird when you like haven't
been to a place in so long but it's so
like a punctuated in your memory
14 spent three years looking at coffee
it's like a big family yes anybody so
Pat's in doing his polygraph right now
and the polygraph is something that's
like I've always had to be like kind of
nerve-racking because even if you are
100% natural like you always kind of
like it's like going to a customs agent
like you always thinking back your mind
like if there's something or whatever so
accidently yeah yeah exactly so I'm sure
he's probably pretty nervous especially
because he was late but once it's all
done then it's just cruising from here
so this is like this is the thing you
just like want to get out of the way and
done and then after that's done you good
oh are you natural really it went ok
right so just got back to the place -
every week we give you guys some context
of this
[Music]
you have him for breakfast me I got that
very same cream well I got some of that
too and rashon put us both on to this
blueberries and promotes fun I got some
over here this stuff right here
apparently it's delicious I'm gonna get
myself some of that right now
how's it tasting it's good I'll ship
some of this back home so for those of
you guys who like maybe didn't wash that
Pat has been on basically like a protein
sparing modified faster like you could
technically probably call it a keto diet
you can what this protein is pretty hot
for the last two about two weeks right
so really no carbs we had one carb
refeed but it was mostly just from fruit
and then everything else was just like
asparagus and broccoli so like a pretty
extreme diet to get him ready so this is
really other than yesterday the first
bit of carbs he's had in a while all
right so guys here's meal number one
I've got two slightly runny whole eggs
over here and then I think three egg
whites and then this is per rashan's
recommendation this is your jam right
this is that blueberry cream
oatmeal so I'm gonna eat some of this
Shawna's just helping out with the
latest mythbuster this is going up on
Monday and these eggs actually just
reminded me that one other thing I
forgot that I filmed just before I came
here was that interview on the vegan
diet and the response to vegan gains
about the whole eggs thing so that's
gonna be coming out on the channel in
the next couple of weeks and I think you
guys are really gonna love it it's very
neutral and super informative I'm so
anyway stay tuned for that one I'm gonna
eat this meal and then we're gonna head
to the gym right are we gonna go to the
gym nice yeah alright check with you
guys in a little bit I have four I was
so stupid
why hey we can't all blog like Bruce
Shannon are okay this stuff is really
good for the record if you guys haven't
tried it it does come highly recommend
it also I decided to throw a peach into
the mix and finish out the breakfast so
rashon and I were just talking
whether rock or hip-hop is better for
hiking up in the gym so I do still
listen to more rock stuff and I'm just
gonna get his opinion on whether he
thinks this with hype them up this song
number one
[Music]
yeah I mean this this used to get me
super high life experiences you know
eight years ago yeah like what's
something that you would like if you
were going for like a heavy bench is
good yeah he's fine play this gift you
must watch what do you think it is oh
[Music]
yeah could you let yeah yeah yeah I mean
see the lyrics are crazy but what do you
think yeah like I could throw this on
for a PR okay what do you think of this
what do you think of this isn't me the
last one they're like oh they're really
weird a lot of people get yeah I don't
it's too noisy for me it's not it
doesn't have a good all right you guys
I think they kind of have a check in on
how he's looking the goal is I'm gonna
have a look at him like every two hours
and we're gonna super micromanage the
rest of this peak and yes the goal is
gonna be to give them as much carbs as
we can get away with without any risk of
spilling because if he spills that's
really hard to clean up at this point so
better to be a little bit more
conservative with the carbs but we are
carb loading Daymond for something like
400 to 500 grams of carbs per day yeah
man honestly you've already since last
night so like if you go side on and show
the side the side in these lines here
this lighting is actually kind of hot
lighting that's not the best but there's
like lines here here to split here like
I've never seen that kind of definition
on Pat ever so this is by far your best
addition and what do you think about a
stubborn fasting that we did to the boot
you feel it work their first glad to see
ya it work I thought that was going to
come off more of my flaws but then I
feel like you're targeting more
it's hard to say because it's like so
many factors going on but whatever but
whatever happened man your Gleason hands
we don't like we're easy to last you
yeah I think we can keep going with the
curves but let's keep going according to
plan
nope 100 grams each meal and we'll
monitor you as a day goes by you've got
100 grams of carbs in right now right
yeah yeah man you already look pretty
full teardrop that's very meaningful
Stefan think she's doing a photo shoot
with for Sean I'm gonna try to photo
Vaughn it jump over her and get a really
cool tech firm instead and maybe I'll
use a first on the hill so
so how do you feel about having your big
california photo shoot photo bomb go
grab a quick pre-workout meal get some
pre-workout goal in man upper-body
strength focus workout today so lots of
heavy weight and snappeth hitting but
but alright so see you guys over there
I can't do this on my own the Papa I'll
be coming home but I'm going
[Music]
what's going on then nice to meet you
buddy nice to meet you house tell me
yeah yeah good I appreciate that man I
appreciate it pretty creepy I see you
all the way out here to lately one of
the farthest distances travel yeah
that's where I came from
yeah really are six player five cuz
people are confused about exactly who
I'd split I'm running right now so I'll
do my push-pull legs work out best for
my science applied series and I'll kind
of work around my training split a
little bit every but I'm running right
now he's more of a power building focus
routine from really focus on bringing my
power lifts back ups and the squat bench
press and deadlift and then I'll
prioritize that early in the week and
then later in the week I focus on more
bodybuilding style training I'm so it's
within that bodybuilding component that
I'll kind of switch out some exercises
for others so that I can finish the
push-pull leg split or the push-pull
legs series and the science applied
series but that's not exactly what I'm
doing right now so that series is a
little behind where I am in my own
program
what are you working up to today working
out the 295 sector six
slightly
pache plan for today is just like come
in get a slight hump make sure the
nutrients are going to the right places
basically maybe a couple lateral raises
bit a lat pull down a couple bicep curls
that's it yeah like he's gonna spot me
on this one rep max upright row for you
get it
pretty good six right now springing it
off my chest a little bit but felt
pretty good I found with benchpress like
I just had to get in that groove like if
I'm out a groove at all it'll feel way
harder but that second set felt a lot
better than the first one
so I'm hoping that the third one feels
even better still for whatever reason
maybe it's the travel or whatever it is
feeling a little bit heavy in my hands
today we're gonna keep the weight the
same and I have a feeling the third one
I'll probably move better than the first
[Music]
okay so I was just the third set of
benchpress I feel like that one was the
smoothest I feel like it takes a few
sets for me to get my groove that
heavier weight anyway so I'm next I've
got two sets of ten on the dumbbell fly
and I'll have this I'll put the full
workout in the description box you guys
want to go try it out it'd be kind of
random if you're not running this
program but anyway so two sets of ten on
the dumbbell fly with those really just
focusing on the stretch at the bottom
and driving my elbows together at the
top so you're kind of trying to touch my
elbows together and let that be the main
point of focus rather than actually
focusing on the dumbbells after that
we're doing four sets of five to eight
so some pretty heavy machine shoulder
presses and with these just want to
focus on that eccentric control and with
these I can load them actually really
heavy full range of motion of course
after that we're moving on to some back
stuff so it's gonna be the chest
supported t-bar row and we're gonna do
three sets of five to eight reps I would
probably want to use the bands on those
so they have some bands here I'll
probably throw them on I think they do
in the back room so we'll load up some
bands on those do five to eight reps
over there with a strong squeeze at the
top
then it's moved on to a vertical pool so
a lat pulldown three sets of five to
eight so some pretty heavy weight
they're not so much focusing on the East
End track they're just focusing on
overloading then we're gonna do a
stretch finisher for the back so it's
gonna be a dumbbell pullover two sets of
six to ten reps I'm probably gonna go
closer to the ten range and really focus
on just that stretch and squeeze and
with those I like to put my upper back
kind of on a bench and then really
stretch my lats as much as I can on the
bottom of each and every rep and not go
too heavy
instead focus really on the mechanics
rather than overload necessarily there
and then we're gonna finish off with a
little bit of arms so we're just doing
three sets six to eight reps on the EZ
bar curl want to maintain good control
and curl out in an arc so you really
want to almost lift the weight out in
front of you rather than just
get back and that'll increase the moment
arm and releasing concept do that and
put more tension on the biceps and then
I'm finishing up with some weighted
tricep dips this is a new movement I've
added back in I used to do this all the
time and actually worked up to having
three 45 pound plates flying in my lap
but I've had to start a little bit more
humbly because I haven't done them in
forever so I'm just going with a plate
or maybe a plate in a 25 for three sets
of six to eight reps on ease after that
that will be the whole workout so I
gotta get through all that right now and
then I think we're gonna go get some
post-workout nutrition so I'll show you
where we end up going for that all right
so guys we're here at chick-fil-a this
is a real American treat when I come to
America I really love some chick-fil-a
so this is this is a special treat for
me so I decided to get four different
sauces I don't know if some of these are
new or not we've got the ranch got the
classic chick-fil-a sauce zesty Buffalo
and the sweet and spicy sriracha so I'm
gonna try all these out and I'll give my
ratings what
regular chick-fil-a sauces as good as it
gets really it's number one so far okay
up next we're trying the sweet and spicy
sriracha
- your favorite by doing this yeah the
chick-fil-a is better that's good though
it's got a nice kick to it AB next zesty
buffalo sauce tastes like a wing you
might recommend sauce that's good the
chick-fil-a sauce is still the best give
this one a shot
your aunt's got more of like a subtle
Ranch flavor it's really nice though
it's got like a can really taste the
herb so chick-fil-a sauce is number one
number two is going to be the zesty
Buffalo third place goes to Jabba ranch
daba ranch gets third very close slight
it was good but it had it look I'm a
weird aftertaste
so this sriracha gets last place hey I
mean you have to recognize the bad to
appreciate the good name you know Pat is
actually getting his tan done right now
gonna go make sure everything is on
point and then I'll check them with you
guys one last clip yeah you look
honestly I don't I feel like you're
pretty good but I do want to give you a
bit more carbs in a bit more fats okay
what do you think your daily totals
asked so far leave it behind egg yeah
like around 200 maybe or 2:30 okay so
let's try to get let's go and kind of
start a little bit
okay and we can go kind of through the
night a little bit okay guys just got
back to every V we went and got a few
pickups for pad just like high-calorie
stuff use a little bit behind on his
carb load and also I feel like he needs
a little bit more sodium to bring out
the vascularity so we got some fats we
got some electrolytes and we're gonna
kind of speed him up real good now cuz
tonight it's gonna conclude this video
here next to my head I've got a video of
Pat's whole approach to the stage so
what we did for the last two weeks to
get him really bone dry shredded for the
bodybuilding division I'm hit up the
link over here to subscribe to the
channel if you happen to be new please
leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the
video and I'll see you guys all here in
the next vlog which will be the show day
vlog so that's coming awesome one see
you guys all that