how much alcohol can you drink without
impairing your recovery most Studies
have used alcohol doses of about 0.6 to
1.5 grams per kilogram or about one gram
per kilogram of body weight when looking
at these studies you do very often see
impairments and recovery from a lifting
session however a series of studies by
Barnes and colleagues look at even lower
alcohol intakes and this can help inform
us as to how much one can drink without
it really impacting your recovery from a
session when you examine this series of
studies it suggests that recovery
impairments are relatively minimal when
alcohol intake is kept below 0.5 grams
per kilogram of body weight in a single
belt for someone weighing 80 kilograms
for example that would be about 40 grams
of alcohol that's the equivalent of
about three glasses of wine or about
three pints of beer or about three shots
of vodka so to minimize the impact of
drinking alcohol on your recovery limit
your drinks to about three or fewer or
to about 0.5 grams per kilogram of body
weight of alcohol in a single session