just about everybody has tight hips
doing stretching can absolutely help but
a big rock that many people are skipping
over is adding in a deliberate 3 second
pause in the bottom of exercise that
emphasize the lengthened or stretched
position for their muscles so this will
build active strength and stability in
all those hard to reach places which
will make you more mobile and resilient
longterm I agree with this and in fact
as a metanalysis comparing the range of
motion improvements or essentially your
Mobility from specifically passive
stretching to lifting weights and in
fact the improvements in your Mobility
or flexib ility are similar and while it
doesn't need to be a 3second pause it
could be just spending more time that
lengthen position by increasing the
stretch in your exercises doing length
and partials for
example always bringing it back to Leng
and partials baby all of that may get
you slightly more flexible over time and
potentially even more flexible than just
training through a full range of motion
with no constraints on the range of
motion or open Con straints on the tempo
next up is all about improving your
mobility and range of motion