well hello everyone and welcome to the
ice cream for Pierre's podcast my name
is Jeff Nippert and I have Lauren Conlon
and Robin gallant
joining me this week for a discussion on
flexible dieting so more specifically
we're going to be focusing on some new
research that Lauren has done on
inclusive versus exclusive dieting
before I get into introducing our guests
just a couple quick bookkeeping items
from me
the first I feel like I should address
the name change that I mentioned I would
be doing a couple of episodes ago I said
I was going to be changing the the name
from the ice cream for Pierre's podcast
to something else and I gave you guys
three different options and a bunch of
you tweeted me and emailed me and
messaged me which I very much
appreciated but I think that I actually
decided that I would go with the if it's
not broken don't fix it approach for now
and through the consult of some people
that I really trust as business
professionals within the fitness
industry they sort of managed to
convince me that the podcast is growing
and people are sharing it and enjoying
it and the name even if it isn't
perfectly in line with the content of
the podcast can kind of stand on its own
and a lot of people said that it's a
sort of majoring in the minors to sort
of change the name at this point given
that you know it is growing and people
are responding well to it so for now I'm
not going to be changing the name if
that changes down the future I'll make
sure I let you guys know other than that
if you guys would like to support this
podcast you can do that by going to
iTunes and giving me a rating or a
review it's actually very helpful for me
as a podcaster and if you'd like to
continue this discussion after the
podcast is over the best place to do
that as of now is on my social media so
we can continue it in the comments
section on YouTube if you're watching
this there or you on my Instagram
Twitter snapchat they're just all at
Jeff Nippert so now that that's out of
the way I can introduce our guests so
we've got Warren Conlon on
she is a IFBB bikini Pro she has a
master's in exercise science
she's an online coach and personal
trainer she's sponsored by Better Bodies
slingshot in protein and you can learn
more about Lauren and her contest prep
services at Lauren Conlon comm that's
Lauren it's a real pleasure to have you
on the show yeah thank you guys for
having me it's so exciting I've watched
several years now and you always have
great guests so when you reached out to
me I was like oh my gosh thank you
awesome and I also have Robin gallant
joining me as guest co-host this week a
lot of our old-time listeners will be
familiar with when Robin would regularly
co-host the show with me so I'm really
happy to have her joining us for this
discussion this week so yeah I guess
we'll just dig right into things so
first of all Lauren I just wanted you to
briefly tell me a little bit about your
master's project so as I understand it
you focused on inclusive versus
exclusive dieting yes so I finally get
to talk about it because we had the
conference two weekends ago where
weekend ago and I can discuss the
results so basically we I wanted to know
does how we diet influence weight loss
and more importantly weight regain so
super important and a lot of us we
already know because we do this but it
really is novel in the research
literature and to a lot of people still
I know our DS who are like wait that
macro stuff works so it's still not as
common as we think outside of our little
circle so essentially i randomized
groups into inclusive or exclusive which
was either macro tracking or a meal plan
written by an RD the meal plan did have
a variation it wasn't like a five food
list from a bro code but so there were
options but I had to have people to do
this and actually stick to it so we put
them on a they gave us their three-day
food log we had to trust that and then
we put them on a 25% caloric reduction
after the caloric reduction we had
protein at two grams per kilogram and
then 50/50 split between carbs
and fat so very balanced diet for
everyone but the number was
individualized to them so we had them on
the diet for ten weeks we tested them at
baseline we test them at five weeks and
at ten weeks and what we did was ultra
sound body composition testing we did
resting metabolic rates we did salivary
lucked in which didn't really work out
that well but we did it and then at
baseline and at week ten
we did a psychological questionnaire
which in the literature if you look at
it it is called the TF EQ or the three
factor eating questionnaire really good
a lot of eating questionnaires are
actually like eating disorder kind of
bass and this one's not because a lot of
times people who attract their food kind
of seem disordered so I just I wanted to
differentiate that so we did that for
ten weeks they came in some people
adhered like spot-on and then other
people you know didn't but that's just
human research right so we had them diet
for the ten weeks and then afterwards I
wanted them I wanted to see what
happened right I wanted to see if did
this diet influence weight regain or
more weight loss whatever it was so
there was no intervention it was just
come back two more times over the next
ten weeks so that was really was I
wanted to see like does anything
happened is anything not happen so it
was kind of free-for-all whatever you
wanted to do some people knew what
reverse side and was other people were
just excited about their weight loss and
they're like well I want to keep diet
and other people were like screw this I
want to just be done with it and then so
we saw that a week sixteen and then at
week twenty we did those same exact
testings so we finished with 27
participants which isn't huge but is it
terrible for that kind of a research
study since it was twenty plus weeks
right so what we found were that there
were no differences in the diet phase on
any of the measures so that's exciting
for flexible dieting or non flexible
dieting there it seems to be that you
can do whatever you want right which is
kind of what we all know intuitively
from doing it but that was what we found
and then from the only thing that we did
see differently in the post diet period
was actually an increase in lean body
mass in the flexible group and a
decrease in lean body mass in the meal
plan group now maybe that was something
weird but it was sadistic
and it was the the flexible group gained
1.53 kilos which is a significant amount
and then the other group lost 0.59 so
not huge numbers but that does matter
but in any case even if that was
something weird there were no
differences right so do it you want
that's kind of what we found as far as
the statistical side now talking with
people and learning about their eating
behaviors I learned a ton of stuff and
there's obviously you know more things
that's just reporting the averages there
were some people who lost a ton of
weight some people who gained weight I
mean there's all different things so but
for the most part for the research
that's what we found typically and I'm
excited to say for the first time but
that's been done so awesome yeah well
congratulations on I'm following through
with that yeah thank you yeah it's
exciting I mean obviously it's my first
like ever study so it was it was
challenging especially cuz I was
prepping and had to get up before I am
and do everything but it was good so
yeah so one of the things that I was
hoping you could just tell me a little
bit about a little bit more about was
the population that you work with so
were they students were they we did were
they resistance trained yes so a lot of
the people that happen to be students
just because of recruiting reasons um
they're a lot easier obviously to get
because I'm already on a university
campus the average you had to be between
18 and 40 so I didn't want to do over 40
for menopause reasons with women because
it was males and females most people I
say the average age was 25 and then the
average body fat was 20 point 5 so not
super lean but not very overweight we
had some people who were on the leaner
end and some people were on the heavier
end but in order to do the study you had
to have been resistance training for at
least a year and then you had to average
about two hours in the gym per day so
some people far exceeded that and then
other people just kind of met the
threshold but again I wanted it to be
trained people
I didn't control their training I said
continue doing what you're doing because
it would have been impossible to run a
20 week training study on top of all
that other stuff and we looked at the
training logs
actually afterwards and there was no
time reported in minutes difference
between the groups so everyone kind of
seemed to be doing what they were doing
previously but so they were trained they
weren't physique athletes but they
weren't said entry people who had never
been in the gym before one of the
questions that I would have is how do
you feel that this study contributes to
the literature at large so it seems like
so far most of the research is pointing
towards the fact that a flexible
approach to dieting tends to be
associated with lower BMIs
less eating disorder behavior better
like successful outcomes with the diet
your study kind of found that there
wasn't much of a difference yeah so what
do you think the reason was for your
study not finding a difference well if
you look at those studies most of them
the good ones at least that you're
talking about a lot of them are not
intervention based a lot of them are
questionnaire based studies which are
great they lead to clues because if you
find that there's nothing you know while
you're gonna keep exploring it right so
we see these positive outcomes and
anecdotally we see positive outcomes too
but we don't we have to kind of take a
step back and realize that a lot of
people can do well on a meal plan right
now the study was only 10 weeks long by
the end of ten weeks a lot of the
participants were like I don't want to
eat the same foods anymore I'm kind of
over this but they still stuck to it
because they're a part of my study it'll
just be like doing a diet right we know
people who do really well on meal plans
for shows because they have a goal right
so in the literature also you have to
remember that and this was weird for me
because we're so used to like flexible
dieting is if it's your macros but it's
not in the literature flexible dieting
just means a moderate approach to eating
meaning you have a party to go to so
you're either going to eat less before
or less after and you don't binge on
everything in sight versus really rigid
is that black-and-white thinking and
more of like if it's not on my plan I
can't have it or like oh I gotta go
exercise a lot now so it's not
necessarily meal plan bro foods versus
it fits your macros in the literature at
least it's more of the mindset more of
the eating behaviors so that's why
sometimes it's hard to read that and go
oh of course this is what we found right
so I wanted to look at a straight-up
meal plan versus macros because to my
knowledge that haven't been done before
and it innervates intervention based
study because mostly on the literature
don't even really know it if it's macro
to be honest yeah and and it's really
hard because you're reading it you're
like oh this this flexible diet and then
you start to realize that it's not it's
flexible behaviors which led me to
question this because we all see it but
again it was a ten week diet people did
well because they need structure and I
did think there were people who some
people who did very well in the meal
plan and they lost a bunch of weight and
they adhered very well and then they
didn't have these negative side-effects
after right there was only a few of
those people but I really like made sure
I was like why oh hi what's so different
about you right and they just didn't
know what to do before so the meal plan
actually acted as his guide for them
that they were just nude they didn't
really knit was like the missing piece
for them like what I don't know what to
eat and the meal plan helped me because
it gave portions and it gave food
suggestions but then afterwards I asked
them and I said okay twenty weeks is
over you've done both things what what
would you do again if I had if we
repeated the study what would you choose
and 26 of the 27 said macros so even
though people who did very well in the
meal plan only one guy on the meal plan
was like no I don't think I'm ready yet
so it's kind of like a continuum there
are people who needed that meal plan in
order to do well because they they
didn't have structure in their life
before and so they needed that structure
and then after they learned they were
like well I already know what to do now
and I can just kind of gradually become
more flexible so I think that's the big
difference also is some people need that
like some people don't know how to read
a food label like they don't know what's
in that so telling them kind of okay
this is a portion size is about how much
you should eat is really important and
again in our little group we're so used
to like oh everyone knows that macros
everyone knows what's the matter but
they don't so that's why I think meal
plans can be very important on a
continuum right I actually had a
question so um I know you kind of
briefly went over this but so for the
macro group or the flexible dieting
group did you give them
specific calories and macros I just gave
the macros just macros okay so macros
right yeah so I just yeah and they track
their intake mm-hmm
so we I didn't want to give them more
coaching per se because that's not fair
than biased so what we did was we gave
carbs fats proteins and fiber goals of
course and then I gave them so he leaves
a book on how to track macros so I said
here's education if you don't know how
to do it please read this because the
other one would simply just follow the
plan so I couldn't coach the other group
and then not you know one the other so I
gave them the numbers yeah that would
have been super biased and then it would
have especially people already think I'm
probably biased towards one group or the
other which I'm not I just wanted to
know so we gave them the book and people
read it and some people already were
already familiar with macros but for the
people who weren't I I think they read
it and I hope it figure they came in and
they understood what it was some people
just didn't like it and they were like
I'm not really doing this - well Mike
okay yes so and then for the meal plan
group you gave them a specific foods
list and gave them suggestions on how to
eat each meal and like structured meals
with like a protein source and a carb
source is that yeah we had an RD and I
told her to keep it really simple
because a lot of people were college-age
and you know I couldn't be like oh have
a wild caught salmon you know that's
just not so it was like okay chicken and
add some butter if you need more fats
you know what I mean and so the base was
very simple
and you know foods that most everybody
could tolerate nothing off-the-wall or
weird and again I wasn't saying it was
very bland and I said you could use
spices just don't use things that have
calories but you can use spices but
basically eat off of these food lists
and then everyone that's kind of looked
the same and then some people just
obviously had more and if you had higher
fats you had more of the added fats than
if you had lower fats then you just eat
the chicken or the fish yeah we super
simple third a lot I have questions
written that I was
to ask about the study but you answered
a lot in your initial like I hope I'm
not talking too much
no and then I was kind of interested
about afterwards so you and I'm a little
bit confused - so did each person have a
set time doing if it fits your macros in
a set time doing a meal plan or there
was just two separate groups altogether
there are two separate groups okay I
said at the ten weeks at the end I said
do whatever you want okay I see so
you're saying that 26 or 27 people
wanted to do either continue doing IFI I
am or or tribe yes or try yes sorry I
didn't make that clear but I wanted to
see after this whole process you know
gnome you know being strict or not or
being being on the rigid plan or being
on the flexible plan and then having
some downtime in between there what
would you choose again and the people
who the people under in the study
understood what macros were even if they
weren't in that group and so you know
after we've been talking about it for a
while Suffolk and most people who came
in were not completely clueless they
were just kind of not really sure on the
specifics so when I recruited for this I
you know I had to tell people this is a
20-week dieting study so you had to get
some kind of level of interest and some
level of oh I understand what's in this
not to the degree of what we probably
are used to but just some under Spacek
understanding more educated than a lot
of other people and partially I think
that was just because they were trained
people and they were kind of in the gym
lifestyle that's my thinking and then my
another question I had was well did you
go over like so for the flexible dining
group and the meal plan group did you
tell them about good and bad foods did
you educate them on that or you just
literally didn't touch on it at all nope
I did not want to buy us anything I did
not want to give extra education to one
group or attention to the other group
the only thing I did when they did when
they did come in basically at baseline
we know the testing and I said I'll be
in contact with you and then they either
got an email they were randomized based
on that mess
and they were either got the email that
said here's your meal plan or they got
the email that said here are your macros
and your fiber and here's an e-book have
at it and then when they came in if they
had questions of course I answered them
but I didn't press extra things what I
pressed was okay how did you actually do
how many times did you eat off plan how
are you feeling with this you know have
you learned anything from the study like
what's your food look like you know that
kind of stuff and I just took notes
honestly for myself that's never gonna
get published nobody whose science
community cares but for me that was
probably the coolest part was learning
kind of how it's like I had 30 clients
you know over this time period because I
got to see how they transformed and how
their eating behavior is transformed so
that was really interesting but no I
didn't do any additional coaching or too
much education because I didn't want to
buy us one group not the other two that
I was gonna be like wow like you managed
30 subjects on top of your client base
on top of prepping yourself like that
must have been a pretty stressful year
you guys like the last I think it was
the third check-in I was you know in my
third peak week or something and you
know you're getting up at 4 and then it
never failed that the 5 a.m. and the 11
names never showed or they would or they
would like oh I got a call later so like
those are the people who always dropped
out never the middle people so I'd get
there and we were just be like I'm like
I knew just wait around and it was it
was very stressful having all those
people come in you have a lot of tests
going on your paperwork you've got
people running her oh man it was it was
a lot but it was a good experience okay
so I'm gonna ask my other question so
after the the diet phase you just were
like okay just you're on your own you
can do whatever you want you don't have
to track you don't have to do a meal
plan you just can do whatever you want
mm-hmm okay and I wanted to see how
people were affected by a diet so again
maybe this isn't as stringent science as
some scientists would like but
I'm very real life based our lab dr.
Campbell my adviser is very real like
outcome-based
we like to look at things like does this
change your lean body mass do you get
leaner do you get stronger like things
like that so for me I wanted to see just
blatantly if you're on a meal plan what
do you want to do afterwards does that
affect your weight loss your weight gain
your body comp and then the same thing
for the flexible group so like I said
some people already had an idea of what
a reverse tie it was so some people did
that a few other people tried to
continue dieting and then some people
just kind of were like oh I'm doing
whatever and I had a really cool example
and I talked about this in a
presentation I did and I thought I say
this every time but this one guy came in
and he was on the meal plan group and he
lost a lot of weight so I'm like oh I'm
ready like I wanna see what happens he's
gonna be like I'm excited and he liked
the meal plan and he lost a lot of
weight so I'm like oh I got a totally
like bombards guys question and you came
in for his his first visit after the
diet and I'm like okay so what have you
been eating and he goes tacos and I was
like what and he's like yeah I goes I
work it like an IT job or something
anyways I worked really weird hours and
it's super busy he goes I've just been
eating tacos from this company but I
know what's a better choice is to put on
the tacos and he like maintain most of
his weight so it was nutso we went from
the strict meal plan not really knowing
what to do - like I'm just gonna eat
tacos but I'm gonna put better choices
on my tacos which probably was stolen
like either a deficit or like a
maintenance level and then he maintained
stuff so it was it was crazy yeah I was
gonna ask
so did now at the macro group or the IFI
am group or flexible dying group or
whatever so they gained lean body mass
did they gain net overall body weight
yes so so they were a little bit heavier
but not much I mean it wasn't like there
was I'm gonna go into the semi trend of
what was going on that the fat free mass
but I mean they didn't gain a ton of
weight but it was they increase lean
body mass and what we was interesting
was we looked at the difference we
wanted to see like we have no idea what
has happened so we looked at the
training and there was no differences
and reported training and then there was
no differences in reported because we
had the food logged afterwards - for the
people who turned it in we had the Hang
calculate kind of do all that stuff so
there was no differences between the
groups with protein or and/or calories
so we really don't know the only thing I
can think of is actually I just talking
with Erik Helms about this and he told
about this paper from dr. Bartholomew
University of Texas I believe and it had
to do with stress and resistance
training and basically the people with
higher stress couldn't adapt as well to
training so we were thinking
extrapolating maybe people who were more
stressed on the rigid plan couldn't
adopt a training as well so they
couldn't add lean body mass I mean it's
kind of a stretch but in any case it's
some kind of an idea and if not maybe
just being more flexible and more
helpful yeah cuz so and then so they did
both groups gained overall body weight
but one group just lost me I actually
can't remember now I'm like trying to
think and I'm like I'm gonna pull this
up but I don't I I don't think there was
differences because we looked at
basically everything and when you
analyze it which kind of sucks in
science but I mean it it's good but it's
also bad you have to look at everything
as an average so you can have people at
all ends of the spectrum but it
basically ends up here so we probably
had people who gained a lot of weight
and people who lost weight but then it
ends up being about nothing so the only
difference is that stood out the only
dip yeah there couldn't have been
differences between body weight because
then I would have I would have known
that where did that yeah so they're so
same gain and body weight but one group
gained yeah we're I mean we like about
free mass and the other group again
Ausmus on average yeah on average on the
machines thing but I don't want people
when we're saying this I'm excited that
we found something but at the same time
I don't want people to think oh I gotta
go flexible diet the gain lean body it's
very small what we did find and you know
unless five other people replicate it
who knows that was just like a weird
thing with our group so amazed
I'm saying we did find this but the big
the biggest takeaway is there was no
difference so do what you like and if
you need more structure go with more
structure and then over time you can
become more flexible as you are ready
for that right that make sense well I
just like had those specific questions
cuz ya know kind of like my mind starts
working when there's like a weird result
so like I was thinking oh well if the
iifym group gained weight it would make
sense that they gain some mean body mass
yeah their group maintained then it
would make sense that they didn't gain
it and now I'm like thinking I'm like I
ran DeMott from me like I like I this is
the first time I'm hearing about all of
it especially in like all of this
specific details so it's just like
interesting and I'm just curious so
trust me when we were analyzing and dr.
Campbell we're like this is this is very
interesting there's an interaction
effect between lean body mass and we
both were like like I'm like this is not
what we were looking for like hello
weight loss study yeah post diet period
so really funky but regardless like I
said even if it was a weird thing I mean
it was significant so I don't want to
discredit what we found but at this time
I don't want to get too hung up on it
because it's the first study it was a
semi small group and for the most part
everything else was no differences so
that's what we're go one of the things
that I thought of before he just spelled
all that out was that it could be it
could make sense after the fact if the
meal plan group was so exclusive this is
exactly to the to the point that they
were deprived of certain nutrients then
interns suppress certain anabolic
hormones they could be in a less
anabolic state as a result of the meal
plan where the flexible dieting group
could have had more foods included and
so their hormones weren't suppressed as
much in the post diet period but the
macros I still they were still yeah that
the number was still matched for
everyone yeah but I feel like even
micronutrient deficiencies in studies
right
down-regulation of testosterone just as
one example right so if the hormonal
milieu of the meal plan group was a less
anabolic as a result of being restricted
of certain micronutrients then it might
make sense that after the diet was over
they wouldn't see as much LVM gain yeah
that could definitely be it every
everything is a stretch at this point
like they're stressed out yeah that one
that was good as well just throwing this
out there cuz it's just interesting and
like I know this isn't the main takeaway
or whatever but like I just I just want
to talk about a tiny bit longer but I
was thinking that like if they're both
not used to dieting or whatever and
they're both somewhat new to it and then
one group goes directly into if it fits
your macros but another group starts off
on something more rigid then they might
feel like they like afterwards they
could be like oh my gosh I can transfer
over to I FYM and like I have a world of
possibilities now and like they might
feel unrestricted within the same
calorie allotment whereas the iifym
group all they're used to is that amount
of non restriction so that when they're
out on their own devices they just want
more calories because they're used to
just tasting all the different types of
foods that was like something that I
thought of but it wouldn't necessarily
be relevant if they both like gain the
same amount of weight or didn't gain as
well and we do you have to we have to
take this up back to because this is not
our group this is not me
and you guys going and doing a meal plan
right these are just people who some
people track their food some people
didn't some people have a grass some
people don't and then we put them on
this so for the and again there were
options on the meal plan and nobody was
like it's not like they joined you know
like a like a bad like bro team or
something I mean that's not what it was
like and it wasn't like eight five
hundred calories for ten weeks and and
do three hours of cardio like that's not
what it was like you know I mean it was
just more strict versus more flexible
and and again it's not our people so the
people who did the the meal plan didn't
for the most part didn't go all
God not gonna do fits your macros I'm
gonna fit all of the whatever into my
numbers there were some people who did
flexible dieting before and then
actually got put in the meal plan group
and then those people probably
definitely felt like that but besides
those people it was more of just like oh
I'm not dieting I don't got a check-in I
don't have to really see so again I
can't speak to everyone because I don't
you know wasn't them but for the most
part most of the people were a little
bit more moderate as far as just kind of
their feelings within it they were
probably just a handful of people who
had been a little bit more serious with
tracking and everything yeah it would be
very interesting to do this in a group
who was obviously higher level up this
but it would be nearly impossible to do
it at one place it would have to be no
it would have to just be okay I'm gonna
send in my logs but then you can't get
the body fat testing or anything because
everything is different so it would be a
nightmare and I don't even really you
just have to look at it as like a
correlation type stuff but it would be
interesting to get it in more
competitors but actually our lab is
starting now doing almost exclusively
female physique research and all in
aspiring competitors so I don't have you
guys Ana Paula um so he does a show once
a year and it's actually on campus now
so we have a training lab obviously for
at school and we actually have girls
trained there now they track their
numbers we prep them for a show like
that's how it's like it's starting to do
that and we're getting more research on
that so they will be these will be
first-time competitors but we're at
least gonna have probably like eight at
least I think so far comfortable yeah so
it is really exciting kind of what we're
doing and it's very small-scale but it's
a little bit more advanced as far as
like what we're all used to yeah for
sure two things that I just wanted to
say well Robin was asking her flurry of
questions
the first was that I I would have
expected not knowing the results of the
study that the flexible group would have
lost less fat just because I find like
people when they're on a flexible plan
well sometimes
ninja macros in there that don't really
fit in there or they'll eat such a wide
variety of foods that the the
nutritional information becomes a less
reliable yeah yeah so I've actually
found in my experience that using a meal
plan within the macros that you're given
and sort of knowing that you can sub
foods in and out is sort of like a good
middle ground there that just because
consistency over time I think is really
important when it all comes to the diet
100% my comment to that would be one
again they're not competitors yeah to
these people
I don't think some people I don't think
fully grasped the fits your macros let
me macro horde and let me 818 arctic
zeros and approachable I don't think it
was like that I guess maybe I'm maybe
people are gonna watch this be like no
Laura that's totally what I was doing
but for the most part I think it was not
that group I think if we looked at
competitors sometimes people will add a
lot of funky stuff into their diet and
then they're like I don't know I'm not
seeing progress and it's like oh all
those like eighty things add up you know
but for the most part yeah I don't think
again not that group but I think if we
did it with our people maybe the people
who are more advanced with stuff I do
believe that a little bit more structure
and a little bit more consistency I am
team eat whole food sources like all the
way I eat a few things that are of
course eight processed things but for
the most part I like to make a lot of my
food I do eat things that are not what I
made of course but I do find that it's
you get more reliable results when you
eat things that you know what's in them
and their whole food sources versus oh
it says it's on the package and then you
find out that it was wrong or whatever
so a restaurant menus calorie reporting
right no I do not I know somebody asked
that you said there was a question oh
yeah I look
online food from the restaurant I think
that is the silliest thing like the
person who made that is not plating your
food like if you're somebody who tracks
food you're probably gonna be able to
look at it and guesstimate it better
than what it says online because I've
looked at some of the stuff and I'm like
that especially this protein I'm like
there's no way there's six agree it's
like y'all what's like and and if we're
talking competitors and eating out like
you you better just order single
ingredient things and for breakfast last
week and I think the nutritional info
has like Denny's egg whites like 42
grams yeah I was like crazy man
approaching in like one fat and then
yeah touch it with your napkin and it
suddenly soaked with grease you know so
like that it's clearly off by at least
two tablespoons of oil and yeah if
you're offseason or whatever like I'm
all about that like I don't you know I'm
very loose when I'm not prepping but if
you're prepping like you know that's
stuff matters and if you just went off
of like oh Deniz told me so on my
favorite fowl you know so what's your
rule for offseason with restaurant /
guesstimation versus contest prep
restaurant / estimation yeah I'm very
lacks in the offseason you cannot blame
probably a little more laughs than he
would like
but but I'm very much about enjoying
like I have prepped a lot over the past
few years so this last offseason I
actually really just needed a break
because it was it was just three years
of my life dieting pretty much and I was
like I just I need time off so I think I
think it matters what stage you're in if
you've just competed you definitely need
to be more stringent right I mean you
don't have to be but then you're gonna
gain more weight than you probably might
want to right and that's a whole
different debate right how much weight
you should gain but for the most part
you know I'm talking about and then if
you've been maintaining your weight for
a while I pretty much know usually like
without even waiting myself kind of
where I'm at and I four cents after my
surgery a little bit before that and
then all the way up and through Austria
so December to April like fairly
attractive thing
I mean I'm eyeballing protein more
closely because I need to know how much
that I'm getting at least but I'm very
team relaxed eating and because that was
that was my goal was to be more normal
and kind of have an idea of what I was
doing and being smart about it now in
and prep different story I am only going
to guess to make things that I have an
idea about perfect example we were at
the conference last weekend and there
was an ice cream social which was
fabulous and I was like oh my god it's
my refeed day and I totally could have
fit in a tiny bowl of ice cream right
but I didn't know what was in that right
I mean I could have googled it could
have estimated it but I was like you
know what I had a few marshmallows
because I knew what I could track this
later and I just moved on with my day
and to me it wasn't that big of a deal
that I wanted something because I knew
we were gonna go out to eat because we
were going out to eat afterward so when
I went I ordered fish and I ordered
vegetables and then I ordered a side of
rice so very easy to guess very easy to
eyeball and whenever I eat out I
overestimate now some people recommend
how many times you should eat out and I
think that that is very that's directly
proportional to how long you've been
doing this so for me I've been prepping
for a while I can eyeball things very
easily and I can track things very
easily and I understand over estimation
whereas some people who are new to it
just can't they can't grasp that and
they're like oh that was only that much
I think for me I'm like okay I think
it's that much I'm gonna add about 10
grams of carbs let's just say so for me
I usually will eat out about once a week
on prep which is probably on the higher
end than more people but that's because
I'm overestimating on carbs and fats and
not using an online tool now I don't go
out of my way to eat out I didn't not
say oh let's go to a restaurant like to
my boyfriend like oh we gotta go eat out
like know if it comes up I will do it
but I'm not going out of my way but I do
travel quite a bit at least twice a
month so a lot of times I'll order out
or icon videos when I can if I'm
traveling for a while but at the end of
the day I gotta probably eat out so I've
gotten really
good at estimating and overestimating
during prep so that was a really
long-winded answer to what you asking
probably no that was great I think it's
pretty well in line with what we do
we've I like to save the the mental
resources that I need for prep when it's
time to prep and in the off season you
need to enjoy yourself and live your
life kind of thing while not yeah I mean
there's always a balance to be found
there right so but we're in agreement
with that one for sure
yes and it's definitely important to me
to live that way and that's why I went
clients work with me in their offseason
and they're like oh I had this week
where I had this night out I'm like it's
okay like this is what it's a rather you
do this now because if you deny yourself
this now over time it's gonna build up
and then I want you to save all your
willpower for prep and I know after a
prep I'm so exhausted and trapping I'm
like I don't want to look at a macro
like so it's it can be hard but yeah and
then yeah I should give credit for this
question this one came from my snapchat
from Eddie oh nine to three so thank you
for the question Eddie and also one
thing that I do do actually cuz he was
asking specifically about eating out I
think we all generally add like just if
it does look like it's like okay this is
clearly cooked in a bit of oil just add
an extra tablespoon of olive oil to your
macros and it's like well if you're
shorter 12 grams of fat that day like
that's the cost of eating out and not
knowing for sure right exactly and I
always for people who are trying to eat
out I always ask them sometimes they
don't know but for the most part the
waitress the waitresses or waiters are
pretty educated so if I say how is this
cooked we're not gonna be like oh I
don't know and it comes out like deep
fried you know I mean so they'll say oh
it's cooked in a little bit of this or
whatever
so usually then I'll know or if I try to
get stuff just grilled or like steamed
plain then there's no question of course
and I'll yeah even up until you know
before right before a show if I have to
I mean it's not ideal but you can I
you can always order a piece of fish a
piece of chicken or a sirloin and plain
vegetables no matter where you go so
there's really no excuse to freak out
about it
and make it work just probably don't go
to like a deep-dish pizza restaurant and
be like oh there's something to fit my
macros but go somewhere ever they have
everything that's what you do - right
where do you do the same thing when
prepping yeah a little more liberal or
no I I mean like I haven't really done a
super serious prep in a long time but
like if I am gonna do a really serious
prep then yeah I would do that but like
if I am like doing like a cut or
something for myself all like I probably
won't like I'll probably just use the
online information even though I know
that it's not very accurate there's
there's a difference between you and
Lauren and even myself
and people who are like sort of new
getting into this like you get to a
point where like you well this is my
experience has been I get to a point
where I can follow a meal plan perfectly
never cheat on it then I can get to the
point where I can hit every single macro
down to the gram then I get to the point
where I realize that doesn't matter so I
have a little more flexibility with my
macros then I start eating sort of
intuitively or just mindfully and I can
just sort of ballpark what's in it and
maintain my weight or do whatever I want
to do by doing that and that's kind of
the spot where I'm at now for the most
part and when I get to the point where I
feel as though like you can kind of feel
like okay I'm getting to a lower body
fat than my body necessarily wants to be
at or if I'm gonna enter a full blown
prep then at that point you want to
really tighten things up yeah I yeah I
totally agree um I think once you've
been doing this for a while you can be a
little bit more flexible the only thing
is I have a decent amount to lose right
now so I have to be pretty on point
because I'd rather be ready earlier than
later I blame you at all like I I admire
oh yeah
act that you do that like I'm not just
I'm not gonna be like oh I'm Way more
flexible like it's like I am like uber
flexible the offseason so don't worry
it's I even I hate it because it'll be
places and then I'm like I kind of
checked it oh my god I'm like I got
everything normal but you know I want to
step on stage so it you know for sure
yeah and like that's the attitude that I
want to have when I start prepping again
so like a lot of people will ask me like
when are you going to do another show
and stop and like I just tell them that
like I'm not gonna do a show until I'm
ready to commit to that like to that
level of tracking and like I want to be
like you know do the overestimation and
even track things like that shoals and
stuff because like I'm the type of
person who's like an all or nothing like
I have an on and off switch so like I
need to be completely all in and like
track everything to the gram and track
before I eat otherwise I tend to just
give myself too much leeway in too much
flexibility so I think that's why I Jeff
ask that question because he's he knows
that when I'm not all in like I'll tend
to do things like be like that girls are
good oh yeah I was like I'm infinity
macros a lot of the time you know what I
mean it's her boyfriends a power lifter
and he's everything so I am always oh my
god team eat all the foods right and it
actually it took me a while this time to
actually want to prep because I was just
so burned out from so many shows and it
I really I really encourage people to
when you want to do a show you have to
be all in you can't you can't have these
if you're doing a mini cut for a photo
shoot I mean that's so different then
stepping on stage and especially now I'm
as a pro I PB is very challenging so I
can't show up not ready you know what I
mean and it you know it's just
embarrassing so everyone I mean I look
you know everyone looks different but my
level of what I feel comfortable as far
as ready and I have to get pretty lean
and pretty tiny like my body does not
like to be where I'm at for competing
which is why I don't stay there I just
it's just not really where I guess I
would say a comfortable settling point
would be but that's what I do to get on
stage cuz I am taller so I used to get
tinier that way I don't look like a
monster
but it you know it you have to be ready
to do prep if you're even thinking about
not wanting to do that then it's just
and I wasn't there for a while I just
wasn't and then when I started I finally
was like not a few weeks before I was
like no I'm ready for this and then I
was like this is a good feeling yeah
that's kind of the feeling that I'm
waiting for and I actually did watch
your video on that too and like I really
liked it and I agree with all of your
points on like when to know when you
should prep and stuff so thank you yeah
it's it's very it's something it's not
talked about enough I don't think
yeah yeah okay so Lauren I wanted to
talk a little bit about the relationship
between flexible dieting and food
cravings okay because one often here is
that if you follow a flexible diet you
won't you won't crave foods anymore
because you can fit them in yeah I don't
I don't believe you don't believe that
very popular though no I don't know
maybe I love food there's no one around
it right I love food and I love eating
and I love eating something that's not
tracked like I just genuinely enjoy
sitting down and saying I want to eat
whatever I want to eat right so for me
even if I can fit something in there is
just something about just being able to
eat whatever that I just it's just
something that I enjoy and when you are
prepping and you are at low body fat
levels and you are at low calories I
don't care what people say you can fit
it in I don't think it's ideal to fit
something like that in right when I'm
low body fat and I'm craving you know
like an ice cream sundae a that's not
gonna fit my numbers so I'm not gonna
eat it
B if I try to make it fit right numbers
the rest of the day is going to be hell
and I think that's just silly when
people do that and then see having
something that's trying to be it but is
it it's not helping no ice cream shop I
want that to go on record like make ice
cream like preaching her gospel yeah
okay this is like we're on the exact
same page right now yourself but that is
good like you're just you haven't had
Ben and Jerry's my personal vendetta is
against protein cookies or like protein
treats like I'm like you they're so
gross like I hate that I don't know they
don't like there's gonna be a point in
your diet when you're like you like
crave like a protein pancake or
something and I understand that and like
I know like I'm not as talented as
making things as good but like yeah it
just yeah I just I don't want to make
that either like I I'm so like tired I'm
just like I don't make some 15
ingredient [ __ ] oh I'm making like one
food and I mean the whole thing yeah so
yeah I there is actually a paper
um Weston hoppers really good researcher
if anyone's curious on eating behavior
type stuff and the tall kind of
psychology based and they did show again
in a questionnaire type style that being
more flexible again not if mr. macros
but just being more flexible was more
successful in combating food cravings
which sometimes food cravings being
really rigid you can fall into that
binging category right I would argue
that but so again take that for what
it's worth people who aren't competitors
people who aren't staged lean and
flexible versus rigid meaning the
mindset not necessarily a meal plan or
macros so good in theory and I agree
right for that group and not that
situation when you're talking about what
we're doing
tracking foods and getting ready for a
competition or just you know relatively
leaner than the normal person when
you're hungry and you're in a deficit
and you're at low body fat levels I just
don't find that it you just have to get
through that like there is a level of
sacrifice in all this beings like I I
always say a lot of people say this but
you know you need to be strict but you
don't need to be stricter than you have
to be right don't be strict to brag
about it but you have to be strict when
you're doing this like you're gonna have
food craving you're gonna be hungry like
I'm starving right now like I like I am
very hungry and I follow flexible diet
you know what I mean but that's just how
it is I eat a lot of fiber and a lot of
Whole Foods but I'm just hungry because
I am dieting and that's just something
that I think some people have kind of
stepped away from or they they want to
kind of talk about it yeah I'm like yeah
they want to say that like I fym is like
the girl the Kuril yeah and that it's
like and it's great what I do I've done
it for years um and sometimes don't you
stuff and I'll look and I'll laugh at
Ryan I'm like I don't know is this clean
or not like I don't know like oh it's
cleaner with not anymore but um you know
I think whole food sources for the most
part I definitely eat stuff that's not
all Whole Foods don't people to think
that um but generally speaking you know
I try to limit the other stuff but I'm
eating all nutrition nutritious foods
you know
things like that and you know because I
can't keep up like it's fruit clean is
it not like I don't know whoever you
talk to you right but like I love eating
fruits and stuff and I love you know
just a variety of food so that's why
flexible dieting is amazing and nobody's
telling you like you can't have that of
course you can have whatever you want
but in in some regards you're still
going to have to go through things just
because you can eat whatever you want if
your numbers are low you're still eating
a hundred grams of carbs you're not
fitting in Ben and Jerry's it's not
happening oh yeah
and based on what I've read so much of
the food craving discussion is just
entirely individual like you'll have
some people there was a really
interesting correspondence that I had
with a researcher Adrian mule who does a
lot of work on food cravings and its
relationship to flexible dieting and all
this sort of stuff to like what's love
and what we're talking about no flexible
as in like yeah yeah like anything like
I'm more of a mental like you've like
you said like not my fitness power like
was this guy oh my god okay you know but
he does call it he does call it a
flexible approach or whatever but
interestingly what they found was that
they took a group of people who were
known to be chocolate cravers and
another group of people who weren't
chocolate cravers and told them both
they gave him specific instructions not
to eat chocolate for the next two weeks
and then assess their cravings of
chocolate throughout the two weeks and
the people who were cravers of chocolate
going in had their cravings increase as
a result of being told not to eat
chocolate the people who weren't
chocolate cravers it made no difference
to their cravings right which would be
expected so it kind of leads me to think
that if you are someone who's like
really sensitive to your to your food
environment or you crave specific foods
it might be a bit of a fool's errand to
try to restrict those foods it might
make you want them even more right yeah
so that would be one of the one of the
benefits of flexible dieting oh yeah and
I I do at some point when you diet long
enough you think that diet foods taste
good right this is excellent and it's
not but for the most part what I and I
agree with that because flexible dieting
can definitely satisfy cravings but if
you are trying to step on
stage at some point I think that just
kinda has to you let that go almost
you're like you know what I'm craving
this I'll have it after the show
yeah and there's like a difference
between like general population trying
to lose weight from like a soap like and
you know a body fat percentage that's
not an athletic body fat percentage and
then someone who's already in their
offseason at a lean athletic body fat
percentage she's trying to get to that
next level to compete in physique and
they all have to make more sacrifices
like you said and like even if they're
chocolate Craver it might come to a
point where they're better off not
getting even that taste of chocolate cuz
I might set off more creepy yeah I've
had that happen where I try to have us a
little bit something like this is so
much worse like I just want more of it
because I'm I'm just hungry
but again general pop is so different I
think those people are usually the ones
who have those kind of negative effects
because they you know again it's not a
composition it's not going into like oh
I have this competition it's like oh I
just want to lose some weight or I want
to do whatever like restricting them
from that it's probably not a good idea
because if they have a day where they
overeat a little bit you know it's not
the end of the world they can kind of
come back down you're four weeks out
from a show probably not a good idea to
overeat on chocolate right so it's it's
just it's all relative of course and you
know some people have a really good
success with fitting in different things
that are diet foods I think that at some
point that be kind becomes kind of like
semi disorder dish which tells some
people handle it and it makes me sad you
know to see how it I'm like you could
have just had something instead of
trying to make like five little things
all under one you know I'm just like but
ya gotta let people live but I do
whatever it's just so individual and
like based on each person's psychology
so Lauren is there ever a point where
you just switch to like like you know
what your macros are but do you ever
switch to a meal plan and just be like I
have these four or five meals and I'm
just gonna eat these um I kind of do it
on a weekly basis and everyone has their
favorite food and everyone has foods
that fit their budget I mean that's the
reality of a lot of it right I mean
chickens on say I'm gonna be a little
chicken and things like that you know
and then there's always staples like I
love my broccoli
well everyone always sees that and for
the most part I'll set like a semi
weekly meal plan when I when I shop and
then when I cook but I don't typically
always sometimes open okay I'm gonna
have potatoes with veggies it's time for
this meal and the next time I'm gonna
have quinoa with it or rice or beans
whatever um the only time that I really
try to eat all the same foods is peak
week and that's mostly just for
digestion reasons when you know when
carbs get low we eat a lot of like
fibrous veggies and then that's like no
good for for bait week so I'd rather be
extra hungry because it's peak week and
then I usually will stick to my veggies
are usually just asparagus spinach and
tomatoes just because those are super
easy for me it's a digest and then I try
to incorporate the peak week like in
peak week the show day foods the stuff
that I'm gonna eat so I know what kind
of works for me
and I just stick with that but that's
the only week but any other time
I usually prep twice a week and then
when I prep stuff I usually try it I
usually end up eating like the same
meals and so I'm like setting myself up
kind of on a meal plan with usually one
meal that has like variants what I do
I think that's similar to what I do I
usually get to a point where I or at
least in my last prep I did I was just
like I actually did a video on this so I
won't go into the details but it was
just worth it for me at that point to
just become a robot and gone on a meal
plan which I mean it at the end
your choices are limited right and at
the end of a diet I am usually eating a
lot of vegetables a lot of lean meat and
then I'll have sprinkle ins and carb
sources and I usually just eat the same
stuff because I like it and because it
you know either fits my budget or is
easy I if I'm busy
like I'm not I eat certain things when
I'm busy right like that are out like I
don't like to eat rice really when it's
cold I think it's disgusting
so if I know I'm gonna be out a lot that
week I'm not gonna make rice right I'm
just gonna make something so little
things like that but I end up eating a
lot of the same foods because I don't
want to think about it like I don't get
creative when I get hungry I'm just like
feed me and let me stop thinking about
food
so some people do the opposite they'll
make these like extravagant meals and
I'm like yo I can't I can't be doing all
that like I need to get in and out of
the kitchen and like I don't want to be
thinking about this yeah I totally agree
like it makes sense and then you're you
know what you're eating you know you're
super consistent so if that also helps
to charity for sure
alright guys so we're gonna take a very
short break and we will be right back
with some questions from my Instagram
and snapchat for Lauren Robin and myself
all right so guys we are back first
question I'm going to take is from
Anthony hammock who's a good friend of
mine on snapchat and he asked this in
video so I don't have the exact question
but it was something to do with the fact
that this topic has sort of been beat to
death now we know flexible dieting works
we know clean eating is not really like
a thing anymore do we need to keep
having this conversation over and over
and he know he did preface it with like
I hope this doesn't come across as
offensive a very good spirited way but I
think it's a good question so do you
think that this is still something
that's worth investigating and talking
about or has it been settled like
flexible dieting is better well nothing
I don't believe anything they were
settled there's always nuances the
things right so the reason that I wanted
to look at this for me science research
side was because I hadn't been done
again to my knowledge I've looked and
I've talked about it and nobody showed
me anything so and again my study was
very general I wanted to keep it that
way because I wanted to be super
generalizable YouTube or just resistance
trained average type of people there are
some who are morally and then others and
you know vice versa but for the most
part this is something that I think is
highly misunderstood in the general
population why are people overweight I
mean like if they don't understand all
of these things right I mean maybe that
could be a whole other podcast but for
the I think for the general population
this is super important because I can't
tell you how many people still I mean
looking like a Facebook ad 5 foods to
never eat someone who doesn't understand
food is gonna look at that go oh my god
ok foods anymore and then what happens
when they see them they eat all of them
and that's real life stuff right and we
know from competitors I still think
clean eating is very much a thing still
I mean the all of those big teams all
the big everything is still around like
it's still flexible dieting has taken
off like there is no there is no like
disputing that but clean eating and bro
stuff is still very much around and I'm
not saying we have to eradicate
that because I'm I'm a bro if it fits
your macros kind of person you know I
like we've talked about I'm very
consistent repetitive I like real food
and stuff like that which i think is
just logical if it's your macros but you
know what I'm talking about when it's
all the crazy stuff right so even I just
watched a video on me sorry to interrupt
you but it was like okay you know on
like a makeup routine or something and
at the end of the video the girl was
like and last but not least just make
sure you clean up your diet and eat
clean foods and like it was like a new
video and like it's just a regular
general population girl who just wants
to like you know yeah improve her beauty
or whatever and help other girls do that
and now I'll step in and say somebody
like that to her clean up your diet
basically means incorporate better food
choices which i think is a really
important message well what happens is
when it gets taken to the other end of
the spectrum because at the end of the
day you know who knows what clean means
right but eating healthy food or
nutritious food nutrient-dense food is
not a bad thing we shouldn't be talking
down about that how many pop-tarts gonna
fit into my diet that's not a good like
thing but fitting pop-tarts in your diet
is not bad right so it's harder for
people who are not tracking their food
down to the ground or worrying about
that type of stuff to understand that so
I do think that it's it's just so
population dependent and it's so
dependent on who you talk to and what
they know and there are still all these
fallacies like oh I guess I'll never eat
that again I'll just cut out bread
that's the silliest thing I've ever
heard just because you don't need to cut
out bread just eat a little bit less of
it right or just have it you know more
sparingly throughout the week and
incorporate other choices to fill you up
so you don't eat the whole loaf of bread
but that is a very hard message to get
across to people so I do think that it
is important to talk about this mostly
for those people I think in our
community it has been pretty well
established that flexible dieting works
I don't really think that there's kind
of any dispute on that but maybe I'm a
living in my own fantasy land that I
think oh everyone knows this but then
maybe they don't so within our group it
seems very silly like if you flexible
diet and you're successful of course
everyone
that it's settled but there are plenty
of people who still don't think that so
I think it is important to talk about
and I think it's very important to talk
about general population wise to kind of
have them get a better grasp on
moderation incorporating healthy food
nutrient-dense foods but also being able
to fit little things into your diet that
you really enjoy yeah other example of
this we we will usually watch Casey nice
that he's like a huge yeah yeah every
other episode he's like Oh guys I'm
cutting out sugar for a week or
something like this right like he's
gonna give up sugar and all he drinks
are these like green smoothies that are
like all sugar zero carb day and they're
eating like plates and vegetables yeah
so even like if in our small like corner
of the internet it seems like it's
ubiquitous in the mainstream media it is
just not even on the radar map yeah what
an RD then didn't think this all work
and again yes for population people
company into her can't even write down
and recall what they ate let alone track
it yeah so that's why I think flexible
dieting is not just about in fits your
macros I think flexible dining there's a
bigger term for just being more moderate
with stuff and I think that's the
important takeaway from it but it's hard
you know it's just it's you gotta
educate people yeah and a good friend of
mine he's a personal trainer at a gym
and he's prepping for a show now and he
still gets so much flak from his
co-workers personal trainers even
clients like how are you eating fruit
like you're four weeks out like what's
up with that and that is so so common
still so yeah the message isn't isn't
out there yet but still is fruit clean
like I don't even know we gotta find
this answer but I'm super curious
depends on who you ask
milk is another one that it's clean I
don't know like I know funny I'm like
silly like this yeah I am saying where
it's coming from but then at the same
time it's like just just no yeah it's
weird because like people will then say
like oh well clean it just means like
nutrient-dense but thank you or rice
which is like pretty
pretty well nutrient devoid and yeah it
would be considered clean and then you
say like fiber oh well then why is
chicken clean it's like there's doesn't
seem to be a whole lot no there's no
yeah that's a interesting conundrum for
the cleaner
okay I'm gonna move on to another
questions so let me get it up here okay
so Kelly Gifford asks really good
question it sort of ties in to what we
were talking about with the free meal
and eating it at restaurants and that
sort of thing but her specific question
was how should someone adjust their
daily macros on other day of the days of
the week to account for untracked meals
or cheat meals and that sort of thing
okay
so super context dependent but I'll kind
of give a few scenarios I don't think
you should change your weekly intake I
think it would just be more of the day
the actual day that you're going out to
eat right I think eat consistently
throughout the week and then if you
planned either I'm going out to eat and
I'm not tracking it or I'm going to a
party or an event whatever it is and so
when you don't want to track something I
think that is totally fine we talked
about we're very all very loose and our
tracking the only problem is when you go
into this it should be okay I'm going to
not track but I'm going to be mindful
not saying I'm not gonna track so I
could binge right we never want to
develop those kind of habits and if
somebody is having an untracked meal
turns into a binge then you need to talk
to that person have a conversation why
did this happen right but if you're very
logical about it and you just say I want
to eat mindfully and I just want to
enjoy myself then totally fine with it
the level of the meal I think would
dictate how you eat during the day if
you're just like oh I'm gonna go get
some Froyo and then you know I'm going
to sleep it's a little different then
okay it's you know this whole long day
I'm at this event and there's a lot of
food everywhere right so typically
whenever you can I would say incorporate
mostly higher protein options when it's
available right if it's like Christmas
or something try to eat you know semi
lower calorie throughout the day so then
you can feel okay about eating more
later right if I have like let's say
Christmas is coming up right
a whole bunch of food at dinner or lunch
or whatever time it is right eat earlier
you know mostly proteins a little bit of
fat a little bit of carbs but just kind
of get by throughout the day and then
you're hungry for dinner you're excited
for it and then you can indulge and not
worry about it
I did this actually the last cruise I
went on I was super successful and I've
been on a lot of fruit my family likes
to cruise so we've done several of them
and it can be very overwhelming like
promise you with the free ice cream
you're just like wow like a damn week
like a whole week of eating if you want
it to be the Christmas I got into a semi
routine okay in the morning I'm gonna
have lots of eggs and I'm gonna have
some fruit and whatever things that I
can eyeball and then I would have
chicken like a lot they knew me as a
chicken girl they would just put like
chicken on my plate chicken and then I'd
have a big salad and then I'd go around
the buffet and I'd see okay what is
something that I really want to eat here
something that I don't make something
that you know is extravagant and I would
have little portions of things try it I
would have one thing of ice cream every
day this officer and then I would
usually have another snack usually like
chicken or something just to get protein
up we get ready for dinner
I very much enjoy drinking too so I
would have a few drinks and eight
whatever I wanted at dinner appetizer
dinner deserve everything and I came
back from a week long cruise which I
trained almost every day to came back
from with clunk and cruise and I was up
0.2 pounds so it is possible you have to
be semi mindful throughout the day don't
be an [ __ ]
all day and eat whatever you want and
then enjoy yourself later so it's all
about that balance and if you're gonna
have a day where it's untracked or
something be mindful that way if you're
gonna have one meal that's on track just
make sure earlier in the day you're a
little bit lower more conservative and
then you just enjoy yourself I just will
say that like what I specifically do
with my clients is I will reduce them it
depends on their intake and it depends
whether they're cutting or their media
oh and yeah that was an off season
answer what I'll do is all it depends on
like what they like for their cheat
meals so if they like super greasy cheat
meals
I might dock them back like anywhere
from like 750 to a thousand calories for
the day and I say eat so say they're at
2,200 calories on their lazy day I'll
dock them back to 1200 I say this is
what you can eat throughout the day try
to eat mostly protein and vegetables or
fruit or whatever and then you have now
have a thousand free calories for your
meal a boat they're not going to track
their meal but I suggest that they have
a half appetizer because appetizers tend
to be huge if it's like a plate of
nachos or something
and then a full entree of their choice
and then a half of a huge dessert or a
small personal dessert so that's just to
give people an idea of what I'd
recommend
but ya know that's a great idea and
definitely what I said would be an
offseason answer and I I don't I do know
people who do the untracked stuff during
prep I don't know if I necessarily agree
with it only because of the
inconsistencies within it if every
single week you eat the same thing for
your untracked meal then I think it's
less of an issue because there's not any
variables some people know okay I want
to go to this place and get this and and
then they that's just like their thing
you know what I mean other people it
just kind of vary then it depends and
then they're like 100 I'm not making
progress and then and then it's like
whoa I don't know if you eat 500
calories or 5,000 so the same thing
every week it's a little bit different
but I would still suggest during prep
again if you're prepping and you're
getting on stage in a bikini or a half
speedo thing probably not a good idea to
have an untracked meal again not
everyone not in one but for the majority
of people
yeah and I'll just I'll just be specific
and say that that's for my clients who
are just like cutting to kinda like who
are so maybe like reverse dieting or
something oh yeah and for an actual prep
client I don't do free meals it's like
refeed days just to be clear about it
yeah oh no I think we're all on the same
page because you can't control it
otherwise again like if you eat the same
thing but still then just fit it into
your numbers I'd feel more I'll track it
yeah if you're prepping yeah yeah
the only situation I would do it is if I
had someone who was like doing a really
long prep like say 24 weeks or something
and they were looking a little bit ahead
of schedule then I might be like you
deserve a free meal now let's do that
yeah no that would be that would be
totally different to most people most
girls I feel like usually don't give
themselves enough time do ready ahead of
time guy bodybuilders are like oh diet
for sixty weeks to be honest like I have
like 20 pounds to lose in six weeks can
you help me I'm like no cuz I have but
yeah so girls and guy it's very
different usually guys come in and had a
schedule and then they can oh I can eat
whatever if you want to laughs I think
it was Dave Tate did a video on he was
working with someone and they go have it
have a cheat day
I think it's Dave Tate it's a good day
tater Jim Wendler I hope I'm not messing
it up and you have to google it it's
like what he ate and it was the funniest
thing like it was the most calculated
like obscene amount of food you have to
watch it it's amazing like Ojeda get up
and put it in the show notes yeah I hope
I think it's one of them and it's so
funny like everything he ate or decided
so yeah I think the worst case scenario
so that's the only other thing I would
add on that was that on my last cruise I
gained 25 pounds oh and I am I did
enough cruises before that one gained a
lot of weight and it depends - oh it
depends on where you go - like when we
went to Italy like oh forget about it
like no gain
eh whatever I want there but the last
cruise that I did I specifically it was
like the island Ted Cruz so you report
this [ __ ] most of the time so that's way
different you know I mean but yeah going
to Italy like uh no I'm gonna eat all
the good foodie here oh it was nice yeah
I was suggested all right I'm gonna ask
two more questions and then we'll wrap
it up so Vincent LG and he asks how
important is meal timing when you have a
flexible dieting approach so people kind
of go back and forth about this
obviously hierarchy hit your macros you
know that's most important within I
I recommend within plus or minus five is
really good adherence protein I'm a
little bit more lacks on if you go over
I feel like it's not a bad if you go
over it but for consistency reasons try
to be within that then as far as meal
timing goes I think that's super
dependent on people but I do think that
there are things that are smarter to do
protein should be kind of evenly split I
don't think you should have a meal with
like ten grams and then have one with
like seventy some people would argue
that people who do intermittent fasting
argue with that but I think for optimal
muscle protein synthesis and maintaining
muscle mass you should have semi even
split meals anywhere from I think four
to five is three to five is good I feel
like when you're trying to hit protein
needs hitting three is a little bit
harder if you're heavier like the
heavier guys just kind of need to eat
more I think that's where that comes
down to to you know like if I'm my
proteins at whatever it's at and then my
boyfriend's is you know a lot higher
than that he needs to either eat a lot
more in one sitting or just eat more
that's just kind of what it comes down
to so having protein like that I
generally recommend a lower carb higher
fat breakfast because I found that that
works really well for me and then for my
clients that have done that they seem to
like it too i find that i'm way more
satiated and way more mentally focused
throughout the day
but then there's some people who are
like no I want carbs the first thing
when I wake up and I go okay but then
you should if you're gonna stick to that
then totally do it but I would recommend
trying that and then definitely carbs
around the workout I think that that if
you're going to structure it then you
should do that again does it have to be
down to a certain percentage exactly no
but some people like that some people
like rough estimates so I think it's
important to have some guidelines but at
the end of the day doing whatever works
as far as guidelines for your schedule
is better I don't recommend training
fasted but some people can only train at
5:00 a.m. that's just their work
schedule their life schedule they have a
kid you know all these different things
right so for them somebody has to train
at 5:00 a.m. and they're like well I get
really sick when I eat I'm not gonna be
like I don't care wake up at 3:00 and
digest it that's not reasonable right so
I'm gonna say okay have either two
scoops of amino
or maybe half a scoop of protein and a
carb powder so you at least get some
calories in and then you're not going
completely fasted and that usually
doesn't upset people stomachs but so
again not perfect scenario I'd rather
wake up and have a big breakfast and be
able to digest and then have you have
some carbs before you train and go again
but for some people that's just not
ideal and that's just not their life so
I think nutrient timing is important and
I do think that it's not something
that's totally silly I think it's gotten
away some people are like oh it's so
dumb meat whatever you want at all times
you know have a 200 carbs at one sitting
you know I think sometimes people take
stuff to the extreme kind of like if
it's macros so I do think it's important
it's not the most important thing but I
do think that general recommendations as
far as protein splitting carbs are on
your training and try the lower carb
higher fat breakfasts see if you like it
I found good results with it haven't
published any data on that or anything
for those people but I do think that
it's something cool to try and and has
worked for some people mm-hmm yeah I
think that's a fantastic answer at
definite lines at fu I do have some
clients that say they're not competitive
bodybuilders they just you know want to
build muscle or want to get stronger say
the power lifters or whatever and they
work really busy work schedules or
whatever like 14-hour days and stuff
like that and they've just found that
the intermittent fasting approach does
work better for them oh yeah well in
that case it's like you know what we're
splitting hairs with like
optimizing optimizing optimizing we
should probably just focus on what
you're gonna be able to adhere to and at
the end of the day I think the most
important thing is total protein intake
total class taken so on definitely yeah
and just it's sort of like wrap that up
I did an interview with Joseph ague
who's a nutritionist about protein and
he developed this hierarchy of
importance where he had total daily
protein at the bottom as being the most
important than protein quality so like
the the source auto team and protein
distribution so like what you were
talking about like how you spaced it
throughout the day and then lastly like
on the top he had specific timing so
like the timing of the protein around
the workout before you go to bed that's
what yeah yeah is pretty much what you
were getting at all of this is so case
pendant because I think if you are a
competitive athlete all those things
matter some people like to say you don't
need to take any supplements they don't
work if you have had everything else in
check
you have your diet in check your
training uncheck your cardio and check
and it can help a 1% I don't see why you
wouldn't want to do that right I think
that it if there is even a chance that
it's gonna help I think you should do
that but that is for someone who is a
competitive athlete physique
powerlifting or any other sports right
if you're a general population person
just getting into something I think if
you mistime your protein it's not the
end of the world you know what I mean so
it's all really case dependent and the
more higher up as far as competitiveness
and the more extreme the goal like
stepping on stage or setting a world
record in powerlifting or something I
think all those things become more
important as you go to that level and
then I'm gonna briefly touch on this
just because I was asked at a number of
times and that has to do with whether
you need to track sugar or salt when
doing a flexible approach so I don't
track sugar I track fiber so I think if
you have sufficient fiber then you
should be in the clear and it gets weird
again the fruit think it's coming up
right so fruit a lot of sugar what else
sauce fibre and now I think fiber is
very important to include and I think
the fits your macros should always have
the umbrella of fiber because I have
seen people and to me I'm like oh nobody
really does that but then I'll look at
some people's food logs and they have
200 plus grams of carbs and like 8 grams
of fiber I'm like whoa okay now that's
we need to kind of take a step back and
we need to add in more fibrous foods
more Whole Foods now do I think you need
to have you know half of your diet some
fiber definitely not but I think the the
lowest end I probably feel comfortable
with and again this is different for
where your calories are at but probably
about 11 grams 4,000 calories up to
about 15 I think is a good minimum range
I usually exceed that in my when I'm
prepping just because I want to feel
fuller I'm like oh I want to I want to
have
or fiber and I don't want to have the
chance to be extra hungry but I think
that's a good range for most people I
believe that's what the the like
dietitian is up recommend to is 14 grams
per thousand calories I believe but I
found that 11 to 15 range is pretty good
if you're somebody who's eating a ton of
calories and you're getting so much
fiber that you're getting like you feel
sick then maybe you know you back that
down but usually when you're lower
calories that's never really a problem
it's only the guys for eating like
sticks honor grams of carb you know like
then they have to worry about that but
if you're not in that minority group
then I think it's safe to say that
having more fiber it's not going to be a
problem and then again case dependent
and then if you do have enough fiber you
don't need a check sugar the only time I
track salt is during peak week or the
few days before peak week so I kind of a
baseline number and then we manipulate
salt during peak week and y'all's
podcasts for the peak week was amazing
so everyone listening to this definitely
let some of that again
and there's different obviously
different views on that for bikini it's
a little bit less crazy as as the people
the whole like to our podcast there was
like two minutes on like bikini peak you
know I'm dying but it's true I mean when
you're when you're talking about a
bodybuilder and then you're talking
about a bikini a minute or it's so
different but I still do peak you know
it's just way less severe and it's not
as much up and down stuff that's the
only time I track salt I eat a I eat
mostly food that I prep and add salt to
it that's kind of how I I enjoy food but
I found that even if you cook stuff and
you add salt it's usually way less than
like what packaged food is that stuff
like blows my mind I'm like oh my god I
don't even know how much how did you be
able to get all that but if you eat a
lot of stuff that is packaged or like
deli meats and stuff like that you can
really get your sodium really high or
out to restaurants like think like a
Mexican restaurant you know there's a
ton of stuff like that but I don't track
it and I don't I don't think it's super
important I don't think you should be
there's there's no me maybe there's
research to practice but I you don't
need to be consuming a ton of excess
sugar just because right
if everything else is in check I don't
think it's a problem I think if you're
dieting sometimes sugar can cause maybe
more sugar cravings like a little bit of
something and then you're like oh now I
want more of it but again it depends on
where it comes from I I don't really
think it's that big of a deal as long as
your fibers in check and your food
sources are good yeah I would agree with
that and especially to the sugar point I
think a lot of people are fearful that
if they eat sugar for whatever reason
it's like instantly stored as fat but
that's just that just simply doesn't
happen especially they're already in a
caloric deficit so yeah I mean that's
like the the big I didn't realize how
big it is now you know like added sugar
is like the the big deal and again when
you're talking somebody who's general
population who doesn't know anything
about what's in their food and they're
consistently over eating nutrient-poor
high sugar high calorie food and not
training then that becomes a problem
right over people who have their
calories in check who are exercising who
have fiber it's not an issue yeah I
don't completely agree anything else
you'd like to add or ask well I just
take contribute to the sugar thing I
think there is that one-city done on
fructose and it's like 90 grams of
fructose maximum per day and then if you
think about sugar as being 50% fructose
and you know maximum you're getting
around 180 and for most females anyway
their carbs are probably going to be
around that much so there's just no way
like that's a lot yeah like there's just
no way that you would ever get that much
so as long as like Lauren said your
calories are in check your diet is
really healthy and you're eating enough
fiber then it's pretty much like not
gonna happen that you're going to
accidentally over consume yeah I think
the only people who might need to worry
about it are like the guys like you
mentioned her girls if you haven't
ridiculous metabolism who are eating
like 400 600 plus grams of carbs a day
plus high fat plus high calories then
you might want to you know be careful
because it can contribute to dis
lipedema and those sorts of things yeah
you especially if you're overweight
especially if you're overweight and like
you have tendencies towards like
metabolic yeah yeah and then get a blood
test done then you can see where where
you're at you can track that blood
simple blood test like a CBC I think
goes over all that I mean it's just
simple simple stuff and it's you know
people I think really liked it that's
like the new kind of buzzword and I
don't think it's bad but I also don't
think that you need to just like pile on
the sugar for gonna put tablespoons of
sugar on food for no reason I mean yeah
it's if there's no nutrients in it other
than the carbohydrates so why yeah when
I use that as a source so I was gonna
say the Lauren um after hear feedback on
the the peak week show I've organised
another episode specifically dealing
with bikini competitors and so I'm gonna
have cliff Wilson come back on and one
of his clients Mary old yeah right
yeah they're gonna have I think I said
her name right or that I'm just gonna
kind of have a coach client interview
sort of thing okay that'll be really
good so ya know that'll be awesome
especially for the other half of your
movie yeah I think it's it's coming from
figure and then going into bikini I did
it's a little bit different it's like a
little bit less extreme umm not extreme
but you know a little bit less of up and
downs but I you know you do still have
to do some kind of a peak I mean you
don't have to but I think if you're lean
enough you're lean enough it is helpful
you're not lean enough doesn't really
matter just kind of go into the show but
if you're lean enough I think that
little bit can matter especially at the
top level but like they talked about the
kind of consensus was you can do more
wrong things but you can write if you
don't time it right so better to be a
little bit more safe and I'll be really
interested to watch that because after
hearing all this stuff which is crazy
hi I'm like oh god I don't even know I
doubt or doing that you know they mean
like I mean I don't know maybe she's
gonna be like nine six boxes of Cheerios
like who knows to carb load but like
right I'm like oh my god like I that's
just like cream I almost like wanted to
go one time just choice just to see I
thought I've experimented with like how
I going halfway there like like 600 700
grams but he goes like way up into the
like 1200 1300 I mean yeah thousand he's
usually over a thousand like a thousand
would be low yeah that's crazy
but anyway Lauren I think that concludes
all that I had for you so I just want to
say thank you so much for coming on the
show it was a real pleasure getting to
talk to you about some of this stuff and
thank you for sharing your research with
us because I know we got an exclusive
view into you I was kind of worried I
was like I'm gonna ask questions she's
gonna be like I can't say god no I can
say that now you could read me a few
weeks ago then I would have been like no
I wouldn't like boring I can't say
anything it's been eating at me because
I've known the results for so long but
thank you guys for having me on I'm very
excited and I hope everyone found this
helpful for sure so guys if you want to
hear more from Lauren you can check out
her website
ww-when Conlon comm if you are someone
who is a bikini competitor she does
excellent posing coaching I actually had
one of your clients snapchat me and say
that she was one of your opposing Oh
awesome so I hope that you liked the
episode I forget the name at the moment
and other than that I'll make sure I
link all of her social media in the show
notes on iTunes and in the description
box if you're watching this on youtube
so guys thank you so much once again for
listening to the ice cream for Pierre's
podcast and we will see you in the next
episode
Brian