[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks Billy Mays here for OxiClean
wait no no Micah's Ertel here for
Renaissance period ization today's
exercise tips tricks and corrections
pull-ups let's get into it but before we
do let's just remember what pull-ups are
for pull-ups are for the development
muscle growth wise mostly of the lats
but in addition to that the teres major
and the rhomboids and even the rear
delts and even to some extent to forearm
flexors the lats and the the sort of
outer part of our back is really what's
the target but fundamentally that the
target is to do a really really good
technique involve as many muscles of the
back as we can to get a really really
good general back hypertrophy that's
biased towards the lats we don't want to
overthink things and think okay it's
optimal at stuff there's better
isolation exercises to really zoom in on
lats here lats are super big important
priority but teres major other muscles
are absolutely involved let's get in to
the first mistake
the first mistake in the pull-up is not
using a full range of motion full range
of motion and pull-ups means going all
the way down for a full stretch weary
elbows are completely straight at the
bottom well talking a little bit about
if you have to do a dead hang or not all
the way down and then all the way up but
hold on what does all the way up mean
there are three options that are very
very good you just have to be clear
about which one you're using option one
the most popular and the easiest is to
get just above is a bar with your chin
the reason it's there is relatively
arbitrary it's a good range of motion
for the muscles of a back not be optimal
not the full it's a good one that's very
clear and easy to tell that you're doing
it which means it's a really good for
track and you know that you count a
pull-up successfully as a rep when your
chin clears the bar so then you've got a
really standardized good range of motion
to go from where you can overload you
could use weight if you want and so on
and so forth once you get really strong
much stronger you can eventually do push
ups to the clavicle where every single
rep touches your clavicles much tougher
than chin to the bar but don't do
anything in between they get you trim
the bar and go back down or touch each
one to the clavicle and count those reps
separately so when you're strong enough
to do sets of at least five to ten
touching the clavicle just do those as
that exercise pull-ups - clavicle then
you can get stronger in that way and
exploit an even bigger range of motion
when you get really really strong an
option for the very exotically strong or
light a lot of rock climbers can do
these are pull-ups all the way up to
where you touch your sternum essentially
touching your nipple line every single
time those are brutally difficult if you
don't have a weight belt or weight to
pull with if you don't have a weight to
put onto you which is totally fine
sternum pull-ups if you can do sets of
10 to 15 sternum pull-ups you will have
the biggest possible back at least upper
back that you could ever have so
remember there's three ways to do
pull-ups correctly every single one of
them goes all the way down but one of
them comes up to the chin perfectly fine
way of doing it if you get much stronger
and you don't want to use a lot of
external weights you can start pulling
to the clavicle probably a little better
or more full range of motion better back
development and for super bonus point
extra credit only if you can do it right
if you're super duper strong probably
not very heavy
pull-ups to the sternum work very very
well next mistake a really point of
confusion is do we do a dead hang or not
either is totally fine when it comes
down to is comfort for your shoulders if
you do a dead hanging to pull up it's a
great extra stretch stimulus for your
lats and all the other muscles of the
back but it's not like you have to do it
if you do a full range of motion and
stop just short of a dead hang that's
totally fine if you can do it at hanging
between each one you get a little bit of
a bonus point as long as your shoulders
feel okay so if your shoulders feel
totally fine do a dead hangs in between
that can really standardize the reps and
it can give you probably a little bit
more hypertrophic stimulus but if you
like to stop just short of a dead hang
then that's totally fine but real quick
don't worry about what your scapula are
doing a lot of folks mistake pull ups
for pull downs or some other exercise
we're really supposed to be aware of
your scapula this is an exercise in
which we're trying to do a full range of
motion and generate a high degree of
force with many muscles don't worry
about protracting or retracting or
stabilizing or elevating or depressing
your scapula just make sure you're doing
a four inch motion coming up as high as
you set whether it be to the chin to the
clavicle or to the sternum whichever one
of those to me like and going all the
way down be it dead hang or not don't
worry about where your scaps are doing
they're gonna take care of themselves
the next mistake is to not have a
standard range of motion look if you're
already taking the advice from the last
tips this won't happen to you just make
sure you are taken that advice if you
say to yourself this set of pull-ups is
going to be to the chin make sure every
rep gets to the chin and if you're doing
dead hangs make sure every rep gets to a
dead hang if you choose any other range
of motion in between that's totally fine
keep every rep the same if you cannot
complete a rep to the chin if you get
all the way to here and you can't do it
that is zero reps you just reach
technical failure stop the set record
whatever rep was that minus one so if
you did nine reps and the ninth one was
two here put eight reps down in a
notebook and move on every rep doesn't
have to look identical what every rep
has to hit the bottom portion like
normal and the top portion like normal
sometimes people get away from this and
you do pull-ups with a different range
of motion every time very difficult to
apply consistent stimulus it makes
you're doing a good job very difficult
to track the next mistake is to have an
uncontrolled eccentric or descent phase
in the pull up folks will pull up really
well they'll get to the height they need
and they'll plop right back down
afterwards
this is mildly enhancing of injury risk
although not a ton you're pretty
resilient needlessly enhancing of
injuries who will say that but the real
problem is the eccentric contraction
like we've talked about in tons of
videos before is hugely stimulus
hypertrophy you want it can you do fewer
pull-ups if you control the descent yes
which we're not in the gym to do as many
pull-ups as you can you're to the gym to
get a giant back and the way you
do that is you go all the way up in your
pull-ups and then control the descent it
doesn't mean you do three or five
seconds but at least generate tension
through your back as you descent don't
just let gravity pull you all the way
down next mistake is using body English
in order to get up to the bar and count
the pull up using your hips your feet
anything you can grab another person
next to you push off of them to do the
pull-up it's not a good idea because
we're here to use our back muscles only
to generate the most amount of tension
through them to get them to do the
hypertrophy so if you're doing kipping
pull-ups for CrossFit that's totally
cool that's a completely different
exercise designed to generate as much
essentially repetitive power attempts as
possible it's essentially an endurance
exercise of a specified type totally
fine not optimized for hypertrophy for
hypertrophy you want to make sure you
come all the way up control on the way
down usually let yourself settle a
little bit and then come all the way
back up you're not gonna use any body
language there's no jerking or anything
like that
only the tension comes from you're
pulling muscles which is your back and
your arms that's it what is the best way
to position your feet during a pull-up
there is no best way but we're looking
for one standard whatever lets you pull
in a high
horse fashion that's stable and doesn't
lead to a lot of gyration between reps
sometimes folks will keep their feet out
in front of them and what that ends up
doing is as they do more and more
pull-ups they start to flail more and
more which requires them to do a dead
hang piss away a little bit of time and
energy to restabilized you want a foot
position whether that be both feet
tucked into your butt both feet
completely straight or the feet crossed
or anything in between you want to find
the one that works for you which lets
you do stable rep after stable rep after
stable rap now is it okay to restart the
reps every now and again really settle
in and make sure that all of the
gyration is gone you might do five or
six good reps but the seventh one you
start swinging back and forth a little
more is it totally fine to resettle
totally what you want to find a foot
position that makes you do that as less
as possible next mistake is letting grip
the eliminate factor on pull-ups now a
lot of folks their grip isn't a limiting
factor on pull-up so for them I wouldn't
be concerned but sometimes even a
slightly slippery grip even if you can
do all the reps so you don't fall off
sometimes just having a better grip can
actually improve the amount of force
that your muscles can generate that have
nothing to do with your grip like your
lats like your teres major and so on and
so forth so even if you don't think
you're starting a grip try three things
try some chalk that can really help and
you might not ever let go the bar
without chalk but with chalk you might
be able to actually generate more force
get a few more reps every set if the
chalk is not allowed at your gym or if
you need more help straps are really
good and of course the ultimate are
versa grips if you get those it's gonna
change your pull-ups forever because
you'll never have to worry about your
grip you can mine muscle connect with
your back that much better do that much
better of technique and know that your
back and your arms are always a limiting
factor and never your grips the next
mistake is thinking that there is an
ideal grip position or handle type for
pull-ups there are no ideals there's a
ton of variations you can use use one of
them for a few months
it might get stale on you you might hurt
a little bit in your elbows shoulders
and use another one for example you can
do wide grip pull-ups totally fine
medium grip narrow
grip underhand you can do all kinds of
different angles on different machines
sometimes they have the handles that go
like this sometimes like this sometimes
there's these weird attachments you can
use where the MINIX some rock climbing
stuff sometimes you can grab the the big
kettlebell balls or whatever all of that
is totally cool what matters is two
things do you feel those pull ups in the
muscle of your back if you feel a lot of
tension with a low rep pull-ups or a
good burn in the muscles you want during
high rep pull-ups you're well on your
way there if it's giving you a pump
you're a while on your way there and if
it's after the workout you feel a good
degree of muscle disruption like oh my
god like my back feels really really
fatigued in all the right places that's
awesome in addition to the fact that
your shoulder joints specifically and to
some extent your elbows and your wrists
are feeling really good during that
movement if someone says hey why grips
are the way to grow your lats you try
them and your shoulders hurt stop doing
them because the difference of lat
activation between a close grip and wide
grip is so minimal it's not worth noting
individual variation swallows all of
that up start with pull-ups that are
comfortable for you and every few months
feel free to explore different grips
different positions that work better for
you or just happen to be something
different to keep you motivated attack
the back from a slightly different angle
there are no wrong answers here except
for the ones that don't stimulate your
back and hurt your joints going too
heavy or too light with pull-ups no such
thing as too heavy or too light and
pull-ups as long as you're in
hypertrophy range if you're doing
pull-ups for sets of five all the way up
two sets of thirty is totally cool
another thing is you probably won't be
able to do pull-ups for a sets of thirty
unless you either your back is massive
you're really really small or some
combination of both here's a cool idea
if you start to get 15 or more reps of
pull-ups to the clavicle or sorry
pull-ups to the chin start doing them to
the clavicle if eventually you get
strong enough to do a really good
technique pull-ups for 15 plus reps per
set
so the clavicle start trying to do them
to the sternum famously Franco Columbu
mr. Olympia a famous simian famous
bodybuilder said that he actually never
used weighted pull-ups and he doesn't
use them with his clients because if
someone gets strong enough to do a lot
of rep
to the chin he switches to the clavicle
if they get strong enough to do 15 plus
reps of the clavicle then he switches
them all the way to the sternum if you
can do 15 good pull-ups to the sternum
you're either very jacked very small a
professional rock climber or you are out
of this world biggest BAC ever and you
don't have to worry about using weight
now you can use loaded external weight
you can use a dip belt and pull either
you know to your clavicle or to your
chin or whatever that's 100% up to you
so there's no right answers here a lot
of folks simply won't be able to get
into the higher rep ranges with any of
those pull-ups that's where assisted
pull-ups come in that's where pull downs
come in it's not that the bread are
worse than pull-ups is that you can use
a slightly lighter weight than your body
weight to get into those higher rep
ranges so if you can do pull-ups on the
high rep ranges sweet knock yourself out
but if you can't that's where assisted
pull-ups and pull-downs come in now if
you don't have access to an assisted
pull-up machine should you do band
assisted pull-ups yes if you need higher
rep work but they're not ideal the force
curve that bands generate is the
opposite of what you need for maximizing
back development when you want to do a
pull-up ideally you want to pull up to
be easier at the top where you're in a
mechanical disadvantage and then harder
at the bottom bands flip that around
they make it easy at the bottom and
harder at the top
it makes the force curve of pull-ups
even worse than it is and leads to
suboptimal development over the long
term ideally what you want to do is have
an assisted pull-up machine that beats
band assisted pull-ups every single time
if you don't have one here's a really
cool way to rig one up if you just train
at home and Shane a CrossFit box
I'll all you have as a pull-up bar get
yourself some rope some pretty thick
rope but rope that's not sticky that'll
slide smoothly over a bar get that rope
tie to that rope some weight at the
other end like a 45 pound weight tie to
the other end loop it over the actual
power rack and then tie a loop for your
feet step into it and maybe you have
your friends help you out or something
like that to make sure you get into it
it doesn't kill you step into that loop
grab the bars and all of a sudden as you
come up
that weight will go down and vice versa
that's an actual sort of rig to pull
that machine that still does a good job
of keeping the force curve away from
being too biased to being too hard at
the top and too easy at the bottom folks
give that some thought
that's all the tips we have for today
for pull-ups I'm sure there's many more
feel out what works best for you keep
that full range of motion tension on the
muscles eccentric control slowly work to
add reps or weight or sets and as long
as you keep doing pull-ups like that in
an intelligent fashion your back is
gonna get bigger and bigger and bigger
until you rip all your shirts like the
Hulk and you're gonna walk around
shirtless forever if you can help answer
questions in the comments below please
do if you want to like or subscribe
awesome and if you have some ideas for
other videos we can do on other
exercises you want to see us break down
shoot them in the comments thank you so
much enjoy your gigantic back
[Music]