okay what's going on guys in this video
I'm going to be taking you through seven
exercises that Target the chest
shoulders and triceps that you can put
together into a complete push workout or
you can pick and choose the movements
that you'd like to add to your own
training split all right so as usual
we're kicking things off with a five
minute General warm-up on the
treadmiller StairMaster and then we're
doing a few quick dynamic stretches like
arm swings and cable external rotations
from there we're jumping into three sets
of eight then five and then 15 reps on
the close grip barbell incline bench
press so this is a unique undulating set
pattern where the first working set uses
more moderate weight for eight reps the
second set uses heavier weight for five
reps and then the third set uses a
lighter weight for 15 reps of course to
get to those working sets you'll do a
few quick warm-up sets first I'll put an
example of a warm-up pyramid up here on
the screen and after those warm-up sets
you'll do your first working set for
eight reps the reason we're using this
set structure is that the first set of
eight will help you find your groove
since incline bench is in a super
well-oiled movement for most people
after that first set your Technique
should feel much more locked in for the
heavier set of five the first set of
eight will also give you a much better
idea of how much weight you should add
for the following heavier set of five
just make sure you rest for at least
three to four minutes in between those
sets so your pecs are feeling recovered
and capable of going up in weight so you
hit your set of five which I'll play
here in fast motion and then after that
your main overloading work is done so
now for the third and final set you can
just get a pump and finish things off
with some smooth mind muscle connection
work without needing to worry about the
weight you're using this isn't a set
structure I'll use a whole lot but I
think it fits really well here I should
also mention that we now officially have
an actual long-term training study
measuring PEC hypertrophy after eight
weeks of using the flat bench or the
incline bench and as you can see in the
table here when it came to the lower
packs there was no significant
difference between the groups
flatteningcline were about the same for
the mid packs there was also no
significant difference flatteningcline
were about the same but when it came to
the upper packs there was significantly
more muscle growth in the incline bench
group so this implies that if your goal
is to grow the upper pexmore
prioritizing incline pressing makes a
lot of sense now maybe you could take
these results a step further and say
that the incline bench is just a better
chest Builder overall since it saw equal
growth for the lower pecs and mid pecs
and more growth for the upper packs
however keep in mind this was just one
study it was on 47 untrained subjects so
newbie lifters and so while I do think
it supports using an incline press for
upper PEC growth I wouldn't make any
sweeping generalizations from it we're
also taking a slightly closer grip here
so a grip just outside of shoulder width
and this will further shift emphasis to
the upper pecs on these I'm bringing the
bar down to the highest contact point on
my upper chest and then pressing either
straight up or up and slightly back the
common mistake is touching the barbell
too low on your chest and then pressing
the bar out in front of you instead you
want to have the barbell stacked and
more or less a straight line centered
with your shoulder joint if the bar gets
too far out in front of you it'll limit
the weight you compress and may put more
strain on your shoulders as for tucking
and flaring I do a slight tuck on the
negative and then flare my elbows out as
I push however there is a wide range of
acceptable tuck and flare angles that'll
all hit the majority of the PEC fibers
to a similar degree so for the most part
I think you should find a degree of Tuck
that feels comfortable to you anything
from zero to about 30 degrees is
generally fine okay next we're moving on
to three sets of 10 to 12 reps on the
machine shoulder press now we just hit
the delts decently hard with the incline
press but I still want to get in some
more shoulder volume without it being
too taxing overall and this is why I
opted for a machine press here it just
tends to be less fatiguing on the body
as a whole machines are also nice
because you can push the sets closer to
failure without having to worry about
dropping the weight and risking injury
obviously machines won't hit some of the
smaller stabilizing muscles quite as
well as free weights will but as long as
you're also including some free weight
exercises I think that concern about
machines pretty much goes away anyway
alright so here you want to make sure
that your arms are at least breaking
parallel with the floor and I personally
like to go a bit below parallel so to
make sure you aren't cutting the range
of motion short set the seat high enough
so that you can get a deep enough
stretch I'm also using a thumbless grip
on these because I find it improves the
Mind muscle connection with my delts and
you'll notice I'm using a constant
tension approach here not quite fully
locking out at the top and maintaining a
smooth Cadence of about one second up
and one second down on each and every
rep I don't think there's anything
particularly special about constant
tension per se I just find it helps me
direct my attentional focus to my
shoulders better in general I'll leave
about one rep in the tank on the first
two sets so going to about an rpe of
nine but then I'll take the last set all
the way to failure meaning I'll go until
I literally can't get the weight up on
the last rep okay after all that
compound chest and shoulder work we're
moving on to our first tricep dominant
movement of the day and doing three sets
of six to eight reps on the floor reset
skull crusher this is a much more
strength focused movement for the
triceps and I'm including this because
of my other push day of the week I do a
more hypertrophy focused higher rep
tricep movement on the cables so today
I'm hitting them with heavier weight in
a lower rep Zone and with more emphasis
on Progressive overload here we're
mostly thinking about moving the weight
so pick a weight that's a bit heavier
than what you'd normally go for on Skull
Crushers and set up on the floor you
want to lift the weight up off the floor
reaching full or close to full elbow
extension with the bar still behind your
eye line and then control the negative
until at least halfway down and then I
personally let the weight more or less
drop of like I would on a deadlift and
then I let the weight come to a complete
dead stop you can even allow the weight
to roll back a bit on the floor and then
roll it back in to build some momentum
similar to how some power lifters
initiate a deadlift now if you don't
care about tricep strength at all I
would suggest resisting and controlling
the negative all the way down to the
floor from a pure hypertrophy standpoint
again we're putting much more emphasis
on Progressive overload here rather than
the Mind muscle connection so it's
important that you track your weight in
reps and aim to increase one or the
other from week to week and if you're
new to using this more strength focused
technique on Skull Crushers you should
notice your tricep strength increase
very quickly and then you can apply that
Newfound strength to your usual
technique on the conventional skull
crusher once you return to it okay after
that we're moving on to three sets of 10
to 12 reps on the bent over cable PEC
fly for this one you want to bend
forward at the hips and fly in a
straight downward motion note that this
is different from a decline cable pack
fly where your posture is upright but
your arms are converging downward but
this one you're still flying straight
out it's just that your torso itself is
angled forward so the decline fly will
emphasize the lower pecs more whereas
the bent overfly will hit all regions of
the packs roughly evenly with probably
the most emphasis on the mid-packs so
this is basically the same movement as
doing them standing straight up with a
mid-level cable however by doing them
this way you may find that the cables
pull you backward making it harder to
keep your balance this instability can
then limit the amount of tension your
pecs receive so by leaning forward over
the cables you'll be more stable since
your body weight is grounded with the
floor and this should allow you to
direct more tension onto the pecs so if
you've ever found yourself losing
balance with a traditional cable fly try
bending forward and see if you can feel
your pecs working better alright after
that we're moving on to a fun intensity
technique for the side delts so we're
essentially doing three sets of 20 reps
on the machine lateral raise but we're
splitting the Reps up so that the first
five reps are slow eccentrics so a slow
five second lowering phase and then for
the remaining 15 reps we're using
constant tension so just a smooth one
second up one second down Tempo with no
pauses at the top or bottom for those
first five reps the slow eccentrics
should help you find your delts on the
negative and you should be able to Zone
on feeling the side Delta fibers pulling
and then once you've locked that
connection in from there you can kind of
just blast them with more standard
constant tension reps there's nothing
particularly special about this rep
pattern I've just found that it can be
very helpful for people who struggle
feeling that adults working on lateral
raises and it helps them get locked in
for the set okay after those we're
moving on to two sets of 15 to 20 reps
on the plate front raise so a little
more shoulder work as I do find the
delts are one of those muscles that can
tolerate quite a lot of volume and from
a bodybuilding standpoint they're
incredibly important for building an
x-frame physique now I should say that
I'm normally not a big fan of front
raises because the front delts already
got a lot of work from any horizontal
and vertical pressing and the front
delts tend to be over developed relative
to the side delts anyway however there
is a way to modify the front raise to
make it less front Del dominant and
Target more of those middle segments in
between the front and side heads so
that's what we're aiming for here by
steering the wheel as we do front raises
with the plate when you think about how
the deltoid fibers run if you do a front
raise with an externally rotated arm the
front delt fibers are most lined up with
the path of resistance whereas the side
belt fibers are off to the side and
won't contribute much at all however if
you internally rotate the shoulder you
place the side delt fibers in a much
better position to contribute to the
front raise so that's exactly what we're
doing here internally rotating as we
lift the plate up now if you happen to
feel shoulder pain when doing these you
could easily swap them out for a
dumbbell y-rays instead but I think
internally rotating is perfectly normal
in healthy shoulders and shouldn't give
the majority of lifters any issue okay
and to round out the workout we're
finishing things off with one all-out
set to failure on the diamond push-up
for as many reps as possible I like
finishing the workout off with an amrap
set because there are no sets left to
interfere with so you can just give it
everything you've got and know that you
finish the workout on a high note the
diamond hand position will force the
triceps to work much harder than the
conventional push-up will so there's
much more triceps emphasis here and the
narrower base of support just makes the
movement more challenging in general so
don't sweat it if you can't get as many
reps as you would on the conventional
push-up for example I only got 21 reps
on this set and I can probably do 60 or
70 conventional push-ups so they are
pretty tough especially when you control
the tempo and don't allow yourself to
Free Fall being able to keep your form
locked in as you get all the way to
failure is a useful skill so we're
trying to work on that with this set and
that's a wrap for the workout again this
push day is meant to complement our
other push day of the week which I'll
put a link to in the description box
below in case you missed that video so
if it seems like something is missing in
this workout it's most likely taken care
of on my other push day and if you guys
would like to have the full 12 weeks of
push-pull legs workouts all in one place
you can pick up my ultimate push-pull
legs hypertrophy system over on
jeffnipper.com the program has three
distinct phases that are designed to
build on one another phase one includes
the workouts that I'm doing here on the
channel that lasts for the first six
weeks of the program phase two is
completely unique different exercises
different rep ranges set volumes Etc and
uses a much lower volume higher
intensity approach and that phase lasts
for four weeks and then phase three is a
fun mini phase where we do a lot of
super high rep sets and flood the muscle
with a ton of volume and that lasts for
two weeks and then at the end there's a
full deload week so you can run back
through the program again for as long as
you're continuing to make progress
program also comes with a full ebook
explaining all the methods used in Excel
spreadsheet a library full of exercise
demos from me coaching cues for every
exercise and a bunch more that's
designed for intermediate to Advanced
trainees so if you're still in your
first year or two of lifting you can
check out my fundamentals program
instead which I'll also link down below
alright that's it for this one guys
thank you so much for watching don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up if you
enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one