hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and I think Hip thrusts
are overrated oh boy controversy
all right
we got hip thrusts for the gym lusts
yeah that actually makes a little sense
let's talk about some upsides and
downsides of hip thrust because as
always
we get these thumbnails to catch you
guys in here on these catchy titles and
this controversial start but as always
we want a measured even Keel logical
analysis and every single bad thing
has good things associated with it or
almost anyway
and every single good thing almost every
single good thing has some bad things so
let's actually talk about the upsides
first of hip thrusts because they do
have upsides
first
hip thrusts are a direct isolation
exercises a direct isolation exercise
for the glutes and they're just not that
many direct isolation exercises for the
glutes
sumo squats and deadlifts lunges of
various kinds step UPS Etc they're all
quad and adductor and glute and some
lower back and some other stuff
so it's nice to have hip thrusts around
to just check that box of like bro just
glutes just glutes it's cool it's it's a
good thing right if you have like dips
are really effective for triceps close
grip benches are really effective it's
still nice to have some fucking cable
push Downs because it's just triceps
there's something to that
it's a good tool to have in the toolbox
Point number two upside for glute
thrusts is
some people get really good results from
them people have done a bunch of
different stuff and you so many of these
stories if you know who Brett Contreras
is he has tons of these stories to tell
and they're real stories real people who
like did all kinds of stuff did lunged
and squatted to the Moon nothing really
happened with their glutes they got some
games but it was not impressive they
started adding in Hip thrusts and Magic
happened at least over several weeks and
months they got notably bigger glutes so
for some people hip thrusts absolutely
work great
and lastly a big upside is that hip
thrusts have an ability to help you
develop a really good mind muscle
connection because of that Peak
contraction I'm having sex in midair by
the way underneath the table yeah you
guys like that yeah yeah oh yeah anyway
I'm gonna stop because there's rules
about this sort of thing you guys
probably don't want to see something
that looks like this make sex noises in
any case
that Peak contraction and I'm doing it
right now again
and that lowering on the way down
controlling with your glutes it really
lets you feel your glutes because lunges
squats and deadlifts and all the other
great exercises for the glutes you're
like moving around and it's hard but
sometimes it's really tough to actually
feel your glutes and some people have an
issue where they can't really connect
with their glutes that well and with hip
thrusts when they learn to connect with
their glutes using hip thrust because
it's a great exercise to teach that
connection they may be able to take that
connection and apply it to other
exercises which are biomechanically and
anatomically and physiologically better
cause more muscle growth more robustly
at hip thrusts and then benefit more in
those exercises because of essentially
the learn skill of connecting to the
glutes that they got from hip thrusts so
those are at least three good things
about hip thrusts but there are two
things about hip thrusts that are not
great one of them is meh not great the
other one is kind of the death now that
really is the core of what I'm going to
say in this video
first downside
hip thrusts are painfully annoying to
set up you may be lucky that your gym
has a machine for hip thrusts or one of
those hip thrust slide setup things even
still it could be annoying but if you're
doing hip thrusts
with the old barbell and the pad and the
bench behind you
sometimes you have to use so much weight
because the glutes are real strong in
that position or even if you don't use a
ton of weight you got to slap the plates
on you got to slap more of it and you
got to warm up you got to roll the bar
off you got to roll the bar back on and
when your facet is done and you've done
hip thrusts with you know five sets of
ten with 405 you're like oh God damn I
gotta drag four plates off this thing
it's like it's like a deadlift it's so
fucking annoying you can't take the
weights put them on take them off ugh
it's a thing
that's a downside for sure
but it's not the biggest one
the biggest one is that
the hip thrusts
accentuates the load on the glutes at
the very top in their Peak contracted
State when you're hip thrusting through
and then as you lower biomechanically
there's less and less and less
exponentially less load placed on the
glutes
such that at the very bottom of the hip
thrust where you're basically producing
almost no force that bottom stretch
is actually the most muscle growth
promoting point of any movement
so if you have the most load at the
bottom stretch you're growing a ton of
muscle
if you have the same roughly amount of
load at the bottom stretch
you're growing a very decent amount of
muscle if you have the lowest load of
the movement
at the bottom
the movement isn't now inferior for
muscle growth compared to the other two
so for example
if you were doing
Skull Crushers
at the very top of the skull crusher
this is easy because the vector relation
to gravity is super tiny and thus you
could skull Crush like a trillion pounds
from here to here but you only need then
oh you're skull crushing 65 so this is
the easy part the lockout's super easy
with Skull Crushers the biomechanics are
such that the vector is the most
forceful right here at the bottom where
your triceps are the most stretched so
the skull crusher biomechanically that's
a gnarly exercise it's that first kind
of exercise where this bottom stretch is
also the mechanically the most difficult
part
makes the skull crusher a fucking great
exercise
then you have a situation where you have
another exercise that is maybe in the
middle range the hardest a bicep curl
easy down here easy up here in the
middle it's really hard about the worst
thing in the world
but not the best a great exercise but
ideally it would be hardest at the
bottom easiest at the top and then you
have the hip thrust which at the bottom
is essentially imperceptibly difficult
precisely where you want to be the
hardest and at the top it's the hardest
so if you want to actually go through a
full range of motion to get that P
contraction which is where all the other
benefits of the hip thrust occur the
glutes engage get the Mind muscle
connection
it's directly isolation of the glutes
that hip thrust all the way through at
the top you have to use such a little
amount of weight at the Top If the
bottom is even less challenging and
there's not really an amount of weight
you could use that makes the bottom
challenging anyway it would be like a
gargantuan amount of weight because the
lavagers are so in your favor that you
you're essentially there's almost no way
to take a hip thrust with a normal
conventional load and challenge it at
the bottom stretch and that's a problem
and it is evident that when you do hip
thrust you may be able to do five or six
or seven or eight sets of hip thrusts
and get a little bit twinge of soreness
especially if you've done them before
but you do two sets of front foot
elevated lunges which stretch your glute
like crazy at the bottom when the forces
are the highest you will get sore for
five days in your glutes guys this is
not just by accident this means you are
growing more from any one given set of
lunges versus hip thrust now there is a
way to solve that problem you just do
more hip thrusts 10 sets of hip thrusts
to every three sets of lunges you'll get
the same hypertrophy from one and the
other but fuck me let's say I'm
exaggerating call it six sets for every
hip thrust versus three sets for every
lunge Call it four sets of hip thrusts
for three sets of every lunch lunges are
super easy to set up in almost every
case compared to hip thrusts you're
already losing big time on opportunity
cost you have to ask yourself the
question when you're picking a glute
exercise like okay
do I want to do lunges which I can do
less of total sets and the setup is
easier and the glute stimulus is bigger
or do I want to do hip thrust where it's
annoying setup it's going to take me
more time I gotta the exercise isn't
even as effective and I got to do more
sets to compensate
I know is the hip thrust is starting to
look pretty bad right let me tell you
guys about the RP hypertrophy app with
over 28 preset programs already in the
app you could choose to make your own
you could modify an existing program or
you can just run the programs exactly as
they were written by me personally this
app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
so the research on how much the stretch
load the loaded stretch matters is
starting to pile up now to be like it
matters and exercises that really
stretch you under load like a super deep
push-up or camber to our bench press or
dumbbell press are just straight up
Superior fibertrophy on a set per set
equated basis then exercises that don't
cause that stretch now of course you
could do more sets but that's more
fatigue that's more time and it looks
like hip thrusts just are overrated as
the first go-to glute exercise because
compared to lunges because compared to
Sumo deficit deadlifts and sumo squats
Etc and a few other glute exercises they
just suffer from that big Force curve
problem
so here's my take yes definitely try hip
thrust glute Bridges same thing as far
as I can tell but if the results are
underwhelming do not be shocked
try lunges walking lunges with barbells
dumbbells reverse lunges and especially
front foot elevated lunges on a Smith
machine where your front foot is like
two or three or four inches above the
ground your back foot's on the ground
because that front loot the one that's
being stretched that front foot's glute
that's the one that's being stimulated
if you elevate your foot and still come
down with the other leg to where your
knee touches the ground gently you're
going to stretch the living dog shit out
of that glute that you're hitting switch
legs after a bit of rest hit it again
that is such a great exercise it should
almost always be first in line before
hip thrusts if you're really serious
about hypertrophy in your glutes now
lastly in the future maybe not too
distant future we'll have some machines
that work on electric motors and then
you can adjust the force curve as you
see fit for those machines if you get
some kind of bar across your hips and
there's two cables to electric motors
you'll be able to adjust it such that at
the very top there's very little Force
applied by the electric motors but as
you glute bridge and hip thrust back
down the force increases radically such
that you still get a crazy stretch at
the bottom like holy shit and then as
you push up it gets easier and easier
if we can get the hip thrust motion to
be a bigger tension at the bottom and a
smaller tension at the top
damn dude that's going to make hip
thrusts really really awesome exercise
because first of all electric motors you
don't have to pile weights on the bar
second of all quick setup so it's not as
annoying and third of all the force
curve is going to match and it's an
isolation exercise and it's great for
mind muscle connection because at the
top the load is very minimal you really
get to Crunch your glutes and really
feel them out and then on the way down
they stretch like crazy man that's going
to be an amazing exercise but with free
weights so far hip thrusts in 2023 I
think they're been overrated
folks that's all I have for today see
you next time