[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for enance pation
and you're having trouble sticking to
your workout plan this is video one of a
two-part series to give you some helpful
tips to make sure you stay on track
don't quit and get the body of your
dreams so you can finally be happy yay
eight problems that people run into with
workout motivation and I have something
to say about all eight of them number
one is to say well I don't have a
training partner so it can be really
hard to get motivated in the the
gym I hear you sometimes it's
tough what can help is to regress a
little
bit and think about why do you go to the
gym you're not there to have fun with a
training partner although that would be
nice you're there to get results and
you're the kind of person look you don't
have a partner to go to work with either
go to work by yourself nobody's helping
you brush your teeth I hope at this day
and age in your life it's just something
you got to get done and you remember if
you take your tunes with you you go to
the gym at a fun time when there's lots
of people around once you're there and
started with the workout all will be
gravy and you'll be super thankful you
actually showed up so yes not having a
training partner is tough but you can do
it alone and most people really do
another few options is for you to try to
actively get a training partner if you
have some friends at the gym you can say
hey like do you ever want to train
together and a lot of times like yes
thank God you asked now they could be
like uh I'm good by myself and that's
okay but if you keep trying every now
and again eventually you can get a
training
partner lastly if you want to join the
team full ROM Forum we have a big
community group here at RP we all help
each other out it's a Facebook Forum
might be moving off Facebook by now the
recording of this video has been made
but we're on there you can post your
videos you can tell us about your
troubles we can share motivational stuff
we'll get you in the gym we'll get you
out of the gym well out we don't
guarantee you get you in the gym get you
suffering and you'll do it all without a
training partner number two
is the complaint that nobody at your gym
trains hard and that it's tough to get
motivated to train hard yourself because
everyone's just on the recumbent bike
doing this or benching the machine like
this old people people falling asleep
here's the thing you are not the person
that runs with the crowd you are the
kind of person that does what needs to
be done even if other people aren't
doing it better still you can be the
star it's kind of fun when you're the
only person at the gym fucking grinding
I used to train a gym it was like me and
like 20 other people in their '90s and
like they all stared at me and I was
really nice and polite to them between
sets of like screaming during squats and
then throwing up in a bucket they like
that sort of thing it's entertaining for
them to look at the people at your gym
that aren't training that hard almost
never judge you for training hard as a
matter of fact they can look up to you
and train a little bit harder because
you have to be the
leader somebody has to lead somebody has
to set an example in every gym there is
a few people that go harder than
everyone else and those people make
everyone else question whether or not
they're going hard enough and everyone
works a little bit harder which is great
you don't have to be a follower you can
be a leader you don't need anyone else
to work hard it can come from within
100% next problem you get bored of your
routine here's the thing two things
one your routine is not a form of
entertainment for you it's not made of
clowns and balloons it's made of barbell
rows and overhead presses if you really
ingrain into doing the movements with
high standard of quality the fun is
doing the movements well seeing the
progress and getting better over time
the monotony makes it more fun because
you have so much room to perfect the
quality of the thing you're doing that's
the fun right if an artist is working on
some kind of amazing painting it's not
likely he's going to be like ah 70% of
the way through I'm bored I need a new
painting it's putting in the fine
details really making sure the work is
of ultra high quality that keeps the
artist the opposite of board so I
encourage you to really dig into your
program to take ownership of your
program to align with your program and
say I'm going to do this and I'm going
to do it
right that's Point number one another
point is this if you've been cranking at
the same routine for a while shit switch
it up go from push legs pull to upper
lower try a whole body routine try to
prioritize some different muscle groups
to work on your adults and arms instead
of your whole body there's all kinds of
stuff you can do different exercises you
don't need to be constrained to just the
same Ro routine all the time when people
say they're Bor of their routine but
they've never changed their routine I'm
always like what did you consider that
you could just change your routine
entirely it's like being bored of the
same TV shows that you're watching
except you never even go through the
browse feature of Netflix or Amazon you
just like go to the same ones and you're
like I hate this well you know there's
like a trillion other TV shows right all
you got to do is click the back button
and then scroll up and down similar
thing to your training it's just totally
simple for you to go in and just try
some different stuff try a new program
all that stuff works really really
really well
number
four you say you don't have a lot of
equipment so it's easy to get burned out
because it's all the same stuff and I
totally hear you if you train at home in
a garage gym pair of dumbbells it can be
tough it can get really monotonous
however what you have is a couple ways
to vary things one you can vary cadences
so instead of dumbb presses with a
normal uh Cadence you can do dumb BL
presses with a three or 4 second
Ecentric and a two second pause at the
bottom at the stretch ouch and you go
back up that's two exercises now not
regular dumbbell presses another thing
you can alter is grip you can do
dumbbell presses to the chest super wide
pulling the chest apart you can do them
with elbows close getting a really good
tricep stretch and a bunch of different
ways in which dumbbell presses or squats
you can have your feet pointed forward
very close you can do sumo squats you
can do something in between for uh rows
you can grab the bar wide you can grab
the bar medium you can grab the bar
narrow you can do underhand rows the
variations you can impose in how you do
the movements even if they're very
similar movements can absolutely inject
a lot of fun into your program and get
you out of that boredom cycle another
thing is the rep range that you're using
yes doing leg presses for sets of 5 to
10 can get boring but if you tried leg
presses for sets of 20 to 25 of course
you haven't because you want to live CU
that shit is way too fucking hard so I'd
encourage you to try that shit and then
well fuck man you're really in a good
place because you have all three of
these Cadence variations foot and hand
placement variations and movement
pattern variations and you have rep
range variations where you do the same
exercise just in a very different rep
range I'll give you one more try drop
sets super sets my reps what we call
intensity techniques and there's a bunch
of them and you can Google all of them
if you go to the Renaissance
priorization hypertrophy Guide central
Hub you click on any muscle group all
the way down at the bottom there'll be
ways to use these different intensity
techniques you have four ways now to
inject variation into your program even
if all you have is one fucking barbell
that's enough variation to keep you
having fun for the rest of your training
career number five I'm too beat up to
feel motivated I hear you I've got two
things for you one is if it's halfway
through week four that you're too beat
up to be motivated and go to the gym you
shut the fuck up and go to the gym
you're a fucking Warrior you are a God
you are a robot you do the fucking shit
you were supposed to do other people uh
my this and that hurts fuck you I'm here
to get that shit so shut the fuck up and
go where you're supposed to go and
finish that week strong but at the end
of that week take a D Lo take an active
rest phase don't beat yourself up into
perpet it when your body's fucked up
finish what you started and then take a
break classic classic case
here Point number six your slowing rate
of gains has you demotivated back in
your newbie days a few years ago when
you used to like put on a pound of
muscle a weak or whatever and your body
would change completely you get 20
pounds stronger if you're weak it was
easy to be motivated because it was all
just like rainbows and puppies and gains
puppies are in a non-gravity situation
where they're floating around the
rainbows and you wonder who feeds those
puppies do they simply starve to death
floating in the rainbow anyway it's
quite maob in any case back then it was
easy to get motivated now my rate of
gains is really small and it's hard for
me to get pumped because what the fuck
am I even doing in the gym I'm barely
seeing
progress all this requires is a bit of a
perspective
shift turn yourself back into that
perfectionist artist you don't want to
make five whatever paintings like a
fucking elephant would randomly you want
to make one painting and really Etch in
the five lines when you are getting slow
gains because you're so Advanced first
you already are fucking amazing you were
way stronger than ever before way
stronger than most people around way
leaner way fitter way whatever way more
jacked enjoy just operating this
wonderful machine of a body that you've
created and two operate it with
technical Precision work on Flawless
technique work on itching and etching
away the five pounds here the one rep
here that n y that optimization that
pristine condition refining of the
Masterpiece brings its own kind of Joy
so when you're a beginner you're getting
easy gains someone's like oh you're
getting great gains great motivation
sweet oh yeah hit a hit a rear double
bicep and you're like there's nothing
back there like oh but the gains are
motivating great for me when I'm making
slow gains now towards the tail end of
my bodybuilding career if I make any
gains at all they're super I love it
because oh my God I'm making gains and
also if I ever have to remind myself
after Lego work out I pull out my shorts
and I'm like holy fucking shit I look
unbelievable that's what keeps me coming
back is I have this master sculpture
which ugly as fuck but it's my my kind
of ugly and I'm whittling away at the
edges I'm making it
like perfect exactly as I want it the
culmination of my achievement there's a
lot to that you don't just want to take
a project to 90% completion and be like
ah this isn't fun anymore I'm going to
start something else you want to really
put that cherry on top if you think
about it that way your slow gains as a
more advanced person shouldn't bother
you they should be an invitation to be
the master artist you always wanted to
be number
seven typical for beginners I skip one
day of my workout and then I spiral out
of control two things to say here at
least one stop skipping workouts kind of
fucking no-brainer and two reconsider
why you spiral out of control because
you're putting too much shame and doubt
and pressure on yourself and you need to
fucking stop doing that okay you skip a
workout fine shit happens it's life
nobody at the gym knows nobody gives a
fuck
you're not going to walk in and the
front desk guy is going to be like oh
you're here Friday where were you
yesterday for your chest workout that
just doesn't fucking happen and if it
does damn that's really great customer
service mod holy shit you know me my
name and my face you know I'm here every
Thursday at 6m holy fuck man you want to
be my training partner like that doesn't
almost ever happen nobody cares you care
and the gym is an infinitely welcoming
and rewel coming environment what
happens every January at every gym is
across the world there's like 150 new
members per gym is there a point at
which the gym staff are like ah get out
you failed last year you're not welcome
back fuck no can you imagine downloading
the Spotify app and then deleting it off
your phone because you're like nah I
like Pandora and you come back to
Spotify and you Tred to download it
they're like sorry bro you had your
fucking chance you skipped out on us no
more app what they're like yes please
download and since you're coming back
here's a discount if you ski a day at
the gym there is no pressure at all come
back in it's just going to be a great
workout and then you're going to be
right with the thing there's this idea
that if you break a streak somehow you
did a bad thing and it's over nonsense
streaks break all the time the people
who are successful restart their streak
and again after you finish that first
workout back when you're like all right
just shut up and go to the gym nobody
gives a fuck you go you have your
workout towards the end you're finishing
up leg extensions you're like this is
great it's like nothing ever changed in
here it's like this gym is open 24/7
specifically for me to come in and do my
workout whenever however and with
whomever I want that's the reality the
idea that like once you've disgraced the
gym by not showing up you're not welcome
there anymore or something is fucking
crazy it's just not true and if you
remind yourself of that you can be a bit
more sane about things lastly for this
video and we'll have another one which
continues on with another seven of these
nagging injuries have gotten to you your
shoulder's creaky your elbow sucks so
you're like fuck it fuck that I quit
lifting until these things are better
but hold on a sec your legs work just
fine your back works just fine your abs
work just fine while you rehab those
joints and give them a little TLC not
doing any really heavy arm or shoulder
work you can beat the living shit out of
your legs out of your glutes out of your
hams out of your lower back elevating
those muscle groups over several weeks
to better than they have ever been
muscles are way easier to maintain than
they are to gain with because you're not
training your upper body as hard for
those few weeks the amount of total
systemic resources devoted to your legs
skyrockets your legs will get better
than ever you're going to be like holy
fucking shit my legs and then your upper
body healed all this nagging injuries
and the rest of your body the muscles
and everything in your upper body have
been so
desensitized uh or sorry resensitized to
volume wrong word they're so sensitive
to volume they're so ready to do
workouts and so ready to grow again for
you it's essentially an active rest
phase that once you start training lower
and upper body together again your upper
body in weeks is going to fucking
explode with new gains bringing you back
up to your old Point real quick and then
beyond because you took a break that
right shoulder that was going to get
nagging pains it never will because you
took a 3 break and all the shit that was
just subd detectable as far as damage
went down completely and you're going to
have six months of amazing training plus
six months of amazing training for upper
body you look at your legs and they're
the biggest they've ever been because
you never quit because when one joint or
one muscle or one whatever is bad for
you take care of it leave at the fuck
alone for a while rehab it a little bit
slowly reintro but during that time take
whatever the fuck else is still working
gas it up to the fucking Moon
intelligently don't just double your
volume but do a little more and a little
more push yourself then whatever it is
that you could train will be elevated
once you're whatever you couldn't train
comes back it'll come up to a higher
than ever point and then everything is
the best it's ever been you've lost zero
possible opportunities for gains and
you've gained essentially as fast as you
could ever you just did a specialization
program when you kind of weren't
planning on it that's how you should
treat all kinds of injuries an injury Is
Not a Bad Thing by itself it is an
opportunity to do a specialization
program on another part of your body and
if you look at it like that through a
lens of infinite positivity yay like a
social media influencer out here then
things generally tend to go better than
if you're real pessimistic about it
still pessimistic that's not my problem
I'll see you guys next
time