all right what's going on everyone so
I'm just getting here to the gym with
Stephanie and we're going to Train back
today but I figured that first I would
do my follow-up video to my last video
where I posed for shoulder mysteries as
you guys and I recruited your guys
health in the comment section answering
those questions and you guys responded
with a lot of really impressive answers
I thought and a lot of you guys got the
correct answer or at least a correct
answer to all of the questions but I was
also really impressed by the people who
didn't know the correct answer but took
a solid stab at it and I could tell that
you were really sort of reasoning it out
in your head great job with the answers
okay so here are four of my answers the
question number one if the shoulder
press is a frontal plane movement why
doesn't it primarily target the lateral
deltoid right so you'd expect you'd
expect a frontal plane movement to hit
the lateral deltoid because the lateral
raise is a frontal plane movement in it
targets the lateral deltoid but the main
reason is that when you're doing the
shoulder press your shoulders externally
rotated so the anterior delt is in a
better position to oppose gravity not
the lateral delt I want to give a
shout-out to Beatrice for getting the
right answer on this one it's a question
number two if the front raise is
training pure shoulder flexion why is
the front raise less effective than a
shoulder press at activating the front
delts so that's your turn my turn okay
so there it is so your front deltoid
will primarily contribute to maximum
force above horizontal so above your
shoulders so when do a front raise you
actually stop where you stop there you
stop at horizontal and then you reverse
the range motion which brings up the
question why wouldn't you just do a
front raise and then implementing the
entire range of motion like I'm down
here all the way up over your head and
that's probably not a good thing to do
it probably not be the most optimal
because there's a variable or a circular
path on a front raise at the bottom you
have a zero which is like no resistance
and then it increases as you go up where
when you're above horizontal you can
actually have higher resistance the
entire time so more constant resistance
through the entire motion
Oh shout-out to turn up Patrol solid
name for getting that answering there's
a wide grip or a narrow grip lead to
more deltoid activation and pressing
movement ah question so the answer this
one is that it depends so for it depends
on the bench angle so for a decline in a
flat bench press it turns out that a
narrow grip leads to greater anterior
deltoid activation at least according to
bernetta tau and for a incline in a
vertical press turns out that there's
not a whole lot of difference but a
wider grip is actually slightly better
so a narrower grip for declines and
horizontal presses and a wider grip for
incline and vertical pressures but if
you're doing shoulder presses the
differences are pretty small so I'd
actually recommend finding a grip that
feels comfortable for you and feel safe
with your shoulder joint and just roll
with that okay okay question before
ready opening why was a neutral here in
position town to outperform the pronated
hand position for new rear deltoid EMG
activity okay so this one is this one
was a puzzling one so in a neutral
position your shoulder can perform
horizontal abduction and the shoulder
actually the deltoid purple also perform
external rotation so the adduction or
abduction okay and and horror external
rotation so in a position where your
hands are pronated it actually you're
actually missing out on the external
rotation component of your shoulder so
you're not utilizing that secondary
function of the shoulder so with a
neutral position you can actually use
both of those functions of the shoulder
doing the adduction and abduction and
external rotation and trainer in China
drop this one right right and then no no
sorry took a good stab at it
Oh didn't get it completely right but
tried and thank you for trying and then
adding got
the ones who contributed to the external
rotation component of the rotator cuff
which is probably what is showing up on
the EMG so that could also be what was
like producing those results on EMG
activity I mean every said that the
muscles of the rotator cuffs also
externally rotated and where they're
closed like in proximity to the
electrode might have been picking up the
signal from the rotator cuff not
necessarily the rear delt I thought that
was an interesting thing to be a
confounding variable yeah there you go
so those are four possible solutions to
the four shoulder mysteries I hope you
guys found this informative if you do
like these quick sort of quiz type
videos let me know and I'll continue to
them shoutouts Stephanie or youtube's
links in the description for helping me
out with this one and like the video if
you liked it subscribe if you haven't
already and I'll see you guys next time
bye