this is not going to be a hey try this
unconventional lifts video or train like
yakos Grizzly to maximize hypertrophy
and strength sort of video i' rather I
want to focus on something else that I
experienced while training and
interacting with Grizzly the past few
[Applause]
[Music]
months a few months ago I reached out to
kiryakos through a mutual friend and we
started talking we started talking on
the phone chatting um and what was
instantly apparent to me was that this
guy just loved training he would
randomly call me and just talk training
talk about his past training what he
likes doing at the moment what he wants
to do and just his whole life seemed to
revolve around training he has a job
that allows him to live his daily life
and all he cares about or at least a big
part of his day is getting to the gym
and doing all the crazy stuff that he
enjoys
doing as he said in his own words he
trains for the
difficult now this became a meme because
what a lot of people fail to realize
which is understandable because they're
not Greeks even though everybody's Greek
and everything is Greek we've invented
everything come on guys please what give
Yos did there is that he directly
translated from Greek to English and
what he meant to say was that I am
training for the difficult times for the
difficult days for the fields
essentially he's not training for a
specific goal there's no PR in mind
there's no competition in mind there's
no metrics it is purely for the love of
training sure he has his little sub
goals on the unconventional lifts that
he does but essentially the goal is to
get into that weightlift lifting Hall
lift as much weight as possible do a
bunch of stuff including stuff that is
heavily uh challenging from uh an
endurance standpoint do that for a few
hours get destroyed go sleep and then go
work and then repeat and do that all
over again without any other motive we
recently had the chance with the guys
here to visit him in person and train
with him at the weightlifting Hall in
his hometown we arrive we're welcomed by
him really nice guy really friendly
wholesome guy and the plan then was for
him to take us through his training
which literally started with pushing the
prowler um and slowly upping the weight
on it for 50 reps at a time uh and we
did that like a set lasted for about 3
minutes I was destroyed after those sets
I needed a good amount of time to
recover but as you can see we finished
the set i'm pinned on the wall Grizzly
finishes his last rep just walks away
casually and and tells me to just push
it back to where it was the guy is not
just insanely strong but he's very
physically fit especially for his weight
so we were there for a couple of hours
literally just exhausting ourselves then
did some deadlifts as well and he sat
there and encouraged us and there was a
point where we were doing an AM wrap I
was unable to do any more reps I was on
the floor and he was like do more and I
was like bro I'm I ain't doing more you
can see that I'm I'm spent here we also
tried pulling him at the end we did this
thing where we would grab on his arm and
try to pull him to our Direction and
both myself as well as my man Nikos who
was there who weighs 150 is kilos and
conv bench 200 deadlift near 300 the guy
was unable to even make Grizzly Flint
the grizzly was just sitting there not
being moved kyo's Grizzly being a bit of
a meme had to do mostly with the fact
that he does unconventional lifts that
people are not really aware of and don't
really have General strength standards
for like we do for let's say the bench
press or the squat and they can't really
comprehend how strong the guy is plus
he's limited range of motion on
exercises like the good morning or even
things like barbell Rose led to people
thinking that he is some sort of ego
lifter that is just trying to do as much
weight as he can with much less range of
motion that is possible however
something that a lot of people don't
know when watching these lifts is that
kiryakos has sustained a lot of really
serious injuries throughout his career
including tearing both his biceps as
well as heavy injuries on both of his
legs including his quads and hamstrings
which is why you see him often perform
these unconventional lifts take it from
me I am somebody so I'm currently
weighing roughly 230 lb I can deadlift
600 lb for reps next to kaku's Grizzly I
look tiny and I'm unable to even move
him sat down when pulling with both
hands the guy is legit toying with
weights above 300 kilos no matter the
range of motion is no joke but the
specifics aside this was an awesome
session not because of the stimulus to
fatigue ratio not because we did some
amazing hypertrophy optimized or
strength optimized workout it was just
an amazing session for the feeling of it
for a few hours we were there nothing
else mattered it was all about just
training hard for the sake of training
hard lifting heavy weights pushing the
prowler no plan just really really
training hard for the love of it it was
simply a let's train together and get
super tired sort of feeling which
reminded me of the first days in the gym
back then it wasn't about the science an
optimal approach to training constantly
having a plan it was more let's just
gather in the gym with a bunch of bros
do a bunch of stuff get tired have fun
and that was it no gimmicks no specific
goals in mind just playing PL old
hardcore lifting and fun don't get me
wrong training like that for your whole
life is probably not the way to go and
just training for fun and just doing
whatever seems more extreme to get super
tired is probably not the way you want
to do things but still that feeling is
something that I often as a lifter Miss
quite a lot and I do see a lot of people
losing their their touch with their IR
own Roots if I may in this day and age
we're constantly bombarded by PR this PR
that progress this progress that
physique Transformations it's we're in a
rat race as a lifter there's people out
there that are absolutely killing it
with their strength and their physiques
and they're just constantly unhappy they
are laser focused on the numbers on how
they're changing and they've completely
disconnected from just the feeling of
lifting from for feeling blessed that
they can do what they love to do and
that's lifting and that goes for all the
people out there that are not
professional strength or phys music
athletes right and that's something that
Grizzly really had about him he was like
I just love lifting and that's why I had
said for the difficult he actually
mentioned that he is just somebody who
really loves lifting and that caught me
off caught me by surprise obviously I
knew he enjoyed lifting from all his
videos but I wasn't really aware that he
was just such a downto Earth iron
Enthusiast to his core he wasn't looking
to collab gain anything from us going
there he was literally just like guys
come over and let's just train together
it would be cool to just train together
and he called me after and said we're
brothers in Iron asked us how whether we
were sore the next day and our
communication is the same ever since a
few calls here and there talking about
training talking about the things that
he does and the things that he enjoys
and then that's literally it nothing
more nothing less and that's what stayed
with me after the trip we often get lost
especially myself and I'm venting now on
YouTube free psychology session you guys
are my psychologist we often get lost in
the science of things the business side
of things now for some of us that are
also Professionals in the space and it
is often rare to feel that oh it's just
myself some friends in a hot room full
of iron and we're just training for the
fun of it without anything else on our
minds and training with Grizzly really
brought back that feeling and brought
back the appreciation for Lifting for
being able to do something that we enjoy
in our core so much uh and being able to
actually do that being healthy enough to
be there with friends to push weights to
be physically able to actually go
through these sessions and make it out
alive at the end of the day no matter
your goals no matter the details no
matter whose routine is more optimal or
or whatever One Thing Remains you have
to live it I'll catch you guys on the
next episode of this TV series for some
reason it's an episode now don't forget
like subscribe notification icon and pay
K yakos Grizzly his respects he deserves
all the respect in the world shout out
to
[Music]
him