hey what's going on instructor Mike T
Nelson here doing a talk on the impact
of cannabis and CBD on exercise recovery
and adaptation for Renaissance period
ization here
big thanks to dr. mike is bert all nick
and everybody over there for having me
do this one super excited about this and
i think it will be very useful there's a
lot of talk about CBD there's some
interesting stuff there's a lot of stuff
that's absolutely not correct and we use
some cool research to jump into this my
goal is to make this a little less than
an hour so I'm really working hard to
try to condense everything down so as
you can tell this is the cannabis plant
known as marijuana weed maryjane all
sorts of other different names initially
I started checking into this about three
years ago I grew up in assume that all
things related to cannabis were bad
because that's what the media had told
me and as I started checking out the
research I realized oh maybe that's not
so true and we'll kind of talk a little
bit about that journey here also but
unfortunately it seems like everyone is
either very true or very con not many
people are anywhere in the middle and
not much of any of it is based really on
any research so some people are very Pro
that it's going to help everything from
glaucoma to inflammation to pain and we
see all sorts of crazy ads with CBD now
curing everything and other people are
like no that's the devil's lettuce it's
a horrible thing that's a gateway drug
it's going to crush all your gains your
testosterone is gonna drop to the level
of your shoes and it's bad so we're
gonna see is this somewhere in between
and again we won't be able to cover
everything in this one hour but we'll
cover a lot of it and we'll give you a
really good jumping-off point if
you want to check into this further my
quick background super quick I did a PhD
in exercise physiology University of
Minnesota primarily looking at more
metabolic flexibility research I
presented on that tour DARPA the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency do
some peer reviews published some
research once in a while before that I
did an MS in mechanical engineering and
a Bachelor of Arts and Natural Science
and a minor in chemistry minor in math I
currently own extreme human performance
faculty member at the keurig Institute
for functional neurology instructor
rocky mountain certified sports
nutritionist and csus basically if I put
that in little pictures you see
elsewhere it's a little stuff pop up
here I'm not an expert on cannabis per
se but I have the ability to read
research and to look at how it relates
to exercise if you know me you know I'm
a huge fan of coffee Guinness and death
metal so you can just think of three
things that are dark and the analogy
that I'll try to draw at the end here
but I will give it to you now anyway is
if you look at any compounds that are
relatively complex we could argue Coffee
is one of them we have all sorts of
microbrews and stuff now coffees been
legal for a long time as different
compounds and chemicals in it may be
similar to cannabis and there's a ton of
stuff that we do know about caffeine in
terms of its effect on performance and
recovery but there's a lot of stuff that
we don't really know much about yet
we're still working to figure out I
despite many decades of active research
so when something like marijuana is
currently federally illegal it makes it
very hard to study and things in nature
that are very complex it's gonna take us
quite a while to use science to figure
out exactly what's going on it also
makes it interesting
so I'm try to speak mostly English I
will use some geek in here but we will
define the
terms for you also in terms of
disclosures I do have an affiliate links
places on the web you can find four CBD
and some hemp products so I do make a
little bit of money through that through
one specific company but there's no
links or anything in this presentation I
tried not to use a lot of brand names or
anything like that so I don't have any
association with any of the links or the
pictures in this presentation I looked
up the word disclosure online and I
guess it's a band called disclosure and
that's their picture so the first thing
I always have and most of my talks here
is and we're talking about exercise
especially looking at the effects of
cannabis on exercise and recovery we
can't forget about overload so a lot of
times you want to jump into what is the
uber uber sexy thing to do
with my recovery but we need to maximize
our overload obviously you've seen
presentations here from my kids or tell
talking all about that so make sure you
check out his stuff big shout out to
Mike to shear I'll also hear for lifting
all of the plates at the meet a mouse
study that I always like to go back to
because you probably haven't seen a
mouse study where they did a hind limb
suspension and you probably haven't seen
the famous squatting mouse study yes
they did a study where they had the
mouse squat if you look real closely you
can see that he is attached to an
electrical stimulator so they had to
kind of zap the little bastard in order
to get him to squat again I would not
recommend this with your clients it's
probably not going to turn out real well
this is a high limb suspension model and
what they do is they take the back legs
and they suspend them in the cage so a
little guy is wandering around on the
front limbs all the time and the back
limbs are unloaded so what's I guess
cool for us science people but probably
not real great if you're a mouse lover
is you can then compare the back legs to
the front legs so the front legs of the
mouse are seeing a huge amount of
overload the little guy is having to
walk around in them all
the time in the same mouse the back legs
are seen very little load so we can
compare the front legs to the back legs
and again are squatting mouse study we
can add more load and we can see what
are the systemic effects and the big
take away with this is you can do all
sorts of cruel things to little guys you
can castrate them you can put them on
low protein diets and all sorts of other
geeky things if you have enough overload
we still see hypertrophy in strength in
them despite quote unquote less than
optimal conditions so if you get the
overload portion right in your training
and that is one of your main drivers
right which is beyond this talk so check
out some other great talks on that you
can screw up a lot of things with this
quote unquote recovery and you're still
going to be miles ahead all right so
just a reminder that you want to make
sure you have overload in place at
minimum you have a system for tracking
it and doing that and then we can talk
about exercise performance and recovery
and even in cases where it was less than
ideal enough overload you're going to
see progress so please make sure you
have that in place and again overload
can see many different forms you can
just simply think of it as maybe stress
some other things I like to do is to
pick up heavy dumbbells working up to
the inch dumbbell not quite there yet so
this is called solid cast hundred pound
dumbbell and you can see the handles
pretty large like a pop can so it makes
a little bit trickier you can put your
head in alligator mouths so they
wouldn't recommend it or I have people
in the supplement industry that send me
various supplements to test out this one
was clear you can't even really see it
in the container nothing else was there
I went to the it looks like Home Depot
dare and bought the Good Grips container
which makes me a little nervous about
what I was actually measuring so after
much debate I did try it and I survived
tasted god-awful but then when I was
actually one of the very first ketone
Hester
so in this talk I am only talking about
research maybe a little bit of anecdotal
stuff here and there and we are not
talking about any ethics or legality
this may change over time but for right
now we'll get into the legality of it
but that's not going to be our main
discussion so as of this recording THC
in marijuana is still considered
federally illegal so take that for what
it's worth again if you are using this
for medical reasons of course you want
to talk to your physician and this is
just for educational purposes only in
terms of research on exercise
performance in cannabis I move this down
to just humans only here on the side
with our good old friend the PubMed we
have a total of 17 studies and don't
worry I'm not gonna bore you to tears
going through the infant estimable
details of each one but some of them may
not even necessarily apply to what we're
looking for here alternate n tional
control strategies that spirit executive
functioning and chronic cannabis users
yeah kind of sounds interesting but I
would say not necessarily related to
exercise performance so even of these 17
for the direct terms exercise
performance in cannabis there's just not
a lot of data to go on in terms of we
want to find a super cool randomized
controlled trial with cannabis in elite
athletes I have not seen that study and
as you noticed I didn't even check the
clinical trial here because that
basically it drives everything to almost
zero a joke I make it is it's like
trying to find a really cool cool here
in the middle of a desert
I guess this actually did exist
supposedly for a period of time you know
to go through all this crazy stuff of
getting the key to check out to drive
out to the middle of nowhere supposedly
it was running off of solar power but
there's not a lot of pools in the middle
of the desert
right so expecting that we're gonna have
just boatloads and reams of
research here on randomized controlled
trials and elite athletes not gonna
happen
however we do have some other Mouse
studies we do have some other
mechanistic stuff some principle-based
things and there have been a few
controlled trials that have been done so
we are trying to piece together as much
of the research as we can just be
advised that we're in an extreme infancy
of it so recovery what is it I feel like
I need to make a bad 80s faith in a more
joke with that anyone remembers the
video with the flopping fish so what are
the different components of it I'm not
gonna spend a lot of time on this but we
could maybe subdivide them maybe into
central versus peripheral although I
think that's probably even highly
debatable at this point but recovery has
all different types of components how I
specifically think about recovery is the
time frame right so if we do something
to enhance your recovery we should be
able to decrease the time frame of when
you can perform said tasks again so if
you're doing something crazy like German
volume training or you're hanging out
with dr. Pat Davidson and he convinced
you to do like mass - that's a great
idea or you're reading someone dr. mike
rizzo tells you're pushing your volume
up super high to try to figure out where
your limits are I think all those things
can be useful and in the definition of
recovery I would argue that if we did
the training let's say on Monday with X
amount of load and x-parameters and if
it takes us say till Thursday
hypothetically to be able to do that
exact same performance again by
measuring that timeframe that gives us a
good idea of what's going on with
recovery now from a research standpoint
that doesn't get into the components and
the why but in terms of a black box
model that gives us something we can
work with if we can now do some cool
recovery stuff and maybe we can drop
that to Wednesday right or maybe Tuesday
or Tuesday night or however fancy
want to get so we can cut say 24 hours
off of that normal time we can then
include more good training right we can
push volume and overload up a little bit
higher so that's what I think of when I
think of the term of recovery if we pull
the definition a return to a normal
state of health mind or strength cool so
that kind of fits with it we apply some
stimulus let's say here's our
homeostasis we move away from
homeostasis and then the body recovers
we get back again and we can go a little
bit more again all right so that's the
definition that I'm using as recovery my
bias is an adaptation cannot be stopped
right way like I showed it the mouse
study if you apply enough overload yes
you can do things to alter that time
course but you will not drive those
adaptations to absolute zero if you have
enough overload and a few other things
yes there are some studies looking at
responder rates and there are a few if
you look at those graphs some of the
extreme responder work if this is
response you see some guys or gals way
up here and yes you do see some poor
bastards down here didn't make any
progress most people are gonna be
somewhere around in the middle so maybe
we need to change things for those
people down there but in general I would
say adaptation can't really be stopped
or completely halted with the correct
amount of overload but we can do things
to taint and to change the time course
right so we're gonna look at some
aspects of recovery and other things
that are related to it so here's a
cannabis plant just to take a little
divergent down this since a lot of this
may not be super familiar for you it
definitely wasn't for me and a lot of
the stuff I had learned I found out
later was just dead wrong the few things
I thought I knew and again this is back
from 1887 and so we've got some early
data so here's my little short going to
be maybe 10 of minutes or so which I
called the weed school I looked this up
online and there action
Cannabis training university I don't
know anything about them I don't have
any affiliation with them but I thought
that was quite interesting I would
imagine you're gonna see that kind of
popping up all over and the reason we're
gonna take a little run down the
Cannabis rabbit hole because it's very
complex if we're trying to study the
thing that we think increases recovery
or possibly has other effects on
performance you should probably have an
idea of what that thing is because
that's going to vary on how you would
set up a study and how you would
hypothesize about what's going to happen
all right so the genus the term is
cannabis is the sort of top of the term
sativa is one of these subtypes of
cannabis indica is another subtype and a
lot of times you'll hear people refer to
this as you know sativa is very
uplifting gives you energy maybe some
bronchial dilation indica makes you
tired and sleepy some people refer to
something called I guess couch lock
where you get stuck to your couch and
can't move rumor is I've heard that's
happened to friends and what people may
not realize is there's actually a third
type ruderalis
and that's not talked about a whole lot
so again if we were to classify subtypes
which you classically see are sativa and
indica and now what you find is a lot of
them are I can't seem to draw with crap
here hybrids so they've been
crossbreeding these two types for a very
long period of time so if we look at
this here is a sativa field and how the
rumour is that the name that sativa is
very uplifting came was from the
structure of the plant it's very much
more kind of upright and leaves or
spread out very high so it gets to be
very tall so the rumor was that if you
looked at the plant it's growing up so
therefore it must give you more energy
or the uplift
this is an indica plant and you can see
that it's a bigger plant I think this is
a purple cush supposedly but it's much
more spread out it's not nearly as high
and it's much more kind of clumped
together so it looks it's completely
different than your sativa here's your
last guy Ellis very small not really use
much at all I haven't really seen much
use of this one anywhere so the rumor is
that if you have sativa it's going to be
very uplifting indica is going to be the
opposite so you can imagine if you did a
study on exercise performance and you
used indica based on this current
hypothesis you may get a completely
different result than if you used a
sativa and again both of these are
considered cannabis and the third one
again if we use actual science to see
what science says about this here's a
cool study where they took 14 thousand
and 31 snips single nucleotide
polymorphisms genotyped at eighty-one
marijuana and 43 different hemp samples
what they found was that marijuana and
hemp are significantly differentiated at
the genome-wide level and we'll explain
the difference between marijuana and
hemp real briefly coming up here so they
found based on genetics they were
different surprisingly they found the
only a moderate correlation between the
genetic structure of marijuana strains
and their reported sativa and indica so
that's not really as strong as going to
what your local grower would say of the
different effects with that there's a
study in +1 you can go
pull that for yourself and have a good
read on the weekend one of their big
takeaways in this study was strain names
do not reflect a meaningful genetic
identity
oh well that's kind of busting our
little thing that you know this plant is
a sativa this plant is an indica or this
is a percentage sativa percent
jinda cough you're talking about a
hybrid when we look at the genetics of
the plant itself that does not appear to
be true if you check into this a little
bit further you can follow some cool
interviews from guys like Michael Pollan
and their basis is that since these
plants have been so inbred and different
strains for so long it's almost
impossible to figure out what is what
now again there are differences there
are differences in how they grow there
are differences in how they look but as
we'll see coming up there's multiple
different compounds within each plant so
it is very possible that you can have
completely different effects but can we
say that those effects are really only
based on a specific strain probably not
and if you go back further in time if
you want to do analytical work you would
take a pure sample let's say of our
sativa here do whatever analysis you
want to do let's say you're analyzing
this guy over here and then you compare
the two right and you could say hey this
new sample that came in this is a 60%
sativa but you need a hundred percent
known sample of sativa in order to do
that I mean as far as I can tell those
samples don't exist because the plants
have been so across bred in time so
basing it only on sativa or indica
probably not all that useful granted the
entire industry is based on that right
now my gut feeling is that it'll
probably change over time but it's going
to take a long period of time so what
are some of the different compounds
within there we have things called the
phyto cannabinoids those are the
cannabinoids that are found in the
leaves the flowers the stems and the
seeds collected from the cannabis sativa
plant and as you've noticed already so
we're getting down to even more levels
of detail we could take things from the
leaves of flowers or the stems and
they're gonna have different properties
and that's pretty commonly true with
most herbs
we also have endogenous cannabinoids
they are the ones that are made by the
body and there's a whole bunch of them I
didn't list the whole bunch here we've
got like our nae you've got our two AG
and several other ones so your body does
actually make different endogenous
cannabinoids and they are used
throughout the body for a host of
different effects we have our purified
ones these are compounds that are
purified but isolated from plant sources
the main ones which I'm sure you've
probably heard of at this point is CBD
cannabidiol and then a THC nine
tetrahydrocannabinol so THC is the
psychoactive one that gets you stoned
bro and pharmaceutical companies have
been working on synthetic ones for quite
some time because it potentially can be
patented these include a whole host of
different ones we've got some cb1
egginess we've got some other cb2
egginess
this was probably one of the more
popular ones that's been around for a
while but pharmaceutical companies have
been working on this for quite a while
as remember that if these are from a
plant they can't technically be patented
although we'll see where that's kind of
changed a little bit in terms of what
patents have been granted so in general
form a pseudo company has been working
on synthetic versions for quite some
time one of the big questions that is
what is marijuana versus hemp basically
has to do with the THC content so
marijuana has some level of THC Delta
nine tetrahydrocannabinol and that's
what it looks like there hemp does not
or has very very very little amounts and
that's the main difference well how the
plants look how they grow is going to be
a little bit different also as of this
recording the farm bill just passed so
it is legal finally in the u.s. to grow
hemp which is great because even our
Constitution was written on it happiest
to be grown all
throughout the US and throughout the
world has lots of very good properties
super easy to grow good fiber properties
all sorts of other things also and it
can be used also as a food and if we
want to add even more complexity to it
as if it wasn't complex enough already
it's about 113 cannabinoids that have
been identified so far in cannabis and
again this mirrors a lot of other plants
right from different herbs to even just
broccoli right it's usually not just one
component that's in there there's
multiple different components the main
one that you've heard about as I
mentioned is THC THC was first isolated
in 1964 and out of the hundred and
thirteen that they found so far I would
venture that they might find more in the
future THC is the only psychoactive
cannabinoid which a lot of people is
probably surprising right because you
think Oh
cannabis Oh THC oh you mean there's like
other stuff in there the other main
component in cannabis is CBD CBD was
first isolated in 1940 it's actually
isolated before THC and when they first
isolated they believed that it was going
to be psychoactive turns out that it is
not and CBD currently is legal which I
have in quotes because when you see this
the laws may have changed but CBD is
being much more tolerated now in the
supplement industry than it has been
before hopefully will continue to be
legal especially with the passing of the
farm bill but in terms of government
regulations through notes so those are
the two main compounds in there but keep
in mind there are many other different
cannabinoids in cannabis these primarily
interact there's something called the
cb1 and cb2 receptors in the body and
these are located pretty much everywhere
in the body so years and years ago we
didn't know that the was even a system
in the body and so now we're just trying
to figure out what exactly they're you
four and you can imagine that different
cannabinoids will have different effects
on cb1 possibly cb2 possibly not even
affecting the cb1 or two receptors that
may be playing a role to inflammation
pain receptors other massively different
interactions within the body so we've
got two main compounds we've got a bunch
of other compounds that can act with
different receptors or have completely
different downstream effects as you can
tell the complexity gets higher and
higher as of this recording cannabis as
a plant is a scheduled one drugged by
the federal government in order to be a
scheduled one drug by the government you
have to have a high addiction potential
and you have to have no medical use at
all
so by strict definition cannabis doesn't
really fit those two things again I'm
not a medical or addiction metals
medical specialist but that's what I've
seen from the research marinol so Donald
alone has been a synthetic form of Delta
nine tetrahydrocannabinol for a long
time
August 1994 was the first version in a
capsule that was released from what I
could find so going back to 1994 there's
already a medical use for it so you
would think that that would make it not
really a Schedule one drug anymore and
the reason why I bring this up is if
you're trying to do research on a
Schedule one drug it is very very
difficult
at least research in the US and that's
gonna severely limit the amount of data
that we're going to pull from now I add
in that a lot of people who do research
there isn't as many people that are
concerned with performance and there's
other diseases to study so expecting
there to be a ton of research on
cannabinoids and that as a schedule 1
drug done within the US not gonna be a
lot but we can look to other outside
companies for some of that research
I interesting enough a cocaine is
actually not even a scheduled one drug
you know they go oh wait a minute how
does that work because there's actually
a medical use for it right so here's one
of the physicians statements here
American Academy
ornithology a head and neck surgery
considers cocaine to be a valuable
anesthetic and vasoconstricting agent
when used as part of the treatment of a
patient by a physician and when they go
on to say is no other single drug
combines the anesthetic and
vasoconstricting properties of cocaine
all right so you could imagine if people
were snorting cocaine and you get some
nasal numbness oh hey there's a pretty
pretty good medical use for this
so even cocaine is not considered a
Schedule one drug because there's a
medical use for it alright so now we add
in okay what are different delivery
methods and does that change anything so
1870 in the Boston the medical and
surgical Journal they called these grim
malts Indian cigarettes now it's
commonly referred to as a joint it's
just a paper with some rolled cannabis
in it so we have different delivery
methods so in terms of inhale it there's
different ways to inhale it or smoke
right you can vaporize it which has
become a lot more popular now in terms
of vaporizing you could vaporize a
specific oil that has been prepared
there's different ways to prepare the
oil to see what kind of compounds you
are keeping in there in terms of
terpenes and other smaller amount of
compounds which are not even really
technically considered cannabinoids THC
amount or what's called flour which is
just the dried cannabis itself or you
can go old-school
alright so that's what I referred to as
smoking it so 1870 was the first sort of
modern reference I could find you can
obviously go back hundreds of thousands
of a years and find more use of it
before then there's also edibles which
you would consume as more of a food
product they're actually metabolized as
a differ
drugged so when the THC when you consume
it as an oral or edible a liver changes
it to 11 hydroxy THC the PK of it so
pharmacokinetics of that are drastically
different than if it's vaporized or
smoked one of the main things that
you'll notice is that if you vaporize
your smoke the effect is very fast which
is what you would expect from the drug
delivery and if you ingest it it can be
very long it can be up to 30 60 or in
some cases 90 minutes which makes for
some pretty hilarious edible stories if
you ever talk to anyone who's done that
not that I would know anything about
that as also other delivery methods such
as transdermal and other effects so now
we've got the research you could look to
see did they vaporize it did they use
kind of the old-school method which we
have some Studies on that did they use
an edible which is actually a different
drug it's a THC relative but it is a
different drug that the body is actually
seen or some type of other preparation
so we add into this that you have to do
some form of decarboxylation in essence
so you could sit down and make a salad
out of cannabis leaves and eat it not
much is really gonna happen to you like
wait a minute that doesn't make any
sense
so decarboxylation the two main
catalysts for it are heat and time so
drying and curing of it will cause a
partial decarboxylation to occur of
smoking and vaporizing will instantly
decarboxylate the cannabinoids due to
the extremely high temperatures present
making them instantly available for
absorption through inhalation which is
why you're applying some type of heat to
it
vaporizer has a little bit of a coil
inside that is heating it up into a
vapor or you're just burning it so
decarboxylation is a major important
step for efficient production of the
major compounds within it so again we're
looking at touch of delta nine
tetrahydrocannabinol
all THC can a banal cannabidiol I mean
CBD and even other compounds like CBG so
these cannabinoids do not occur in
significant concentrations in cannabis
but can be formed by decarboxylation of
their corresponding acids predominant
cannabinoids in the plant so you have to
go through some kind of decarboxylation
in order to get the active compounds
that we want from it
alright so if you're making some type of
edible you're gonna do some type of
heating or you're gonna do some type of
oil preparation and get into the
industrial manufacturing of these
there's things like supercritical co2
extraction and all sorts of other
methods but you need some form of
decarboxylation to get the active
compounds to be present how you do that
will also change the amount of compounds
that are present so one of the biggest
questions before we talk about
performance is it even safe if something
is incredibly unsafe you could argue
yeah maybe we're not as concerned about
the performance increases from it so the
short answer in one slide is generally
yes man if you want to go bonkers you
can pull all the different references
here like I've done and what you find is
that overall cannabis is very safe I
guess I would not say that there's no
ld50 of it right so lethal dose to kill
50 percent of a population but the
reported toxicity of it is exceedingly
rare right in terms of drugs and in
terms of acute issues the safety record
on it is very safe now again people can
do stupid stuff and at some point I'm
sure there's gonna be something bad that
happens but in general consider to be
very quote unquote safe so as you
mentioned what are you converting so
decarboxylation you're converting in
these inactive ones so CBD a and T C a a
into active
compounds that we can actually use right
so it's gonna be a function of time
temperature and atmosphere are basically
pressure at that point in order to
convert them also when you are consuming
them right so if you're doing something
like modern vaporizers have a way to
change the temperature at which you
vaporize them this will change the
amount of compounds that you can get out
so if we want to get more THC right if
we just pull the boiling point now which
is not uber accurate but it's gonna give
us a known a physical quantity to
compare 157 C is considered the boiling
point for THC CBD is very similar so 160
to 180 so if you're using something like
a vaporizer and your goal is to get less
THC but you still want a high amount of
CBD again all things being equal right
the amount of product that you start
with and the ratio of that is going to
make a massive difference but trying to
change the temperature to only try to
get CBD not really gonna happen right
and now as strains have become super
high in THC you're actually trying to
get strains that are much higher in CBD
main reason for high THC content was
it's considered illegal so if we can get
a more bigger bang for your buck
criminals can charge more money for it
but that's actually starting to reverse
now those are other compounds if you
want CBN which may have some specific
effects in the body 185 C so even a
little bit higher now if you want to get
some of these sub compounds it's called
a terpene this is a beta karna phenol
130 degrees C so in general these
terpenes are these other compounds these
are what kind of give it its different
flavor profile and different smells
right in terpenes are in all sorts of
other different plants too in general
the temperature for those is a little
bit lower so if you want to target this
specific one having a strain that has a
high amount of it
and possibly vaporizing it at a lower
temperature you may be able to get more
of that particular compound and a little
bit less of the THC or CBD at that point
so all of that to say that's your crash
course on weed which is probably way
more information than you ever wanted to
know in your entire life but it points
out some of the complexities if you're
trying to do research on this stuff the
strain that you want to test you
probably need to send it for an
analytical chemistry workup and figure
out what the hell is actually in it
you're probably not going to be able to
take the word from your local budtender
of who this is a super high sativa and a
lot of the states at least in the US
where it's legal a lot of places do have
individual standardized testing that is
done on each one again and this can vary
a lot so make sure you look at that and
know what's actually going on how its
decarboxylated the temperature whether
it's vaporized whether it's adjusted all
of that's gonna make a big difference
all those things aside let's look at
some of the actual studies that have
been done on it it's one of the very
first studies that I could find was a
1975 study 20 healthy subjects they
consumed by smoking 1.4 grams of
cannabis in a glass pipe now you can
probably guess that by the year of this
study the concentration of THC was
probably not super high and I would say
that's probably a safe assumption so we
saw a slight decrease in heart rate and
blood pressure I'm sorry a slight
increase in heart rate and blood
pressure
we found a decrease in work capacity so
so far for exercise performance and it's
not really the direction I would want to
go for something to be an organ genic
age or something that's gonna increase
performance no change at an fvc it's
kind of a measure of breathing or grip
strength so it's kind of strike one so
far in 1975 on cannabis and exercise
performance here's another one 1986 so
12 young healthy volunteers and they had
a single cigarette of smoked cannabis
again we can look and see what the
percentage of THC was and so back then
it just wasn't super high strains of THC
if there was a very hard to get again
1986 so 1.7 percent THC didn't really
have a placebo condition which is kind
of a problem with a lot of the studies
if you have people that are naive or
people who have smoked before it's
probably gonna change what's going on in
the study but for this one no placebo
which you could argue is that since
there's really almost no data at that
point there was one other friggin study
that that's probably gonna be okay what
they found was cannabis use reduce to
max work capacity to raise heart rate
and increase the metabolic rate so again
similar to what we saw before people
maybe freak it out and going oh my gosh
metabolic rate went up Lou cannabis is
like the the new thing to get lean but
as most people have reported and there
is data to support this some different
types or analogues of cannabis can
increase appetite so probably won't
offset that that's what I saw in 1986
that study was done in Canada a which
has legalized marijuana and now so
hopefully we'll see a lot more data in
research coming out of Canada to try to
figure out what's actually going on so
here's another one this is pretty recent
this is a 2018 right so new research no
direct evidence of performance enhanced
effects and athletes a potential benefit
effects of cannabis as part of a pain
management protocol including reducing
concussive related symptoms deserve
further attention I would generally
agree with that if we're gonna look at
the exercise performance at least in
hard data we can find in studies the
exercise performance effect of cannabis
not so good however many pain management
and possibly concussion related there's
a much more interesting data in those
realms and I'd say the data in that area
that's new is pretty positive we have a
lot of people who say well what about
like for chronic diseases right these
are obviously not going to be elite
athletes if you've got sealed
but if we take a disease model of
pathology and these people use cannabis
would that help something like breathing
right because that's one of the claims
so effective vaporized cannabis on
exertional breathlessness and exercise
endurance and advanced chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease a
randomized controlled trial who all
those words that makes scientists like
me really excited I'll save you all the
work pretty much no effect
alright so study is another brand new
study 2018 there's some other work
showing that maybe on exercise induced
asthma cannabis might be beneficial
again I'm not a ton of data on that but
I'm in another pathology model not too
much so another study here I kind of
missed a systematic review so looking at
a bunch of different papers so 15
published studies looking at the effects
of THC in association with exercise none
showed any improvement in aerobic
performance when I did my poll of my
buddies one of the things that a lot of
them said is that if I you know smoke or
take cannabis before I do aerobic
performance definitely seems to enhance
my aerobic performance and maybe it does
for all the other reasons we mentioned
who knows but in terms of published
studies so far we have not seen that I
guess that exercise induced asthma was
shown to be inhibited so if you have
exercise induced asthma I'm sure all of
a sudden a bunch of people will be
claiming that they do now maybe that'll
help some subjects however could not
complete an exercise protocol because of
adverse reactions caused by cannabis so
if you're too stoned to do your exercise
yeah definitely not going to help your
performance now the caveat to that you
could say well what was the amount how
much was used was it recreational people
was the people that smoked daily do they
have a tolerance and all those are good
questions we don't really have a whole
lot of answers to but the data we have
so far which again I will admit is not
that much so is the cannabis probably
not the best for exercise performance in
terms of strength power while we
consider classic markers of exercise
here's another one 2011 cannabis and
sport anti-doping perspective much more
scientific information is needed based
on current animal and human studies as
well as on interviews with athletes and
information from the field a cannabis
can be performance enhancing for some
athletes and some disciplines so their
argument there is if you expand this out
and again this is 2011 maybe some sports
were you need to relax or possibly
concentrate a little bit more or other
things like that
maybe cannabis could be beneficial in
some other sports and again right if we
compare the sport of archery to the
sport of powerlifting they are quite
different so we're looking across great
sport disciplines here one little hint
I'll give is if you're playing a contact
sport such as the American football mmm
some interesting data on that THC has a
direct dose dependent toxic effect on
brain mitochondria and they demonstrated
this in the first time that THC mainly
inhibits the complexes 1 2 & 3 of the
mitochondrial respiratory chain and
decreases mitochondrial coupling in
short if you are inhibiting your
electron transport chain at these points
that is not going to be good for energy
production the downside of this was it
was a little mouse study so whenever we
have a mouse study I'll pop up the
little mouse here in the corner and it
was done on slices of the mouse brain
that was taken out so again 2015 paper
and we don't know if you could get those
high levels of THC in a human or how
they exactly translate to a human but I
thought it was interesting that there
are potentially some downsides to
specific compounds found in cannabis THC
being one of them
tetrahydrocannabinol induces brain
Matakana respiratory dysfunction
increases oxidative stress that's the
actual paper THC increases those free
radicals production by the brain which
likely participates in this toxicity
but that's not surprising right any
compound at a high enough level is going
to be toxic pretty much across the board
right even too much water and you can
die from drinking too much water or
something called hyponatremia so that's
not that surprising it basically just
leaves up a lot more questions and
answers but some animal data to show
that high levels of THC can screw with
your brain mitochondria again that's a
most study so you have a little most
there now there's a pretty good article
I liked why Canada should be considered
doping in sport so their argument there
is that there may be some theoretical
benefits of it and why we should take
that into account when we're talking
about sport so you guys can read that on
your own terms of recovery we're looking
at the effects of CBD versus THC so
we'll come back to this study here and
it's analogs and the effect of
inflammation and I always like to look
at the stereochemistry I'm probably only
a goons it likes that and what we see
here is we've got our CBD compound here
and we have our THC compound here and
they're not really that dissimilar but
as all you know taking chemistry before
slight changes in what looks like on
paper can have massive different
physiologic effects all right so on
paper they are pretty darn similar to
each other
what exactly is CBD or kind of a dial it
is a non psychoactive component of the
cannabis plant shout-out to dr. Peter
rouse is a first person man going back
seven or eight years ago now that I
first even heard talk about this the
first time he mentioned it I was like
what what are you talking about all the
stuff from cannabis is psychoactive it's
like no this is something that's non
psychoactive and has potentials for
recovery so the first time I ever heard
of that and there's a lot more I'd say
pretty ok supportive data now it is true
that the government owns a patent on
Khanum cannabinoids as antioxidants that
even several patents that have been
issued on this that one was in
particular on CBD issued on October 7th
and is expiring in 2013 so I found it
was interesting that if you go back to
why cannabis is made illegal no medical
use what we have patents showing that
okay maybe there is something to that
and now as you said hopefully this will
become much more kind of widely legal
and as that happens with all things the
supplement industry you're gonna find
all sorts of interesting crazy people
trying to jump on board the CBD
bandwagon and you're gonna see probably
even more CBD products coming out which
kind of scares me a little bit and the
caveat here buyer beware not all
products are going to be created equal
right now CBD is very expensive to try
to get the compound the cannabis that
has it in higher amounts there's not
many people to have access to that the
processing of it is quite expensive now
the companies that we're doing it there
was a lot of legwork and a lot of
legality question on it so a couple Tavi
takeaways on this is if it's really
cheap I don't know if I would trust it
if the company only makes CBD and they
seem to have not existed yesterday and
they're only making CBD and nothing else
it's not much for that company to risk
if they get shut down so that makes me
nervous I would look for other types of
products that they sell even like a
mixed hemp and I would ask the company
for what is their traceability and can
you see it so you want to know where it
came from what manufacturing practices
there are taking place the good part is
there are some companies that do produce
very high quality products I've toured
one of them in Colorado and was actually
very impressed by them so they were
doing a lot of great work and had a lot
of checks and balances in place so there
can be good products out there just
again
buyer beware cuz I know there's gonna be
even more cheap CBD on the market and a
lot of it is crap there is a
pharmaceutical grade version of this now
at the dialects for GW Pharmaceuticals
as a writer oral blend of pure
plant-derived cannabidiol or CBD and
then you're using it under the kind of
what's called the orphan drug flaws to
treat different types of drug-resistant
epilepsy so overall a good thing I just
point that out because it's interesting
that they were able to get a patent for
it but again showing that for CBD or
derivatives of it for medical use there
is some very good data to support that
in general across the board if you've
got some pain right so a lot of lifters
have different types of pain I just
pulled this one from this review down
here you can read it yourself notice
that it's not the same drug that they're
always using right these are
synthetically derived this is a smoked
cannabis and here's what the result that
they found and this is a pulling of some
of the studies that they looked at in
general there's some pretty good studies
to show that THC possibly CBD possibly
other compounds we don't really know yet
have been shown to have beneficial
effects on pain so in terms of recovery
that may be one that's useful exact
mechanism of that and I don't know if
anybody really understands that a
hundred percent yet and it's probably
gonna be different things now again pay
attention to the population on the left
side a lot of these are pathologies it's
again it doesn't necessarily mean it's
going to work as well for you but some
data to show that it is beneficial in
those cases also about pain and
inflammation cb2 receptor selects for
Fito cannabinoid beta-carboline
exerts analgesic effects and most models
of inflammatory during rapid pain so we
have our little mousy friend who's got
inflammation and erotic pain CBD has
been shown to be beneficial for that
possibly other ones that act as a CB to
select agonist so this particular
compound it appears to be really only an
active on the cb2 receptor sites as
their most rent so you'll seeing a lot
more people supporting CBD now
and I think a lot of times it's like
little lemmings going off the cliff so
we want to use research to figure out
where exactly is this cliff and what are
kind of the best things that we know of
so far so we can make informed decisions
this is a very good review on CBD and
its analogs in terms of inflammation in
summary it appears to be useful there's
some limits to that but it's a very good
review if you want to read it again some
more data to show that CBD and
inflammation can be beneficial now again
we still get into dose and that type of
thing which we have almost no idea what
dose really where I do think there is
some very promising data again it's
still quite early isn't head trauma or
TBI so one of the better studies that
was done 2014 a three retrospective
reviews of the data
they looked at 446 patients combined
with sustained a TBI so traumatic brain
injury they did a toxicology screen for
THC right so because THC is illegal they
can't really do a prospective trial so
we had to do a retrospective so they had
to pull a bunch of patients from
different studies do a tox screen to see
if the THC is high and then look to see
what they found
I found actually a positive THC screen
was associated with a decreased
mortality and adult patients sustaining
a TBI so in terms of a hard endpoint
which is mortality you're either alive
or dead at the end of the study it
sounds kind of cruel but it's easy to
calculate in terms of research people
who had sustained a TBI if they're
positive for THC that was associated
with less chance of dying so again a
human study showing that in terms of
head trauma some very interesting stuff
now last comment on this is I have a
whole little short literature review
that I've completed on TBI and the
different possible mechanisms everything
like that so that should be coming out
soon or you can probably google it and
find it at some how but there's some
very promising data in that
I personally if I have any athletes that
possibly may take hits to the head like
American football players even soccer
players from heading the football I
would highly consider a mixed
cannabinoids in a hemp oil standardized
for CBD high-dose creatine also those
would be the to go twos I would have
right now and again that's not really a
recommendation and that's just my
personal bias so cannabis and
cannabinoids and sleep review of the
literature again may be right the exact
data on those compounds and sleep a
little bit that I've seen yeah I would
say not super positive they concluded
the CBD may hold promise for REM sleep
behavior disorder and excessive daytime
sleepiness now again those are frank
pathologies if you're Bob and you just
don't sleep well at night and get enough
REM doesn't mean it's gonna be really
that helpful from anecdotal reports I've
seen I've seen some people say it really
helps with deep sleep I haven't noticed
a massive difference
it's an anyone using an aura ring to
measure using CBD isolates and mixed
hemp oil isolates they've been
standardized for CBD so I would say
maybe I think the biggest thing there is
if you have anxiety that's preventing
you from having to sleep trying to turn
off the monkey mind in that particular
case CBD or THC or other derivatives
might be helpful in that okay so as you
wrap up what are some actual practical
points are closing in on one our
standard weren't about legality you've
heard that already
THC versus CBD right so THC is a
compound that is currently considered
illegal also has the psychoactive
effects CBD does not methods a
consumption are gonna depend on what
works for you if you so happen to do
that but it makes the research really
confusing because all the different
things how it's a decarboxylated the
amount the type the other terpenes the
other compounds that are in there makes
it really hard to figure out what the
hell is going on and then again
different sport dynamic right if you're
playing archery or
you do an Olympic weightlifting those
are considered sports but have very
different qualities that are gonna be
almost done by polar ends so I would say
test your outcomes if you want to do
something and test things out you can
run your own end of one make sure you
pick a solid outcome and see if it's
beneficial or not data in terms of mass
scale is lacking probably not gonna be
there for quite some time due to the
complexity of it and the fact that in
the US is still considered federally
illegal so again if it's something you
opt to do or you have your athletes do
for God's sake make sure you read the
testing standards so that are not
breaking any rules and get caught and
each person has to weigh what the risk
and reward is at that point a couple
points on CVD I get this question like
all the time now the pros is it may help
inflammation and pain there's some
pretty good data on that it's currently
legal and I think one of the bigger
indications is TBI or head trauma risk
now do you have to have taken it
beforehand before you get whacked on the
skull or can you take it after I'd say
that's up for debate right now I think
some of the prophylactic data is a
little bit better there's an animal
model showing that it may help the blood
brain barrier stay intact so I think
that's a very fascinating the area my
personal bias is I take it before I do a
lot of kiteboarding in case I get
dropped on my head again that's my bias
cons right now CBD is expensive I would
say that might even be a pro because if
you find really really cheap CBD I would
say it's probably not CBD again not much
long-term data but we're starting to
slowly accumulate it and the question I
get all the time now is well what is my
starting point so after you've spent
three years looking at all this research
give me the back of the envelope where
you would start right now I would say
and this may change probably after this
is aired who knows depending on the data
I would say start with a mixed
cannabinoid or a hemp oil
I think the other could have annoys will
find are probably gonna be beneficial
I know CBD is like the hot sexy one
right now and it is of one of the major
constituents but I think we'll find the
other cannabinoids in specific
combinations are probably gonna be more
beneficial again that's a guest at my
point right now make sure it is
standardized for CBD because that's
gonna give you an idea of they actually
know what the heck is in that and any
company worth its salt will standardize
for CBD my guess is around 18 milligrams
once a day as a starting point now again
if you have specific diseases you're
trying to treat obviously talk to your
physician but in terms of where you
would start for a cost and a risk reward
basis that's probably where I would
start that's my personal bias again
highly theoretical at this point and you
can go too high you're probably gonna
see some negative effects too low you're
probably not gonna see enough of an
effect so big takeaway that's where I'm
at right now and that is entirely
subject to change so thank you very much
for listening to all this I greatly
appreciate your time and enjoying this
journey on cannabis and the effect of
exercise performance in CBD on recovery
that's myself there and my wonderful
wife who's helped me with everything
here so more information if you wanted I
mean this w w Mike T Nelson calm thank
you all very much big thanks to
Renaissance period ization for allowing
me to do this thank you all very much