welcome to the house of hypertrophy are
you missing out on more hypertrophy if
you're not training muscles based on
their fiber type what does training
muscles based on their fiber type even
mean muscles generally contain slow and
fast twitch muscle fibers though there
are subtypes of fast twitch fibers and
even hybrid fast and slow touch fibers
exist for this video we don't need to
worry about these based on multiple
studies here are the average split of
fast and slow twitch muscle fibers
various muscles contain quite a few
muscles contain a fairly even split of
fast and slow switch fibers but the
Soleus appears to be overwhelmingly slow
twitch whereas some upper body muscles
like the pector S major triceps and
biceps tend to be slightly more fast
twitch training muscles based on their
fiber type suggest that muscles with
more slow twitch fibers should be
trained with lighter loads and higher
reps while muscles with more fast switch
fibers should be trained with heavier
loads with lower reps indeed it's not
uncommon for people to speculate the
calves are going to be best trains with
higher repetitions whereas muscles like
the biceps triceps and pectorized major
should be trained with heavier loads the
rationale behind this is since slow
twitch fibers are generally low Force
producing butt fatigue resistant higher
reps are going to better grow them
whereas since far switch fibers are
generally High Force producing but very
fatigable heavier loads are going to
better grow them but is training muscles
based on their fiber types supported by
the research are you missing out on more
hypertrophy if you're not doing this
let's find out
thank you
a 2020 study from New York investigated
the Soleus as well as the medial and
lateral gastrocnemius collectively these
make up the calves we know the Soleus is
predominantly slow twitch whereas the
medial and lateral gastrocnemius is more
so an even split of slow and fast touch
fibers although based on the data
mentioned previously it may also be
considered more slow twitch all 26
untrained men trained the unilateral
seated and standing calf raise twice per
week for 10 weeks with one leg we'll
call this the light load leg subjects
trained both exercises with four sets of
20 to 30 repetitions to momentary
muscular failure with their other leg
we'll call this the high load leg
subjects trained both for exercises with
4 sets of 6 to 10 repetitions to
momentary muscular failure both legs
rested 90 seconds between sets before
and after the study thickness of the
Soleus as well as the medial and lateral
gastrocnemius was measured it was found
all three muscles grew similarly with a
light and high loads this therefore
these results fail to support training
muscles based on their fiber type since
if this worked we'd expect the Soleus
particularly as it's overwhelmingly slow
switch to grow more with the light loads
but High loads were equally effective as
the light loads for developing this
muscle the same applies to the medial
and lateral gastrocnemius
[Music]
further indirect evidence opposes the
validity of training muscles based on
their fiber type recall the biceps
triceps and pector S major tent on
average to be slightly more fast twitch
than slow twitch leading some to suggest
heavier loads are needed to optimize
their hypertrophy yet a range of studies
indicates provided you're performing
repetitions to or very close to failure
repetitions in the ballpark of between 6
to 35 similarly grow these muscles this
is in line with the other research
examined previously at the house of
hypertrophy finding other muscle groups
such as the quads tend to experience
similar hypertrophy between 6 to 35 reps
when those reps are performed two or
very close to failure furthermore the
premise behind training muscles based on
their fiber type that higher reps a
better gross slow switch muscle fibers
while heavier loads better grow fast
with muscle fibers isn't truly supported
by the research either a meta-analysis
by gurjit combined the results of 5
studies and found that slow twitch fiber
growth is comparable between training
with heavy and lighter loads provided
reps are performed two or near to
failure likewise the analysis found fast
twitch fiber growth was comparable
between training with heavy and lighter
loads provided reps are performed too or
near to failure these results make a lot
of sense due to henneman's size
principle which states muscle fibers are
progressively recruited from slow to
fast based on the demands placed on the
muscle when we're training with heavy
loads we readily recruit fastwitch
fibers on top of the slow switch fibers
with lighter loads far switch fibers are
not needed initially but when you
continue performing reps with the
lighter loads and their failure the
recruitment of fast touch muscle fibers
occurs in attempt to sustain repetition
performance indeed we have data showing
when performing reps 2 or very close to
failure activation of both slow and fast
Edge fibers is comparable between
lighter and heavier loads
training muscles based on their fiber
type suggest muscles with more slow
twitch fibers should be trained with
higher reps while muscles with more fast
switch fibers should be trained with
heavier loads however the current
research does not support this it
appears that provided you're performing
reps two or very close to failure reps
in the ballpark between 6 to 35 produce
similar slow and fast which fiber
hypertrophy no it's important to mention
all the data presented in this video are
the averages from the studies and I
think it's likely the results that 6 to
35 reps can produce similar perch if you
extend to many people
yet there is some new data indicating
some people may grow more with a certain
rep range versus another for reasons
currently unknown it might not be
related whatsoever to fiber types this
itself deserves its own video as the
data is very fascinating but just know
if you're having great success with a
certain rep range over another that's
perfectly fine I'd actually be really
interested to hear if anyone watching
this has found this to be the case it
would be awesome if you let me know in
the comment section
thank you