you can bench for 6 months straight and
someone's like bench you're like I'm
like done benching for a while my elbows
are starting to feel weird my pecs
aren't responding anymore you switch to
dumbbells or machine and now it's fresh
and now it feels good so you rotate
through that top five or 10 best sfr
stimulus to fatigue ratio exercises and
that's where that's where you go for for
your really good training so if you can
just relatively objectively and at least
honestly tell yourself okay I know I
love the bench press but is no longer
working for me at least for the time now
as well as let's say something else
dumbbell press for a while just do some
dumbbell presses until maybe the bench
press feels less stale try it again see
if you can alter your Technique to feel
it more and if it goes great if not you
have tons of other exercises to choose
from