like if I just squat down however the my
body tells me I'll do a fine job I've
been squatting a long time but maybe
I'll sit back a little too far I won't
expose my quads as much if I can take
the time to go a little bit slow on the
Ecentric I can actually figure out how
my quads feel tension wise while I'm
doing it I'm sitting back a little too
much I'm like no NOP I sit forward and
my quads get up I can feel the
tension right away only because I'm
controlling the entric a little bit
longer am I able to get that feedback
right away it's like during a football
play the coach can't tell you what to do
during the play you got to play
beforehand you can figure it out the
ball is hiked and then
happens it's too fast but if you can go
a little bit slower you can Auto
regulate your Technique and do a better
job during the exercise during that
exercise and small bonus is your injury
probability at least nominally on
theoretical grounds will reduce and I'll
take anything that reduces my injury
probability by some amount and doesn't
reduce the mechanisms of hypertrophy at