all right guys so we just got back from
getting some
[Music]
groceries this morning I did 30 minutes
of cardio four 30 minute list sessions
per week do that Outdoors or in the
cardio room in my apartment building
depending on the weather and so I'll
just show you guys what we got here real
quick thought it wasn't like a full
grocery haul we basically got almond
milk kiwis apples oranges banana we got
some shredded cheese that I like to put
on my eggs in the morning diet pop which
helps me out a lot so I got some diet
ginger ale and some Diet uh seven up
some more of these things so
this is just water flavoring I just find
that helps me drink a little more water
these are actually pretty important for
me when I'm cutting or whole grain
pancake mix these are like super filling
for breakfast I've been having cottage
cheese every night before bed uh just
because it's a slower digesting protein
probably not mandatory but also might
help so uh it's worth it for me and it's
also cheaper than just buying a cin
powder and more satiating than having a
shake grocery haul looked like again
just a small grocery haul usually we'd
have like chicken and ground turkey um
and some more vegetables so we always
eat kale salads and then this is the
book that I'm reading during my cardio
if I do it indoors I'll read this it's a
good book it's uh basically about why we
forget so much or at least that's what
it's been about so far
[Music]
o guys this is the finished
product uh Maple sausage which is a new
edition and then also I'm super excited
to try this watermelon Kool-Aid stuff so
I usually like fairly generous with that
thank you Robin it's very aesthetic
looking fruit bowl which I just track
that as like uh usually half a naval
orange half a kiwi and like a quarter of
an apple or whatever and I usually just
copy that over dayto day in my fitness
pal um cuz I don't worry about stuff
that's relatively low calorie too much
so like vegetables um even fruit I'll
just Loosely track that and when it
comes to things like uh egg whites like
I don't measure that stuff out to the
gram uh as long as it's within the right
ballp park
then good and we also have two different
types of ketchup so this one is a hindes
no sugar added macros are I think 10 10
calories uh per tablespoon then we also
have this Blue menu President's Choice
ketchup a little bit better 5 calories
per tablespoon 2 years we've been using
this one this one is a new one that
we've been trying and as you can tell I
like this one better just because it's a
little bit sweeter I don't go with that
one anymore I use
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
this okay so I just purchased this where
where is my where's my music all right
guys so for meal 2 I'm
having kale salad this mix from Costco
so I'm going to weigh out 85 G just
because I want to see I usually don't
weigh it I just want to see roughly what
85 G looks like so it's about 3/4 of
this bowl that's usually about what I
have
anyway and then I'll chop up 100 G of
chicken I haven't been like measuring
this out or anything but this is going
to be the first first time that I do it
so that's like
11 it's like 11 G so this is like
dried cranberries I think and pumpkin
seed so 8 G of that stuff I don't know
exactly what the serving size is but I'm
just going to track it as is on the bag
and now I have some like Benchmark every
time that I have this I'll just track it
as is on the package and I'll use 11 G
of that stuff and 8 G of the seeds and
berries I on top of that one of these
guys we just picked up
today still only two fiber uh and total
for the day is still only seven fiber uh
so I think I'm going to have an apple
with that and then that will give me an
extra 5 GS of fiber I'm going to try to
hit 35 G today I mean digestive health
is just so so important when it comes to
overall health and then also I think it
impacts on uh fat loss and body
composition to a greater degree than a
lot of people acknowledge so I think
that fiber is really really important
for that reason and for the fact that it
does have a higher thermic effect than
other carbohydrates you basically burn
more of the energy in the food itself as
a result of digesting
it for only three fat these are actually
really good we decided before the back
workout today we would hit one of my
favorite training DVDs reloaded by Lane
Norton I remember watching this for my
prep for Canadian Nationals back in 2012
Lane was actually my coach for that show
I'll put a pick up here of the uh
physique that I brought for that contest
um and I remember watching this video at
least like a couple of times and it
really motivated me to get through my
prep oh that's Valentine's youa dude is
a monster it's the new rule guys you got
to track it before you eat it otherwise
you for yeah some peanut butter on this
new blueberry Canadian wild blueberry
with flax and rolled oat this gives me a
measly
three all that easly three G some of
this strawberry and rhubarb
jam this is a pre-workout meal uh it's
13 G of extra I'm going to turn down
this lean thing
okay so uh it's 130 G of lean ground
turkey I think there's something like 8
G of fat or something in that and then
it's just 45 G of basmati rice and this
is lemonade 5 G of creatine 6 G of
citrine malate at malate powder and I'm
going to add some of this pre-workout
it's called pump draw it's a little bit
late at night so I'm probably going to
take it easy on this but 250 milligram
of caffeine in one scoop two beta
alanine and hoine a which I'm a little
bit sketchy about but I'm just going to
have a little bit a little bit a little
[Music]
bit
[Music]
Shady oh
man sit all is
you
[Music]
[Music]
I you
[Music]
[Music]
a lot of people commenting on the fact
that my exercises are varying more than
they used to people are asking like Jeff
do you still have like a core set of
movements that you keep throughout the 4
we or 6 week cycle and the answer is yes
back I've doing um I've been doing
chinups a Max effort set of five reps
and I've been waiting those and then
I've been doing three sets 10 to 12 my
goal there is just to add a rep or add
quality to the rep we to week and then
my other main movement has been this one
the last 3 weeks or so with this I
progressed from two plates in a 25 today
I'm going to be doing three plates uh
all rep 6 to eight reps then with the
assistance stuff I've been switching
that up quite a bit those movements are
not so focused on strict progression but
I'm not doing muscle confusion guys when
I have a bro split I just mean the split
that I outlined in the last video I'll
link right here I'm this
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
know
[Music]