how was your workout I didn't sweat at
all so super
[Music]
easy folks I'm Dr Mike for Renaissance
cretization this is Jared P IP Pro also
for Renaissance cretization and this is
Mr Daniel
AKA black Rambo ifbb Pro time to start
with the racial jokes ready ready ready
ready ready
more like lightskinned Rambo it's fine
either one half white half black who
knows here's another one why the does
Rambo have to be black was the original
Rambo white who gives a shit I'm just
saying there's one Rambo and it's you
exactly that's why I have Rambo here and
not the black Rambo people know that
it's
2024 and because it's 2024 and because
this is black Rambo we you going to
train back we're going to smash it up
with some compound Basics a couple new
little isolation moves um he's going to
be different when we were done with him
parts of him will be swollen and
gorgeous blood he actually qualified and
competed in the Olympia last year sir
and I believe the feedback was bigger
back bigger back yes sir and just a
little tighter but yeah so that's what
we're is what we're taking care of today
let's get the blood pumping and is it
true what they say about black
people just the arms move just the arms
move there you go big chest up the whole
time yep parall to the ground hips low
chest up first exercise for today is the
barbell bent row now we have it on the S
a weird little machine sort of a dual
AIS Smith that kind of keeps you going
only from side to side really it goes
front to back and ship entirely sure
what the purpose of the machine is
variation is a mother so we use it every
now and again just switch things up
which is really good and uh Daniel here
is going to be doing the barbell B Ro
almost exactly the same way that we
would ever do it he is standing on a
deficit so that the machine is a little
higher than we would like you get that
Big Stretch his lower back is totally
tight everything is motionless the only
thing that moves are shoulders and arms
that's how you get back training as
you're going deep into that stretch make
sure to keep your chest up so that your
back muscles can wrap around your ribs
and get a huge stretch it makes a
difference let me tell you three or four
sets of 10 to 20 reps here and then we
cook them in other ways Let's Do It Good
two more convincing reps
yes slow and rack very good very good
sweaty I like that uh your commentary
after the first set was I'm so sweaty
like a first time Family like a family
gym member Planet Fitness day one oh my
God workout to make you sweat like yes
this is Daniel he's an ifb professional
bodybuilder first time sweating in a
workout big chest
yes good it's not going to make it
easier it's going to make it tougher but
your back will grow more Daniel let's go
one more good one one more good one big
pull that's it slow and relax excent you
know black people don't turn red but I
just did so you really kind a little
red yep chest
up and that's it slow slow down and
relax that's it that's it that's
please don't say
more I was like please don't say more my
body I don't know why I'm getting like
the weirdest pumps but insanely
uncomfortable are you recently heavier
than normal yes you go yeah I know
that's for me you're so kind thank you
so much any supplementation changes oh
yeah this is the highest up yeah you go
oh there you go all the way down big
chest stretch over for trct there it
is shoulders forward big chest
[Music]
yes don't bend those knees and knees
have shit to do with it try pull with
your arms pull it to the chest or
nothing that's it you can rack it
beautiful work hell yeah beautiful work
I told you I was Wick it's playing
strong to me all right folks so B Ros
are done assisted pull-up time we would
do normal pull-ups we want a few more
reps Dan's pretty tired watch the quees
it's not just to pull up with an
assistance it's different it's
capitalizing on the fact that you're a
little bit stronger ratio to your body
weight and then you can get up there
quick and then slowly expand that
Ecentric get a real exaggerated deep
stretch come up again you're much more
mind muscle connection on the ascent and
on a descent also mind muscle connection
before that entri really awesome thing
to try if you did pull-ups you've only
you know now you're only able to do five
pull-ups cuz you're tired the sistant
pull-ups are great after b rolls are
great they're just great let's do a
couple sets them three one more good one
one more good one come on let's
go yes one more good one Daniel we're
here to push your ass today you know
that shit come up up slow stretch wait
for it and then
unrack
awesome felt great I do have a question
for you yeah yeah so a lot of times uh I
was going to lean my hand and touch this
and I was like looks like medical
waste you say pause at the most stressed
position of the muscle most people will
will follow the tempo you recommend
right slowing and Centric but what I see
is the pause at the top of the
concentric are you're talking about
pausing whenever the muscle is fully
stretched I'm talking about that last
thing you said if you pause here it's
cool it's a good training variation on
some machines it works get that crunch
but a lot of times it's just spending a
lot of effort in a position that's not
as likely to lead muscle growth as much
as pausing here if you pause at the
bottom it's pausing at that stretch your
muscles are all up and that makes it
perceptively pretty tough but more
importantly actually probably leads to
more muscle gotta okay yeah nobody's
trying to pause at the bottom that shit
hurts right and yes it does yes but I
have been doing it whenever I'm fully
Contracting so I'll be switching that up
to where I'm fully stretched pausing
right there yes give that a shot so I
think today that's that's why I'm
getting a sick pump
because that's it that's it that's a
part of it every rep a good rep
Big
Stretch
one way to control
it two slow rock it out of this go as
high as you can yes slow and then one
last one bonus round move
it yes slow control all the way through
wait for it
rack um another thing he has said in one
of those videos he was talking about the
load mhm how little guys just try to go
heavier yeah right and that would always
be my mindset I'm going to go heavier
cuz J is going heavier J is doing six
plates so I need to do it sure and I'm
like oh I'm not as strong as J if is now
but he's talking about hypetrophy like
if it takes less weight or less loow for
you to get the same work why stress
understanding and try to go heavier plus
like your femur might be longer than
mine I might have I might get a better
growth stimulus from five plates M you
might get better from four cuz your a
little bit longer and you you're able to
go a little deeper or whatever it is
might get a better S out so it's not
even the same load doesn't contribute to
the same size for every single person
right I don't know where that comes from
it's just but it made it's the ego you
know it made a lot of sense when he said
he like you should see it as a benefit
that you require less stimulus to grow
as opposed to another person it's like a
blessing yeah I didn't the fact that I
get so much work and deep squatting for
Cales because my ink Mobility is really
bad when I'm in that deep KNE that my
calves are stretched like crazy got so I
don't even got to train my calves gotta
you can never be too big though for sure
unless you got a weight cap yeah that's
the problem yes and we're both struggle
to make that and that's why I'm not
making it anymore all right Daniel last
set here let's do
it yes slow control one more rock it all
the way up there as far as you can go
slow controlled and this Mount that's
it I'm doing this inspiring me like
Dorian Gates and his
partner Praise His Name all right next
exercise grab something big pole great
lock awesome slow big Ecentric reach mhm
Lo yep sit as far off to your right as
you can actually yes
correct Ultra stretch try to touch all
the way back to the top yes and then
again yeah there you go boom how's that
weight feel great we're just going let's
go work
set perfect keep going keep going keep
hold hold hold down there it is up
[Music]
so don't just lean let this pull you
don't just lean you're trying to stretch
this not just trying to lean over with
your body trying to stretch out of this
so almost set forward yeah there you go
forward and let it stretch you over
forward yeah there it is how's that feel
excellent good good there you go my man
huge stretch over yeah finish pull and
then slow too slow stay vertical Big
Stretch Big Stretch Big Stretch Big
Stretch shit very good I felt that
stretch way more
cuz you're I guess my B was trying to
bias that yeah I'm tring lean off this
way cuz yep yep no that was a really
good que Jared over exaggerate over
exaggerate this over exaggerated over
exaggerated now there you go man there
you go vertical
back good lean to your right yes there
you go
man gorgeous Daniel no Corrections this
is Flawless
shit body this way body this way body
this way yeah
as you come up lean to the right yeah
Dani good and then lean to the left
lean
[Music]
yeah Big Stretch lean lean lean lean
lean make it painful
rack torture machine it really Place
torture
Jam you like that oh yeah this I love
this cuz I've been trying to figure out
a way to do it I do them with a bench
see a single arm and go here and I turn
away from it something well this feels
even better cuz it's a different right
above your head locked in mhm you you
look like a southern lawyer in
1952 Tuscaloosa Alabama
now
yeah might be the nerves I'm a little
nervous who are you nervous about in
here bro you're the biggest mother for
five blocks either way absolutely not
who's bigger his scavs oh my it's I'm
always going to be talking about his
calves nobody gives a shit about your
calves doesn't matter who you are not
even the judges give a fuck about cses
they really don't no they do give a shit
about shoulders let's go hit them shits
up yes sir you're going to do a whole
bunch of face poles okay probably with a
grip sort of like out here mhm you're
going to start this way and you're going
to pull back that way yeah okay and
don't do anything that makes your
shoulders feel crazy if an inside grip
feels better do that that just a quick
pause at the top and all the way back
we'll have you do a whole bunch of these
after you're warmed up we're going to
lower this thing all the way down you're
going to restra into it real quick and
you're going to go ight rows go cool got
it
yep good way to stretch
it come on one
[Music]
more good return the bar retighten your
versus don't go anywhere retighten your
versus 10 more
[Music]
reps
good four more don't take a
break two yes sir my man two more come
on slow you got more rack it and
readjust your straps don't go anywhere
you got more make sure there
super to 10 more you got 8 to 10 more
eight to 10 more let's go for 10 begin
whenever one way to do that pause very
convincing
two let's
go
five big upright rows eight two two more
good ones no resetting all the way to
the Finish Line nine way to control it
right up hold and then slow slow slow
and
rack what did these assholes do look at
this
shit oh wait wait wait wait wait wait
this is oh it's on camera you're right I
even have to my phone I gotta blze out
now can I can I wish for two uh
attractive men to come bring me a cake
you did
it thank you guys ah you guys are so
nice thank you thank you thank you why
does why is there a second nobody
Jar's happy birthday man I didn't know
that I I would hug you but I don't think
you want this yeah I don't want that
it's a lot maybe you want this I did
want
this how was your workout I didn't sweat
at all so super easy I'm ready to just
go for another round yes actual workout
begins now right a warm up that was
great it was awesome awesome awesome
it's a huge pleasure having you whatever
it is you think you learned from us you
really did because you're great at this
shit very few people will do upright
rows like that unprompted most people
just be like you know Andrew tapate
marrow so 10 oh that's the worst
technique I've ever seen God damn I
wasn't ready for that shit anyway uh
huge pleasure best of luck in your
continued pro career and uh guys uh
check out uh your Instagram is the
period black period ramble it's that
easy and
um that's pous man it was it was an
awesome time it was an honor thank you
so much thank you man brother peace
we'll catch you guys next time
[Music]