believe it or not there's a good chance
that receiving feedback during your
session like through a velocity
measurement device or from your good old
buddy at the gym could be improving your
performance and your gains here's
why welcome back Dr mil wolf today the
training partner you all wish you had
the pencil neck you could make fun of
between sets but also your favorite PhD
in sports science able to make you make
gains faster let me break down some
signs on how feedback could help you
make more gains believe it or not we
have quite a few studies looking at the
impact of receiving feedback between
repetitions or between sets and how that
impacts your performance both acutely in
the immediate moment within that session
on that next rep in that next set and
also chronically how it improves your
gains in strength for example Sports
scientists sometimes study some pretty
random stuff and this is one of those
things specifically as it relates to
lifting and strength gains and so forth
this area of research was recently
summarized by the unfor fortunately
named Jonathan weekly besides having the
most unfortunate name of all time being
named Jonathon and weak as his last name
here's what they found they analyzed a
total of 20 studies they differentiated
between different kinds of feedback to
see whether certain kinds of feedback
could be more effective than others to
give you an idea what feedback even
means feedback is external information
regarding the performance or the result
of a task being performed so essentially
for example it could be how fast in me/
second did the barbell move on average
during during the lifting phase on a
squat for example on rep 1 it might have
moved at 0.5 m/s what about on rep 2
0.44 for example one form of feedback
therefore could be a velocity
measurement device with a screen in
front of you showing you exactly how
fast you lifted the weight on this rep
and that would be called average
concentric velocity or mean propulsive
velocity there's a bunch of acon for it
but that's essentially what one form of
feed back boils down to alternatively
some devices can give you your power
output on a given rep importantly these
things are relative ly rare in most gyms
and if you want to purchase a velocity
measurement device that will often set
you back several thousand most people
it's not really reality and it's
probably not worth investing several
thousand do into other feedback includes
video feedback like watching your
setback between sets verbal
encouragement verbal cues like coaching
cues like how to move verbal feedback on
how fast the bar moved there were a
variety of types of feedback being
studied within this metanalysis now let
me break down what the results said into
two sections the results acutely as far
as how it increases your performance in
the moment in that session and then how
it may or may not improve your
performance chronically like make you
stronger over time compared to not
receiving feedback in these studies they
often looked at exercises like the
barbell squat the leg extension the leg
curl the bench press and so forth
compared to not receiving any feedback
acutely within a given session receiving
feedback did increase performance with
an effect size of about 0.6 which would
be categorized as a moderate effect size
importantly both receiving verbal
feedback from another human for example
and receiving visual feedback like for
example reading the bar velocity on a
measurement device in front of you both
increased performance compared to not
receiving any feedback however when
conducting a moderator analysis
receiving visual feedback like for
example that bar speed that you can
visually see in front of you was
Superior to receiving verbal feedback
and so where possible if you have a
velocity measurement device for example
and you have an iPad that you can
connect it to having that iPad set up in
front of you in the rack when you're
squatting or benching or deadlifting or
anything is likely beneficial in
improving your performance it can help
you put more effort into each rep lift
the bar more explosively potentially get
more reps on a given set and so
potentially receiving feedback during a
session both verbally and in terms of
performance like your bar speed is
beneficial and one area where this is
commonly done and probably helps with
performance is at a palting meet when
people are shouting you to focus on
things like bar speed like oh explode
explode speed speed speed speed speed or
up up up up up those cues might be
beneficial for performance in terms of
getting feedback on how you're doing in
general there is also a whole body of
research comparing more external cues to
more internal cues external cues would
be things like get the weight up or
explode at the hole or what have you
things that are focusing on the outcome
of the movement whereas internal cues
would be things like make sure you
extend your legs things that are focused
on the bodily movement of different
joints different muscle groups different
limbs that you have internal cues about
your body's movement and external cues
about the outcome of the movement you're
performing like being explosive and
specifically based on a metanalysis by G
and colleagues from
2022 external cues do consistently seem
to lead to better performance than
internal cues they found a substantial
Improvement in muscle endurance outcomes
AKA how many reps you're able to perform
with a given weight across multiple sets
basically what you would do in the
context of hypertrophy training when
using external cues over internal cues
in movements like the push-up the
deadlift the squat the bench and so
forth and so when it comes to feedback
and generally just things that you focus
on in the gym that your training body is
telling you or that you're mentally
focusing on during a set I think
external cues where you're focusing on
being explosive for example or just or
velocity or Tech techical Q are
generally the way to go for improving
your muscle endurance performance and
therefore likely increasing the stimulus
received by the muscle importantly we
only have one study looking at the
effect of these different types of cues
on hypertrophy I have a whole video on
that I'll link up here but basically at
this point if I had to give some advice
on what sort of Quee to use what sort of
focus to use while lifting I would say
focus on the outcome of the movement
focus on being explosive during the
concentric controlling the Ecentric
focus more so on the movement quality
than on muscle back to the Met analysis
by Jonathon weekly though they also
looked at Chronic outcomes or
essentially how strong that people get
over time when receiving feedback versus
not receiving any feedback first when it
came to improving your jump performance
essentially how high you can jump there
was a non-significant but small effect
size in favor of receiving feedback over
not receiving any feedback when it came
to improving your sprint times there was
a moderate effect size in favor of
receiving feedback versus not receiving
feedback importantly for pretty much all
chronic adaptations or how much better
you get at something over time the
improvements did Lean in favor of
receiving feedback versus not receiving
any feedback and so it just seems like a
good strategy altogether at least when
it comes to Performance outcomes within
the gym unfortunately for strength
specifically there weren't quite enough
findings so instead let me point to what
the author has had to say practitioners
are often interested in additional
physical qualities like strength but due
to the breath of outcomes reported it
was not possible to ascertain the
effective feedback on these outcomes it
should be noted that despite the
inability to met analyze certain
outcomes findings from systematic review
can help guide practitioners in whether
feedback would enhance adaptations in
non-metalized outcomes for example three
rep max strength in the back squat was
assessed by both weekly at all and
bandur at all with both studies
demonstrating the feedback groups had
greater improvements than their
corresponding non-feedback groups and
broadly speaking this just points to
their overall takeaway which is that
chronic adaptations like strength
sprinting jumping are also benefited by
having feedback as opposed to no
feedback before I move into the
takeaways for this video let let me give
you a few additional conclusions from
this paper first more frequent feedback
like for example between each repetition
as opposed to between each set is likely
beneficial so you have a training
partner who's providing you with veral
feedback or even telling you the bar
velocity on each rep that is likely
preferable to just watching back your
set between sets it seems like receiving
feedback is more like an acute boost in
your strength if for example you do one
set with feedback and then you don't get
feedback for the next set that next set
is going to have worse performance than
the first set all L being equal so
receiving feedback during one set
doesn't result in and a permanent
Improvement it's kind of like putting on
clothes while you put on the clothes and
you're wearing them you get warmer but
then when you take them off you're
colder again generally as I mentioned
earlier visual feedback is preferable
over verbal feedback and generally
feedback appears to increase motivation
to do the task competitiveness and
perceived effort put into actually
training feedback likely improves
several qualities like jumping sprinting
strength outcomes although the evidence
is a bit more variable on certain
outcomes let's say you don't have a
training partner or any device that can
really provide you with feedback well if
nothing else recording your set and
rewatching it between sets is likely
still going to be slightly beneficial if
only as far as improving technique and
find tuning it over time let me give you
a few takeaways from this research and
how to apply within your training first
focusing on external cues like being
forceful or explosive dur your movement
or on technical elements or outcomes of
the movement is going to be superior to
not doing anything or having an internal
focus when it comes to improving acutely
strength and chronically even strengthen
performance in general for hypertrophy
it's not super clear yet but I would
still up towards an external queue like
for example being explosive during the
concentric or improving some aspect of
the technique of the movement getting a
training partner to remind you to be
explosive focus on those external cues
provide verbal feedback and generally
remind you to use good technique is
likely beneficial if you have access to
it or you have the funds to purchase one
a velocity measurement device can be
great visual feedback is generally
preferable over just verbal feedback
re-watching a set between sets is likely
one of the best ways to use your time
that you have available between sets
it's especially if your Technique isn't
100% there yet getting a training
partner that can provide you with
feedback between sets May improve your
performance acutely when you're lifting
like you might notice that your best
lifts in your PRS are consistently hit
when other people are around and
encouraging you and also improve your
adaptations chronically and as a final
broad takeaway try and Implement forms
of feedback however you can into your
training it is likely beneficial that is
the video If you enjoyed this video
please like the video comment subscribe
if you'd like me to provide feedback to
you and become your coach potentially
check out the link above and we could
enter a coaching relationship lots of
feedback if you aren't already
subscribed consider subscribing I know
about 50% of you aren't subscribed at
the time of watching this so please do
consider subscribing in the meantime
have a fantastic day Milo wolf wolf
coaching we're out