here's what I think is the most
effective arm workout I've ever designed
using scientific
principles welcome back Dr my wolf here
PhD in sports science bro scientist and
proud owner of wolf coaching before we
go into what I think is the best arm
workout I've ever designed I need to
make you understand why it's effective
so that you can then go away and design
your own really effective arm workouts
you know all right what makes a session
effective for muscle growth first it
needs to fit within your program the
best most gruelling arm workout really
only works if you do it the right way in
the context of your program I could give
you a 40 set arm workout 8 Hour Rich
Piana style it's basically an 8 Hour arm
[Music]
workout
[Music]
and yet if you only do it once a year
it's not really going to grow you all
that much conversely if you did it every
day it would probably be too much food
to handle so good sessions only exist
within the context of their programs now
this specific session is designed within
the context of being repeated with some
variations two to four times a week if
you run a body part split where you're
only training your arms directly once a
week you're not going to want to do this
you're going to want to like double or
triple the amount of training being done
here importantly doing a similar session
as this one two to four times a week
Falls within the optimal frequency range
of training each muscle at least twice a
week another big thing a good session
does is to limit redundancy if we have a
session that's super redundant we may
not actually Target all of the muscles
we're trying to Target different muscles
have different functions and importantly
there is evidence of diminishing returns
within a given session if you just keep
training the same muscle group over and
over again hammering it with tons of
volume for example an older metanalysis
by Creer and colleagues found that each
additional set yielded less hypertrophy
the first set you do with an ession for
a muscle is the most important and each
additional set has diminishing returns
so we don't want to do a ton of very
similar movements for super high volumes
with an a session at the expense of
other muscle groups being hit
effectively for example doing some bench
press then some dips and then some push
Downs is going to be likely super
effective for your medial and lateral
head of the triceps but the long head
that gets trained more effectively
during overhead extensions for example
won't get all that much love and
certainly your biceps won't get that
much love so we want to limit redundancy
another thing we want to do is to make
sure the rep ranges we pick within the
session are maximally effective for
hypertrophy while we used to think this
was 8 to 12 reps per set and outside of
that hypertrophy was compromised the
reality is the hypert rep range is as
wide as 5 to 50 repetitions per set and
additionally there is some evidence that
if we combine different rep ranges
within our program we might see a little
bit more hypertrophy compared to just
using one and religiously doing sets of
eight for example and so if I see a
program that only has sets of eight or
3x 10 on everything not a good sign
equally while we do want a variety of
rep ranges and there a pretty wide range
of maximally effective repetition
targets for hypertrophy we likely want
to have most of our training come from
sets of 5 to 15 repetitions because it
makes it easier for us According to some
work by our own research group to tell
how close to f with training and since
training relatively close to failure is
pretty important and your accuracy at
gauging failure breaks down above around
12 reps we want to do most of our work
between say 5 and 15 reps to maintain a
good degree of accuracy engaging our own
proximity to failure next we want to
make sure we're using optimal volumes
what does that mean well based on some
more recent research the best muscle
growth for a muscle is usually seen
somewhere between 20 to 35 sets per week
per muscle in trained individuals so
cross the week if we want to maximize
growth we want to get up to this volume
whereas if we just want robust growth
for example we're not specializing on
the arms between 10 and 20 sets might be
very adequate since we're performing the
session two to four times a week that
means that we want to be training each
muscle with maybe three to eight sets
keep in mind that these numbers for
maximum hypertrophy of the biceps
triceps and forearms are based also on
indirect volume meaning that bench press
for your chest for example does count as
it set for your tricep as well and so if
we get 3day eight sets two to four times
a weekend that gives us a range of just
direct arm volume of between about 6 to
about 32 sets and if you then add in
your chest back and front delt training
that can quickly get you up to these
really effective volume ranges for the
arms and importantly some of the
research suggests the triceps might
benefit from higher volumes slightly
more than the biceps that's a menis by
baling colleagues where the effect size
was larger when it came to the triceps
in favor of higher volumes above 20 C we
also want to make sure that we're taking
each set and each exercise sufficiently
close to failure to maximize hypertrophy
based on met aggression by Robinson and
colleagues from around a year ago the
closer a set is taken to failure all
else being equal the more hypertrophy it
stimulates however going closer to
failure does likely also cause
additional fatigue and so if we go too
close to failure too often too early
into a session we might compromise
performance in that session overall and
so to get the best of both worlds we
might want to go a little bit further
from failure earlier in the session for
the first few sets of most exercises and
a little bit closer to failure later
into the session and for the last couple
sets on most exercises next the
exercises we pick to train our biceps
triceps and forearms need to be
maximally effective and there are
certain things that make exercises
better or worse for muscle growth I have
a whole series of videos on exactly that
topic that you can check out in the
description below or above here but in
the meantime here's what we look for in
good exercises first the exercise we
pick should Target one of the primary
functions of the target muscle for the
triceps that's going to be up extension
for the biceps going to be AOW flexion
mostly and for the forearms it's going
to be a combination of wrist flexion and
wrist extension Additionally the toret
muscle should be delimiting factor and
that's where unfortunately most of our
arm training is going to have to be
relatively isolation heavy if we want to
optimally Target the arms whether that's
the biceps or the triceps or the
forearms most of the best exercises that
do so will be isolation exercises
because they allow us to make sure that
the target muscle is what's limiting our
performance but equally that doesn't
mean you shouldn't be doing compound
chest and back work in your program you
should still be doing that because it
provides a good overall stimulus and
because it effectively trains your chest
and back which hopefully you're also
trying to grow and you're not just some
Wido trying to grow only your arms if
you are get off my channel next whatever
exercises we do pick should be stretch
friendly and there's three components to
that first the muscle we're trying to
train should be placed in its lengthened
position so for the triceps that means
flexing the elbow and for the long hair
of the triceps getting it overhead for
the biceps that means extending the
elbow at the bottom of the exercise and
getting your arm behind you and for the
forearms that means either getting your
wrist extended or Flex depending on what
you're trying to train the second part
of being stretch friendly is that in
that position there should be a fair
amount of tension and the third part is
that it should be length and partial
friendly whatever exercise we do pick as
growing body of research comparing
lengthen partials or doing partial
repetitions in the stretch part of the
movement to doing full repetitions
generally finding better hypertrophy
with length and partials or similar
hypertrophy and so if we're trying to
maximize hypertrophy being length and
partial friendly is a positive attribute
for an exercise the next component is
being actually loaded or not essentially
all us being equal having spinal loading
or really loading any other non- triceps
biceps form muscle groups isn't really
doing anything to grow the biceps
triceps or forms anymore but it is
causing more fatigue and potentially
making it less likely that the target
muscle is the limiting factor and so
something like a standing overhead press
where you're stabilizing the load with
your lower body and with your spine may
not be as good of a choice of tricep
hypertrophy as a seated dumbbell
overhead extension and finally
especially if you're someone who's time
constrained the exercises we do pick
should be time efficient selecting
exercises that require minimum warming
up and minimum loading of the bar and
minimum setup are going to be more time
efficient and that can be really helpful
next up our rest times should be
designed to be maximally effective for
inducing muscle growth there's a few
things we know first rest times of much
under 60 seconds do likely compromise
hypertrophy so rest for at least 60
seconds the vast majority of the time
however it turns out that even though
resting for insufficient time between
sets reduces how effective each set is
for hypertrophy we can make up for this
to an extent at least by just doing more
sets and so there is a component of
personal preference here do you prefer
doing more sets with shorter rest times
or fewer sets with longer rest times
personally the approach I use and
recommend is to Simply rest for as long
between sets as you need to maintain a
good level of performance from set to
set for most arm training isolation wise
it's going to be between 1 and 2 minutes
between sets and for most arm training
if it's compound in nature it's going to
be closer to maybe 2 to 4 minutes but
ultimately let your performance guide
you as far as exercise order goes the
research suggests it's not hugely
important in fact a met analysis by
Nunes and colleagues found essentially
no effect of exercise order on
hypertrophy however on a principled
level as a coach there's a few things I
like to do when it comes to exercise
order first off generally the exercises
targeting muscle groups that are more
important to us if for example we really
want to bring up our biceps and triceps
will want to perform first in the
session when refreshes probably doesn't
make a huge difference but I think it
makes sense second we may want to order
exercises as a heuristic in a way that
maximizes performance across a session
if for instance starting your session
with cable pushdowns negatively impacts
your performance on the subsequent bench
press exercise but benching first
doesn't then impact your performance on
push Downs the lateral rangement may be
slightly preferable and third as a
generalistic I would recommend starting
your sessions with compound exercise and
then moving into isolation exercises and
this is where arm training gets a bit
dicey because arms are generally best
trained with isolation exercises in my
view you will likely be training them
after some compound training based on a
research on exercise order that's likely
not a huge deal but if your arms are a
huge priority to you and you really just
want to get bigger arms it may still
make sense to train them first in the
session and the final component of an
optimal workout for the arms is going to
be good technique on all the exercises
you do perform we were actually involved
in a recent review paper looking at
exactly what makes a technique good or
bad for hypertrophy and by our
estimation there are three or four
components that make up good technique
for muscle building the first is an
adequate Tempo repetitions should last
somewhere between 2 and 8 seconds to
maximize hypertrophy in all likelihood
there's some more speculative evidence
that a slightly longer Ecentric of say 1
or 2 seconds at least per rep is
beneficial and a slightly more explosive
concentric is also beneficial however
within this 2 to 8 second range roughly
you likely won't see a difference in
terms of hypertrophy so preference can
be a play hit second range of motion
specifically we want to be emphasizing
longer muscle lengths as I mentioned
earlier there is a growing body of
evidence looking at the effect of the
stretch on hypertrophy suggesting that
lengthen partials might be a good idea
for hypertrophy at the very least what
you don't want to do is to avoid that
loaded stretch or skimp on it so use a
for ranging motion alternatively if you
want to lean further into this then try
using lengthen partials where you
perform half reps in the stretch
component of the movement the final big
component that hasn't been studied
extensively yet and we're actually
planing a study on this is momentum
generated by other muscle groups or
other joints than the target muscle for
instance during a bicep curl you could
be using your hips and your back to
swing the weight up is that a good thing
probably not ultimately generating
momentum through other muscle groups and
other joints besides the one we're
trying to Target does nothing to really
increase the stimulus on the target
muscle but it does generate more fatigue
and overall makes it less likely that
the target muscle will be the limiting
factor as opposed to your glutes getting
tired of jerking the weight up and and
finally if a certain technique causes
you less pain and still aderes to the
above criteria and or you just enjoy
doing it more by all means go ahead by
the way I have whole videos on all these
topics exercise order volume repetition
ranges frequency and all that that are
linked Below in the description so go
check them out if you need more detail
let me give you a few notes before we
delve onto the arm walkout generally
with this arm walkout start with some
compound movements for your back and
chest back and chest if it's an upper
day or just chest if it's a push day or
just back if it's p you get the idea if
on the other hand you are following a
body part split routine and you're
training the arms directly once a week
and then getting some accessory volume
from your chest and back days just up
the volume a little bit for this session
and potentially do an additional
exercise for the biceps triceps and
forarms respectively if this is you and
this is an arm day specifically I would
probably start the session with a dip
and pull down suet to cheekily increase
the frequency for the back and chest as
well to twice a week and get some pretty
solid lateral and media head of the
tricep hypertrophy and also biceps as it
turns out one studies found similar
hypertrophy from the pull down in the
biceps as compared to cruel exercise but
without further Ado let me give you the
best arm workout I've ever designed or
at least I think so using the most
upto-date scientific research we'll
start this session with a cable overhead
extension and seated bench cable corl
super set perform both of these for 3 to
five sets of 10 to 20 reps with about 90
to 120 seconds of rest between sets for
the same exercise or however long it
takes you to roughly maintain a good
level of performance from set to set
take the first few sets of each exercise
to about two repetitions in reserve and
take the last set all the way to failure
one thing you'll notice in both of these
exercises is that they're solid for
hypertrophy and in fact both of these
focus on the stretch when it comes to
the triceps we have two studies directly
comparing the overhead extension to the
push down for example and the overhead
extension the long head is lengthened to
a greater degree by virtue of your arm
being overhead one of these two studies
found more hypertrophy from the overhead
extension versus the push down in all of
the tricep essentially and the other
study found broadly speaking no
difference between the two likewise when
it comes to the biceps in my view the
data also supports the importance of the
lengthen position and so doing a cable
curl on the bench where you're allow
your shoulders to come back all the way
and get a deeper stretch is likely a
good thing for hypertrophy both of these
exercises are isolation exercises
targeting one of the functions of the
muscle groups involved and are highly
stable and make sure the target muscle
group is the limiting factor by virtue
of it being in isolation exercise
finally if you don't want to suet these
two exercises you just have too much
time on your hand from being unemployed
then consider not suting them and doing
them separately but personally I like
the pump it gives me and it saves time
so win-win alternatively if you don't
have cables or cables or pain to get in
your gym you can superet the dumbbell
overhead extension ideally seated with a
dumbbell preacher curl once again these
two excises take advantage of the
stretch position or isolation exercises
and generally just good picks when it
comes to stimulating Hy tropy once
you've done this first superet for your
biceps and triceps it's time to move on
to the forearms we'll be super setting
the dumbbell wrist curl and the dumbbell
wrist extension if you just want to do
one exercise for your forarms feel free
to miss the dumbbell wrist extension as
you are getting into severely
diminishing returns as far as training
your arms the wrist extensors aren't
particularly large muscle groups so
training them is Not manatory By Any
Means perform two to four sets of 5 to
10 repetitions on the dbo wrist curl and
10 to 20 repetitions on the dbo wrist
extension rest for about 60 seconds to
20 seconds between sets of the same
exercise when you're training your wrist
extensors you're essentially resting
your wrist flexors and vice versa as I
mentioned training the wrist extensors
directly is very optional as you run
into diminishing returns however if you
go a little bit heavier or lower in reps
on the wrist extensions and a little bit
higher in reps on the wrist curls you'll
find you can use pretty similar loads
and so you just need one pair of
dumbbells a bench and you can train your
whole form pretty well by your whole
form I mean most of your form and if
you're the sort of person to be
interested in this stuff check out the
Strong by science article on Forum
training for more detail on training
forums than anyone could possibly ever
need but is a phenomenal resource for
people who are interested forums in
general are an optional muscle group to
train I don't think it's necessary for
everyone but if you want your biggest
arms overall I do think it makes sense
to at least train your wrist flexers a
couple of times a week when you're
performing your wrist curls make sure
you focus on finger extension as well as
many of the wrist flexors are also
responsible for finger flexion and so
extending your fingers at the bottom of
each rep gets you a deeper stretch in
those muscle groups potentially being
better for hypertrophy both of these
exercises are stretch friendly they
offer a good stretch better than the
standing variation for the forearms
dumbbells are typically a better option
in my view than barbells from my
coaching experience and my personal
experience fewer people get pain doing
the Dum variation because there's a bit
more freedom in your wrist positioning I
take it you're not locked into full-on
Super Nation or pronation for either of
the exercises as you would be with a
barbell and additionally dumbbells save
time compared to barbells on account of
not needing to load them up so that was
the arm workout as a note on this
session if you are specializing on your
arms or you're doing this as one arm day
a week add in another exercise for each
muscle group involved so two exercises
for your triceps two exercises for your
biceps and maybe an additional exercise
for your fors as well before we wrap up
this video let's check whether or not
this session fulfills the criteria for
what makes a session maximumly effective
first off by doing one exercise for each
muscle group we're limiting redundancy
and the stimulus being provided we're
also varying rep ranges across the
session going a little bit higher in
reps on your arm isolation work than
you'll typically go in compound work
which overall provides you with a good
variety of rep ranges from your compound
and your arm isolation work overall
within your program potentially leading
to a bit more hypertrophy if you repeat
a similar arm walkout as this one two to
four times a week as part of your upper
body sessions or what have you you will
get a really Sol amount of volume in
across the week by taking the first few
sets of each exercise a little bit
further from failure and then going
closer to failure in all the way to
failure on the last set we're getting
the benefit of going to failure on
certain sets without compromising
hypertrophy by having performance take a
big hit we picked really effective
exercises for each muscle group involved
making sure that the triceps biceps and
forearms are limiting factors that we're
targeting one of their functions that
the exercises we pick are stretch
friendly and additionally the exercises
we picked are time efficient as well
we're resting for at least 60 seconds
between sets but for as long as it takes
you to maintain a good level of
Performance Set to set while exercise
order isn't super important we generally
start with the bigger and more important
muscles being the biceps and triceps and
then moved into the forums with the fors
being a bit smaller and additionally by
not training the forums first we're not
getting the potential knock on effect
I've noticed from training forarms
before biceps impacting your performance
on the bicep training and finally we're
using great technique on all exercises
making sure our Tempo is adequate we're
taking about 2 to 8 seconds per rep at
the most having a slightly longer
Ecentric a slightly more explosive
concentric pausing in a lengthened
position generally minimizing the
involvement of non-target muscle groups
and making sure we emphasize the loaded
stretch by using a full range of motion
or using length and partials that was
the most effective arm walkout I could
design in the context of a good program
if you trained your arm once a year
would you be better off with Rich
piana's 8 Hour arm workout maybe but in
the context of a good program I think
this is a really solid arm workout that
is the video If you enjoyed this video
please comment like subscribe leave a
comment down below letting me know what
other muscle groups you want to see me
break down similarly if you are
subscribed already and around half of
you aren't please do consider
subscribing hitting the Bell as well so
that you get notified whenever I release
a video it really helps out the channel
and helps me put out more good
information for you guys if you're
looking for a coach consider checking
out the link above and we could be
working together in the meantime have a
fantastic day and I'll see you guys my
subscribers in that next one peace