five rules for fat loss cardio rule
number one you want ways of doing cardio
methods that burn plenty of calories but
don't beat you up a ton and make you
super tired make your muscles sore and
fatigued and mess up your joints number
two rule do the ones most often that you
enjoy the most point number three to the
extent that you can slash like use as
many diverse modalities of cardios not
as you can but is preferred to you rule
number four you have to understand the
limits of cardio in most cases much more
than 45 minutes to an hour of cardio six
ish days a week is the most a living
human being can do without starting to
really cause a lot of muscle loss and or
just starting to cause a lot of fatigue
rule number five is consider getting
yourself a step tracker ten thousand and
twelve thousand steps a day is a good
place to start just never let it go
below that you can just walk around the
block walk your dogs and walk over to
your neighbor's house spy on them like
you always do