okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at how to perform
the squat with perfect technique the
back squat is often referred to as the
king of lower body exercises and even
the king of all exercises and that's an
appointment i think it actually deserves
before we jump into the technique for
this exercise let's take a look at what
muscles we're going to be targeting with
this movement first so with the squat
we're training simultaneous hip
extension where the hips straighten out
on the way up and knee extension where
the knees straighten out the hip
extension component will be handled
primarily by the glutes getting some
assistance from the adductor magnus and
even though the hamstrings can perform
hip extension they actually don't
contribute much to the squat at all
because of the bent knee meaning their
muscle length doesn't change much
throughout the range of motion the knee
extension component will be handled by
the quadriceps and we'll be performing
an isometric lumbar extension
contraction which will be handled by the
spinal erectors of the lower back now
another very common misconception is
that the abs are highly active in the
squat but that simply isn't true emg
data shows low abdominal activity in the
squat which makes sense given that their
function is spinal flexion and
anti-extension neither of which occur in
the squat so we're mainly looking at the
glutes quads and spinal erectors as the
muscular targets of the squat and
because the squat involves in multiple
joints and large muscle masses it's very
conducive to progressive overload and
should be trained with relatively heavy
weight in a low to moderate rep zone
while there are exceptions doing squats
for greater than 10 reps or so will
usually cause your cardiovascular system
to fatigue before your leg musculature
leading to sloppy form worse strength
gains and lower muscle activation now
generally i recommend loading the squat
with at least seventy percent of your
one rep max or in the five to ten rep
zone if your goal is primarily
hypertrophy and the three to six rep
zone if your goal is primarily strength
and again there will be exceptions to
this i know it's important to be very
objective about where your form stands
and possibly consider lightening the
weight on the bar for a few months while
you master the technique and then you
can build your way back up to your
previous loads with good form a few
months of not going as heavy as possible
will be far better than taking a few
months off due to an injury from lifting
beyond your capability before
approaching the bar do a quick check to
make sure you have the right weight on
both sides and that the bar is centered
in the rack you want to position the bar
height so that when you unrack the bar
you aren't hitting the j hooks during
the walk out and for most bar positions
around armpit height will be a good
height for reasons i've discussed in
another video which i'll link below i
think people actually exaggerate the
practical difference between a high bar
squat with the bar resting up on your
traps and a low bar squat with the bar
resting down on your rear delts research
shows that ultimately the high bar squat
may be a bit more quad dominant and the
low bar squat may be a bit more hip
dominant now in my experience i think
the high bar squat tends to protect the
lower back more and tends to feel a bit
more comfortable for many people so
we'll be squatting with the high bar
position here now the bar is too high if
it's pushing your head forward and it's
too low if it feels like it's going to
slide down your back you want to
position your hands as comfortably close
to your shoulders as possible as a
closer grip here will activate the
muscles of the upper back better leading
to a more stable base of support for the
bar your hands should merely be
stabilizing the bar keeping it mashed
between your palms and your upper back
so you shouldn't be actively gripping
the bar like you would in a bench press
and just let it really sit and settle in
there on your upper back so with both
feet underneath the bar you want to push
your hips forward to unrack the bar and
don't make the common mistake of
squatting the bar up with your knees as
this will cause unnecessary quad fatigue
before the actual lift itself and can
contribute to knee pain you want to take
three steps backward one small step with
your non-dominant leg one medium step
with the other leg and then a third mini
step to get your feet even once your
feet are set they should be planted with
about a 15 to 30 degree foot flare in
general you just want to make sure that
your feet are at least wider than
shoulder width now that you've got the
squat set up it's time to actually
execute the lift and we're going to
split this up into three distinct phases
brace
descend
and lift so for the bracing phase your
heel and big toe should be making even
pressure on the ground and your weight
should be centered on the middle of your
foot i don't really like the cue to keep
your weight on your heels since it can
throw your balance off and cause your
hips to shoot up early you really want
to have your weight evenly distributed
across the entire foot your head should
be slightly extended with your eyes
gazing straight ahead and your elbows
should be pointing slightly back so try
not to position them directly under the
bar which can lead to elbow pain you
want to pull a huge breath of air deep
into your diaphragm pushing your gut out
against your belt to create a solid
rigid column down your spine now you're
fully braced and ready to begin the
descent now for the high bar position
you want to break at the hips and the
knees at the same time so just looking
at the knees first here you want to push
your knees forward and slightly out so
that they track in the same direction as
your toes while at the same time sitting
your hips straight down you should be
pushing through your heel big toe and
pinky toe throughout the eccentric
keeping an even weight distribution
through your feet and when viewed from
the side the bar path should be a
perfectly straight line moving straight
down centered directly over the middle
of the foot you want to lower the bar
under control actively driving your
upper back into the bar and not allowing
your chest to fall forward you don't
want to descend excessively slowly to
the point where you start to lose gas
too early generally you only want about
one second negative on the squad now
when it comes to squat depth i recommend
at least squatting parallel to the
ground as a minimum standard for
hypertrophy and general strength however
for regulation technique you technically
do need to get the hip crease below the
knee joint meaning you will have to go
below parallel and i think most people
should be able to squat to this depth
when using a high bar position and with
the appropriate stance width for
particular skeleton and mobility so this
position is what we call being in the
hole unless you're doing paused squats
as a specific training drill you
generally don't want to pause in the
hole at all but rather take advantage of
the stretch reflex at the bottom and
then immediately reverse the motion the
second you hit depth and although you do
want to maintain an erect upright
posture during the positive i'm not a
big fan of the chest up cue myself since
it can cause some trainees to lean too
far backward i prefer to think about
driving your back up into the bar while
keeping your head slightly up which is
gonna pull the spine into a good lifting
position now remember that with the
squat we're trying to move heavy weight
and maximize our strength potential so
don't worry about squeezing any muscles
or feeling the burn or anything like
that and you want to explode out of the
hole as if you were trying to jump
through the ceiling i personally keep my
breath held until about two-thirds of
the way up at which point i exhale and
once i'm back up to the top i'll begin
the bracing phase again take another
deep breath in and then repeat for
however many reps my program calls for
now because there are so many errors
with the squat i may have to just do
another video on just the mistakes alone
i did actually do one myth bust video
explaining why you should actually let
your knees come forward past the toes
and why the cue to keep your knees
behind the toes can actually be harmful
to the lower back and i'll link that in
the description below now but other than
that i would say one really common error
that i see is knee valgus or having the
knees cave in either on the negative or
the positive this usually stems from
lack of proper hip external rotation so
you want to make sure your feet are
adequately flared out which will help
then you want to actively think about
driving your knees out in the direction
of your toes but not excessively beyond
the direction of your toes and simply
placing a mini band or hip circle around
your knees can help to cue for this and
strengthen the hip abductors and wearing
a heeled squat shoe can also help
harrison's foot pronation or losing your
arch is a known contributor to knee
valves the other two common errors
usually come as a two-for-one deal here
going too heavy and not going deep
enough because the squad unlike say the
deadlift starts with the eccentric phase
so it's so much easier to cheat by
loading up the bar with more weight than
you can handle and then only going
halfway down now whereas on the deadlift
if you can't lift the weight then it
just stays where it is on the ground so
it's a little bit harder to cheat on
that one now you also want to be careful
with butt wink or lower back rounding
here and if your back is excessively
rounding on the squat you may want to
start cutting your depth a bit shorter
or just modify your stance width either
more or less wide but i think that some
degree of butt wink is basically an
inevitability for many lifters and isn't
a cause for too much concern especially
if it's mild and isn't causing any pain
or discomfort foam rolling and dynamic
stretching before squatting will also
increase joint range of motion acutely
and may help reduce butt link as you hit
depth so if you can't squat due to
injury which i think really is the only
reason you shouldn't be squatting the
first thing i'd recommend is some kind
of machine or hack squat or even a smith
machine squat if you find that to be
more comfortable lunges are great as
well but won't have that same
overloading potential as the squat wheel
and as a last resort i'd say a leg press
plus a lower back extension captures a
decent amount of what the squad is
training okay so that is all that i have
for the squat before you guys click out
of the video just yet i want to let you
know i just launched a new squat program
on my website it's a 10 week program and
it has some squat variation hit four
times per week with volume tapering down
to a new one rep max test in week 10.
and i would say that if you've been
trying to get your squat up there's
absolutely no way that this program
won't increase your squat max i would
say if you do run it for the 10 weeks
and you don't set a new pr just send me
an email and i'll send you a full refund
for the program and i'm actually
launching this program for just 12.99
for this week and it's going to go up to
19.99 after that so to give you some
idea here this is week one day one so
you have all the squat work and then all
the lower body accessory work programmed
in for you plus coaching notes from me
but the upper body work is flexible so
you should be able to really easily fit
this squat routine into your current
routine and i do give some guidance on
how you can set that up with different
splits so anyway you guys can learn more
about that if you're interested on
jeffnipper.com and like i said it'll be
35 off up until next tuesday only so if
you're wanting to grab it take your
squat to the next level you can check
that out at the first link in the
description thank you guys so much for
watching the video i really appreciate
it uh leave me a like if you enjoyed the
video don't forget to subscribe so you
don't miss future tech tuesday episodes
and i'll see you guys all here next
tuesday for the