until recently I was doing Zone 2 cardio
to improve my health here's why I
stopped
B Dr Milo wolf here with wolf coaching
today we're talking about cardio and why
doing additional cordial on top of your
lifting and doing having a generally
Physically Active lifestyle may not be
improving your health a recent paper on
the effects of Leisure Time physical
activity on health specifically all
cause mortality risk over 30 years
really changed my opinion on this now
before we get into it there is a
separate discussion to be had about how
much cardio interferes with muscle
growth and strength adaptations when
you're both doing cardio and also
Lifting for approach field for Strings
if you want to see a video on that leave
a comment down below and I'll try and
get to it soon previously I thought that
including some cordial like cycling or
running on top of lifting and having a
generally Physically Active lifestyle
would actually improve health and so for
coaching and in my own practice I
actually Incorporated some cycling
however this paper changed my mind what
they did was they looked at a few
databases and compiled records of 120
000 individuals over a maximum follow-up
period of 30 years screening them for
how their health was and also how much
activity they did in their spare time so
how active were they outside of their
work in terms of moderate or vigorous
activity importantly moderate activity
referred to things like walking
gardening even sometimes lifting weights
was included although I'd argue it's
kind of on the cusp of being vigorous as
well and it was based on metabolic
equivalents which is a measure of how
much energy do you burn per hour right
on the other hand vigorous activity was
classified as things like cycling at a
decent pace jogging and things like
those so actually moderate activity
included a lot of things that you do in
your everyday life like walking to the
store walking with your dog what have
you and also lifting whereas vigorous
activity mostly contains things that are
actually considered formal cardio by
most of us the first big finding was
that the surprise of basically no one
but it's cool to know exercising is good
for your health right so what they they
saw is that generally the more physical
activity you performed the lower your
risk of dying essentially over the next
30 Years the important thing here is
that how much exercise you did very much
played a role and you know the first
hour or two of exercise you do in a
given week likely don't have the same
benefits as say an extra one or two
hours so the relationship between how
much activity you do across a week and
how much of a health benefit you get
isn't linear it's not the more you do
the more regaining you see linearly it's
actually a heavily diminishing returns
slope what you see is that the first
about 150 to 300 minutes or about two
and a half to five hours of vigorous
activity and the first 300 to 600
minutes of moderate activity so about
five to ten hours across a week that's
we see by far the biggest Returns on
your health improvements so what you see
generally is that going from no activity
at all so just being completely
sedentary no lifting no real walking
across the week either to say doing
about two and a half to five hours of
vigorous activity like running recycling
or fighting 10 hours of moderate
activity like walking across the week
and also lifting weights improved your
health pretty drastically so if you're
given a risk of dying across the next 30
years was one it would result in about a
45 reduction in likelihood of dying over
the next 30 Years however going Beyond
this so beyond about two and a half to
five hours of vigorous activity or about
five to ten hours of moderate activity
didn't result in many additional
improvements you did still see some very
marginal improvements but we're talking
very marginal so for example doubling
your model activity from about five to
ten hours to 10 to 20 hours may result
in as little as an extra five percent
reduction in likelihood of dying over
the next 30 Years so we're talking very
small effects it is a very heavily
diminishing return situation wherein the
first few hours that you spend in your
week exercising vigorously or moderately
will give you the best benefits in terms
of your health importantly combinations
are fine you don't need to do all of
your exercise is vigorous so you don't
need to only run recycle or do vigorous
stuff and you don't need to only do
moderate stuff like lifting or walking
you can do a combination and you get the
same benefits importantly there is no
meaningful additional benefit if you're
already doing sufficient moderate
activity of adding in vigorous cardio in
other words if you're a recreational
lifter or even a competitive lifter like
a body butter or palesto who's getting a
good amount of steps in say six to ten
thousand steps per day and you're
lifting a few times a week there's a
good chance that actually taking a step
back just looking at overall data
adding in cordial probably won't benefit
your health or at least not to a
meaningful extent so your average lifter
who goes to the gym two to three times a
week and does maybe six to eight
thousand steps a day so he's health
conscious but he's not going out of his
way you know he's a competitive
bodybuilder he's not super health
conscious he has a normal job he has
family Etc but he's making an effort in
all likelihood based on the activity
he's doing he's nearly optimizing
himself practical takeaway here for
lifters who lift more than a few times a
week and who do a good amount of steps
is that formal cardio like adding and
cycling or StairMaster or elliptical or
running likely isn't going to benefit
your health the interesting question for
me is why this is as I said until
recently I didn't think this was the
case here's my two thoughts the first
thought I had was that generally what
you see as you age is that you kind of
want to have the best starting place
right so as you age you see a decline in
how strong you are how powerful you are
your cardio and a lot of other things
that will eventually lead to
complications in your health and could
potentially cause you to fall for
example break your hip and that can
really take an activity and then
eventually you pass away having a higher
Baseline before that decline kind of
starts I thought was a good reason as to
why doing more and getting fitter
stronger bigger Etc was going to be
beneficial however here's what I hadn't
considered this consideration actually
sprung from a conversation I had with
Greg muckles from Strawberry science
follow him great guy the adaptations you
get from a lot of lifting like doing say
more lifting than once or twice a week
or the adaptations you get from doing
cycling or running Etc likely don't
actually directly contribute to How
likely you are to survive in everyday
life you don't need the capabilities to
be able to run 10 kilometers in 40
minutes or what have you you just don't
you need some baseline adaptations you
know you need some amount of strength to
be able to set up from a chair or to
walk around in your old age but the
adaptations required to do that really
aren't that hard to get and so doing
that additional cardio past developsy
five to ten hours a week of moderate
activity or two and a half to five hours
a week of vigorous activity you just
don't really see any additional benefits
because you've already got the
adaptations you're already stimulating
the adaptations in cardiovascular
ability muscle mass Etc that you need to
survive in the age gracefully that's how
I see it now I think it makes sense
based on the data and that's how I would
view additional cardio on top of just
doing a good amount of steps lifting
weights somewhat I think that's fine to
summarize and some practical takeaways
for health if you're lifting two to
three times a week 45 to 90 minutes each
time and you're doing say between six
and eight thousand steps a day you're
getting most of the benefit on health
that you could get from activity if you
really wanted to optimize things I would
take that to lifting at least three
times a week for about 60 to 90 minutes
and doing maybe at least 10 000 steps a
day I think if you're doing that in all
likelihood you are optimizing your
health as a lifter and you don't need
additional cardio and it's likely that
additional cordial won't actually
benefit your health and there is a
chance that doing additional cardio can
actually interfere with how much muscle
mass you gain or how much strength you
gain which could be something that
you're interested in as a viewer of wolf
coaching
you feel me so if you want to see a
video on that leave a comment down below
anyways that's the video if you want to
see more videos leave a like comment
subscribe donate to be on PayPal send me
free building pay my food bills and do
more like that and if you do that I'll
be pretty happy
at any rate I will see you in that next
video peace