six percent body fat is ideal for men
that's who actually Knocks motherfucker
you better hope we don't meet in person
I'm kidding or am I
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video is about
the ultimate thing that we all want to
know
how to roughly tell your body fat or if
you're creepy like that somebody else's
body fat without any monitoring or skin
fold calipers or tape measures or dexa
scans or even without having to wait in
the apartment across from theirs with a
telescope days on end soaked in your own
juices just waiting for them to take
their clothes off yes I do understand
that it is both unethical and illegal to
do these things but we can all fantasize
so
here we go
quick caveat before we start going
through the different kinds of body fat
ranges and telling you what you can
probably expect to look like
there is quite a bit of individual
variation on how people store their fat
some people will look really lean in a
ton of their body and you're like dude
you're at 10 but they have a really well
I'll just say it fat ass or really fatty
thighs or a lot of fat in their gut
love handles Etc and then their overall
let's say they go get a dexa there's
like 12 you're like really dude you look
like you're eight well yeah but have you
seen this and they show you the love
handle and you're like haha that looks
25 I guess it makes sense with the rest
of you so that's a big deal another
thing is
nothing beats technically the MRI but
after that nothing beats the dexa and
whatever you think someone's body fat is
if they've had a dexa that's the best
answer almost always like very rarely in
some really contest conditioning
circumstances the Decks that can be a
little bit illusory and the eyeball is
better but almost never is that the case
and because of these differences and
these especially ways in which people
store their body fat when I go down this
list this is not a checklist if we have
these things we're looking for you're
this body fat type of situation it's
more of a helpful guide that makes you a
little bit less wrong and a little bit
more right
you'll notice that these are in five to
ten percent increments just to make our
discussion simpler and also make us more
likely to be correct with a bit of a
margin of error all right here we go
we're going to go through one of these
for the gentleman and then one of these
uh for the ladies what's up ladies
anyway I'm getting ahead of myself here
we go
30 plus we will not go higher than this
because then you're just
gee whiz you know
you just got a lot going on which is
sweet but there's a lot of you which is
great
thirty percent Plus
or in this case
you know 30 31 32 all the way to 35 ish
as a male you can expect in many cases
fat overhang such as your love handles
fat overhang on your lower tummy and fat
droopy fat deposits that droopy droopy
but visible grabable fat deposits under
places like your chest your lats Etc and
in most cases you don't have any visible
muscle separation so if you see someone
on World's Strongest Man and their arm
just looks like a thing that has no
separation they're probably in that
close to 30 if not higher range
absolutely a thing
dropping down to the 25 to 30 percent
body fat range in many cases probably in
most but not all the time
you might have some fat overhang but
possibly no overhang just a smooth layer
of fat especially if you're young or
have the genetics for that sort of thing
because some people store a lot of fat
in their abdomen and 25 to 30 percent
they're gonna have some overhang but
their arms are being weirdly lean at
other people store their fat more around
their whole body and then you're like
I don't look lean or not lean you just
kind of look like you're there that
might be more of a thing
if you were pretty jacked at 25 to 30
percent people can tell that you have
big dealts big arms and big legs then
they now look distinctly like they're
not made entirely of fat like if you
have a dude who's like five nine 270
pounds and is like pretty jacked but has
27 body fat you don't look at him in
especially in like a t-shirt or a tank
top and you're like that guy's just pure
fat you're like yeah I look like a
bouncer or something he's definitely got
some shit there that looks like must
20 to 25 percent you typically don't
have any more overhanging fat just kind
of the smooth fat that lies around
evenly
but there's not really any separation of
muscle subsections yet so what 20 to 25
percent you'll probably won't be able to
see your rear delts from your front
delts you won't be able to see the
different parts of your back the
rhomboids traps and lats Etc it's just
all kind of be one incrementally now
more shapely mess of muscle you're
almost certainly not going to see the
three quads forget about seeing your
hamstrings that's highly unlikely
if however you are very jacked at that
percent fat you can see your arms this
thing here start to separate a little
bit from your delts you can tell a
distinct separation because your waist
is now a little bit narrower in your
lower and upper back especially if
you're jacked enough for your lats to
flare out they won't look like lats but
they look like bigger things
you can start to tell your chest from
your lats if you're viewing from the
front and side so some kind of semblance
of shape is starting to hit us at 20 to
25 percent
at 15 to 20 fat for males
you might start to see a semblance of
shape to your midsection perhaps a few
ab-like structures at this point in a
long-term fat loss Journey if you're
starting out pretty fat when you get
into that 16 17 body fat range this is
the first time where you're like oh my
fucking god
am I seeing something that looks like
ABS it's like getting really excited to
drive to Chicago I don't know what the
fuck that would ever be exciting and you
start to see the Willis Tower or
whatever the fuck it's called now Sears
Tower back in the day like from 30 miles
away and you're like oh my fucking God I
can't tell anything but that's one big
ass building Chicago you can't see
Chicago yet but you're getting hints you
can't see your abs yet in most cases but
there's some kind of shape there a
little bump here a little thing there
the waste is coming down is starting to
look like something is happening in most
cases here you'll start to see visible
triceps so if you flex your tricep
people can tell there's like at least
two heads in there separate from the
bicep delts clearing up from the rest of
the arm and from the side especially
when flexing you can start to tell that
there's a distinct quad and a distinct
hamstring all right get in there get in
there now here's where the fun starts to
happen 10 to 15 fat in most cases
somewhere in that range most people will
have visible ABS that is to say a
six-pack which is awesome you're even
going to get a few veins here and there
sometimes people have quite a few veins
at 10 to 15 but not dependably I'll say
almost everyone will have some veins
that are visible at 10 to 15 especially
like the uh various veins on your biceps
forearms Sometimes some shit gets
through the chest some leg veins Maybe
most major muscles are now distinct from
one another people can see your lats and
generally your upper back at least is
different than your lower back they can
see that your lats are different than
your mid-back they can see your traps
perched on high by themselves delts
biceps triceps forearms you can see that
there's hamstring muscles the quads the
glutes are now generally separate from
the hamstrings there's no flow anymore
so most of the major muscle groups are
distinct from one another this is one of
the reasons not the top reason to buy a
long shot
most bodybuilders won't Mass up to
higher than 15 fat because bodybuilders
like to check their physiques to see how
their improvements are coming along in
the off season and if you can't tell
major muscle groups from one another gee
whiz you're not really bodybuilding
anymore in any straight sense so a lot
of times that 10 to 15 range you're
looking fluffy in the sense that you're
smooth but man you can definitely tell
all the muscles apart from each other
was kind of like minimum safe distance
from that uh contest prep kind of thing
and for many people not all some of the
muscle parts are going to become visible
like if you flex your quad properly
you'll have three visible surface quads
if you flex your hamstrings right and
especially if you're somebody who
doesn't store a lot of fat in the hams
you can just start to see some hamstring
details so like okay like this is a
really really exciting thing
five to ten percent
by the way as far as fractions of your
fat Mass go
imagine uh sorry let me let me finish
the thought as fractions go even though
we're going five to five percent down
each time in this list
five percent constitutes a bigger and
bigger fraction of whatever fat you have
left
so if you go from 22 to 17 definitely
look different if you go from 17 to like
12 percent you look really different if
you go from 12 to like seven percent
you're a fucking completely different
person if you go from seven percent to
like three or four percent of the dexa
You're Not a Human Being anymore so the
changes get faster and faster or more
profound looking as you get leaner
because every single five for sure
percent every single percent of body fat
represents a bigger fraction of the fat
you have left it's like you're looking
at
uh oh let's see a strength of a division
of a military that's a hundred people if
you chop off five people at a time you
know 100 people is almost the same
strength as 95 people 90 people can
still put up a good fight if you got 15
guys and you lose five of them 10 guys
is really different from 15 as far as
operational capability versus 100 to 95.
and if you got 10 guys you go down to
Five Guys oh my fucking god that's half
of your Force that's the same
impressiveness as going from 100 to 50
people on your military squad or
whatever so as you get leaner you'll be
able to see more intense changes now
it's tougher to get leaner but it's one
of these things where uh I'm basically
trying to explain the fact that we were
at 15 to 20 and it was like oh yeah
you'll see some stuff 10 to 15 you're
going pretty good folks five to ten is
where the nonsense begins and that's not
just comes out of nowhere it's the fact
that to get from 15 to 9 you've lost
like Chi whiz over a third of your
remaining body fat which is a ton of fat
so here we go five to ten percent for
male for males
veins often all over veins everywhere
clear ABS your serratus and obliques are
clearly visible the muscles are all
completely separated nothing's Lost in
Translation
many of the muscles will be strided
cross-strided when you're flexing them
when you are pumped your skin color can
change very radically it'll go from just
you being whatever color you are
especially if you're a Caucasian to like
a weird off pinkish red to other people
like what the fuck like a really lean
person in the gym they get really lean
they pull a shirt off they're like
that really like your what your skin
looks like holy shit it happens with
Naturals happens even more with enhanced
people for other various reasons but
even for natties the skin starts to look
a little different when you're that lean
when you're pumped when you're not
pumped if you're enhanced your skin
always looks weird if you're natural you
look kind of normal
at this point five to ten percent your
face really starts to get leaned for
most people and it's getting leaner the
whole time but kind of in a way that
people can tell like if you show up to
work and all of a sudden you know you
took like six weeks off to go to a
project somewhere you did a crazy diet
you came back and your co-workers have
seen you for the time and you're at
eight percent body fat they're gonna be
like
damn you look like a different person
what the hell happened to your face
that's kind of cool but holy shit so
it's a really really big deal now here's
where the insanity begins sub five
percent me personally my best dexa has
been at Five Point something so I've
never gotten here
hopefully in this next contest prep I'll
get a good whack at it just not that
many people in the world have ever
gotten here what does that look like
first of all you're riddled with veins
in most cases some people have genetics
for not so many veins but most people
have absurd veins at this point when you
are pumped or warm your veins have veins
like if you're in a warm gym or you get
into the sauna after getting a good pump
when you pull your shirt off and you're
a four percent body fat you're gonna be
like you could stare at a person for a
long time if you're like on psychedelic
mushrooms or something you're like bro
they're super highways in your shit
veins and the little veins and little
tiny veins everywhere it looks like uh
parchment paper almost you're just like
I don't know dang it fuck is going on
with your body it doesn't look normal
it's not something like where like a
typical girl will be like oh my God like
Brad Pitt so lean like in Fight Club he
looks good if you see someone who's a
four percent body fat training at your
gym and you're that girl you're not
gonna be like oh my God you're so lean
you're just gonna be like what the fuck
happen they are girls in any case who
cares that bitch thinks
cross striations will be everywhere
including your triceps in many cases
quads glutes here's the big difference
on average between people in a five to
ten percent range and people in the sub
five percent range five to ten they have
amazing situations when they Flex
sub five distractions when they flex
your nonsense but even when just walking
across the stage or walking across the
gym and they're moving their arms you
can see their tricep striations come and
go if they've got their posing trunks on
you can see their glutes stride and
unstride every step they take it's weird
you're like holy fucking shit you are
literally like pretty much out of body
fat it's nonsense at every level
the face at this point looks like death
like it doesn't look like you're lean
it's like oh like oh they look like
Willem Dafoe or Maria Shriver or
whatever like it's like clearly visible
parts of your skeleton and it just
doesn't look it looks disconcerting
their eyes are sunken in they often have
like sort of Droopy shit going on it's a
huge trip if you are Caucasian a lot of
times at this level if you have a pump
especially your veins are clearly
visible in a hue of blue so you just
like pale white motherfucker and there's
little blue things going on it's really
trippy very very exotic almost nobody
gets there but I will say for most
professional contests amateur contests
getting to the bottom of the five to ten
percent range is all you'll ever need to
do really really well this is that extra
extra you see a guy at your show that
has remotely any muscle mass and he
comes in at some five percent he's that
guy won the show because it just doesn't
look right all right
ladies
preview
the ladies will have some different
appearances because they store body fat
differently in the higher body fat
ranges but as the body fat starts to
come off they start to mirror more and
more of the responses more visual cues
that we looked for in males females will
start to get a lot of those as well
I'll put it in a more simple way when
males and females are both in that five
percent region they'll look the fucking
same they ain't no more fucking you know
sexually mediated fat tissue bitch you
don't have hips they don't have titties
when they're that fucking mean nobody
nobody's got shit anymore they're just
like stare at each other and if you put
five some five percent men and women
into a room naked usually you don't even
have any sexual relations they just
stare at each other and sit down and
just look at the wall and when food
comes in they go oh my God and that's
all that you can expect out of that sort
of thing so ladies at 30 plus often
times not always the bra and undies make
distinct fat pinches where you have fat
spillover which
nobody wants to know this but is
absolutely one of my top tier things I'm
looking for good good God Scott the
video guy talk myself into a into a into
excitement here I love it I love it lean
girls it's nice that you do this Namaste
but in any case
oh uh no visible muscle separation in
most cases a 30 plus and at this level
depending on your genetics
you can either have really big huge wide
hips and waist or sorry big huge hips
and glutes and thighs or you can have
relatively normal hips and thighs and
glutes but your waist is wide enough for
there not to be as much of an hourglass
appearance though if you want The
Hourglass shape getting a bit leaner
than 30 plus is usually a a good idea is
what you want to do to get that effect
that you want
at 25 to 30 percent for females they're
still often no clear muscle separation
people might not be able to tell that
you lift weights if you're really into
lifting weights
but your shape is coming in and your
waist generally starts to narrow
significantly versus hips this is where
in people's transformational Journeys
they start to really feel like in
clothes they look shapely and it's an
awesome super super inspirational thing
for a lot of females especially that
have been uh quite high in body fat for
a large fraction of their life the first
time they get into that 25 to 30 Zone
they're like okay okay okay okay okay ah
shit's happening for sure right 20 to 25
percent the shape starts to become
really distinct this is actually quite
lean for Roman accounting for the
secondary sexual characteristics of
breast gluteal and thigh body fat that
women have much more than males do on
average if you obviate for that it's
really much more of what a male would
look like at 15 to 20 percent so you get
a lot of shape that's distinct there's
no large fat deposits left in many cases
here outside of the breasts and glute
slash thighs and some upper body muscles
uh because females tend to have much
leaner upper bodies in the lower bodies
uh can be distinct especially when
lifting like a girl who is a 23 body fat
when she does lateral raises you're like
damn bitch got shoulders we've got
triceps and biceps and delts you can
start to see that stuff separate out a
little bit
15 to 20 for females
very likely you're getting into four
pack if not six-pack territory at this
point
your waste is starting to get really
really tight if you have really good
genetics for abs you got abs at this
point somewhere in that range in most
cases you're going to have visible
triceps delts are clearing up from the
rest of the arm if you're just relaxed
in a tank top walking around the store
people are like damn bitch got fucking
God damn who's jacked now people can
tell
um the hams and quads are now visible
separately from each other and often
separately from the glutes
technically speaking this is often the
healthiest body fat for most females to
occupy somewhere north of 15 below that
a lot of times you get cessation of the
Menses amenorrhea and all kinds of not
ideal things for the long term and it's
often the most universally attractive
like if you pull a thousand men with
different pictures of females generally
they'll pick anywhere between 15 fat to
25 fat skewed a little bit to the 15 to
20 uh as the most attractive they don't
know what the fuck they're looking for
they don't care about body fat at all
it's the shape and the look that they're
looking for most of the time the best
shape that simultaneously looks the
healthiest is available for many females
in that 15 to 20 range so without
putting too fine a point on it if you're
a female you have no competitive
aspirations and you don't want to take
the slight Health downsides of getting
much leaner than this you just want to
be fucking jacked and beautiful and hot
and live your best life a goal of
anywhere between 15 and 20 fat to just
be at or cycle around in is fucking
probably it
um
if you're a female and you're in the
fitness space A lot of times you have to
deal with the noise of the males talking
about what body fat is ideal and you'll
have like I think there's Scott's video
I think there was like a literally maybe
I don't want to put it on him but it
sounds like some shit he'd say an
athlete x video that was like seven
percent body fat is the ideal body fat
for men which by the way is a literal
nonsense seven percent you don't feel
like a man anymore you feel like a
broken machine but women will see that
and they'll be like oh my God I gotta
get to at least 10 percent and that's
not a thing because let me tell you
about what 10 has uh coming six percent
body fat is ideal for men harsh truth
exclamation point six percent body fat
is ideal for men that's who athlean X
motherfucker you better hope we don't
meet in person
I'm kidding or am I I'm kidding of
course
um that's about oh that's fucking
literal nonsense it's totally insane
there's no oh my God most good athletes
are in that 10 to 15 range depending on
the sport sometimes the eight to twelve
percent range Marathon hours can be six
percent but Jesus Christ that's the only
fucking sport you need to be that lean
in go watch D1 wrestling and tell me how
many of the guys are at six percent body
fat it's this fucking nonsense so okay
here we go
training for muscle growth
is never going to be the same
10 to 15 percent for females
you got visible ABS in most cases I mean
like almost all cases
your waist often looks very lean and
very small
you're starting to get veins that are
more prominent you really can't avoid
the veins at this body fat percent and
some women don't like the look of veins
and that's something to take into
consideration
most if not all of your major muscle
groups are very distinct from each other
you can tell delts from triceps or
biceps forms Etc
most or sorry some muscle parts will
become visible oftentimes if you have
the right genetics many muscle parts
like three visible quads hand detail Etc
the face will now start to look much
leaner than the average woman there is a
reason that bikini Olympians and figure
girls get a ton of face filler I think
it's a great look some people don't like
it but if they didn't get the face
filler they would kind of look all like
Willem Dafoe on stage which is shit
that's fucking my fantasy but you know
that's not everyone else's look what I'm
saying is is that a 10 to 15 percent in
most cases you don't look like cute
little fucking gym Bebop or bitch you
look like you're on your way to
something real serious
you do a set of rows and you turn the
guy's like
ma'am I look away or be like you getting
ready for a show this is that's the body
fat percent of people like you getting
ready for a show or do you just compete
or are you gonna do a show tomorrow
really really not the look that
describes uh many people's ideal for
feminine Health and Beauty I could give
a fuck for ideals that's all your
individual choice but just reporting
from from the statistical uh averages
here and 10 to 15 is below the roughly
15 body fat Mark below which your body
decides it's too lean to give you
periods anymore it causes a long-term uh
Slow Bone Mass loss a bunch of other
health stuff nothing crazy
you can get into this 10 to 15 fat and
even lower as a female every now and
again to do a show or really like look
ridiculous for no reason at all except
for your own perception or desire but
it's not it's not somewhere you want to
live you don't want to live there you
want to live as a female above 15 it's
kind of like in Mountaineering I forgot
what altitude it is I think maybe
eighteen thousand feet don't kill me in
the comments let me know in the comments
which the altitude but there's an
altitude above which you just yeah you
actually just can't sustain yourself as
a human the oxygen saturation isn't high
enough so like you're just timing out
like a couple months later everyone up
there dies except for like gurkhas or
some shit like that and then for them
it's like eight months for you it's four
so there's like uh altitude below that
which was like which has the highest
living human subpopulations that just
actually live at that altitude flipping
that around for females 15 on average
people get away with all kinds of weird
stuff with exceptions 15 plus is where
you want to live as a female
occasionally dipping lower if you would
like but this is officially unhealthy if
you're a female and you tell me your 11
body fat I'm very sweet what's your how
long are you gonna be here for him well
I just love living here I'll be like let
me Avail you to some of the downsides
there
five to ten percent
and some five percent for females is
almost identical to what it is for males
because all the body fats north of here
have stripped the female of almost all
if not all of her secondary sexual
characteristic fat like breast tissue
glute tissue thigh tissue now you just
look female still but you don't look
like you have a terrible affinity for
one gender or the other everyone in a
certain body fat level just looks really
fucking lean so just to review a five to
ten percent if you're female you can
expect veins pretty much all over clear
ABS serratus obliques you are going to
have completely separated muscles that
often have striations when you Flex them
your skin color is going to look trippy
when you're pumped your face looks
really really lean everyone can tell
you're not the average person anymore
and of course sub five percent which is
very difficult for females to hit
because that body fat the secondary
sexual characteristic body fat they
tries to hang around as much as possible
to keep your ass surviving uh it
eventually goes on everyone it you know
there's probably a handful of women that
have reached some five percent body fat
maybe not a handful maybe a couple
hundred over the course of competitive
bodybuilding but there are pictures of
girls which throw in there you're like
that bitch is whatever fuck she wants to
be there's zero body fat on that person
I can believe a number of three percent
that does happen I've personally me
administer to dexa to a figure
competitor that looked like the five to
ten range here and she was at seven
percent so I mean look like if she just
continued to diet for five or ten more
weeks she could have nailed four point
something so it is possible
riddled with veins
when you're pumped or warm your veins
have veins it's really freaky
crosstrations are everywhere you see a
female at four percent bite down you can
see a crosstraded masseter muscle
face looks like total death on females
it's a really trippy look because um
there's a sociological almost Universal
the the kind of puffy faced uh female I
don't mean puffy in a derogatory sense I
mean like a full healthy face it's
actually one of the universal
characteristics of attractiveness where
male male will see a woman with a full
face and think that confers not think uh
infer completely subconsciously that
that confers reproductive and youth
advantages and so it's considered
universally pretty attractive usually
the the Willem to foe face isn't
something that I think it's fucked great
but it usually doesn't fly with as many
um people of the same or opposite sex
that are attracted to people is what I'm
trying to say
um but it'll look very very profound
like if you see a male with very
distinct cheekbones and kind of like
strung out and you can see his teeth
through his face you're like yeah that
guy's fucking you know shit happens you
see a female like that you're gonna be
like holy fuck
because females are typified
statistically by a slightly higher body
fat percentage everywhere including
their face they're further away from
their own Norm when they're at sub five
percent than males are males are also
very far away but not quite as far away
right like if you saw uh a 3 000 pound
giraffe you'd be like God think that's
how much they're supposed to weigh if
you saw a 3 000 pound horse you'd be
like holy fucking shit that is really a
big horse so kind of the same idea for
females here
the face look for females short of
filler and even with filler something a
little bit missing there at some pie
percent the face looks it's a trip I
encourage you to check that out and
again if you're Caucasian female you can
see the blue in your veins and if you're
Asian or African-American or any other
race female you just look fucking absurd
in the most amazing way possible but in
a way that I must say is no longer
healthy now males generally can maintain
very good health into the sub 10 range
lower than about seven or eight percent
for most males they're gonna have
Androgen hormones start to really fall
off it's not necessarily unhealthy it
just means you lose muscle and fat for a
while longer and they don't have the
best training or the best recovery or
the best sleep or the best anything but
for females getting that lean is
particularly nasty because it shuts down
the cycle that is you know the female
period and all of the attended
consequences that that has so I don't
want to be too much of a health pretty
sure we all know what we're getting
ourselves into so to wrap this up up a
few things one
these are all averages and just guides
if someone brings you a daxa and it's a
real accident and fake it and it says
Hey like I'm 11 they're actually 11 if
they don't look eleven percent that's
your problem not theirs right then it
turns out oh yeah Mike said that
variation was pretty great
someone at 11 could look fucking stage
ready sometimes it's weird how that
happens
somebody at 11 could look like they're
17 and you're like
you're not really 11 it's like no I sure
should am a lot of times people store
body water so people can get an 11 daxa
because it sees through water to actual
tissue and you're like bullshit you're
not you're not fucking you're like 17
you're not 11 they do a water cut and
you're like oh my God would you do to
lose all that fat like nothing I didn't
do any fat loss it was one week I just
caught the water and then boom I'm
shredded I told you it was 11 yeah okay
so it is so there's a lot of stuff there
just think of these as averages another
thing
just slowly cautiously meticulously and
in phases of roughly five percent to
seven percent body fat loss at any one
time before a break get to whatever body
fat level makes you happy there's not
really any wrong answers here it's just
trade-offs none of these are better five
percent fat isn't better I've been at
just over five percent fat before they
don't give you a trophy for that you
just look at yourself in the mirror and
you're like this is cool but you don't
have any more energy to think about a
lot of stuff so you're like I'm over it
and if it's like you're jammed to be
seven percent run around and flex
everyone amazing you need that fucking
karmic therapy for your own soul get
that shit but that's not like right or
wrong answers I don't want this video to
be misconstrued as being like Oh Mike
says females should be five to ten
percent or ideally above 15 or whatever
that's all your personal judgment call
we run this channel for adults you're
all adults you're all smart you're all
responsible make intelligent choices
check in when you're doing a contest
prep with some sort of healthcare
provider get your blood work done don't
do anything stupid and be smart and
enjoy your life and everybody five
percent because at the end of the day
maybe if aliens come down you're like
yeah we don't like that person because
they're too fat they're going to be like
what the fuck is wrong with you guys and
you don't want to piss off the aliens
they have phaser guns
yeah
in any case if you like more nerdy stuff
folks
we have a members channel members part
of this channel that has extra videos
every week for usually more nerd-like
content deep into the throes of sport
physiology we also have the team full
ROM Forum that is that next level of
nerdiness and you can get all of your
questions about training and diet
answered we can actually look at
pictures of your body in our forum and
give you some combination of advice on
what to do next and just like snide
criticisms like yeah you look okay dot
dot I'm kidding we're all super positive
super supporting tons of diet stuff tons
of training stuff in there it's all one
low monthly fee of nine trillion dollars
it's gonna come down with inflation uh
if you like that that's all Below in the
comments or sorry in the description get
in the comments tell us what you think
tell us wrong tell us you hate us tell
us you love us just say something like
comment subscribe see you guys next time