what is going on everyone just out here
for a walk in downtown Kelowna British
Columbia Canada and I've actually just
got the lav mic on and I'm here on the
cellphone for this video I just wanted
to do kind of a casual off-the-cuff walk
and talk video I'm so in this video I'm
gonna lay out my top five reasons for
why everyone men and women should want
big gluts before we dig into all that
what I want to do first is just quickly
recap what the four primary functions of
the glutes are so the main function the
glutes perform is hip extension so
basically driving your hips forward kind
of like you would in a deadlift or in a
hip thrust and then the other three are
they also perform hip abduction so you
want to think of this like being
abducted so when I hear another word
abduction I think about being abducted
by aliens so being like taken away I'm
so hip abduction would be like pushing
your knees apart removing them away from
the midline and then they also do hip
external rotations like pointing your
toes outward and then posterior pelvic
tilt so you just want to keep those
functions in mind now something that I
found really interesting
I remember reading this in the book
sapiens by Evolver re and it's this fact
that I suppose in fact that humans
actually evolved such big glute muscles
and it was because of this evolution
that allowed us to stand upright and be
able to walk around on our own two legs
in the first place now apparently this
idea has come under scrutiny by some
more recent literature which says that
it's kind of more like a chicken and an
egg scenario so it isn't necessarily the
case that we evolved these big gluts
which then allowed us to stand upright
was more so the other way around we kind
of evolved an ability to stand upright
independently and then developed really
big gluts compared to our Abe ancestors
as a result but in any case whatever way
the causality goes I would say that
having big gluts is really part of what
makes us uniquely human
but with that aside I would say that my
number one reason why the glutes are so
important and why everyone
should want big ones is because of
aesthetics being a bodybuilding channel
I guess this is a somewhat central to me
but I think that if you just look at
really any physique athlete having
well-developed glutes will really
improve that overall appearance of
muscularity I think there's no better
example of this than Ronnie Coleman I
mean if you just look at his glutes
it's just absolutely insane the level of
definition and muscularity there and I
think it just really commands attention
in all of his back poses and his side
poses and I also remember when I was at
the NPC Nationals watching the classic
physique division there last year in
Miami
I remember seeing a lot of the
competitors that did the best or place
the best also happened to have the best
glute development this could have been a
coincidence but I don't think that
that's the case
I mean with some of these guys even when
when they'd face the front you could
tell that they were quite muscular but
then when they would turn to the side
and back on they'd almost completely
disappear and it's this lack of glute
development I think that contributes to
this effect even if they have really big
quads you can see that when they turn to
the side there's just no real density or
balance to the muscle I mean the same
thing is of course true in the bikini
division and there's probably no better
example of this then former miss bikini
olympia ashley cult Wasser
stuff and i've been watching her vlogs
lately and I'm just blown away by the
attention to specificity when it comes
to her glute training and just how much
volume and intensity she manages to pack
in for that muscle group it's been
really kind of impressive to watch
so from an aesthetic point of view I'd
say it's huge when it comes to physique
competitors but it doesn't actually stop
there
I'm just recreational trainees or people
who just want to be more jacked in
general yeah
I think should focus on their glue
training because if you're just out
walking around and closed so you've got
on a pair of jeans or shorts or whatever
the glutes really are going to enhance
that parents of muscularity especially
from the side and from back on and when
you think about it your side angles and
your rear angles constitute
three-quarters of your total angles so I
would say most people are going to be
looking at you from these directions and
so if you don't have a well-developed
set of glutes you're definitely not
maximizing your muscular appearance by
any means and then also just on an
attractiveness scale there's a actually
quite a big body of research looking
into why it is that men find glutes
attractive on women and I remember
reading an old Brett Contreras article
where he kind of wrote that due to the
increase in popularity of denim jeans
and the subsequent advertising campaigns
that kind of focused on the but the but
probably will soon surpassed the breasts
as the primary sexual characteristic and
then there's actually a lot less
research on why women find muscular
glutes attractive in men but I have seen
from these like online surveys and
interviews that women do in fact find it
to be attractive and there seems to be
kind of a sweet spot so it may not be
the case that women just like more
muscle but there's probably somewhere in
between say a flat butt and then like
Ronnie Coleman's but that women find
most attractive probably a good example
would be Captain America his glute
development really makes him just move
and a much more attractive way and from
what I've heard I think it's a very
attractive feature to women so anyway
number two for me has to do with
performance and I'm just going to focus
on the squat and the deadlift here now
we know that from EMG research the squat
actually trains the quads much more than
the glutes but I don't think that should
be misinterpreted as saying that the
glutes aren't trained at all by the
squat when you think about the squat you
basically have two main biomechanical
functions being trained
extension and knee extension so the
quads take care of the knee extension
component then you have two primary hip
extensors that take care of the hip
extension component and those are the
hamstrings and the glutes now we know
from EMG research that the hamstrings
are actually pretty much silent during
the squat so they're not really active
at all because they're lengthening at
the knee joint while shortening at the
hip joint simultaneously but the glutes
actually contribute quite a lot to hip
extension in the squat and so if you
have weak glutes I don't think you can
really maximize your squatting potential
by any means and I don't think it's any
coincidence that at the very high level
the best power lifters tend to have very
big glutes in fact I've been to dozens
of powerlifting meets and I don't think
I've ever seen
a high-level athlete who has an
impressive squat have a flat butt so I
don't think that's any coincidence now
you could say that maybe it's the fact
that they do so much dead lifting and it
is true that because of biomechanical
differences the deadlift does involve
more of the glutes than the squat does
but still that kind of plays into my
point that if you're going to be doing
these hip extension based exercises
you're going to want to have good glute
development so you can maximize your
strength and performance on this
actually goes way further than just the
squat and the deadlift I think that the
glutes play a critical role in upper
body exercises as well probably pretty
much every lower body exercise except
for some isolation stuff but even upper
body movements like the overhead press
because the glutes play such a
fundamental role in stabilizing the
pelvis and then the core by extension if
you don't have well-developed strong
glutes for these movements you're just
simply not going to be maximizing your
performance okay so reason number three
has to do with reducing injury risk
having well-developed glutes does reduce
your risk of injury but I'm going to
focus on two primary examples and those
are me valgus and the swap and lower
back rounding in the deadlift I'm going
to talk about how the glutes contribute
to both of those so knee valgus if
you're not familiar with it it's
basically when your knee
do this on the squat so they cave in
together this is actually a
controversial topic first of all it's
not perfectly clear what causes an eval
guess in every case that's probably
highly individual and then it's also not
perfectly clear whether or not it's
dangerous seems to be the case that most
experts agree that it can contribute to
knee pain but in very highly advanced
elite level power lifters and weight
lifters because they're able to control
their knee valgus so well it may not be
quite as injurious but for more
recreational lifters I think knee valgus
is especially when exaggerated a
negative thing and when you think about
it I think it's pretty obvious how the
glutes can contribute to correcting this
so remember that the glutes are that two
secondary functions of the glutes are
hip abduction and hip external rotation
and when you think about what's
happening when you have knee valgus is
basically the opposite so you have hip
internal rotation and hip adduction so
the knees are coming in and rotating in
so if you have powerful glutes and
they're performing hip external rotation
and hip abduction to counteract that
then that should be able to kind of
correct that Technic error now it could
be the case that you simply have
overpowering adductor muscles so these
muscles on the inside of your thigh
could be taking over and forcing the
knees in which does have some literature
supporting it but still it seems to me
that if you do simply get the glute
muscles especially the glue medius
muscle more involved on the squat then
it should help keep the knees out and I
think this is the reason why you see so
many power lifters putting a hip circle
around their knees and using that to
train the knees to stay out while
squatting that's because it is
corrective for this potentially
dangerous knee valgus now the other
potential issue when it comes to safety
is lower back rounding you know again
this is another bit of a controversial
area it's not perfectly clear whether or
not upper back rounding is quite as
unsafe most of the experts and most of
the best coaches seem to agree that some
level of upper back rounding is probably
okay and I actually do this myself if
you watch me deadlift and that's just
because of the
actual curvature of the spine but lower
back dead lifting is actually considered
to be quite problematic especially under
heavy load and so I think you want to
avoid it if you want to lift as safely
as possible I think the reason why a lot
of people round their lower back when
they deadlift especially very heavy is
because your glutes aren't strong enough
to fully contribute to the hip extension
portion of the movement so you have to
combine hip extension with spinal
extension so basically some of your back
muscles and directors that have to
extend the spine have to come into play
in order to get the weight up because
your glutes aren't strong enough to bear
the load on their own so by
strengthening the glutes getting them
more involved on the deadlift I think
you reduce this risk of injury from
excessive lower back rounding my reason
number four is going to be overall
athleticism
so I remember reading an old Brett
Contreras article another one where he
basically said that pretty much every
athletic movement that you can think of
is very heavily influenced by the glutes
and I've seen some research showing that
when it comes to sprinting the glutes
are actually far more important than the
quads in terms of driving the body
forward and from what I've heard from
MMA fighters and coaches and the glutes
actually play a very big role in
striking ability and that's because so
much of that striking power comes from
rotation at the hips so when you have
stronger glutes you just have so much
more rotational power and I've heard
from people who have started
incorporating more glue training into
their programming and they're just able
to punch so much harder so anyway
whatever your athletic goal is there's a
very high likelihood that direct glute
training is going to benefit you and the
number 5 is kind of related to the
safety thing but it's that having strong
well-developed glutes will help improve
your posture the main reason why people
suffer from postural maladies is because
we spend so much time sitting down this
is just one factor obviously like
everything it's multifactorial now but
sitting down all the time definitely
doesn't help and I think it can
contribute to what's been termed sleepy
glutes so basically your glutes are not
active when you're exercising or just
otherwise I were walking around and I
think that because the glutes play such
a fundamental role in hip extension and
then by extension maintaining an upright
torso I think that strengthening the
glutes will kind of help build that
postural base of support from the bottom
up and then this of course will have you
not only looking more confident but also
will help reduce instances of lower back
pain and according to quite a lot of
research not only does glute development
and glute strengthening help fix lower
back pain that already exists and it's
also rehabilitative so if you have lower
back pain strengthening the glutes will
likely help reduce the symptoms from
that so that said those are my top five
reasons for why everyone should want a
big butt hopefully I've convinced you
her hopefully at least there was some
negative information that you took away
from this and I figured now would be a
great time to let you guys all know that
my girlfriend Stephanie and I we've
finally released our women's
specialization program so this is a full
body training routine with a special
focus on the glutes and so it's all
based on all of our scientific reading
and research and so everything is all
back with a full list of references so
I'll have more information about that in
the description box below if you'd like
to check it out I think it's going to be
$29.99 for the first week of launch and
then it'll go up to $39.99 from there so
if you are interested go check it out
supports me and you can get to your
glute goals in the process so thank you
guys so much for watching I don't forget
to leave me a like if you enjoyed the
video or if you learned something
I don't forget to subscribe if you
happen to be new and I'll see you guys
all here in the next video if we get
into trouble all you need to do is feels
like I'm wearing nothing at all nothing
at all nothing at all stupid slander the
worst pain