doctor pack Here original doctor real
doctor Hospital certified is something
that I am not and I am not a physici
nice try Matrix we back at it again back
with another video on hey will you ever
stop making games and the answer
unfortunately
is maybe a bit to an extent depends but
we're here to talk about it we're here
to talk science data Instagram phds as
they call us down days cuz hey it's bad
to communicate stuff to people for free
I sincerely apologize for the free
videos that you can watch at your own
will and the studies that we're doing
for free I am really really sorry I
apologize for looking into things muscle
growth and strength related as exercise
scientists I am so sorry so that ADHD
Rand
side we recently and by we I mean myself
and the good doctor real doctor Milo
wolf we were part of a paper that looked
at strength changes I'm not sure why I'm
speaking like this strength changes in
powerlifting strength over time using
the openpowerlifting.org database
essentially a database where all
powerlifting competitions obviously from
all over the world are logged including
individual lifts Mist lifts federations
whether age classes everything
everything is there for many years and
what we did we essentially looked at how
powerlifting strength changes over time
and we looked at thousands and thousands
of lifters and we looked at Decades of
data and what we found was that during
the first years of powerlifting
participation and namely the first
couple of years there's an increase of
around 7.5 to
12.5% over Baseline over Baseline total
um where power lifters make a [ __ ] ton
of gains they get substantially stronger
the first two years keep in mind that
obviously most powerlifters um I would I
would bet 99.9% of powerlifters did not
go to powerlifting competition untrained
and did powerlifting for the first time
ever they probably did a couple of years
or a year of some form of resistance
training so it's likely that they've
gained some strength during those first
two years but first 2 years 7.5 to 12.5%
increase in strength and over the next
10 years they gained the same amount of
strength but across 10 years so things
massively plateaued after the first 2
years this is similar to what we found
when we had access to again thousands
and thousands of individuals worth of
data from a gym chain in the Netherlands
called fit 20 which essentially does 20
minutes of resistance training per week
uh that's their Motel so we had access
to 7 years worth of data from I think
14,000 participants and the trend that
was observed with the powerlifting data
was also seen there first couple of
years strength in a plethora of
exercises six exercises if I recall
correctly went up by around 30 to 50%
above Baseline and then capped at 50 to
60% over Baseline after 7 years now if
powerlifters meaning individuals who
dedicate their training solely on
improving their one repetion maximum
strength at some point heavily plateau
and obviously as age increases and we
get into age classes in the you know
over 60s and stuff we also see some
decrease slight decrease and I will
touch on that in a second but if
powerlifters who are like super
dedicated and increasing their strength
experience these sort of plateaus is
there hope for muscle gain and muscle
strength for the average lifter and the
harsh reality of things is that it's
likely it's very very likely that things
for muscle growth look the same it's
it's not very likely that's the case I'm
not sure why I'm being hesitant here you
are not going to suddenly um add slabs
and slabs and slabs of muscle on your
physique after 3 4 years of solid
training yes you can still make
substantial gains and gains that are
visually noticeable but as far as
absolute values go you're not going to
be adding 10 and 20 kilos of muscle mass
unless you've been training like dog
[ __ ] keep in mind I'm assuming that
you're not in some form of like an
extreme deficit and you're eating enough
protein and you're sleeping and all that
so in this imaginary sort of scenario if
you've been training for 3 years the
majority of your muscle gains and again
majority doesn't mean you're not going
to make progress and you're not going to
look better after another 5 years of
lifting but the base will be built
during those first years now this is not
to make you gloomy or to make you not
want to push yourself hard but rather to
manage expectations and understand that
Lifting for the love of lifting will be
need to become the name of the game at
some point in your life so if you're one
of these individuals who's overly
fixated and who has used steroid up
Elite genetic freaks as what's possible
for their natural physique for their
average genetic natural physique and
you're constantly fixated over growing
massively seeing yourself be a different
person in the span of 12 weeks or
hitting insane alltime PRS although
you're pretty strong already at least
you know you're above average strength
for powerlifting standards and you've
been training for some time it's
important to manage your expectations
because it's likely that you're not
missing out on anything major in your
training that is holding you back back
from making those gains cuz simply it's
not possible to suddenly make those
insane gains relatively deep in your
training career if you've been doing
everything right again huge gains does
not mean meaningful gains small gains
start becoming meaningful after a
certain point look at natural
bodybuilders like Eric Helms who
recently won his Pro card he posted a
picture and it should be up on the
screen now where he Compares his
physique to his previous comp a trained
ey can see differences if you show that
to an average person on the street or an
average gym goer they may even say that
the after picture looks better than the
before they may not see any differences
but for him those slight changes are
meaningful and the same goes with
strength for me personally I am
currently my deadlift is a
287.50 kilos future self you better be
watching back at this and thinking nice
F you did it you finally hit 300
lifetime goal let's [ __ ] go hopefully
I can use this footage for the 300 kilo
deadlift video that I will make one day
but I digress 287 kilo deadlift around
634 lb I am chasing a 12 kilo to PR and
I'll be chasing it for some time back in
the day at 12 kilo PR was a matter of
you know a few weeks of pushing the
deadlift I same with the squad I
literally broke alltime PRS every every
other week when I was pushing the sad as
a young 21y old but at this stage when I
hit a 300 kilo deadlift I'm not going to
be disappointed I'm going to be
extremely happy because that small
change at this stage is very meaningful
to me so the same goes for muscle growth
I posted a picture where I show my arm
transformation over the span of 2 and
1/2 years 2 and 1/2 years off direct arm
workor significant increases in training
volume um for direct arm workor volume
calorie Surplus for maybe a year and a
significant change in body weight I
gained at least 5 kilos of body weight
in the span of that year many people
that are from my background saw the
picture and said oh nice you made some
gains others were like it's the same
picture keep in mind both pictures were
taken with the same conditions I had a
pump in the before picture cuz we were
just doing uh chin-ups in the park
during
Co but and all that to say that I don't
disagree with the people that did not
see a difference cuz really we're
talking about small differences it's
meaningful to me and I can see that yep
we have gained some size there but at
the same time my perception and my
definition of meaningful is much
different than what it was when I first
started and that's again the point of
this video as you're advancing in
training age you can still hit alltime
PRS you can still gain muscle and you
can still transform your physique to a
level that will be impressive for you
but it's important to manage your
expectations and not expect that you're
all of a sudden going to gain 10 20
kilos of muscle over the course of 6
months simply because you're super
dedicated and you're really pushing
yourself hard keep in mind I'm referring
to Natural lifters choose variations for
lifts to work on so you can keep
training interesting I aim to get a PR
whenever I can on every exercise
including things like light pull Downs
lateral raises tricep extensions
whatever however I am not upset that I
did not manage to hit a alltime PR
single on the deadlift or the overhead
press because I'm relatively strong at
those lifts I've been training them for
a while and at the moment I understand
that hey I can get my alltime PR of 300
kilos eventually but I will have to work
for those 10 12 kilos which back in the
day could literally come from one week
to the other even even though even
though back then I was still you know
deadlifting four four and a half plates
the data for long-term changes in muscle
growth and strength point at the idea
that things will slow down after a
certain point and that's fine lift for
the love of lifting give it your all
just don't fall in the Trap of being
upset that you're not breaking all sorts
of Records all the time thank you so
much for watching don't forget to like
subscribe and visit our official
Pharmacy SL hosp which is not a pharmacy
or a hospital but rather it's nothing
cuz I'm not going to give you my
location psych nice try you are getting
ready with your notepad to dox me and
ruin my life but for D chess here I am
you're watching more more video time
more money for me H we win again anyways
like subscribe hit the notification icon
and I'll see you guys next
time
m