in this video we're examining the
updated scientific literature on the
health benefits of combining cardio and
resistance training whether cardio kills
muscle and strength gains and advice
about how to go about combining cardio
and resistance training
[Music]
cardiovascular fitness tends to have
strong correlations with lowering
all-cause mortality a 2018 cohort study
found a higher VO2 max was associated
with lower mortality risk resistance
training also provides health benefits
and can help preserve fast twitch fiber
contractile functionality something
aerobic training may not be as effective
for resistance training also has been
associated with lowering all cause
mortality to varying degrees overall
combining cardio and resistance training
likely has added benefits a 2019
meta-analysis indicates resistance
training alone was associated with a 21
decrease in risk of all cause mortality
while cardio plus resistance training
was associated with a 40 decrease in
risk of all cause mortality however many
have the concern that cardio kills
muscle and strength adaptations let's
assess if this is really a concern
traveling back to the 1980s a study by
Hixson seems to be the origin of the
interference effect the idea cardio
kills games Dr Hixson had a strength
Group Training their lower body five
times a week an endurance group
performed cardio six times per week and
a combined group that performed both the
strength and endurance training after 10
weeks the combined groups or lower squat
strength gains than the strength group a
major consideration is the training was
quite extreme subjects lifted five times
a week and performed cardio six days a
week the fact that combined groups saw a
decrease in their strength Midway
through the study May allude to them
being over trained what has the research
on combining cardio and resistance
training found since in 2012 a
meta-analysis combined the data of all
the current studies up to that time and
found when compared to resistance
training only combining cardio and
resistance training did produce lower
magnitudes of strength and muscle growth
many of the studies in this analysis
were not as Extreme as the Hixson study
involving more typical resistance and
cardio training frequencies so at face
value this 2012 study would seem to
confirm the interference effect cardio
impaired gains there are also
speculations that cardio training
produces an intracellular signaling
response that directly inhibits the
anabolic response from resistance
training but the research has progressed
since
[Music]
speculation that cardio produces a
signaling response that directly
inhibits the anabolic response from
resistance training animal studies
support this human studies fail to
support this and demonstrate that these
signaling pathways are complex and not
mutually exclusive as for the long-term
research a recent meta-analysis combined
the data from the updated literature and
found that combining cardio and
resistance training did not lead to
lower strength and muscle growth versus
resistance training only importantly a
subgroup analysis on the studies on
trained individuals did not change
things muscle and strength gains were
not lowered when combining cardio and
resistance training for them another
2022 meta-analysis likewise found whole
muscle growth was unimpacted by
combining cardio with resistance
training so the updated scientific
literature indicates cardio doesn't
interfere with muscle and strength gains
as much as once thought rather
adaptations essentially are not
compromised
by no means am I saying cardio training
will never ever impact muscle and
strength context matters most of the
studies included in the new
meta-analysis involved pretty moderate
amounts of cardio and resistance
training cardio training for two to four
times a week for 20 to 45 minutes a
session with resistance training for two
to four times a week with three to four
exercises per muscle group for a few
sets each so it's under these conditions
cardio training has little impact on
muscle and strength gains under more
extreme conditions things almost
certainly change prepping for a
bodybuilding competition while also
prepping for a marathon probably
involves the interference effect
following David Goggins running and
cycling routine while prepping for a
power lifting meet probably involves the
interference effect too remember the
1980 Hixson study alludes to this high
frequency cardio and resistance training
impaired squat strength gains another
consideration is your resistance
training experience we mentioned in one
of the 20 2022 meta-analyzes a subgroup
analysis on trained individuals still
indicated combining cardio with
resistance training did not compromise
muscle and strength gains yet these
trained individuals were mostly not
highly trained as hypothesized in the
2017 review the interference effect may
become more pronounced in highly trained
individuals as a final point for this
section we've only been discussing
muscle and strength gain so far but for
those interested in power adaptations
the 2012 meta-analysis as well as one of
the updated 2022 meta-analyzes indicate
power adaptations are quite known to be
compromised when combining cardio and
resistance training so if you're someone
who Sprints jumps or performs Explosive
Lifting like Olympic lifting there's a
good chance combined cardio training
will notably diminish your gains with
these things
cardiovascular training can generally be
classed as high intensity interval
training or continuous training high
intensity interval training alternates
between periods of intense exercise with
less intense recovery periods continuous
training involves exercising at a steady
intensity for a duration both will
generally improve your cardiovascular
fitness but the precise adaptations
likely differ between them as detailed
in this article
from a long-term perspective combining
both with perhaps a disproportionate
emphasis on continuous training
ultimately probably produces overall
better endurance adaptations
nevertheless some may be wandering from
a muscle and strength gain perspective
is it better to perform high intensity
interval training or continuous training
in the updated meta-analyzes mentioned
both high intensity interval training
and continuous training were involved in
the various studies and we know the
results indicated combining these things
with resistance training didn't
compromise muscle or strength gains
however quite interestingly one of the
meta-analyzes found that when looking at
fast and slow twitch fiber growth
specifically combining high intensity
interval training with resistance
training did compromise growth versus
resistance training only this wasn't the
case when combining continuous training
with resistance training slow and fast
Stitch fiber growth was similar in this
case to resistance training only this is
paradoxical since the same meta-analysis
found with whole muscle hypertrophy
neither high intensity interval trading
nor continuous training compromised
gains how can whole muscle size be
unimpacted by combining high intensity
interval training or continuous training
with resistance training but fiber
growth is impaired by combining high
intensity interval training specifically
with resistance training this is a
common problem in the research muscle
fiber growth measurements don't always
agree or strongly correlate with whole
muscle hypertrophy changes and I believe
we should be cautious of the muscle
fiber growth data to assess this
biopsies must be taken and they can only
look at a very small number of muscle
fibers so it's not always representative
of all muscle fibers on top of this if
you take multiple biopsies from the same
person the size of their slow and fast
pitch fibers can vary quite a bit this
can render the measurement unreliable
since different biopsies are taken
before and after a study to measure the
growth of the muscle fibers as a result
I would not use this data to demonstrate
high intensity interval training
specifically can kill muscle growth the
overall evidence still indicates whole
muscle hypertrophy isn't compromised by
adding either high intensity interval
training or continuous training again
the context of these studies matter
moderate volumes of resistance and
cardio training were mainly involved
there is a case to me made that high
intensity interval training is more
fatiguing than continuous training so
with more extreme volumes of training an
individual may prefer more continuous
training to keep recovery in check
we've yet to discuss whether a person
should perform cardio and resistance
training in the same session or in
separate training sessions the updated
meta-analyzes involves studies
performing cardio and resistance
training in the same session as well as
different sessions and given the overall
analyzes indicated no interference
effect this data might suggest it does
not matter if cardio is performed in the
same or different session however if we
isolate studies done on trained
individuals and then perform an analysis
on performing the cardio in the same or
different sessions which was done by a
different 2021 meta-analysis strength
gains are lowered when performing cardio
in the same session but not when
performing it in different sessions
muscle hypertrophy measures won't
assessed with this analysis but I
presume performing cardio and resistance
training in different sessions is
probably going to be more favorable
overall for trained folks so if it's
practical for you I would recommend it
if you have no choice but to perform
cardio and distance training in the same
session I'd recommend performing your
resistance training first before cardio
since if you do the reverse of this
fatigue from the cardio session has an
increased likelihood of impairing the
energy effort and thus stimulus you can
produce with resistance training we also
haven't discussed the mode of cardio the
two most common being running and
cycling the updated meta-analyzes
involve studies using both cycling and
running and subgroup analyzes on either
of these did not change the results
suggesting both cycling and running are
fine now running involves higher muscle
damage than cycling and this could be an
issue if you're performing High volumes
of aerobic training but with moderate
volumes of overall training it's
probably not an issue as implicated by
the updated meta-analyzes it's also
worth mentioning your body does produce
adaptations that make you resilient to
muscle damage turn the repeated bow
effect so the awful amount of damage
you'll experience from running should
decrease over time ultimately I do
encourage individuals to experiment and
find what's suitable for them
[Music]
combining cardio and resistance training
can provide tremendous health benefits
as nicely described by the folks over at
Stronger by science the interference
effect is becoming less scary by the day
updated meta-analyzes fail to observe
muscle and strength are interfered with
additional cardio training now modular
overall volumes of training were largely
used in the studies and subjects were
far from highly trained its presumable
higher overall volumes of training and
being highly trained increases the
probability of the interference effect
occurring yet I am skeptical even in
these situations that the interference
effect would be as large as a lot of
people think it would be if it's
practical it's probably more favorable
to perform cardio and resistance
training in separate sessions remember
things like nutrition sleep and stress
levels are important dialing these
things in will presumably lower the
magnitude of any potential interference
effect lastly I do encourage individuals
to not be afraid of experimenting around
and figuring out what works for them
if you'd like to support the house of
hypertrophy consider checking out Alpha
progression a truly unique and advanced
fitness app I've partnered up with you
can add your own program or use their
custom workout generator that produces
excellent programs you can paradise reps
and reserves and sets and schedule
deload weeks the custom workouts can
still be edited to your liking workouts
can be tracked live and the app
generates solid progression
recommendations across sessions it has a
clean design with a database of more
than 450 exercises with great text and
video tutorials aesthetic graphs can
track virtually any measure across time
like bench press strength number of
workouts a week body weight and even set
numbers per muscle group and
circumference measures of body regions
the link in the comments and description
takes you to the app and by using this
link you'll have two weeks free of all
its features plus 20 off a yearly or
monthly subscription if you do purchase
the app House of hypertrophy will get 50
so this sincerely helps support these
free videos thank you finally I have a
free Ultimate Guide to bench pressing
ebook that covers these areas feel free
to get it in the link in the comments
and description
[Music]