of that you twerk it on the dance of
that you twerk it on Twerk It of that
girl you twerking it on The Dan flow
That You Twerk It twerking it on the
flow twerking it on the danow twerking
it on The Dan flow twerking it
on all right so because Jeff felt really
awkward in in the grocery store filming
our groceries actually it was pretty
awkward so we decided that we would just
um come home and then
kind of show a video of everything we
got laying on our table um as for our
typical grocery run so um this week we
last week we bought a whole bunch of
chicken cuz it was on sale so we didn't
have to get any more we froze that so
the meats that we got this time were
some lean ground beef and I'm going to
make chili out of that so we bought some
chili seasoning chili pea and some red
kidney beans I put a couple cans of
those in and then also some just like
plain crushed tomatoes and then I just
season that myself and make the the
chili and then we also
got some
jamb some
ham tupy style ham it's just cheaper
like obviously we can't like the
sandwich meat is so thin that if you
want any protein on your sandwich like
you're going to need to use a whole pack
so it gets pretty expensive when it's
like $5 a sandwich so we just buy uh
like blocks of ham like that when it's
on
sale and then we also got like a
precooked rotisserie chicken cuz I'm
going to make some uh chicken stew and I
need the bones to make the broth so we
bought some little baby carrots and baby
potatoes and baby onions so that I can
make that and then also some local uh
herbs which is summer Savory and that
makes it taste really
num and as for the fruit that we
normally get we get it like we kind of
just buy what's on sale that week so it
gives us like a pretty good variety of
fruit and kind of like allows us to
change out what we normally get so Jeff
will tell you guys yeah we normally just
get most of our fruit from pop turrets
so 10% real fruit in the filling is what
it says on the box but in low of our
lack of Pop turrets because we smashed
them all and because they wer on sale we
got grapes
uh this big thing of peaches which I
hope these are good because that's a lot
of peaches yeah they were on sale and we
haven't had peaches in a while and then
these look like fresh picked
strawberries those are going to get
noan uh local strawberries or wild
strawberries they're we they were on
sale they were kind of a treat but
they're they taste way better than like
California strawberries no offense
California and then
bananas I usually eat I us usually eat a
banana a day usually
um that's it for fruit and a note on the
bananas as you can see they're really
beat up we actually uh don't have a car
because we live like in the very like
downtown inner city so we walk to get
our groceries and we just kind of use it
as a little bit of extra list SL
exercise so they get beat up in our
backpacks if you wondering yeah and I I
advised my clients to get at least two
servings of fruit fruits and two
servings of veggies per day I haven't
been doing so well in that department
since the competition so we load it up
on stuff today and I'm going to try to
hit my goal of a fruit or sorry two
fruits two veggies per day and try to
mix up the colors too so we got some red
ones we got some red fruits uh some
orange stuff uh carrots and then some
green stuff so vitamin A is something a
lot of people are deficient in and we
got some we got whole eggs here's some
whole eggs so that you can get some more
fat soluble vitamins from the yolks
sorry go ahead anyway I was saying a lot
of people are deficient in vitamin A
because they don't eat enough red and
orange stuff um and whole eggs are
actually a source of vitamin A too so if
you have those then that's another good
way to get that in hence why I brought
them oh is that why you're
brought uh sorry to steal your Spotlight
there what else what else do we get um
yeah we we always get a whole bunch of
egg whites especially if they're like on
sale we'll just stock up um groceries
are really expensive in Canada like the
Americans like you guys have it so good
like food is a really big expense here
and then there's tax on top of
everything that isn't fresh produce so
yeah we we kind of do have to like watch
our grocery bill and make sure that
we're trying to buy a lot of our stuff
on sale and if something is on sale
we'll stock up um and yeah so we got
some uh Cream of Wheat cuz uh it gives
us something a little different than
oats in the morning and the general
theme of our groceries is to like we
were trying to buy cleaner Foods because
like quote unquote clean I guess you
should say healthier foods uh just
because we are finding it kind of
difficult to stick to our macros post
show so if we only keep like the
healthier options in in the hose it
might make it it a little bit easier on
us so want to tell about your smart and
then oh yeah so this is this is
currently my favorite bread and it's
pretty Macer friendly 150 cows in two
slices uh unlike the quimo bread I was
eating had 130 I think in one slice uh
so you can get a bit more bang for your
buck with this one and uh it's just
white bread but it's it's enhanced so
it's got a bunch of enhanc micros in it
juicy bread
exactly so that's it for that we got got
four four Lo they were on sale we're
going to freeze some our our bread
freeze is pretty good in our freezer
pretty well and then we got sucos which
is Splenda the knockoff version mhm and
then we also got some Greek yogurt so we
got a bigger container of that just to
cut down on the cost and it lasts a long
time in the fridge if you just store it
in the cold part of the fridge so yeah
that's our groceries oh look look at
here we got some sugar fre jam and I
think that's
everything so yeah our clean
groceries clean clean clean clean clean
clean
[Music]