[Music]
my name is Annie Thorisdottir and we are
about two weeks out of the cross a games
the world championships in CrossFit and
I'm gonna let you guys follow me and see
what I'm eating with the RP diet app for
one day
breakfast is my favorite meal of the day
I really like fried eggs and I love
oatmeal Raven having the same breakfast
for two or three years now
we have actually quite a lot of fat in
breakfast but then between our training
sessions we try to limit the fat and
have less about there and then the
evening we have a little bit more fat we
don't get quite enough protein from the
eggs either we have egg whites or we
just add a little bit of protein and
this is my morning drink
it's greens lemon juice and crafting I
don't feel like I eat enough greens
during the night feel like I'm starting
the day the right way Sun off day and
we're heading to the gym for some active
recovery feel like yeah even on off days
I need to move around a little bit just
warm up stretch and make sure that I'm
ready for the rest of the week
[Music]
I drink carbs in training and that is
around 50 yeah usually 50 grams of carbs
that are doing and training on recovery
days depending on what kind of recovery
how long it is I go anywhere from 30 to
45 grams on those days and then
immediately after training I mix myself
up protein shake 20 to 25 grams of
protein I think it's crazy that I didn't
start doing this earlier and it's made
such a big difference for me just
maintaining energy in my training
session huge difference and I feel like
it helps like with my recovery today
after because I have something that I'm
fitting my body with
[Music]
the meal that I have right after
training is gonna be the one that's the
highest in March so usually treat myself
with one wrap and then I have the rest
in rice and then obviously I have some
like apples and tomatoes and stuff in
there but my post training meal is 60
grams of carbs four ounces of protein
and then one serving of peanut butter so
we get chicken beef and sweet potatoes
sent from trifecta and you just know
it's good quality and then we can spice
it up or mix it however we want to this
is actually made such a big difference
having that many meals a day not having
to make the meat every time it's a day
off and we play Mario Kart at least once
a day
well a training camp
[Music]
No
[Music]
[Music]
oh well I took third I'm not crushing it
with this egg cheese and edit that this
is usually how it goes for my first
dinner or afternoon meal I have 45 grams
of carbs 25 grams of protein and one
serving of fat and we just had start
fried rice with vegetables and stuff and
some chicken and usually like on a
training day this would be higher carp
going up to 60 and carps but since this
arrest day and then the carts are a
little bit lower for me
now we are heading to under lock Sports
Park
I think it's called four-game Park we're
gonna go they play a little mini golf a
little go-karting it's nice to do some
things I'll tie to the gym get out a
little bit move around a little I don't
want it to be too much because I also
want to get a rest day but it's nice you
play the head and just have some fun
I don't know the final results of the
golf I think we just threw out the shape
no let's just say didn't end up well for
me but I think got a hole-in-one I think
that's all that matters
right now we're home the good thing
about going somewhere in doing something
on a rest day is that on a rest day I
feel like I am way more hungry and then
I'm attorney today because you have so
much time to think about anything so
it's good to get out do something have
some do between meals and now we're home
straight to eat what we're waiting now
for the final meal of the day is first
we're gonna have it's always the same
amount of protein that I have each meal
which is 25 grams of protein and I'm
gonna have 45 grams of carbs with this
one and that's gonna be I'm gonna have
half a pretzel bun and then I'm gonna
have sue potatoes up for the rest this
would be my bedtime meal or the last
meal of the day I chop the bananas and
put them in the freezer so that they're
frozen when they go in here then I don't
need to put as much ice cubes with it so
I'm gonna make serving for two people at
the same time and we're getting most of
the carbs from the bananas so we have
about 250 grams of the bananas in there
and I like using now the chocolate
flavored protein because I'm making kind
of like a chocolate ice cream and this
is a Kassadin protein so that's a better
protein before going to sleep because
it's a slower release or service slower
protein
so two servings of the protein then I'm
gonna put cocoa powder and then I'm
gonna put in all my milk bring in the
sweetener not really necessary but it
does make it even better and then I put
a little bit of peanut butter it's
actually delicious just like this it
almost doesn't mean to stay in the
freezer but it becomes butter and butter
then I just put this in the prison and
maybe stir it every like thirty minutes
or something and then it's ready for
about ten o'clock then we this I hope
this gives you guys a little bit of an
insight into what I eat throughout the
day especially in preparation for the
CrossFit Games and how about you start
yep you help me out with it
[Music]
you
[Music]