just switching things up is not a good
enough rationale for muscle growth if
you're doing it for muscle confusion
don't because when you're doing this
just switching things around the only
thing really being confused is yourself
this was beautifully illustrated by a
recent study by Damas and colleagues in
this study participants were assigned to
one of two conditions one of their legs
were assigned to a conventional constant
training group where their training
program was the same all throughout the
study in the other group the leg was
assigned to variations in training
session session to session where for
example in one session they would only
do Ecentric training in another session
they would do more sets in another
session they would have longer rest
interval between sets so essentially
that second variation leg was just
really switching things up at random
seemingly in this study they didn't see
any differences in growth between
keeping constant training and switching
things up every session and these
findings are broadly corroborated by
other evidence do not Chase variation
for its own sake don't get confused
chasing variation will not get you
additional growth you can change your
program up every now and then if you
have a good reason to or because you
feel like it but just don't think that
it's going to cause any magical muscle
growth via novelty