for centuries this staple of any
tropical die has been used for far more
than cooking and eating but is coconut
oil really a miracle food something
you've probably noticed if you've paid
attention to health and fitness
headlines at all is that so-called super
foods come in and out of attention a lot
whether it's coconut oil kale avocado
SEI berries the list goes on so do
so-called bad foods the ones we're told
to eliminate but from what I've seen
it's often not clear where exactly these
eat this not that lists come from and
rather than look at foods as being
actively good or actively bad on their
own I like to think of foods as being
more or less nutritious in the context
of the diet as a whole and the overall
goal of a healthy diet should be to
include a variety of foods with a focus
on choosing more nutritious ones over
less nutritious ones most of the time
and honestly the term superfood is pure
quick bait just meaningless nutritional
overhype playing cleanse or detox based
on scant anecdotal evidence or over
extrapolated data and according to a
science-based medicine blog article
rather than health dietary decisions
designing what you eat based on super
foods can make meal planning more
complex with consumers focusing on
single ingredients rather than overall
dietary choices but Kiwis are different
kiwi fruit contains two times the
vitamin C of oranges that's right just
one kiwi fruit covers all your daily
vitamin C needs and not only does it add
nutrition it also adds a beautiful pop
of color to your plate for the last year
or so I've been more or less eating one
or two Kiwis every day and there's a
good deal of scientific literature
endorsing this idea a 2013 review boasts
kiwi fruit as a daily prescription for
health and as shown in this table kiwi
destroys apples oranges bananas
strawberries and blueberries when it
comes to total fiber content vitamin C
vitamin E and vitamin K it scores second
place falling just shy of oranges on
beta-carotene and just shy of oranges
again
for another silver medal on Lucci it
also ranks very highly for many minerals
especially potassium and copper
sadly to this day the kiwifruit is
tragically underappreciated occupying
just 0.2 percent of the global fruit
bowl a market dominated by supposedly
cooler apples oranges and bananas this
prejudicial unpopularity isn't anything
new indigenous to China the fruit from
the vine of Acton IDIA deliciosa was
slowly gaining recognition among Western
travelers and missionaries passing from
China and began an orchards across New
Zealand in the early 1900s but nearly 50
years would pass before the first
commercial exports of kiwi fruit were
made from New Zealand starting with a
small tray of just 2,000 Chinese
gooseberries shipped to London in 1952
however the name Chinese gooseberry
wouldn't last taunted has been
unmarketable so Frieda Caplan owner of
Freitas finest produce specialties in
Los Angeles helped give the disregarded
gooseberry and new identity with its
furry brown skin it sort of resembled
the iconic Kiwi bird native to New
Zealand and Freda suggested New Zealand
farmers rename the gooseberry to kiwi
fruit to make it more marketable and
hopefully more accepted but despite the
enormous shadow cast by smoother apples
and bigger bananas and its tumultuous
past with commercial identity
differences global production of kiwi
fruit began its emancipating rise in the
early 1980s and for good reason
modern nutritional science reveals a
multitude of positive health effects
associated with Kiwi consumption
something that ancient Chinese medicine
predicted having used Kiwi as a
digestion aid and for irritability
reduction and in fact advances in food
and nutrition research cite clinical
studies in a range of adult populations
consistently indicating that Kiwis
promote lactation making them an
effective dietary intervention for
constipation this is likely attributable
to their high levels of fiber and a
protease called act in Adem which helps
digest proteins and improve gastric
emptying a 2013 paper cites an
association between regular consumption
and mood improvement and according to a
study from linin colleagues eating two
Kiwis before bed for four weeks resulted
in improved sleep onset sleep duration
and
sleep quality in adults with
self-reported sleep disturbances but
this really only scratches the surface
enhanced immunity reducing risk of cold
or flu-like illness more beneficial than
supplementation of vitamin C alone an
improvement in iron status when consumed
with iron rich foods and impressive
antioxidant potential being just a few
more lines to add to its underrated
resume be advised that roughly one to
two percent of the population is
allergic to Kiwi so be aware of the
early symptoms and be careful to avoid
the fruit if you are found to be
allergic burning this exception I
encourage the rest of you let's help
bring the world's one true superfood
finally to its long deserved spot at the
very top of the global fruit kabob ok
what is going on everyone thank you so
much for watching the video just for the
record I wanted to make this video is a
little bit of a joke kind of poking fun
at the diet trends that you see and all
the hype around superfoods and all that
but I am actually a huge fan of qyz I
love their taste and everything to do
with their nutritional information that
I presented in the video is 100% correct
so I now officially have these shirts
available if you'd like to support me
and support the channel you can click
the link in the description below for
the official channel merch I've also got
some other cool shirts here so this one
says train hard and smart like that
check that one out can I've also got the
official Jeff Nippert fitness tees and
these come in multiple different colors
to turn into travel
[Music]
and then the Kiwi one I've got an inbred
black-and-white I think and then there's
also a Kiwi one that has a Jeff never
Fitness that down below so there's also
QB mugs I don't know if I have it here
with me in there being beat Stephanie
and I are in Toronto right now actually
as this is our Airbnb can give you a
quick little tour yeah this star of the
show we get one Asian this is like the
living area and then we have kitchen
here and the bedroom bathroom in there
and yes it's cozy nice little Airbnb
yeah if you guys are interested you can
check out the channel merch a lot of
people then ask me about the the QB
shirt so make sure you go check them out
I like the video if you liked it
subscribe to the channel if you're new
thanks once again guys so much for
watching and I'll see you guys next time