[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth-busting to be looking at the
idea that apple cider vinegar is
effective for fat loss or weight loss
and we'll quickly touch on some of its
other supposed health claims things like
glucose control digestion acne and tooth
whitening but before we dig into all
that first what exactly is apple cider
vinegar so apple cider vinegar is made
by basically taking a bunch of apples
just crushing them down and then
squeezing out the liquid then you add
yeast which ferments the natural sugars
found in the apples to alcohol and then
you add bacteria which converts the
alcohol to acetic acid basically vinegar
and this process isn't unique to apples
you can make vinegar from really any
fermentable carbs force including grapes
coconuts even potatoes maple syrup wine
and the list goes on now it makes apple
cider vinegar special for some of its
advocates is the so called mother this
is basically a stringy goop found in the
unfiltered version which supposedly
contains enzymes responsible for some of
its health effects needless to say i'm
skeptical of this to my knowledge there
hasn't been any research done on this
mother substance to differentiate its
effects from the effects of the actual
acetic acid or vinegar component but I
think from a simple physiological
standpoint this mother probably isn't a
main player because the proteolytic
enzymes found in the stomach would just
digest or chop up any of the enzymes in
the mother rendering them inactive but
besides that even if there was some
other stuff in the mother causing health
benefits
it seems that whatever's in there doing
the work or whatever is in there that's
good should be found in greater amounts
in an apple to begin with um so again
since there is no research on this my
assumption would be that if there were
health benefits in the mother you could
probably get those same benefits from
just eating an actual apple and plus
most of the apple cider vinegar that
people actually buy doesn't even have
the mother in there so then what we'll
focus on in this video is the actual
vinegar since according to most of the
research that's what's most likely to be
causing the
benefits of apple cider vinegar um so
first let's focus on fat loss or weight
loss now there's really only one high
quality study done on this and it's a
2009 study which took 175 obese Japanese
subjects and split them into one of
three groups one group got no vinegar
but they made a taste like vinegar to
control for placebo effects another
group got 15 milliliters so about a
tablespoon of vinegar and the third
group got thirty milliliters so about
two tablespoons of vinegar and they
consume that every day split between
breakfast and supper for 12 weeks at the
end of the 12 weeks body weight and body
fat were significantly lower in both
vinegar groups than the placebo group
and this was despite there being no
difference in calorie or macronutrient
intake between the groups and this led
the authors to conclude that daily
intake of vinegar might be useful in the
prevention of metabolic syndrome by
reducing obesity and they highlight a MP
kinase mediated inhibition of lipid
Genesis or fad formation as a potential
mechanism of action um so here we have a
randomized double-blind
placebo-controlled study showing a
pretty good effect with a seemingly
reasonable mechanism of action so there
could be something to it but I think
there's also a lot of room for
skepticism with this study for one the
subjects were obese meaning the results
may not extrapolate well if at all two
healthy lean folks and also when you
look at the actual data even in the high
dose group you still only see a weight
drop from about 73 kilograms to 71
kilograms it's just about two kilograms
or about four and a half pounds in 12
weeks I think that's pretty meager
weight loss by any standard also in a
four-week follow-up after the study
ended all three groups had just gained
all their weight back anyway and finally
the study used a self-reported diet
diary to record energy intake which is
just universally recognized as being
notoriously unreliable and inaccurate
for calorie reporting I'm so on the
question of weight loss what we have is
a single study you know B subjects
showing a pretty modest improvement in
fat loss and weight loss but it's also
fairly plagued with limitations and I
think it's also worth mentioning this
2013 study here which showed an increase
in satiety or fullness when vinegar was
consumed with breakfast however these
effects were simply based on the fact
that it
making people nauseous and this led the
author to discourage its use as an
appetite suppressant but on my analysis
I would say the most impressive effect
of vinegar as its ability to lower blood
sugar this was highlighted in a 2017
meta analysis looking at 11 studies and
as you can see in the graphs there was a
significant effect for both glucose and
insulin response in favor of the vinegar
group is worth noting that five of these
comparisons did in fact use apple cider
vinegar
but despite impressive results here
these effects are generally larger in
subjects with diabetes or insulin
resistance and I think this is where
apple cider vinegar probably has its
most practical significance also I think
it's worth mentioning that apple cider
vinegars anti glycemic effect appears to
be somewhat ironically dependent on the
type of carbohydrate you're consuming
it's much more effective when taken with
complex carbohydrates where the glycemic
response will be much lower anyway and
it doesn't seem to work really at all in
response to simple sugar consumption
where it might actually be quite helpful
this is due to the fact that it seems to
work by inhibiting starch digestion
meaning it's really only going to be
effective when you're eating starchy
complex carbohydrates I'm so this is
sort of a catch-22 for apple cider
vinegar when you could probably benefit
from it the most like when drinking
sugary beverages or processed foods
and it probably isn't going to work but
again the anti glycemic effects are
pretty impressive and can certainly have
relevance for those with insulin
resistance but probably not so much for
healthy individuals now apparently it
can help dry out pimples but because of
the smell and risk of chemical burns
experts recommend using safer and more
effective methods than vinegar when it
comes to skin care it also might help
with digestion insofar as it's possible
that the mother is prebiotic meaning it
promotes the growth of healthy bacteria
in the gut but like I alluded to earlier
eating an actual apple is likely to
contain much more prebiotics than the
mother of apple and it's also just
higher in nutrients in general including
fiber it's also often claimed that the
mother contains probiotic bacteria
however according to the vinegar
Institute the mother of vinegar is
produced by Osito bacteria and also
contains Osito bacteria but this line of
bacteria just
likely to be probiotic still even though
the digestive benefits are not well
supported in the literature I would
remain open to the possibility that it
could be helpful for some individuals
and for reasons that perhaps we just
don't fully understand yet but again
whatever those benefits are I would
imagine that they can be found in
greater quantities budge eating apples
on their own or using any old vinegar so
on its own with apple cider vinegar not
actually offering any special benefit in
this case it's also really not smart at
all to use it for tooth whitening since
the acid in vinegar clearly erodes
enamel there's also no convincing human
evidence or support for reduced cancer
risk or cardiovascular disease and
apparently chemical disinfectants are
just simply more effective for house
cleaning so to bring this full circle I
would say that apple cider vinegar and
all of the type is pretty much busted
this is mostly because the more credible
claims around blood glucose and insulin
control are just not unique to apple
cider vinegar just plain old vinegar
works just as well and these benefits
might only be relevant to those already
with or at risk of disordered glucose
control anyway and despite the fact that
there is that one single study you know
these subjects showing a slight edge in
weight loss we already know that weight
loss is ultimately determined by the
balance between the calories you're
eating versus those you're expending and
in all of my experience and reading yet
to find an effective and legal shortcut
around just plain hat diet and exercise
and it may improve feelings of fullness
after a meal but this is simply due to
feeling nauseous so I would say
strategies like just eating higher fiber
foods drinking more water at meals or
simply eating more slowly or more
reasonable and as for all the other
stuff I think just eating an apple is a
healthier more sensible option so that's
going to conclude this one guys thank
you so much for watching first I want to
say I'm gonna be at the Toronto Pro Show
on June 2nd and 3rd I'll put the details
for that right here on the screen and
before we go I want to give a huge thank
you to Skillshare for sponsoring this
video
Skillshare is an online learning
community designed to help creators turn
their hobby into a full-time profession
Skillshare gives you access to more than
19,000 professional classes and
geography photography web development
business productivity and on and on
which are all skills that can help you
take whatever it is that you're creating
up to that professional level I'm Steph
and I just finished watching how to make
an educational video essay by Sam from
Wendover Productions which I found to be
helpful especially from the personal
perspective of another successful
creator using this video essay format
here on YouTube so a Premium Membership
begins around ten dollars a month but
for the first six hundred and ninety
nine people to click that first link in
the description box you're gonna get a
free two month trial of skill share and
apparently these spots fill up pretty
quickly so make sure that you're one of
the first six hundred ninety-nine and
get a head start on that skill that
you're looking to master I'm so anyways
guys thanks a lot for watching please
leave me a like if you enjoyed the video
if you learn something please subscribe
if you happen to be new to the channel
and I will see you guys all here next
Monday which will actually be a leg day
science applied video so something a
little different I will see you guys all
then