all right so the million dollar question
how do you gain muscle and lose fat at
the same time is it really possible and
if so what is the most effective way to
go about it well the truth is that
there's a lot of myths floating around
out there on the subject of body
recomposition and if you don't have a
proper understanding of how the process
actually works you could easily end up
wasting a ton of unnecessary time and
effort spinning your wheels and
potentially not getting anywhere so
let's quickly break this down by the end
of this video I promise it will all make
sense you'll see just how
straightforward the subject actually is
and you'll know exactly how to proceed
with your own program as far as bulking
cutting or re-compositioning are
concerned so first off is body
recomposition possible to begin with or
is it just a bunch of overhyped BS well
the answer is that yes it is possible
and the overall process is pretty simple
breakdown stored fat through a calorie
deficit and then with a proper trading
stimulus in place your body can use some
of the calories from that fat along with
your protein intake to fuel additional
muscle growth so it is doable however
and this is a big however the degree to
which this will actually occur the
amount of muscle you can actually put on
while also losing fat that's going to be
highly dependent on you as an individual
anybody who just gives one sweeping
answer across the board that yes you can
gain muscle and lose fat at the same
time end of story so that's what your
goal should be because everybody can do
it they're not giving you the best
information because it will vary quite a
bit from person to person and depend on
two main factors the first factor is
body fat percentage fat is ultimately a
stored form of energy that your body
requires for survival and so the leaner
you are the less willing your body will
be to divert that fat toward building
new muscle tissue because at that point
it's already fighting to hold on to the
remaining stores plus muscle also
requires additional calories to be
maintained after it's already built so
for example at 10 body fat and Below
you're likely not going to be gaining
any real muscle while trying to get
increasingly leaner and in fact you
might even start losing muscle at that
point as you cut further whereas if
you've spent the last eight months on a
steady diet of fried mayonnaise balls
and you've dirty bolt yourself up to 30
body fat then you'll have plenty of
reserves in the tank your body isn't in
any kind of immediate survival mode at
that point until building significant
muscle while dropping fat is going to be
much more realistic and then everything
in between those points from very lean
to very not lean the muscle growth
potential will operate along a spectrum
and then the second main factor is going
to be training experience so the longer
you've been properly Lifting for and the
more muscle you're already carrying the
harder it's going to be to put on
additional muscle even if you're in a
calorie Surplus let alone while also
trying to lose fat whereas for a
beginner weight training is going to be
a novel stimulus it'll be treated by the
body as a more serious threat and it
will react more strongly to that and be
more incentivized to build new muscle as
an Adaptive response and once again this
is all going to work along Spectrum
someone who's never touched a weight
before in their life AKA 95 of the
comment section in Tick Tock Fitness
those people will have the highest
chances for successfully recomping
whereas for someone with five plus years
of consistent hard training under their
belt it's going to be a lot more
difficult and then everything in between
that's going to involve varying degrees
now I know this all might seem a little
bit gray area right now but stick with
me because you're going to see in a
minute how it all ties together and how
to actually apply it to sum that up the
people who will be able to recomposition
with the highest degree of success by
gaining the most muscle while also
losing fat are going to be beginning
lifters with a high body fat percentage
so either overweight or skinny fat and
then on the opposite end are going to be
more advanced lifters at leaner body fat
percentages and then everything in
between will produce varying results
that can't specifically be Quantified
not to mention that genetics are also
going to play a role in this as well and
keep in mind that we're talking about
natural lifters here since
pharmaceutical assistance will of course
influence things too now if you don't
fall onto one of those two sides of the
spectrum so you're not a beginner with
high body fat or an advanced lifter with
low body fat you're just kind of
somewhere in the middle you're probably
wondering how to go about this because
you don't know exactly what degree of
recompositioning is really possible for
you however and this is what most people
get wrong on this it doesn't actually
matter in Practical terms or affect how
you should go about things and the
reason for that is that there's no such
thing as a body recomposition program in
the first place there's no special
recomp training routine or recomp Diet
you need to follow because recopy is not
something you can specifically force and
instead it's just something that happens
naturally on its own recomping means
what it means that you lose fat and you
gain muscle at the same time and what is
non-negotiable rule number one when it
comes to losing fat is that you have to
be in a calorie deficit and there's no
way around that because your body has no
need to break down stored fat without
one so this idea that you commonly hear
about recomping at maintenance or God
forbid recomping in a surplus that
doesn't actually make sense because a
calorie deficit has to be in place for
fat to be lost when it all comes down to
it a recomp is essentially no different
from a regular fat loss phase you get
into a calorie deficit around 500 give
or take below maintenance is pretty
standard in most cases you consume
sufficient protein so no less than 0.8
grams per pound of body weight daily as
a minimum if you want to fully maximize
the chances of putting on muscle while
in that deficit then you can bump it up
a bit higher to around one gram or more
so that's going to be the basics for
your diet you pair that up with a proper
weight training program where you're
training hard with a focus on
Progressive overload none of this
lightweight High rep low rest period not
and just keep training in the same basic
way as you always do throw in some
optional cardio as an extra calorie
burning tool without going overboard
getting your high quality sleep add in a
few basic supplements if they suit your
needs real science Athletics of course
it's just a regular cutting phase you'd
normally do and then from there
depending on your individual condition
in terms of existing fat stores muscle
mass and genetics any potential muscle
that can be gained during that period
will simply happen as an automatic
byproduct okay that's really all there
is to it a recomp is a cutting phase
where additional muscle growth occurs on
its own if the conditions are in place
for it so if getting leaner is your main
priority right now whether you're
overweight or skinny fat or you're a
more experienced lifter who's coming off
of a bulk go ahead and shift into that
fat loss phase maybe you'll put on some
additional muscle during that time and
maybe you won't that's not within your
control aside from just implementing a
properly structured cut in general and
then once you've reached your desired
level of leanness you can reassess from
there in terms of what your next goal is
whether it's to just maintain for a
while or to shift into a focused bulking
phase but body recomposition in and of
itself that's not something you can
specifically train or eat for it's just
something that happens automatically for
some people as they lose body fat in a
calorie deficit if you want some help
getting your actual program onto the
right track whether your main goal is to
put on muscle or lose fat and
potentially recomposition make sure to
visit shawnow.com Customs just fill out
the short form on that page and I'll
send you back a free step-by-step
training program based on your current
condition and goals along with an easy
to follow nutrition plan as well the
link for that is in the description box
here are two more videos I'd recommend
watching now don't forget to subscribe
to the channel to stay up to date thanks
for watching guys and I'll talk to you
again soon