generally we spend a few minutes each
session moving trying to get the Core
Body to mature up few minutes I love
that mo mobility is built through
compound full range of motion Ultra deep
stretch lifting and whatever other
really intense yoga or Pilates you want
to do on the side which requires its own
time investment Mobility drills are cool
as a great warm-up and it just takes a
few minutes it's awesome it checks the
warm-up box and the slight Mobility
enhancement box if it's taking you
longer than gee 15 or 20 minutes you're
doing something wrong you're wasting a
lot of time you can see by Jake's face
that unless he's and faking it this is
hurting him a little bit which is
awesome when you are stretching for
Mobility enhancement if it's not hurting
at least a little bit you're not really
stretching stretching is supposed to be
fing uncomfortable that's how you know
it's working the last time we saw these
sticks Incorporated Scott we reviewed
that 1950s training for woman manual
looking like you're skiing on
[Music]
acid