hey folks dr mike isrtel here for
renaissance periodization today's video
is to how to reverse diet after a fat
loss phase and of course we're going to
talk about some common mistakes that
people make doing this and how to avoid
them so we've got three things to talk
about generally first of all what is a
reverse diet a lot of contradictions out
there about what that is what is the
correct way to do one and what are the
reverse diet typical follies and
fallacies people fall into and how to
avoid them so without further ado
what is a reverse diet okay
a reverse diet is how you eat after a
longer ish usually eight or more weeks
of a fat loss diet after that fat loss
diet is over the next part is the
reverse diet so to speak
this is done as a specific diet instead
of just going back to eating the way you
were eating before you did the cut or
just no change and continue on your
cutting macros which generally people
don't do but sometimes they think they
should or no diet at all and you just
eat kind of you know whatever you want
which has predictably not so great
results right
at renaissance periodization our
preferred nomenclature for this is the
maintenance phase
because the result should be a
maintenance roughly of your tissue size
and approximate maintenance of your body
weight not as mystical not as cool
sounding as reverse diet but the old
youtube click bait we called it reverse
dieting a lot of people googling that
next
what are we actually trying to achieve
with
this reverse diet what are we doing if
we're doing reverse diet
we want to do a couple things first is
we want to prevent rapid regain of fat
after a diet after a fat loss diet
we are primed for fat regain in many
many ways
hunger cravings lower expenditure
and a bunch of other ways in which your
body and mind are ready to gain all that
fat back from an evolutionary
perspective fat loss isn't all that
great your body really just primed to
gain fat instead of lose fat
there's not really much of a weight gain
industry there's an enormous weight loss
industry for good reason
so a lot of what we're trying to do is
making sure your body doesn't just
follow its natural course and after
you've lost a bunch of fat we don't want
you to go back up like this ostensibly
you've lost some fat most cases most
people will want to
stay at their new leaner physique and a
reverse diet really really helps to do
just that
in addition
this dieting phase can drop a lot of
diet fatigue
so that potentially we can do another
diet at a low fatigue state at some
point after so for example 12 weeks of
fat loss
you met your goal but you really ideally
want to be another 10 pounds leaner
diet fatigue is really high you do a
reverse diet for eight weeks your diet
fatigue drops down a ton so that it's
not suitable exponentially high and then
you can do another maybe eight weeks of
fat loss dieting after drop that last 10
pounds and voila success a good reverse
diet can set you up for another diet if
you choose to do it right
if however you choose to maintain
potentially for the long term right
after a fat loss diet this reverse diet
process has a sort of algorithmic way in
which it works that lets you find out
how much food is now your new long-term
maintenance intake because it's going to
be a little bit different than the
prediction equation say a little bit
different than what you've eaten before
because now you're a different weight
different composition
and by adding and subtracting to lose or
gain more
we can find out what your new
maintenance is and then once you know
that even if you don't want to stay
there say you want to do a mass gaining
phase well now that you know your true
maintenance you know how much to add or
if you want to do another fat loss phase
you know how much to subtract because
there's no mystery it's kind of a phase
which reveals stability in a certain
sense
lastly
question is when do you need a reverse
diet and it's usually after a diet or
fat loss phase that gives you plenty of
diet fatigue hunger cravings lower
energy less of a tendency to move just
like uh i don't want a diet anymore i
just want to eat the kitchen sink
that means you probably need one of
these in order to not regain a ton of
fat and get all crazy if you finished a
diet and you just don't have any
symptoms at all of any of these things
then you just eat normally and healthy
and that's totally cool right so if you
let's see 300 pounds and you have a fat
loss phase that took you to 275 and you
legitimately still look at food and go i
don't know like i could eat whatever i'm
not super hungry or crazy or many more
than i was ever then you don't need any
kind of uh reverse diet you can just go
and eat healthy and
keep training and probably everything
will take care of itself so this is
really kind of you know there has to be
an illness for the cure to be applied
sort of situation
all right
knowing all that how does the correct
way to reverse diet actually work
we need two components at least
first you have to know
what your macros were and your calories
at the end of your fat loss diet you
just finished which means you have to be
tracking
hopefully at least in the last two weeks
so you really know on average what
you're taking in if you don't know what
you're taking in there's not a very easy
way to tell you what you should be
taking in short of a complete trial and
error approach which tends to cause
trial and error style results
random right so make sure at least in
the last two weeks of your fat loss diet
you really have a handle on your daily
macros and calories if you know the
macros you know the calories and then
you have sort of jump off point secondly
you want to have an
estimate of your maintenance calories
and macros at your new weight okay
how do you do this well you can use
online equations you can go on the
internet and say okay how many calories
to maintain 200 pounds let's say you
went from 220 to 200 it'll give you a
number or you can use your old
maintenance let's say at 220 you were
eating 2 000 calories
now you weigh 200 so you take 200
divided by 220 and you multiply that by
your maintenance calories at 220 it'll
roughly give you a decent guess as to
what your maintenance calories should
eventually be
at your new weight of 200 pounds so we
have
the calories that you just finished with
and then we have calories that are
estimating roughly what your maintenance
should be at that new weight okay
so we have calories you just finished
with fat loss phase
rough maintenance calories those should
be higher otherwise you have a
thermodynamic mystery and
what you do is you choose to start that
first week
of your diet of your reverse diet
somewhere right close to the middle okay
so if your calories and a fat loss were
2 000 calories and the calculator on the
internet says this whatever body weight
you're at you should be at 2500 calories
to maintain
22.50 is right about where you're going
to set your week 1 reverse diet calories
why
because
your maintenance calories almost by
definition are going to be higher than
your fat loss last week calories their
gut answers if you were physically
losing one to two pounds a week or
something on 2 000 calories there's no
way 2000 calories your maintenance
because if you stay at it yeah you won't
lose 100 pounds it'll sort of dive off
but you'll get to 185 in six months
before you ever stop losing if you start
at 200 right
now
why isn't it just the estimate that we
had from uh online calculator or
whatever you were maintaining at before
multiplied by the fraction of your
weight now well there are metabolic
adaptations and behavior adaptations
your metabolism metabolism slows just a
little bit when you're dieting for a
long time especially if you have diet
fatigue and more importantly
your
neat non-exercise activity thermogenesis
the amount of movement you do how many
steps you take a day so on and so forth
tends to decline uh in some people
pretty precipitously and in direct
relationship to how diet fatigued you
are so if you're really hungry really
crave a lot of times your energy input
or sorry energy output during the day
falls so it's not likely that right
after a really tough diet you're
actually going to be at whatever
calories that the equations say you are
because you're so metabolically adapted
and thus your true maintenance is going
to be lower but notice it's not going to
be 2000 calories or whatever it is at
the end of your fat loss because that
would just result in more loss it's
going to be somewhere between the two
our best guess is right in the middle
but we actually have no idea where it is
between those two in the middle gives us
our best guess but it's not the ideal
thing so we need more of a process after
that but point d there is begin eating
at that halfway point so in this example
20 to 50 calories per day for the whole
first week or two and then see what
happens
what do you do after that you eat like
that and you track your weight your
hunger and your training responses
notice you might be a little bit hungry
maybe pretty hungry at first and still a
bit tired because you're still carrying
that diet fatigue it doesn't go away
right away say well i've been eating at
what i think is maintenance for five
days now and i'm still starving to death
well yeah it's going to take a little
bit of time to adjust
keep on with keeping on don't go off
plan the first week the first two are
the hardest for sure it will will will
get better now
based on what's happening with your body
weight specifically
after the first week because the first
week is a wash because body water is
going to crush everything you're going
to gain back a bunch of body water so on
and so forth after week one week two and
three and four you're going to make
modifications every week or two based on
your body weight specifically so if
you're still losing weight let's say you
got to 200 and then after
week two you're now at 198.
not good we want maintenance not
continued fat loss so you're going to
bump your calories by about 15 percent
if you're stable check this out bump
your calories by 10
what but if you're stable shouldn't you
be having stable calories not really
because your metabolism is firing back
up your exercise expenditure or just
your general life expenditure for
movement is going to be going up slowly
as your metabolism metabolism
revitalizes we want to feed it to make
sure we get close to the maintenance
it's actually going to be at in a week
or two if you just stay stable next week
as your metabolism fires up a bit you're
probably going to fall again we don't
want it to wait to fall we want to
proactively catch it a little bit ahead
this actually works really really well
you'd be like wait what i'm going to
bump up my calories for 10 percent just
going to gain a ton of weight that
usually doesn't happen and if you do the
proactive 10 bump when you're at
maintenance it actually heals your
metabolic adaptations or
degrades them
much faster
and that's kind of the whole point you
don't want to be all over dieted for too
long it's giant pain in the ass so if
you're a little bit more proactive it
happens more quickly now if you're
gaining so for one or two weeks straight
you gain a significant amount of weight
that reflects itself on the scale let's
say instead of 200 or 202 or 203 then
that last 10 percent bump you just take
it away you go under two weeks and if
the weight is stable you put it back in
and if you gain again you take it back
out usually that doesn't happen usually
you put it back in and your weight
fluctuates and then it goes back down
sometimes even lower go another 15
or another 10 percent and then
after about four weeks or so
generally speaking sometimes it can take
longer six to eight
your weight will start to really really
stabilize
and it's going to be with about the same
calorie intake so maybe after six weeks
you get to a point where you add 10
percent it starts going up you take it
away and it starts being stable
add 10 starts going up take it away it
starts being stable and all of a sudden
you're like oh i actually think i'm
pretty close to my maintenance and this
should correspond in almost every case
with no more crazy hunger no crazy
cravings and plenty of energy for
training and for life clear-headed and
all that really good stuff
more or less about four to eight weeks
later in many cases at all you're gonna
be in a really good spot and the reverse
diet is pretty much over and then you
now are at your maintenance diet because
you basically sort of pinballed your way
into finding out what that number
actually was for you and it can be a
surprise it can be oh sad face you know
um fewer calories than you had hoped uh
or it can be a real happy face
way more calories oh my god i'm eating
this much and i'm not losing i'm not
gaining any weight this is crazy and you
know pleasant surprise if you like food
that is
there are many many many effective
variations of the scheme so you don't
have to do this exact thing as long as
you leave the deficit
pretty quickly
right away
get your best guess at maintenance and
then slowly raise and adjust calories
there are many specific methods that
work all right
what about if you don't do that well
we'll talk about that in the follies in
just a little bit
so to the follies to the mistakes
what are the problems we have five of
them for you though i'm sure there are
way more than that
first point a i should have numbered
these one through five damn it
assuming exact maintenance a lot of
folks will send messages or questions or
comments and say hey
my maintenance is 2500 but i'm gaining
weight okay
somewhere albert einstein is rolling in
his grave because he knows that if
you're gaining weight you're almost
certainly not a maintenance you are at a
surplus conservation of mass energy so
a lot of times people will just assume
the number they got on the internet or
their old number is exactly what
maintenance should be and they're
baffled the thing is those numbers don't
account for changes in energy
expenditure neat and they don't account
for errors in application or individual
variation about 50 other variables so
don't assume your exact maintenance and
then when the body weight doesn't
respond like you think be completely
baffled you have to be adjusting on the
fly otherwise you might get really lucky
and this will work but you probably
won't and you'll just be baffled for no
reason
next mistake is trying to stay in a
deficit we're not trying but staying in
a deficit anyway right
by analogy this is like your
right next to a forest fire and instead
of being right on the forest fire you'll
roll your body away until you're just a
few inches away so while you're not
getting burned physically like to a
black crisp you're like getting
marshmallowed and getting nice and puffy
and some animal will come around and be
like holy shit cooked meat like an hour
later when you've been dead for 59
minutes so if you are next to a forest
fire the best thing to do is to plot
your course
way the hell out of it and the question
is if you see that you're next to a
forest fire when should you start
walking away from it the answer is right
away right away i'm no forest fire
expert forest fire experts in the
comments please feel free to correct me
if i'm wrong smokey the bear i've seen a
few of his infomercials they always get
him confused with mcgruff the crime dog
they're both you know uh
anthropomorphized animals that tell you
ostensibly good things
to do although mcgruff the crime dog
good god i ignore half that motherfucker
shit every day we out here committing
crime baby sorry to get uh
yeah violent on you guys in any case
forest fire you don't want to stay close
to it deficit you don't want to be like
oh i was in a 500 calorie deficit this
week i'm only 400 calorie deficit that
means all of your diet adaptations for
the negative hunger craving etc they're
either the same or even getting worse
they're just getting worse less fast
that is not the answer
as soon as you're done with your fat
loss diet your best guess at maintenance
is immediately where you go so the best
analogy there with a forest fire
is plotting your hike out of the
wilderness and start fucking walking
uphill away from the fire
not like just move away a few inches and
be like oh i think i can comfortably
watch the forest fire from this distance
i don't do that don't do that bad idea
next is freaking out about body water it
usually takes about a week for your body
water to stabilize remotely so if in the
first week first day or two you start
eating relatively normally and you gain
five pounds don't worry you're not you
didn't actually need five pounds of
tissue that's almost impossible to do in
one day so don't worry about it the
first week is a wash just eat as well as
you can see what happens after the first
week then your scale weight becomes much
more reliable
fourth mistake
is
not keeping the diet mostly clean or in
other words eating a whole bunch of junk
food in that first several weeks now
here's the deal it's tempting you want
to do it it's going to make you feel oh
so good in the short term i mean with
the love of god you guys ever walk
through the potato chip aisle at the end
of a diet and so you know someone a
reporter comes up to you uh and says hey
hey you
do you uh what would you do if you just
had carte blanche and your metabolism
worked on a turn dial you could just eat
whatever you want you're like you know i
would open up all the bags of chips and
pour them into a bathtub and just swim
around and eat the chips it'd be great a
lot of folks when they finish a diet you
know without the bathtub they more or
less do that anyway why is that a bad
thing a lot of times it bumps up body
water a ton making you first of all
miserable and second of all even more
confused about what your actual tissue
is doing
if you can make the macros work and you
don't
start eating this tasty food and go way
over your macros you can do it but a lot
of people when they start eating junk
food they just want more and more and
more in the first couple weeks after a
diet and then they just end up at a
surplus
big surplus usually of fats and then
they gain a lot of body fat back and
that's kind of the opposite we're trying
to do so my recommendation is try to
stick to mostly whole foods healthy
stuff clean stuff not a ton of really
paddled junk food and then if you find
that you can throw in a bit of junk and
you're totally cool and doesn't bother
you and you can still
measure everything totally go for it but
if you're one of those people that you
have like through you know hey you plan
to have a burrito but you have three and
a half and you look at yourself in the
mirror like what have i become but just
don't do that you lose plenty of time to
do that weeks later when the um the
reverse dieting phase is over and so you
don't have to eat junk right away
lastly
reverse dieting at an unsustainable body
fat percentage okay
after a bodybuilding show
you are not
at a percent of fat that is sustainable
or remotely optimal to sustain please
remember that the optimal mass gaining
percentage is usually north of 10 for
most males for example and north of 18
for most females
and if you've done a body machine you've
gotten very lean you may be closer to 5
percent
so are you supposed to reverse diet out
of five percent and then weeks later
you're
at maintenance at five or six percent no
good god if you maintain a five or six
percent
say goodbye to every single boner you've
ever had just kidding i hope you can't
go in time and erase your old old boners
that sounds like a really shitty version
of the last avengers movie uh in any
case your sex drive is going to be crap
you're going to be super hungry and
crave you're going to have crap energy
it's just going to suck but you're going
to be super lean but you already did
your show
and you need to get out of that lean
environment to promote muscle growth and
recovery and everything else so what you
want to do after show is mass gain
once and for all to answer this question
what do you do after a vitamin show mass
gain mass gain for at least four to six
weeks to get your body fat up to around
that eight to ten percent region at
least and if you're female cheese north
of fifteen to seventy percent at least
good news you might gain some decent
muscle or at least potentiate some
muscle gain later down the road second
of all it's baller fucking training
because you're smashing a ton of mass
gaining food you get like crazy pumps
insane vascularity it's really really
fun and you're still super lean so you
get to i'm gonna show off if to no one
else but yourself in the mirror or in
your own instagram photos because you
have no followers you just scroll
through your own feed and you really
like your own stuff and i do that all
the time so massing out of a show is
absolutely a solution a few weeks or you
know maybe six weeks down the road
you're not five percent anymore you're
more like nine percent still feeling
great but now feeling even better still
looking lean and now you can do a
maintenance phase maybe even an active
rest maybe even a mini cut
after the active rest just sort of get
back you know maybe you were 11 get back
to 9 or 10 and then voila you can set up
another long mass phase after that so
after a show no reverse dieting no
reverse dieting reverse dieting is only
done after you've finished your regular
fat loss phase when you're not in that
body fat percentage range which is
unsustainable because a good reverse
diet will if you get to let's say
percent a good reverse diet will keep
you at about twelve percent if you get
to five percent there's no keeping a
five percent unless you have multiple
photo shoots back and forth and then you
would do a reverse diet and uh mostly
you'd be eating your own misery
folks thank you for hopefully learning
hopefully i've been teaching see you
next time