foreign
[Music]
quarter here is making the claim that
the biceps don't benefit from stretch
median hypertrophy let's break the
evidence on top of them
there have been three studies comparing
shorter to longer muscle length training
for the elbow flexors
the first one by pinto and colleagues
didn't find any significant differences
but did find that the results leaned in
favor of the lower muscle length group
for hypertrophy the second study by
Saturn colleagues found greater distal
hypertrophy or closer to the insertion
point of a muscle when partial
repetitions were performed at longer
versus shorter muscle lengths
finally the most recent study by Pedrosa
and colleagues found greater elbow
flexor hypertrophy following lower
Muslims training versus shorter muscle
length training so out of three direct
studies two found significant benefits
to using lower muscle length training
for the elbow flexors and one didn't
find any significant differences but the
results were still leaning in favor of
the lower muscle training group seeing
greater hypertrophy based on this it's a
very uphill argument to make the claim
that the elbow flexors don't benefit
from stretch media hypertrophy
Paul goes on to say that the preacher
curl exercise that's the exercise being
used in all three studies I mentioned
doesn't actually place the biceps in a
length and position
there is some truth to this but that is
only true for the biceps long head
because that is the only yellow flexor
that actually crosses the shoulder joint
the other elbow flexors like the
brachialis the brachioradialis or the
short head of the biceps or getting a
nearly maximal stretch in the longer
muscle and conditional group in these
studies
additionally and importantly even the
long head of the biceps is more
lengthened in the lower muscling
condition in these studies than it is in
the shoulder muscle length condition
so ultimately we are comparing shorter
to lower muscle length training and
lower muscle length training is better
for the elbow flexors in all three
studies on this topic
Paul then makes the argument that the
differences in hypertrophy in the most
recent study by Pedrosa and colleagues
is due to leverage differences there's a
few issues with this claim
fundamentally it doesn't actually sound
like Paul read any of these studies or
he doesn't understand how ultrasounds
were done
none of the three studies I discussed
only looked at the biceps
instead they looked at hypertrophy of
several of the elbow flexor muscles at
once
that's partly because it's more
informative you don't just care about
the biceps and partly because it's
easier to Ultrasound speaking from
personal experience
coming back to Paul's argument
even if differences in bicep leverages
may have impacted the results and maybe
there were differences these studies
looked at elbow flexor growth more
broadly
more importantly though the only study
that has looked at matching the
resistance curve of an exercise to the
strength curve of a muscle group or
essentially making sure the exercise is
operating at the point where a muscle
has its best leverage as Paul Carter
will put it
didn't find any benefit from muscle
growth and this study was performed by
stanisvskian colleagues
very importantly and this is in response
to common criticism I see bandied around
regarding this research all three
studies made sure that participants in
both groups trained equally hard and
used similar intensities so that
hopefully even any differences in
leverages should largely be washed out
by this decision
finally Paul goes on to say that studies
should measure fascicle length changes
not just cross-sectional area changes
and this is because Paul thinks that
stretch media hypertrophy occurs only
through changes in vascal length
the issue here is that the evidence
really isn't conclusive in this reward
and there are other mechanisms many of
them in fact that may or may not be a
play and Paul is likely being
reductionistic in this case
putting that issue to the side for a
second though
the study Paul is mentioning here did
look at cross-sectional area but the two
other ones I mentioned did not they
looked at muscle thickness
in fact both pinto and colleagues and
Saturn colleagues looked at elbow flexor
thickness as opposed to cross-sectional
area
so the argument that we only have
studies looking at cross-sectional area
and therefore we can tell if the elbow
flexors respond to stretch media
approach fee Falls flat on his face
since we also have several studies
showing similar effects when measuring
muscle thickness instead
to summarize we have three studies
comparing shorter to longer muscle
length training in the elbow flexors
all three showed favorable results for
longer muscle length training for
hypertrophy
the mechanisms are played are in super
clay so just resorting to saying oh but
they didn't measure fast collect
adaptations isn't really strong enough
of an argument here particularly when we
have direct evidence looking at
hypertrophy over several studies in the
muscle group we're talking about
in addition it simply isn't as easy as
just saying oh classical length changes
or the only potential mechanism involved
in lower muscle length training being
beneficial in fact there are several
other mechanisms that the Mania play and
we simply don't have enough evidence yet
to make that claim so until we have
further Evidence I would much rather
look at the direct evidence on the topic
comparing shorter to longer muscle
length training and seeing which one
appears to lead to more hypertrophy both
for each individual muscle group like
the elbow flexors here we have three
studies on these muscles specifically
but also more broadly speaking if we
have evidence in lots of muscle groups
which at this point we do with the
triceps we have the quads we have the
biceps Etc
at this point we can make a
generalizable principle about
hypertrophy longer muscle length
training likely is better for
hypertrophy period
and that doesn't really seem to be
muscle specific for the time being
overall Paul Carter has some good takes
on training but this isn't one of them
we are currently conducting data
collection for several studies on
Rangers motion and muscle length and
muscle hypertrophy so definitely stay
tuned for those