Dr pack here this time the budget of big
Pharma was like okay the budget officer
was like okay P You're making us look
bad but at least do it in style Dr pack
logo neon sign still in the wolf's layer
got to give respect to Milo wolf or this
way whichever way works for having me
here in his amazing
studio that said I am here as a real
doctor no G
to talk to you about the idea of
standardizing everything and how
important it is to standardize reps
workouts and so on and so forth for the
sake of your games allow me to start
with an easy disclaimer if you're a
strength athlete if you're a powerlifter
if you're a strongman if you're an
Olympic weightlifter if you're somebody
who does a sport that requires you to be
really good at a particular skill and in
our sort of Niche that will be some form
of bar lift so if you need to perfect
the deadlift the squat the bench press
the clean and jerk the snatch whatever
then things are obviously much more
different than if you were just trying
to get bigger and essentially become a
more jacked version of yourself
standardization for powerlifters is very
important if you're trying to move a
weight from point A to point B in the
most efficient way and you're trying to
have the same technique every time
because you've figured out the most
efficient technique for each specific
lift obviously keeping reps as close to
identical as possible will be of benefit
to your future performance now obviously
keep in mind that there are cases where
insane levels of standardization even in
those context May slightly backfire in
the form of overthinking or being too
conservative with loads or whatever no
seeing yourself that you're doing
something wrong simply because during a
Max attempt your upper back slightly CED
in slightly C
in or whatever but keep in mind that in
that context standardization is a big
thumbs up and is a completely different
ball game than hypertrophy training
standardization is usually somewhat of a
buzzword that is been thrown around uh
mostly to support the idea that hey
unless everything is looking exactly the
same during each workout you're likely
to miss out on future gains you going to
the gym and doing your usual exercises
and keeping things consistent as far as
exercise selection goes that's pretty
much all the standardization that you
really need to care about if you want to
be somebody who is doing their best in
order to track progress and know whether
you're making progress over time I've
argued before that it's very difficult
to not know whether you're making
progress especially if you're keeping
exercise selection relatively consistent
slight changes from a hypertrophy
standpoint are likely not going to make
a big difference as we've previously
talked about exercise technique you have
a wide range of tempos that you can use
you can have a slightly faster
concentric on one day slightly slower
centc on the other day for whatever
reason just because you happen to not
fully control it but as long as you're
within that range and you're doing your
best to keep things as standardized as
possible you do not need to worry about
whether that one rep was different to
that one rep last week and whether the
way you pushed your hips back on that
RDL was slightly less hip hindy than the
way you pushed your hips back the
previous week overall the idea of
standard ization intuitively makes sense
and it's one of those things that we
often hear about that we don't question
we hear people say okay you must
standardize things so that you know
whether you're making progress or not
but the reality of things is as far as
direct evidence goes and obviously you
know absence of evidence ain't evidence
of absence but as far as direct evidence
goes when it comes to meticulously
standardizing things ah we don't have
much uh to really tell us that it will
make a meaningful difference for your
hypertrophy gains and as far as tracking
progress goes as long as you're keeping
things relatively consistent you will
know whether you're making gains or not
if you've reached a stage where it's so
difficult to tell whether you're
actually making progress then you've
either absolutely maxed out your gains
or there's something else that you're
doing wrong potentially on the nutrition
or recovery side of things allow me to
also note that I am by no means
recommending that you massively alter
your Technique in order to fake
progression so like if you've been
pausing for for 2 seconds on the bench
press and all of a sudden you go from
pausing for 2 seconds to not pausing
whatsoever and slamming the bar in your
chest and you have now added three reps
to your bench first and you're like okay
whatever I'm doing is for sure working
cuz I'm adding reps to my bench then
obviously again that's a whole other
story and even in that example if you
still have a bunch of other exercises
that you perform for your chest sure
your bench ver progress may be mudded
because you've chosen to absolutely YOLO
it and completely change your Technique
from one week to the other but at the
same time if you're pushing yourself
close to failure and you're doing your
best to add some weight on the bar and
add the extra rep here and there it's
very unlikely that you'll be missing out
on many if any hypertrophy gains at the
end of the day guys and gals keep in
mind that we may love to geek out about
Minor Details and I know that many of
you want to make sure that you are
taking every box possible and that
you're not missing out on any games but
keep in mind that if you've
those few basic boxes sure it's good gym
etiquette to keep things as consistent
as possible but do not fall in this trap
of paralysis by analysis and again in
the context of things like lengthen
partials or using exercises that may be
more difficult to standardize
standardization is not really a huge
concern as long as you're not taking the
absolute piss with your training but
let's look at an extreme example
obviously it's important to keep things
somewhat standard IED from a progression
standpoint so that you can you know have
an idea that you're actually making
progress again changing your exercise
order here and they're not a big deal
even in the scenario though where let's
say you went absolutely YOLO and did
your best to perform different excise on
every workout making sure that you're
progressively overloading and that
you're actually you know pushing
yourself more and more every month every
session every week would be difficult
and one could argue that you could be
leaving gains on the table but even in
that scenario you'd still still be
looking at meaningful increases in
hypertrophy and you'd still be on the
game train perhaps not first class game
train but you'd still be on it so always
remember that because I get a lot of
people that come to me either from
previous coaches that they've worked for
or or they've consumed certain content
from YouTube or from books and they have
this idea that unless they they are
getting 100% the alternative is zero% I
do not know of many people that will
purposefully go to the gym and do
different exercises every time and
complete change their form those people
would still make amazing hypertrophy
gains although they'd be making things
extremely difficult for themselves as
far as ensuring that they're not leaving
gains on the table which unless you
absolutely love training like a crazy
person I do not see the value in going
full on YOLO with your you know your
workout schedule and your exercise
selection and randomly choosing
exercises every time I did however want
to illustrate the point that even in
that scenario you're not looking at
somebody who's not going to be making
gains you're looking at somebody who is
probably going to leave some gains on
the table when it comes to ma maximizing
muscle growth all that to say yes
another video of nothing means anything
and you shouldn't worry too much about
minor things like standardizing
everything to an absolute te just make
sure that you're consistently training
cuz that's where the real gains are and
don't forget that if you're not doing
your due diligence outside the gym with
your food and your recovery things are
not going to go anywhere simply because
those things are also important don't
forget to like subscribe hit the
notification icon use my promo code
these nuts for absolutely nothing cuz
there are no promo codes here baby make
sure to check out Stronger by
science.com where we put out much
heavier in terms of information and
geekier content especially in the forms
of Articles and podcasts obviously
Stronger by science amazing resource in
general
anyways go check it out subscribe send
money the usual thank you so
much
[Music]
peace