[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
my name is Amy Thurston I've been doing
Crossfit this is 2009 I have four podium
finishes at the games I've won the
CrossFit Games twice and then I've taken
second place and third place
[Music]
it's early July so we came here quite a
long time in events for the games and I
need to get used to the heat and the
humidity
[Music]
it's just me my training buddies that
are also competing at the games and my
coach and the focus is just training and
are covering for the CrossFit Games it's
so much fun when it feels like such good
quality there's no distractions
[Music]
[Music]
did other sports growing up so I did
gymnastics I did pole vaulting so turn
him field a little bit and then I did
ballet for a few years and and those
sports I never learned anything about
Diane I tried to do this home diet I try
to do paleo but I had a hard time I felt
like I wasn't eating enough carbs and I
wasn't recovering well enough and I just
felt more tired it's never been as good
as it is now because now I know exactly
what I need to eat for each meal I
didn't really know how to do the macros
like I get a little nervous that that
was gonna be really complicated but it
was surprisingly easy to get the hang of
in the most recent changes is I feel
like it's more meals throughout the day
that I'm having and I'm getting more
carbs and around my training and in my
training I definitely feel a big
difference especially during my training
sessions some of them become really long
eating more carbs is definitely has made
the biggest difference for me
[Music]
I don't want eating to become a burden
and that was a little bit what I was
worried about but I'm still capable of
having the food that I really like I
just need to make sure I'm having the
right portions of it I believe it's
important for my mental health it takes
away a lot of stress for me and it's
never been as good as it is now