hey folks dr mike isratel here for
renaissance periodization another weekly
tip they just keep coming when will they
stop this weekly tip is ooh
controversial don't
exceed one gram of protein per pound of
body weight per day why though
what's the deal doc what are you saying
to us you may be thinking at home
six points maybe even seven first
almost every protein intake and muscle
growth study that is on a variety of
metrics and the more direct metrics are
more accurate and pretty much all of
them
show that optimal protein intakes that
is the most muscle you can grow
usually these studies top out at below a
gram per pound per day which is to say
that if we plot a curve of protein
intake on the one axis and growth muscle
growth result on the other it does this
thing here and it doesn't go up anymore
it plateaus and usually that values like
0.8 to 0.95 grams per pound per day
so if you eat a gram per pound per day
you're essentially covered in almost
every case not every case i'll get to
that in a
second point but like if people say like
yeah bro gotta get in fucking gram and a
half gotta get in two grams per pound
like
based on what like certainly not on the
studies now we got some other points
there are a few studies done on natural
bodybuilders very close to the peak of
their competition and they show that
potentially slightly higher intakes are
beneficial during that time mostly for
anti-catabolism preventing muscle loss
which if you're gaining muscle is almost
not a concern at all
but it's just over that and it's only
like four weeks out of a show so maybe
that's an exception and then you eat
like 1.1 to 1.3 grams per pound per day
and you're fucking golden and any more
than that it's bad for you but it's like
y so the y though actually applies to
the more protein not the less
point number three people say yeah
fucking whatever but i'm on cycle bro
i'm on gear i fucking need more protein
to do shit lol
the funny thing is is that anabolic
steroids
expand what's called your feed
efficiency as a matter of fact when
they're given to cattle that's why a lot
of them are developed trend was
developed for cattle is actually
approved exclusively for the use of
cattle what they do is they feed the
cattle last and the cattle get really
stressed in these transitions when
they're driving from where they grow up
to the place where they're slaughtered
oh boy and don't get the vegans hear
this one sorry folks and what they do is
they give them a shitload of trend
during that time and even though they're
eating less food and they're way more
stressed
they don't lose hardly any muscle
because for the amount of protein you
get with anabolic steroids from your
diet they increase the efficiency of the
muscle growth and retention process and
if you're getting even a little less
than usual you still retain and grow
more muscle on them so if you're getting
the usual natty amount which is a gram
per pound
very likely if you take steroids on top
of that or any other performance
enhancing drugs that expand hypertrophy
like growth hormone insulin etc you're
probably like just swimming in a sea of
amino acids at that point and that's
even less the limiting factor so when
people say i'm on drugs if bulk needs
steroids you'll see other people say i'm
natty so i need sorry
i'm on drugs i need more protein you'll
hear natty people are actually more
correct to say i'm natty need more
protein turns out both of them are
correct as far as they go but it doesn't
go far enough a gram per pound really
just takes care of you in most
situations natty enhanced purple blue
alien computer how much protein do
androids need gram per pound for you
fucking androids too i don't care where
you plug it in gram per pound now
here are the downsides of eating a lot
of protein kidney health is not a
downside of eating a lot of protein if
you're healthy and you know kidneys
aren't falling full of rocks some shit
then you have not a very medical take
medical literature is very very clear on
this uh high protein diets do not pose a
risk to kidneys not short term not long
term not nothing so don't worry about
that the only real downsides are kind of
like really like uh kind of milk toast
ones like protein is more expensive like
it just is like if you know a gram per
pounds the most growth you'll get pretty
much in all circumstances why the fuck
would you eat two grams per pound of
your grocery bills like a hundred
thousand dollars elon musk is calling
you up you know what i'm saying why is
your grocery bill so high jeff bezos
you're borrowing money from your grocery
bill fund that's kind of stupid right
carbs and fats in addition to that so if
you eat more protein you have to
displace some carbs and fats giving you
know what your calories are supposed to
be so if you eat fewer carbs and fats i
mean fats support hormonal operation
really well especially for drug free
individuals so if you have a higher fat
diet it's good for your hormones which
means you support muscle growth support
sleep and also actually especially for
drug free people and even people on gear
man you know a higher fat diet gets your
you feel me down there you getting hard
more often you're hornier um i know that
works with males really well the females
it's not as predictable probably can't
hurt so if you're eating a shitload of
protein very little fat you're hurting
yourself what matters most your
masturbation habits listen those are
important carbs they give you huge pumps
they provide energy and they're also at
a certain point sort of uh supportively
anabolic right
uh and if you tons of protein to the
point where you're doing lower carbs
than you could you're actually getting
probably a net smaller
anabolic and anti-catabolic effect so
it's not something you want to do it's
got some downsides they're not big
downsides you can still eat a crap load
of protein unless everything else but
your results either won't be marginally
just a little bit not as good or just be
paying like a lot of money costs and
also like farts and poops and it's
annoying to chew fuck that especially in
a mass gain you don't want to eat any
more protein than you have to
uh some could say okay what about hunger
now i eat a little bit more than gram
per pound on my hypocaloric phases
because i get a pretty good anti-hunger
effect from higher protein but as metal
henselmans who you should be following
anyway pointed out many times
green veggies have a way bigger per
calorie effect on controlling hunger
than any protein you'll ever eat your
entire life so if you really want an
anti-hunger wallop keep a protein maybe
a little higher than gram per pound but
don't go two and three grams per pound
which i've actually seen people do
just putting more veggies into your diet
reduce more of you know the starchy
carbs and all of a sudden your
anti-hunger is awesome even though
you're not killing yourself with crazy
amount of protein by killing i mean in
your wallet and your sex drive not in
your kidneys um so does that mean you
shouldn't eat more than a gram of
protein per pound per day no but if you
are eating more than gram protein pound
per day you should at least to your own
self and your own mind have a compelling
reason to do so
um and if if you do it and even without
a compelling reason at least don't
expect magic to happen you look you know
the kind of i don't say tragic mini real
first world tragedy has been like a 19
year old kid in college just like i'm
fucking serious about lifting i've had
enough this shit bullies punched me in
the face sand in my face and said does
that still happen or is that all like to
his twitter bullying the only thing
young kids experience now any case
people talk shit to me on twitter i
gotta get jacked when that kid goes and
instead of eating like point nine grams
of protein per pound body weight per day
he's like i'm getting serious he eats
two grams per pound and he's like this
is going to be a big deal then he just
gets the same muscle growth he has been
except at like double the food cost and
an annoying amount of really smelly
farts which look if you're trying to get
some streetcar and trying to get laid
out here smelly farts are a great way to
do it fart it up tell all your enemies
you fuck with me you're similar farts
see you guys next time
you