having a spotter could actually make you
stronger based on a recent bosis by
weekly and colleagues receiving feedback
is generally a good thing for
performance outcomes it seems to
increase performance both acutely when
in a given session someone's giving you
verbal or visual feedback on how you're
performing and it may even increase
gains in sprinting jumping and strength
capabilities when repeated over a long
term visual feedback such as feedback
around how fast you're moving the bar
Etc can be very helpful alternatively
you could have your training partner
tell you verbally how fast the bar is
moving this could be achieved via
velocity measurement device although in
general one finding from this research
is that feedback is good for performance
and so a training partner who can
provide you with this could be helpful
and if nothing else they could provide
you with technical cues to improve your
Technique over time that's why