and uh are you shaking I am my arms
start to shake no they don't you're not
shaking you're not in pain you're not
even working what the fuck is going on
here what is this exercise
[Music]
hey folks I'm Dr Mike Israel a professor
of sport and exercise science at Lehman
College in the Bronx and I am going to
review the Kardashians training and it's
going to be amazing no doubt let's get
into it
[Music]
abs and upper body part one fit in your
jeans by Friday an interesting
periodization model just a week long
assuming you watch this huh what did you
watch this on if you're watching it on
Thursday you're like yes challenge
accepted show me what's up Kim all right
so we're about to work out you can see
that we got our weights that weight is
the weight of two large markers that a
kindergartner would use and she has a
friend her friend is uh quite a bit
larger more robust looking larger bones
that also has the same nominally
weighted dumbbells let's find out what
we're doing with these also their
workout room is a an open concept luxury
apartment in Venice which is my
preferred gym of choice as well okay
great remember Kim this is upper body so
not only are we working our arms but
we're also going to work in right here
to get a nice Sleek tummy Sleek tummy
that's what you get from working out no
wait no that's what you get from dieting
you want to sleep core you go to the
kitchen you walk out with a healthy
snack instead of the entire world sorry
folks had to pop that myth early which
is you're very dressed appropriately I
know corset on purpose because I always
forget to suck in my tummy huh
my brain yeah and you want to be careful
too not just sucking in but once you
gain that strength you're going to be
pulling your belly button back to your
spine that's called sucking in if you
want to have this feeling of a wearing a
corset
always forget to hold in my core this is
this doesn't know what the point of is
it's kind of like vacuum training I
guess maybe if you get really good at
sucking in you can like always be
sucking in when you're in public so that
when like Vanity Fair snaps the wrong
photo from the wrong angle you're still
like oh my God it's so skinny
so you go over and up good keep those
hips Square Kim's not keeping her hips
square but I'm just being pedantic I'm
trying to listen to the trainer lady
legitimately Kim is screwing up this
already pointless exercise she's doing
some kind of half lunge knee Bend and
she's keeping perfect eye contact with
the camera which I believe is where all
of her attention is I mean she has like
several thousand dollars of hair and
makeup on huh I guess put the camera
where the money is all right both elbows
hands up crunch up front four
like a standing crunch it is
standing crunch folks sometimes I also
get confused I'll have some marijuana
edibles and I'm I'll forget Which Way
gravity points no wait wait I never
forget Which Way gravity points because
it's fucking apparent the only thing
that's working in this movement is the
back musculature which is the
anti-crunch this is a good way to relax
your core if you simply relaxed
everything you would be doing a crunch
because gravity is doing it for you this
is pretending to lift and not actually
lifting no one is benefiting from this
at all I'm going to have you do four
more and you really again you're doing a
great job is this the Funky Chicken
Dance where you just do this it is this
is good practice for the club but not
for Fitness God see how her belly's
going right back to her spine Valley's
going right back to her spine hey
kidneys and liver fuck out of the way
you have reach I want you to reach
beyond your foot feel that stretch use
the obliques Kim is again disregarding
instructions she's currently failing at
even the nominal tasks assigned to her
goddamn she looks good doing it I feel
like she tried a little Fitness and
after this she was like
let's just do it with surgery and the
doctor's like yeah yeah yeah don't worry
about working out anymore like
you're doing it without
the mat or the resistance or the benefit
or the challenge or the effect so you
want to make sure you're not pulling on
your neck oh that would be a disaster if
you pulled on your neck with dumbbell
holding fingers who knows what would
happen you could break your own neck
just trauma surgeons or overwhelmed
after this video comes out with women
that have broken their own necks my God
the humanity and over for four keep
those hips Square I like that the
trainer lady finally noticed Kim wasn't
keeping her hips Square she's like look
pause the video Kim I know we're
bullshitting people with this workout
video but we have to at least get the
bullshit right it comes like
how much longer am I here for by the way
from an exercise science perspective for
the general fitness Enthusiast a first
timer to the gym what has been done so
far does not even qualify as a warm-up
yet
let that sink in you're gonna bring the
hand to the shoulder in and out oh so
this I love this exercise trains what
exactly yes it does prepare you to do
the Macarena however again gravity
points down nothing points that way
Force wise so this is a completely
wasted pointless movement that does
nothing at all and you really want to
think of extending those arms long so
you're lengthening the muscles which
muscles are you lengthening exactly the
biceps and triceps which are currently
under no resistance at all good and
working through the back there is zero
back activation doing this no part of
your back is active doing this the back
takes this upper arm and pulls it this
way that's not happening my God so just
by
here
you're working them right I'm working
them Kim's like I'm working on okay
fuck off me I guess she did sort of have
a good point that just by isometrically
keeping the shoulders in place you're
working them but you're also totally
wasting your time effort and focus doing
this bullshit damn you is this like a
crime against exercise science I think
we're all Witnesses in and out good now
really resist against uh uh you guys see
that she said really resist against and
she put her hand in the way bitch your
hands not in normally in the way when
you're also over there demonstrating the
shit so I'm not resisting against
anything how am I supposed to resist you
didn't give me anything to resist
against am I supposed to be betting my
knees here yeah
you can bend them keep them soft
Scott's video guy told me before he
queued this in that this is it's
something that starts off terrible and
gets incrementally worse and I had
trouble believing him but now I am fully
in that belief Kim's question was am I
supposed to be bending knees I mean I
don't know I thought we were training
shoulders I thought that means if you're
thinking about your knees
something is a Miss it's like benching
and being like what am I supposed to do
with my toes shut up and bench what the
fuck hold him up turn the wrist so
they're open and what are your favorite
things to do I said yeah she said that
sincerely
is Kim a real person I swear to God like
a little like bimbo doll AI could do all
her dialogue for her
your muscle is significantly bigger than
when we started this it is
no it's not your muscle was significant
that first of all it's called a pump
second of all bitch you don't have a
pump because you haven't been training
you're moving around with the equivalent
of a heavy glove not even a heavy glove
like a winter glove you're gonna hold it
out pull the elbows into the waist
and up are you shaking I am my arms
start to shake no they don't you're not
shaking you're not in pain you're not
even working what the fuck is going on
here and what is this exercise it sort
of trains the front delts and I don't
really know what else
oh my God so now when you pull in think
of making that V shape
for those nice backless dresses on the
red carpet what oh they think this is a
back exercise well again gravity doesn't
point in that direction if you start
here and gravity pulls you down into the
position that means you don't have to do
any work at all and the muscles of the
back that pull down don't do anything
how about four more for extra credit
you're gonna love me when you're ready
before my arms fall off yes Kim your
arms are going to fall off from disuse
conscious movement so you're not just
letting the weights do the work
her muscles pulling
did I just hear you're not letting the
weights do the work I thought that the
weights are inanimate objects that sit
there and resist gravity this is
nonsense at the highest possible level
good
feel it yeah one more she's finally has
to counter the resistance of her legs
and she's like okay this I feel my leg
is heavier than this nominally weighted
dumbbell now hold it there and take that
heel kick it back and out good oh we got
Karate kicks so we're working the glute
the hamstring okay you're not working
the glue to the hamstring because
gravity again for the last fucking time
points down what you are doing is simply
and essentially a weightless condition
extending your leg you would get a
better workout of the fucking space
shuttle if you want to see the full
uncensored version of this video much
more extra content some stuff we did not
put into this video our members area is
up for grabs give that a shot and maybe
we'll see you guys there
all right enough of Kim that's a hard
enough workout for me to critique let's
move on to Chloe
Khloe fit I love it in the gym with
oh Gunner Peterson this is a man that
people say knows things let's find out
if he knows things Chloe is a big person
God damn I love it
oh yeah her ass is fake I love her
outfit by the way God damn Adidas just
dripping off the fucking phone the shit
he has the same outfit as like an
Orlando pill dealer Adidas cap Adidas
hoodie I'm just saying to hide from the
police
is great
yo legit Chloe could kick someone's
balls off their fucking body like I said
this is a big bitch this is a for real
type of bitch I love it is she sure a
shit kicker this doesn't really help you
with Fitness it's also not boxing but as
far as nut kicking is concerned A Plus
work Gunner is like better be holding
that shit tight and back in his dick the
fuck away you guys imagine like a one
foot oopsie goodbye nut sack
oh damn she's throwing fucking Hooks and
shit I like how they skipped all the fun
boxing stuff but now it's time for the
booty boost you feel like you have a
nice booty but wait the Boost that's
what you're really in for 15 seconds oh
my God if I don't see Flames coming off
that thing okay so this is an unstable
isometric contraction of the gluteus
maximus muscles and all all three of the
types of muscle contraction that we
could reasonably expect in the gym
concentric eccentric and isometric
isometric is theoretically and probably
practically the least one least likely
to cause gains and any training that you
make unstable decreases the
effectiveness of that training because
your muscles feel your nervous system
feels the strongest when it's stable and
is more likely to really use your
muscles with hard contractions that
cause muscle growth and cause more fat
loss and cause more strength so they
actually modified the squatting motion
which would normally be done on a flat a
stable surface and through a full or
deep range of motion that would be the
way to get the most out of the squat and
they put her on a bosu ball and had her
just stand in place which basically
doubly degrades the effect of the squat
and I mean this when I say this only in
fucking Hollywood can you take a
movement that was just your body weight
Squat and with no equipment that would
have been the superior movement and you
made it worse you should pay money not
to do this this guy owes her like nine
hundred dollars worth of he charges an
hour
three two there is one way to describe
her movement pattern here spastic not
something you want to do in the gym
because I don't really know what it
accomplishes if you could move that
quickly under load it's not enough load
to do anything except have you look like
I don't know a spastic bird no obviously
can't do this at home the nuclear
Regulatory Commission would never allow
such high power outputs in a residential
area but you can
yeah you could but damn she tried to
like get in there and she's like you
could do it with bands and God was like
shut the fuck up let me do my job you do
your job Chloe which is
let me tell you guys about the RP
hypertrophy app with over 28 preset
programs already in the app you can
choose to make your own you can modify
an existing program or you could just
run the programs exactly as they were
written by me personally this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the adjust to your
unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
top 5 Kardashian workouts probably
ranked in reverse
coach Don says you need to work on you
balance a little bam they put the
ebonics right into this shit you know
this isn't terrible because they seem
like they're lunging relatively deep for
Hollywood standards I don't know what
Chloe's doing she is having real trouble
making sense of this movement but the
whole bocce ball situation could be
replaced with just a regular elevated
platform which is stable and then this
would actually be a front foot elevated
lunge which would be a great exercise
for the glutes but just like Hollywood
always does
something up and make it terrible Donna
Matrix training is this company that's a
fucking dope name
hey so really super partial range of
motion with the triceps there it's also
difficult to stabilize on an
intentionally unstable surface this is
Jack fucking waste of time you guys seen
that car in the background though who
the fuck's car is that that's awesome
we're exhausted wait are those
tiny children's toy cars are they in a
children's playground for really rich
kids what the fuck is going on
I'm gonna throw up if you throw up from
that you need like
donated liver or some shit it was made a
decision to uh do Playboy Kim's made a
decision to do Playboy Scott the video
guy have we looked under this have we
looked at her Playboy spread
me neither I just read the articles oh
it's Bruce Jenner this is when uh he was
Bruce it's really because Bruce Jenner
is like the greatest athlete of all time
or some shit like that yes and uh he's
he's probably looking at this workout
being like you guys all suck how many
calories do I need to burn to lose a
pound uh I don't know I don't worry
about calories I worry about sweat oh
yeah Bruce tell those fucking bitches
yeah I don't really sweat that much
that's because you don't train hard the
thing is if you ain't sweating you ain't
working
oh Bruce get him I love it that's so not
true oh my God what are you doing here
not working out
yeah let's go
what the fuck is this
oh my God what is that even pretending
to train
you're like dripping with sweat no
you're not
God because nothing's really happening
there's no training happening these
people are getting ripped off Hollywood
I got nothing to say to you
why not a 10.
[Music]