[Music]
hey-hey rp+ its James Hoffman welcome
back this is a continuation of our
applied periodization lecture that we've
been working on for a little while today
what I'm going to show you is how to
actually take some of the things that we
talked about in the previous videos and
put together a really really simple
example of an annual plant now granted
in the real world these are going to be
really crazy and complicated but I just
wanted to show you guys kind of like a
quick how-to version of how to do this
in the real world so if you have not
watched the previous videos on applied
for u2 zation make sure you go back and
watch those first otherwise this might
not make very much sense so I know that
looking at an excel screen and just
listening to my awesome voice is
probably not the most exciting thing in
the world so let's just jump right in so
all you can see on the screen here is I
have Microsoft Excel open I haven't done
anything fancy so to get things going
I've got my medium now I'm going to
start setting my timeline right off the
bat so if you're watching along I'm just
going to write week of in this column
and I'm just going to start throwing
some dates around so today is 422 I like
to start on Monday so I'm gonna say 424
2017 and usually excels pretty good so I
got this so this is one date what I need
to do is actually make it on the scale
that I want so if I just click and drag
this it's gonna go one day at a time so
what I want to do is actually make it
move one week at a time so what I'm
gonna do before I do that I'm just gonna
pop in one week later from the date that
I set so in this case that's gonna be
May 1st 2017 now Excel will recognize
that I have a one week pattern and check
this out I'm gonna blow your mind
oh snap now I can just click and drag
right nothing crazy here and I can go as
long as I want so why don't we just go
ahead and make it roughly about one year
so that would be it right about here
now notice when I did that some of them
turned out cool some of them turned out
kind of funky all you got to do is just
make sure that you go up here in this
bar and change everything to short date
and that should correct most of the
cells some of them still might be kind
of funky every now and again looks like
we're good to go so I didn't do anything
too crazy I just put one date and I put
one week later clicked and dragged and
it actually sent a whole weekly timeline
and you can set that as long as you'd
like so I set mine for roughly about one
year so that gives me the week of so I
know that this is always going to be on
a Monday for based on the way that I did
this now you can do it any way that you
want right this is like your Bob Ross
moment the world is your canvas you can
put a little strength phase over here
you can put a little happy happy power
cloud over here don't matter you can do
whatever you want so this is just kind
of the way that I like to do it now what
I'm gonna do is kind of put a little
scale on my like y-axis here and my
columns so I'm going to make a note that
says competitions so that way I know if
there's any competitions that I need to
be aware of I'm gonna start mapping out
the major phases of training so I'm just
going to write phases in here you can
write whatever you want this is going to
include our preparatory phases our
competition phases and our transition
phases and then within that we also have
some sub phases so I'm going to
potentially label those here so within
our preparatory phase we might have some
general prep some specific prep within
our competition phase we might have some
pre competitive and then you know with
our transition phase it might be active
rest it might be complete rest it might
be kind of offseason style workouts or
return to fitness so it could be any
number of things so we'll put a sub
phase there what I'm also going to do
just for fun is we're also going to put
nutrition here because as we mentioned
in our previous lecture some of the
nutrition things that we do are going to
parallel the training things that we do
very very closely so it's not a bad idea
to just kind of throw that in there even
on a very vague level and then last but
not least what I'm gonna put in is kind
of you can kind of label this however
you see fit I like to just write like
emphasis or something along those lines
this is essentially what you're
reminding yourself of what you're
actually doing here so this might be
where you write like hey strength
endurance one or power two or strength
three whatever it is you want to put in
there you don't really matter okay so
really all I've got here is a time line
I have a column to label my competition
and then what I'm going to do is start
big and work my way to small
so we said in the previous lecture
series I'm gonna mark all my
competitions and then I'm going to work
away from competitions right I'm not
going to start in my general preparatory
phase it's going to be too difficult so
what I'm going to do is start with my
competitions and then kind of work my
way to the left and to the right
with my competitive phases in my
transition phases so I'm the man if you
aren't aware so in French I believe they
say is your sweet
the man and in German it's been the man
you know may I'm oh the man all sorts of
different languages I speak either one
I'm the man so we're just going to do
this on the fly and do it randomly just
have some fun normally you'll have an
obviously a competition schedule that
you have to follow but for our purposes
let's just have some fun and throw some
competitions out there so what I'm going
to do is I'm just going to put a couple
out there at random just for our fun
viewing enjoyment so what I'm gonna do
is also make them a little more distinct
so that I can always see them on my
chart so I'm gonna put comp I'm gonna
put a thick border box here I'm gonna
make them all red just so I remember for
myself now obviously you probably want
to be more descriptive when you do this
because you want to know what exactly
that competition is but let's just
assume that these are just kind of
random not huge deal competitions I'm
gonna throw it over here oops
now I'll copy and pasted the wrong thing
I go back there we go copy and paste
there on over here no big deal now what
I'm also gonna do is maybe pepper in
let's just say we're doing a sport that
has a sports season so let's have some
fun
so maybe my sport has a season and
there's a series of matches that I have
to be aware of something like this and
then let's also assume maybe at the end
of the year there's some like crazy
tournament or something so I'm gonna
actually leave that the same and then
I'm gonna write tournament in here just
to remind myself so notice now this is
obviously a very simple example but I've
got all my competitions that I'm
considering throughout the year right
great so I did this totally at random
and you probably just heard me burp into
the microphone I apologize it's probably
more on the way so be prepared for burps
now I'm doing this at random so keep in
mind this might not look exactly perfect
but it's kind of good to get a feel for
what we're doing so a good place to
start here based on what we have really
simple we're gonna start mapping out the
major phases of training so in this case
I have pretty clearly a competitive
season right here now we don't have
matches every week necessarily but this
is basically serving as our competitive
season so what I'm going to do is I'm
just gonna mark this whole big block
and I'm just gonna write in competitive
nothing fancy there all I'm doing is
just denoting that this is my
competitive phase from an annual plan
purposes nothing too crazy so now what I
have done is I've marked that now I'm
gonna work my way away so that means I'm
gonna mark my transition phases and my
preparatory phases after that so in this
example I'm scrolling left to right you
guys going crazy yet listening and
watching me scroll left and right in
this example we are basically are
assuming our athlete lives and dies in
this calendar year
right they are born ready for
competition on four twenty four and then
they kick the bucket over here on four
twenty-three right they're dead in the
real world these would overlap right so
we would carry on our plans from one
year to the next but let's just kind of
keep it simple for now okay so now what
I'm going to do this I'm gonna start
marking my other areas of the plan so
here an easy no-brainer all this area
leading up before the competitive phase
I'm just gonna mark this and I'm just
gonna put this whole big chunk of time
which is awesome for me because it
doesn't really work out this way a whole
lot sometimes but not always I'm just
gonna mark this whole bad boy and just
so you guys know all I did was highlight
the cells and I clicked a merge and
center nothing too fancy there and I'm
gonna put in here preparatory but I
always spell this wrong so don't make
fun of me I do have a PhD but I'm
terrible at spelling see he already made
it wrong I already spelled it wrong
prepare out toward there we go great so
now all I'm gonna do is put a thick
border box on there just to remind
myself hey this is how this is
structured okay so I got that now I have
a little bit of wiggle room over here so
I have this very very long preparatory
phase leading into a competition phase
and so what I need to do now is decide
do I do something crazy like with them
on complete rest
or maybe active rest or do I get them to
train right away over here we have a
tournament let's just assume that that
tournament is you know important to us
maybe not super important but it's worth
our time to make sure that we do well so
what are we gonna do over here well I'm
just going to go ahead and mark a
transition phase right over here and
what we're probably going to do is a
quick little
little teeny cycling between this time
it'll make more sense once we get to it
going so what I'm gonna do right now is
I'm just gonna mark a little bit of
active rest time so what we're going to
do is call this transition and later on
we will label this as active rest and it
will make more sense a little bit later
on there's a couple different ways you
can do this but I'm Bob Ross for today
you're gonna watch me paint this happy
little transition phase here now what
I'm gonna do is I have one competitive
phase here left that I haven't marked
which is this one right and so this is a
tournament so this is basically one kind
of point in time this could be like a
volleyball tournament or a rugby
tournament or anything along those lines
really one point in time that I'm kind
of concerning myself with so what I'm
going to do is I'm gonna actually mark
two weeks of this because what I'm going
to actually do is kind of taper into
this a little bit just for it as an
example so what I'm gonna mark here is
competitive in the back of my mind I'm
gonna make sure that later I put that
down for a peaking in taper so sorry
another burp there told you there was
more on the way
last but not least I have that one
little stretch here nothing else to go
in between here but for para Tori
preapare
Tori I did it right there we go just
gonna put a big box on just to make it
easy to see boom okay so now I've got my
major major phases of my annual plan
marked so now what I need to start doing
is breaking it out into smaller sub
phases so this kind of seems for a lot
of people like oh man what a waste of
time this is all just like semantics and
silliness but what ends up happening is
when you're actually doing this it makes
it very very systematic and very very
easy to break down when we start
breaking it into mesocycle strategies so
now what I'm going to do is I'm going to
start working my way backwards from
competition periods and start marking
out my sub phases so in here I might
have a couple sub phases right so what
I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna call in
this competitive phase we're gonna call
this early competition this is kind of
like games that have an effect like on
our standings and our rankings but
they're kind of early on in the season
so still pretty fresh and then this is
going to be our late comp and this may
include like postseason like playoff
kind of stuff
championship stuff or it could just be
kind of as the name implies just later
on in the season the latter portion of
the games in the matches so I'm just
gonna call this late comp because this
could include a number of different
things like playoffs or Championships or
something along those lines I'm just
gonna split those up into two sub phases
it doesn't really matter a whole bunch
whatever makes the most sense to you so
if these last three matches represent
like a playoff scenario where as these
represent you know like normal season
scenario you would label them
accordingly so in this case I'm labeling
these as late comps saying hey maybe we
had a bye week from our our conference
and then this is like state championship
matches or something like that whatever
right it doesn't really matter too much
so now what I'm gonna do here is you're
gonna mark a couple different things so
I have my competitions I have to go left
and right what I'm not gonna do is start
all the way back here and start marking
the general prep face that's gonna just
drive me nuts so what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna start working my way this way
and that way so first what we're gonna
do here is make a little note to myself
because I remember I put this here for a
reason so what I'm gonna do is a little
transition phase and I'm gonna call this
return and I might not have enough room
to write the whole thing return to
fitness fitness in this square haha I
fit all right so with this phase is
going to be if you actually are paying
attention and you've been watching the
videos you probably have noticed we have
a really big stretch of preparatory
phase here right so what we would expect
to see as time went on from these weeks
working its way down we would see really
really high volumes in this early
preparatory phase section and then the
volume will start creeping down
progressively over time it will continue
to creep down all the way into this
competitive season the problem that you
run into unfortunately with a lot of
sports the hockey and baseball come to
mind when you do a low volume training
for a long time you end up being at a
higher risk for adaptive decay and
reversibility the other problem that you
run into is the air tolerance to
training is very low so some people are
savvy to the first issue and they say I
got to make sure I pump up the volume
periodically so they're not losing
muscle mass and strength right and
that's a good thought unfortunately they
throw the book at their clients or their
athletes after doing their competitor
Faye's where they might have been doing
like two by twos or three by twos or
maybe even two by ones for some sports
and then they throw like a four by ten
five by ten or even like a three by
twelve at them and unfortunately they
just don't have the work capacity to
tolerate that high of volume so what I'm
going to do here and I know I'm probably
rambling a little bit I'm sorry this
return to fitness phase it's gonna be a
little bit of a bump in volume to get
them back into this preparatory phase
later on because what's happening here
in this competition phase well at this
point they're probably doing like two by
twos something like that right and then
what they're gonna do over here well
over here they might be doing something
like 3 by 10 4 by 10 or something like
that that's gonna be brutal when they
switch back so we're gonna use this
transition phase to kind of get them
back up to speed and a little bit of
work capacity so we're gonna maybe do
some 2 by 5 s 3 by 5's 4 by 5 something
like that just to make sure that they
are becoming again tolerant to the
exercise stimulus so that we can do hard
training later on over here ok cool so
mark that now what I'm gonna do is start
marking my general and specific prep
phases and what I have to get an idea of
is how much time I'm actually working
with over here the other thing you want
to think about is the training state of
your athlete now if you were dealing
with somebody who is relatively not very
trained right maybe only been training
for a couple years or maybe five years
or less you might spend a whole lot of
this portion so we have a really big
chunk here you might spend up quite a
bit of it just doing general preparatory
stuff like hypertrophy or capacity stuff
if you are dealing with somebody who is
more intermediate or advanced trained
you are eventually going to want to
start cycling back into that specific
repertory type activities a little bit
more frequently so let's do this for
sort of like an intermediate style
person so somebody who needs to do and
reinforce some of that dumb specific
prep type work where they're doing their
weight lifting movements they're
sprinting or plyometric any of that kind
of stuff so we're going to kind of come
back and cycle through this a couple
times so I want to get a vague idea of
how much time I have to work with here's
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
32 rejoice that's a lot of time
to work right so why don't we start off
doing some five-week mesocycle so
that'll make it nice so what we're gonna
do first is we're going to just start
marking off a little bit of time for
specific prep so what I'm going to do
right here and we're just going to keep
this one really simple I'm going to mark
a specific prep here and a five-week
cycle so this will be kind of like a
four in one paradigm for my athlete
we're do some specific prep and again
I'm going to put a nice thick border on
here just so I remember one two three
four five and then we do the same thing
over here
now notice see this comp ooh we're have
to come back to that another time for
now we're not going to worry about it
too much so what I'm going to mark here
is general prep no big deal now what I'm
going to do is actually cycle back
through a couple series of those so what
we're going to see here now is I'm
actually going to do maybe one artsy one
two three four five one two three four
five we're gonna do a big specific prep
over here and again there's a lot of
wiggle room this isn't something I want
you guys to look at this and take it at
face value and say dr. Hoffman did it
this way I'm doing it this way just to
kind of give you a feel for some
different options here right you there's
plenty of other ways you could go about
this if you really wanted to so here we
go one two three four five and then I
have one two three four five six seven
ooh this is going to present an
interesting challenge later on okay so
what I'm going to do here is maybe mark
a quite a bit of time here for general
prep pretty cool you don't get to deal
with this too often in the real world
where you have this much dedicated time
to general and specific prep some sports
you do many others you don't just
because they compete more regularly okay
now we've actually done most of the hard
stuff right now we just got to kind of
finish off on this trail end here let's
see we got one two three four five six
seven so what we're going to do in this
one is one of my favorite things to do
so what we're going to do is kind of a
shorter general prep because they've
already cycled through this several
times
and then we're gonna do kind of more of
a true peeking and tapering style
protocol so we're gonna do our specific
prep right here and we are gonna
functionally over each loops I'm already
getting ahead of myself not paying
attention to what I'm writing I'm gonna
do our specific prep right here and then
last but not least we're gonna overreach
them this weekend then we're gonna put
them right into their taper for their
sport tada I'm the man this worked out
great
look at this all right so now if you've
actually watched the other videos you
know that we actually have most of the
bulk of our work is already done because
we already know what types of sets and
reps and volumes and intensities
generally we should see in each one of
these phases which makes it really
really nice and easy to work with so in
here now we should also start marking
our nutritional emphasis so now I've got
the training stuff down here we're gonna
start marking what we're actually doing
for nutrition so as you guys probably
saw in the previous one these are going
to basically parallel a lot of the
different training phases so whenever
we're doing general prep a good idea for
our nutritional phases will be our body
composition alteration phases right so
what that means is if my athlete needs
to lose fat or gain muscle I'm gonna do
it at these times right boom why well
because the general prep is the time
where we have the highest volume of our
training cycle which is ideal for muscle
growth or muscle retention and it
actually provides a very very high
amount of energy expenditure which is
really good for weight loss so it's an
ideal time it's away from competitions
in this case we do have a couple comps
lingering and we'll deal with that in a
later video for now all we're doing is
mapping out our kind of our mesocycle
strategies for now okay so I got this
one right so we're doing body
composition alteration here we're gonna
move in to hopefully you're paying
attention and the other one weight
stabilization so now ideally they should
be at or roughly within about two
percent plus or minus their ideal
competition body weight which might vary
from season to season right so they
might be a little heavy or they might be
a little light depending on what we were
doing but basically here we said okay
they're not where we want them we're
building them to where we
want to go and then here we say okay now
we're basically where we want to be at
kind of our ideal or very close to our
ideal competition body weight here we
kind of switch over to recovery and
performance where we're going to put a
really really big emphasis on
carbohydrate consumption hydration and
establishing really really good nutrient
timing and food composition practices
this is kind of like where we really
really start fine-tuning our diet stuff
for our athlete to make sure that they
have picked the foods and the times that
fit well with them and that's going to
be our kind of like our whole
competitive you know oh man what a
knucklehead I thought this was something
else we got to fix this see I'm already
ranting and I'm already wrong so we got
to go back and change this I thought
this was the competitive phase because I
saw comp here but I'm in just a
knucklehead so hopefully if you were
paying attention you were like man this
guy screwing up already and you'd be
right so what we're gonna do real quick
is we're gonna change this and so what
I'm gonna do back over here is we're in
do this same phase we're gonna say okay
here if we need to make any more body
composition changes we can do a quick
like mini mask mini cut this fool does
he even know what he's talking about
I've been wondering that for years okay
oops I didn't even box this one there we
go
great and then we're gonna box this one
too and we're gonna move into chute
there we go
weight stabilization right boom balance
done and now here we go what I did
earlier what I meant to do over here
this is our recovery and performance
phase where we're really really keeping
them isocaloric still we're really
swapping out as much calories from fat
or if and we have any kind of surplus
protein that we're working with and
really trying to pump up those
carbohydrates as much as we can over
here when we have transition what we're
basically going to do here is what we
like to call active rest for nutrition
which really is pretty simple what most
of us would call maintenance phase where
we're just saying hey you know what
don't be a piece of crap don't lose a
bunch of muscle and become a big old
fatso or a skinny mini right kind of
stay on point with you
protein stay on point with your
hydration don't gain or lose a bunch of
weight but you don't have to be quite so
rigid as you were before so we want you
to get the mental break the the
psychological relief but we don't want
you to just go and be like a piece of
crap the whole time either right so
we're basically saying hey do the best
you can with your food but if if like
counting all of your macros and weighing
all your food and everything was driving
you nuts just take a break from it for a
little while and make some smart choices
and then hopefully no brainer right
we're just doing the same thing across
here if they got a little heavy
maybe they didn't take their active rest
phase too seriously and they got a
little chunker's a little husky around
the midsection we can do like a little
mini cut here if we need to
I'm already ranting too much I get too
excited and then I have no I just like
lose track of what I'm doing hopefully
you guys can relate ok boom weight
stabilization of course no-brainer boom
recovery and performance I don't know if
I have enough room to type that all in
there we'll give it will just call it
recover and perf boom how cool is that
so now we've basically mapped out all of
the major phases and sub phases of
training so last but not least what
we're gonna do today and then we'll take
a little break because I know this is
probably really boring for you guys to
just watch me work and excel here and
listen to me rant and say the wrong
things now what we're gonna do is maybe
break this down into some smaller
measure cycles that are a little easier
for us to manage so what we're gonna do
here is look at how much time we have to
work with so we got 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
so in this case we could do three four
week Mazza cycles so what I'm gonna do
here is actually really really simple
we're gonna do boom hypertrophy and this
could be for weight gain or weight loss
believe it or not then we're going to
call that one hypertrophy one and then
I'm gonna do another four weeks boom
hypertrophy and we're going to do a
different hypertrophy mesocycle so I'm
going to label that slightly differently
and I got emergency
a hare boom and then we'll do one last
one here and what we'll do is kind of
what I like to call a strength endurance
phase or maybe we can move it up to
general strength so why don't we do that
instead because we've already done two
hypertrophy that's going to be like
higher higher reps generally so maybe
we'll move into kind of basic strength
so maybe a little bit higher on the
higher end of our basic strength so may
be doing things like 4 by 8s 5 by 8 6 by
8 something like that boom so now I have
these marked out so I know okay I'm
gonna be doing hypertrophy here
hypertrophy here and then eventually
going to start transitioning into
strength and this actually worked out at
a reasonable time too
so that was cool now as we move into our
specific prep phase we got to mark out
how much time we have again right 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 so I got 10 so maybe I'll
do something a little different maybe
I'll do 2 fibers right so what we'll see
here is maybe like and this is again you
have a lot of wiggle room and I'm just
doing kind of a quick example but I'm
still thinking about phase potentiation
still thinking about variation all that
good stuff right so what I'm gonna do
here is a switch maybe we'll do some
maximal strength maximum strength and
some power so we'll mark that here
nothing crazy and then last but not
least we really start working on power
and speed over here boom and we're let's
just assume that we're not doing
something like weight lifting or power
lifting right let's assume we're doing a
sport that is a little more complicated
where there's a power and speed
component write something like rugby or
soccer or something like that right boom
so now we've reinforced some of these
things we've developed the skills and
techniques that we need and we're gonna
come back to them at a later time next
over here we're not really worried
super super crazy as much about
hypertrophy just because we don't have a
lot of time so we might be primarily
just doing more of our strength
endurance style phase just because we
don't have a lot of time to work with we
just want to make sure that we're still
keeping a good amount of work capacity
we came off this power and speed phase
we want to make sure that we're still
maintaining some of that work capacity
and we know that it really doesn't decay
that much but really we're just kind of
faced potentiating through this cycle
over time so we're just going to mark
this one
as strength endurance yeah sometimes
it's good you know I didn't do that last
one but sometimes it's good to mark them
just like 1 & 2 as you kind of go
because sometimes you might have another
one that you forgot about later on and
you're like oh man why did I label the
other one earlier ok and over here we
move into our specific prep and so what
we're gonna do maybe here is kind of
similar to what we did before maybe like
a maximum strength and power kind of
thing and actually if you just saw I
just copy and paste it and made that
nice and easy for me and then over here
right we're gonna do is basically kind
of the same stuff so what I might do in
this one is recycle the one I did before
and then I'm gonna have maybe a little
bit of variation played around and do
like power speed - oops and that one's a
little too long I made a mistake already
there we go there we go
key okay boom I'm just gonna take that
border off so I don't confuse myself
there we go boom okay nothing too crazy
just sometimes when you do this then you
got to fix it and it doesn't look stupid
okay over here so we set power and speed
so over here we're just gonna say you
know this is again return to fitness so
we're just doing basic basic strength
kind of stuff so we're just gonna say
basic strength nothing fancy
boom and then certainly last but not
least we're going to basically follow
this kind of similar pattern as we did
before so I'm going to do strength
endurance
[Music]
or in this one actually what we might do
is since we did that one before well
maybe just make this one basic strength
just for a little little flavor a little
variety we don't have a lot of time to
work so on this one maybe we did you
know kind of like three by five two by
five three by five something like that
and this one it might be a little bit
higher it might be like three by eight
four by eight something like that
there's a little wiggle room to play
with you can actually do it in the
reverse order as well depending on your
individual athletes so if you know that
they're gonna get crushed if you give
them a higher repetition range and this
is something I have experienced
personally and with my athletes I know
if I if I give them higher reps on this
one they get crushed I usually recommend
kind of the strength range like four to
eight reps something in there and then
in this one essentially you're gonna add
a little bit more volume so just kind of
keep the sets nice and light and this
one and then you can give them to have
more closer to their MRV in sets over
here so a basic strength and then we're
going to see kind of like power and
speed max strength kind of stuff we'll
label this one pounds be just like the
last one boom and then here all we're
gonna be doing actually is tapering okay
so pretty cool I know it doesn't look
like we've actually done all that much
and basically it just looks like some
word jumbles that we've done but in
reality we've actually done quite a bit
of the legwork for our annual plan so we
actually have all the major mesocycles
and a lot of the macro cycles planned
out here the only things that we don't
have are kind of like our week to week
day-to-day variations which is something
that we're working on the next one so
for now what we'll do is we'll save this
one and we're gonna come back to it at a
later time to keep working on it
but you can see right actually mapping
this out isn't as terrible as it might
have seen before when we are talking
about it and it's actually kind of fun
so once you kind of get into it and have
done it a few times it's really fun to
kind of work on these and think about
different scenarios in your head where
you might change some of these things
around now again don't take this overly
literally don't look at this and say
this
is exactly how it's meant to be done
this is me just having some fun doing it
randomly without considering a lot of
things like holidays and travel and all
those crazy things that we mentioned
before
there's plenty of different ways to go
about some of these things this is just
a simple example this is my my Bob Ross
winter landscape before you guys for
today so let's call it a day I know
you're probably sick of hearing me
ramble here and watching me work in
Excel not the most thrilling thing next
time let's start working on our week to
week in our day to day strategies which
now that we have this done should be
really easy
[Music]