none of this ever did we bring up ego or
earning it there's not a right answer
for everyone surprise isn't that crazy
Life's a little bit more complicated
than just like yes or
no hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization today's topic
is grip assistance in training tons of
questions about this so tight this up
and here are some of the questions that
I've seen before I've gotten a ton of
these and I've seen them on forums etc
etc so first should I be using straps
will straps make my grip weaker do I
have to be a certain strength to use
straps I'm sure you guys have heard this
in the gym like list you can barbell row
XYZ you don't use straps pussy
motherfucker people say shit like that
all the time what about Chalk is chalk
good idea is it a bad idea can I use
straps in the off season for
powerlifting complex question let's dig
so here we
go first the purpose of grip assistance
is very very simple it is so that your
grip is no no longer the limiting factor
of an
exercise mostly so that your other
muscles and movements can be pushed to
their limits instead and this is
important because if your grip is a
limiting
factor the muscles that are the limiting
factors in exercise get the
preponderance of the stimulus so if
you're somehow doing let's say dumbbell
presses non-rip example to make it real
simple and your triceps are what are
always failing you your triceps are
technically every time you fail at zero
r or failure your pecs might be at five
reps in reserve like if it was just up
to your PCS they could do it but your
triceps are liing factor that dumbbell
press is very very bad chess training as
any chess training would be if you
stopped every single time five reps in
reserve so if you don't want your
triceps limiting you you have have to
figure out a way to allow your PCS to be
pushed as far as they can go if you
switch to flies your packs are not a
limiting factor and they can grow
appropriately so if your grip limits you
on anything that anything turns into
largely a forearm exercise to make your
grip stronger and your forearms bigger
and much less of an exercise for
whatever other muscles are involved and
that's probably not the intention you
had when you were doing bent rows you
know do a bunch of bent rows and someone
turns to you like back day you're like
grip day bro what why are you rowing it
then like uh cuz you know my grip still
gives out early that doesn't make any
sense right we have to remember that
this is the purpose of grip assistance
is to make grip not the limiting factor
to allow other muscles and movements to
get their due time in the sun because
there's a lot of BS and people forget
during this BS pride and ego come into
play and we have to remember this so we
can check back to it and say okay is
this the right thing to do yes or no
let's get into a quick review of the
types of goup assistance we can use and
then we'll talk about specific use cases
so first is chalk works really well can
be used in competition for those of you
that are competitive strongman
powerlifters Etc but it's banned in some
gyms it makes a mess and it isn't as
good as other grip assistance devices
second kind of grip assistance is
various kinds of straps and there are a
few different kinds they work even
better than chalk generally like if
aliens put a gun to your cat's head and
like whiskers gets it if you don't
deadlift this amount you can either have
chalk or straps what would you do of
course you fucking put the straps on um
however big downside is straps can't be
used in competition especially if you do
powerlift competition strong man some
events yes some events no lastly and not
leastly are Versa grips again so 50th
time I'm not sponsored by Versa
[Music]
grips Versa grips if you've never used
them they're absolutely the best grip
assistance hands down better than chalk
better than straps not even close it's
just a genius invention the downside is
it can't be used in competition um in at
least most competitions and it might not
hold up to Elite strongman loads like if
we're doing 1100 lb Tire
deadlifts maybe Versa grips can say
something about how the grips are good
enough maybe they are but a lot of times
they may rip at that level two three
four five 600 lbs good to go Versa grips
are the shit so when would you use these
things and when would you consider not
using them so first up when to not at
least consider not using any grip ass
systems just going going raw hope the
YouTube algorithm is favor on that so if
you're just a beginner you're probably
not pushing super close to failure
anyway or what you think is close to
failure really isn't and a lot of times
beginners are lifting such light loads
that their grip strength is way ahead of
everything else like a lot of times for
like beginner clients you have them do
bent rows close to failure their backs
are so relatively weak that they don't
even notice grip as being a problem like
grip problems are something you have to
earn in most cases you just have to get
all their muscle strong enough to have a
grip problem like the way you have a
problem with your grip is if your back
is so strong it left your grip behind if
your back isn't strong yet a lot of
times your grip isn't a limiting factor
so in addition to that you want people
to establish their technique with just
their own bodies for as long as possible
to get really good technique if you
don't know how to do a bent row unless
you strap into it you might not really
know how to do a bent row and connect
with everything properly and a great
benefit is that it also stimulates your
grip a ton and makes your grip strong
and makes your forarms bigger because if
you're beginner and just getting into
fitness you probably want all those
benefits like you don't want to day one
give someone straps and be like don't
worry about you you'll never be without
your straps like they probably want a
bigger stronger grip to be all around
bigger and stronger so beginners
probably no need there in most cases
next when your grip is weak and or your
forearms are small and you're not doing
any dedicated grip or Forum training to
solve that
problem that means if you use grip
assists all the time your grip doesn't
ever improve your forms never improve
and if you want them to improve you're
going to have to take them off now of
course the best solution which we'll get
to in a bit is to use the grip assists
and then do dedicated Standalone forarm
training but if you're not doing any of
that training like if you come to me and
you're just trying to get overall fitter
and healthier and stronger and you're
doing B rows and pull-ups and you ask me
hey should I use straps and stuff like
that and I go okay do you want your
forearms bigger and stronger like yeah
are you going to do forearm training
dedicated like no I don't have time for
that shit like I would say most of the
time unless your group is really
limiting You by a huge amount I would
just stick to maybe some chalk uh and
maybe not and just using your regular
grips totally fine because you want that
overall development and you're not
willing to go outside and get extra grip
work if you're using the grip assists
all the time because if you use them all
the time your grip doesn't get nearly as
much of a stimulus last use case of what
not to do them this one's pretty obvious
as you training is nearing a competition
which you're not allowed to use grip
assists do not use grip assists in the
last several weeks month maybe even six
weeks maybe longer in powerlifting for
example if you're doing deadlifts with
straps because the straps lengthen a
little bit while you use them and
because even when you tie in straps
properly the bar sits a little lower on
your hands it's actually a different
lift another thing is when you know your
grip Can't Fail you can be more
explosive at the start of the lift and
you can grind through at the top of the
lift without concern for your grip and
that will set you up with some dog shit
technique that when you get to the
powerlifting meet and they're like hey
there's no straps allowed you're like oh
shit first of all I haven't practiced
these loads without straps second of all
my technique is a little different
because I use straps it's all a bad deal
so I don't give a shit how strong strong
you are with straps as soon as the the
six you know8 to four week out timeline
for a powerlifting meet comes up where
you're not allowed to use anything your
training now at least in the competition
lifts should be no grip assist that's a
huge wakeup call to you and you're 50
pounds uh less able on all of your lifts
you need more grip work in the offseason
but at the very least you should prepare
how you plan to compete last a little
bit of preparation no grip assist at all
if chalk is allowed in your Federation
which it almost certainly is definitely
use chalk but no verses no straps like
that so that's who shouldn't be using
grip assistance who should be using it
first you don't have to but if you're an
intermediate or Advanced lifter you have
some decent experience you're pretty
strong pretty jacked then you can use
them and not be worried about it and it
doesn't matter how you know big or
strong you are objectively if you into
the point where you have to really think
about your training to get progress you
are sufficiently Advanced enough that
grip assistance can be a big
thing next and this is really the
biggest case of all of them when your
target muscle are not nearing their
limits unless you use grip assistance if
you care about those Target muscles
being developed to the fullest you have
to use grip assistance for example this
actual example is literally what
happened to me for a long
time lat pull Downs I used to just use
normal grip anytime I had access to
chalk I added like three reps on every
pull down and I was like fuck well if
it's a matter of grip adding three reps
whatever was Zero reps in reserve for me
for the years prior really wasn't it was
three reps in reserve for my lats and my
rear delts and all the muscles in my
back because clearly if I can fix a grip
problem and add three reps where do you
think those reps are coming from they're
coming from the lats still being able to
do the work they were just limited by
grip when I switched finally to straps
on lap pull Downs you'll probably know
unless it's a special occasion where I'm
traveling and really fucked up I always
by the way almost always bring my chalk
and straps when I travel if I don't have
straps on lap hold Downs it must be a D
Lo or something because at this point
and my grip has gotten much stronger
much bigger over the years but my back
is so much bigger and stronger that for
me I could probably do like with grip
assistance 20 reps of lat pull down as a
certain weight and without 10 to 15 and
think about it that means my best set
without grip assistance is five reps in
reserve that is not in the meat and
potatoes of the hypertrophy range that's
a lot of junk volume it's stupid not to
use grip assistance if you get that much
of a carryover out of it to put another
case to you if you use straps for the
first time on like a back machine you're
working in with friends and you manage
to hit a 25 pound PR with good technique
for the same number of
reps you haven't been training your back
nearly as hard as you thought you had
been and that's a big problem because
you're not there for grip day you're
there for back day and you use whatever
it takes to take all the limiting
factors out of the equation so your back
can get exposed to stimulus which means
use as much grip assistance as you
need lastly when you are taking care of
forearm and grip uh training in
conjunction with your assist use you're
really good candidate for using grip
assistance so for example use your Versa
grips and some combination of that and
chalk for your moves and bodybuilding
but you also train your forearm flexors
and uh various other grip exercises hard
three times a week so if someone's like
hey man why you using straps it'll make
your grip weaker you could be like no it
won't I train my grip by it fucking self
on its own time and that's actually even
better than training grip on back
machines or something because then you
have two things to worry about or is my
back still doing this and am I still
holding on your body's kind of at that
point schizophrenic as to what it is
it's trying to even do but if you train
your back and you strap up as much as
necessary to make the back limiting
factor you don't worry a single thing
about grip and then later in the session
or later in another day you really toast
the fuck out of your grip not having to
worry about your back it's actually just
the best possible situation it's like
you know mixing pasta and dessert
together versus eating them separately
still if you're hungry enough the mix
still works and definitely get your
calories macros but ideally you keep
them separate and that's really uh the
way to get excellent back training or
whatever other muscles limited by a grip
and forms It's the Best of Both Worlds
so serious folks who really want their
fors and grip to be real solid but also
want to train all the other parts of
their body they will use grip assistance
it seems like you you can think oh real
serious people they don't use any grip
assistance well then they probably have
backs that are weaker than they should
be shoulders weaker than they should be
I don't even know what their
stiff-legged deadlift is like you guys
know anyone who can fucking hold their
stiff-legged deadlift weight with like
sets of eight slowly Centric sdl reps
what the fuck like you must have four
professional arm wrestler forearms to do
that and or you're just not taxing your
hamstrings glutes and lower back nearly
as much as possible and I'll tell you
which one's the more likely one so what
do you get when PhD sport scientists
collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours now
it's all about thinking logically about
using grip assists chalk straps versus
next time you are considering whether or
not to use grip assistance in any
situation you just ask yourself
basically three questions question
number one will using grip assists allow
better stimulus to the Target muscles or
muscle in this particular exercise will
using straps in the bent row be better
for my back if the answer is yes I would
consider using grip assists if the
answer is no then don't
I don't know what the maybe this is out
of context but there's like 90s
bodybuilding videos where guys would uh
have like basically vers grips and would
wrap them around dumbbells for pressing
like motherfucker how many times
dumbells fallen out of your hand what
you also if the Versa grip catches it's
like right here and you're pressing like
this like I've seen guys strap in for
like tricep push Downs like I think
you're just like abusing vers grips at
that point so if it's a pushing exercise
there's noing reason to do any maybe
some chalk for stability but straps and
versus is insane I actually have seen
people do that they're just like a it's
like guys who walk around with their
belts on all the time like at
powerlifting uh like cinch level through
just walking around the gym like don't
you breathe the fuck are you doing take
that belt off when and then put it on
when you need it right so outside of
that if you really need the grip
assistance then use it if it it makes
your training better next question to
ask yourself if you're choosing Bon grip
assist or not are you taking care of
your grip and form
training to the extent that it's needed
outside of the pulling movements that
you're doing that you're considering
assists for so if you are taking care of
your grip and you're training it
definitely consider grip assists because
no worries you'll train your grip some
other time with your dedicated grip and
Forum
exercises but if the answer is no and if
you really don't have time for dedicated
form and grip exercise I would at least
consider using chalk which chalk is kind
of cool because it simultaneously allows
you to get more reps to the Target
muscle like the back but also because
you still have to use your hands it
trains your grip just as much uh but it
gives you more juice to the back it's
like a little bit of both worlds so if
you don't have time for uh reg you know
dedicated Forum training I would do
chalk but maybe not straps right and
then you get a little bit of both worlds
not ideal for either one but if you're
limited on time ideal is is not in for
you
last question to to ask yourself to see
which way to go on the grip assists are
you in need of practicing the exercises
you're doing without grip assists or
straps or Versa uh to get compettition
ition soon if the answer is yes if you
need practice on this lift without gri
aits because that's what's going to be
tested do definitely do not use them
like if you're a weak out of a
powerlifting meet do not fucking use
straps in your deadlift you are not
practicing the deadlift as it's seen in
competition you're practicing something
else it'll give you false confidence
it'll be terrible but if the answer is
no then you know if you're not you don't
have a competition for anything and if
points one and two will the better
stimulus be accured to my target muscles
and are you taking care of your grip if
those are yes then absolutely go ahead
and use them notice that depending on
your situation depending on who you are
there are different answers to these
questions so if you just ask a question
on Instagram like hey should I be using
grip assists I'll just link you this
video because then you can find where
you are in this and get to the right
answer it's like a little flowchart
there's not a right answer for everyone
surprise isn't that crazy Life's a
little bit more complicated than just
like yes or no but also just to close
out none of this ever did we bring up
ego or earning it like if you're a
beginner and you straight up don't care
about your forearms and grip at all and
you're lifting 65 pounds but you can do
three more reps with verses than without
and you're good with that fucking use
them there's this weird gym culture
thing where people say like man straps
are for pussies like let me understand
you correctly if you use straps like
maybe your Johnny Jackson or or Brian
Shaw or fucking hofor Julius bjornson
all of whom use straps in their training
you're a pussy why don't you go tell
them motherfuckers that shit to their
face I want to see somebody watch Johnny
Jackson one arm row like fucking 200
pounds for a set of 20 and and do it
with straps and you walk up to him and
be like what's up man you're not strong
enough to do that shit with your own
hands he'd be like that's correct I am
not be like you need to train your grip
more hey why don't you do this get the
fuck out of my face just kidding you
probably wouldn't say that he's strong
enough to rip SpaceTime around you into
pieces so that you get sucked into 80
trillion black holes at least in my
fantasy that's what happens folks I have
blab too much see you next time