welcome to the house of hypertrophy in
6th Century BC live the six times
Olympic wrestling champion Milo of
Croton according to myth Milo would
borrow a newborn calf lifting it each
day over time not only did the calf grow
into a bull but Milo grew in size and
strength regardless of whether this
story is true or even possible it
demonstrates the most fundamental
component of any training program
Progressive overload Milo made sides and
strength gains as the cough eventually a
bull consistently served as a high level
stimulus it became progressively heavier
as Milo got stronger when Progressive
overload is a missing component from a
program that program will simply be
minimally effective long term
conceptualizing Progressive overload as
a cycle works well a challenging
training session evokes muscle and
strength gains these gains enable you to
apply Progressive overload and in turn
this application of progressive overload
sustains a challenging training session
in the modern day I'm not sure many
train with calfs or bulls rather freeway
and or machine training seems far more
common with these two of the most
popular ways to Progressive overload are
with all other training variables kept
constant increasing load or the number
of repetitions performed in this video
we're going to be analyzing a brand new
study comparing these two Progressive
overload methods for muscle and strength
[Music]
thank you
back in February this year some may know
I released a video around a Brazilian
study that had dropped at that time
comparing Progressive overload via load
or rep increases leg extension strength
gains were not different between
progressing through load or reps but
muscle growth of the vastus Lateralus
was greater for the load versus rep
progression yet there were important
limitations with this study it wasn't a
randomized controlled trial rather it
combined the results of two separate
studies one study that progressed with
load and another study that progressed
with reps this actually resulted in the
training frequency and duration
differing between the load and rep
progression groups confounding things
due to this I previously said in the
February video that better controlled
research is needed to compare
Progressive overload methods and I noted
there was a researcher who had a study
in the works this is the study that has
now been released it's the first
randomized controlled trial comparing
load and rep increases for muscle and
strength let's dive into it foreign
trained individuals were randomly
assigned to a load or rep group all
subjects trained these four lower body
exercises with these variables in the
first session the load group attempted
to increase the load they trained with
across sessions while staying within the
8 to 12 rep range the rep group
maintained the loads used in the first
session and aimed to perform more
repetitions across sessions on their
exercise sets food Diaries although not
always super reliable were measured by
the researchers and fat carb protein and
calorie intake were similar between the
load and rep groups before and after the
study strength was assessed via one rep
max on the Smith machine Squat and
muscle growth via thickness of the mid
quad lateral quad middle gastrocnemius
lateral gastrocnemius and Soleus
increases in virtually all muscle growth
measurements were similar between the
load and rep groups although mid quad
growth tended to slightly favor the rep
group we'll discuss potential reasons
shortly Smith machine squat strength
gains were fairly similar between both
groups with a low group seeing a small 2
kg greater increase versus the rep group
so overall this study finds a load and
red progressions are fairly comparable
for increasing muscle and strength let's
dissect these findings more while
considering the broader literature
[Music]
we noted midcourt grows slightly favored
of red progression versus load
progression it's not clear why this is
but the researchers speculated rep
Rangers on the squat may have something
to do with this the rep group trained
with higher reps on the score in the
later portion of the study and higher
reps on the score May enhance rectus
femorris recruitment a large part of the
mid quads due to accumulated fatigue in
the other vasty quad muscles lower reps
on the squat as done by the load group
may not involve this as two high Rex's
s'mores activation with heavier loads
made more meaningfully inhibit hip
extension motions personally I'm not too
sure of this speculation I think more
research would be needed to verify how
rectus Morse recruitment differs between
higher and lower rep squats
another explanation is the greater
mid-court growth where the rep group was
just due to chance especially given
growth of the other muscles were similar
between both groups somehow the rep
group might just have had better rectus
Morse Building abilities in any case
this study still largely suggests muscle
growth is similar between load and red
progressions and this makes a lot of
sense a wide range of studies suggests
per set reps between 6 and 35 are
similarly effective for muscle growth
provided those reps are performed two or
close to failure so long as you stay
within this range from a session to
session regardless of whether you do
this by increasing load rep numbers or a
combination of both it makes sense
muscle growth outcomes should be the
same
as for the strength gains Smith machine
squat games were fascinatingly very
similar between both groups the load
group saw a minimal 2 kg greater
increase only
given strength is based on lifting the
heaviest loads you can I'm sure many
would have expected the load group to
have seen much more notably greater
strength gains
the lack of differences in strength may
have something to do with the fact the
test was conducted on a Smith machine
squat neither group trained with a Smith
machine squat rather a three-way Squat
and so perhaps this strength test was
too non-specific if one rep max free
weight squat was tested maybe strength
gains would have been more known to be
superior for the load group
another consideration is both groups
trained with eight or more reps this
matters as the literature suggests one
red max strength games are superior when
training with heavier loads that permit
five or fewer Reps versus lower loads
with more reps the reason for this is
likely that training with heavier loads
and fuel reps is more specific to a 100
Max thus it's likely that consistently
training with heavier loads that permit
five or few reps is a great idea if your
goal is to Max 100 max strength and
progressing load is needed to
effectively do this across sessions
progressing load or reps are probably
similarly effective for muscle
hypertrophy for strength though the new
study indicates load and red
progressions are similar it's limited as
it used a non-specific strength test and
subjects trained with rep numbers
sub-optimal Force strength
in all likelihood I think progressing
load rather than reps is your safest bet
for maxing one red max strength if
you've made it here I have a free ebook
you might like The Ultimate Guide to
bench pressing for strength and high
perch fee with more than 100 scientific
references from technique to training
variables to comparisons and other
fascinating science we cover it all grab
it through the link in the description
or comments
foreign
[Music]