welcome back soon to be Dr mil Ware and
today we're here with a very special
guest Professor Mike isrel and in fact
even creator of team full range
emotion now you know me as a big length
and partials guy in fact that's what my
PhD was kind of on in the end but here's
a big proponent of for em motion Mike
how we doing I've been Fuller before and
rangier and in more motion and gorged
here ooh anyways I want you to give me
your best pitch for full range Motion
versus say a partial range em Motion in
the length position why do you think a
traine for hypertrophy when should they
adopt a 4 in motion over link partials
my best scenario or my best
rationalization both hit me with both
got it best rationalization for choosing
hypertrophy technique to be full range
of motion is that
we haven't really explored the space
enough literature wise to rule out the
fact that an
accentuated emphasis on the length and
range plus the full range of the total
movement isn't the most Superior method
of attaining gains versus just lengthen
partials versus topend partials versus
classic full range motion so for example
if you do length and partials dope it
works really well if you do top partial
is dope it works not so well if you do
full range of motion normally it works
pretty well but not as well as this but
what about the full range of motion how
we practice it typically at RP which is
you really accentuate that stretch big
pause under tension and then quick on
the way up and really accentuate that
stretch it kind of combines it's
somewhere between full range of motion
and a loaded partial uh mixed together
and I think that's the intellectually
safe position because I think the
literature hasn't tested and Ru of that
out yet but also because there's pretty
convincing evidence through mechanistic
studies of the way Muscle Works that
various parts of your muscles tend to be
emphasized and deemphasized in various
ranges of motion through the
physiological range uh and thus there's
probably some part of muscle though on
the net you get more growth from here to
here probably some parts of the muscle
cellular structures grow better from
here to here but we know that this part
is on average better than this part so
by doing full range of motion
emphasizing the part that we know works
best to me intellectually that's a safe
bet now that's only because you ask me I
think incorporating length and partials
is just smart at this point because of
the literature that if someone had to
say hey why don't you just exclusively
do length and partials that's why I
don't from a hypertrophy perspective but
the best case for a full range of motion
for strength and for sport transfer is
that you want to be strong in a full
range of motion so yes I'm a bodybuilder
but I'm also a Jiu-Jitsu practitioner I
need to do full ROM because there ain't
no partial R in the [ __ ] streets baby
but also on the mats like if you have to
push somebody away from you it's you got
to be strong every part of your body's
ability to move so if you're just strong
at the partial Point G whiz you know
you're going to be put by life and by
sport into a position which you want
strength all the way around and also
curiously for an extra bit of tidbit
wisdom we had a a question in the TM
forr Forum recently where someone asked
hey what's the deal with like matching
the strength curve to the exercise um to
the muscle strength curve machine
strength curve and I said honestly for
hypertrophy the way you do it is you
just do what's best for hypertrophy
which seems to be lengthen bias maybe
with a full round maybe not but my
answer was if you are sport athlete or
especially if you're like a Grappler or
something who needs True full body
strength choosing movements that match
well to the strength curve is actually
really smart because then you train
you're not biasing any part and thus you
have no weak points you're fully strong
and every part of your R motion that
makes a ton of sense to get back to the
hypertrophy question real quick we do
have studies looking at Regional
hypertrophy like more proximal versus
more distal areas of a muscle and
generally at least from what I've read
there doesn't seem to be a huge
difference between say for range of
motion and like the partials what is
your take on that do you think it's the
fact that maybe the studies haven't
looked at sufficient Regional hyy data
why do you think you're still reserved
with regards to saying that potentially
link partials Aller the same Reon will
hyal benefits because of the older
literature talking about
various parts of the muscle being active
motor unit by motor unit in different
ranges specifically in animals the
regional hypertrophy to me is one of
these things where maybe you spend 80%
of your effort here to here 20% here but
to me the argument that this is all you
do and you never come to here it's
definitely a distinct possibility that
that's true but I discount it slightly
so what I do is I move from the default
position of the state of the evidence as
it was into the new position of the new
state of the evidence I do kind of two
things one is I move in relationship to
the strength of the evidence the volume
of the evidence how much we're really
saying length and partials for example
but I also move on the margins uh I
moved to some here intermediate point so
used to be just by default full ROM
including the peak contraction
intellectually I thought that
practically I knew that when I really
emphasize the peak contraction really
get a better response in any of the
stimulus proxy you talk about RP pump
soreness nothing really changed as a
matter of fact it got a little worse
like okay like maybe full range but
maybe not the squeeze at the top of the
bicep is a big deal or the the lat pull
down the squeeze at the bottom maybe
that doesn't do a whole lot but now I'm
in the position of like full range
mostly when you can get a easy set setup
and a really easy to track way that has
a high stimulus of fatigue ratio with
length and partials just do those for
example on calf raises I no longer come
all the way up on calf raises I come a
little bit up and then back into that
low a little bit up it's been working
great for me but for everything else the
default is yes full range of motion is
very good at least very good and if you
can accentuate that Ecentric especially
close to that bottom end you're going to
get a huge fraction of the benefits of
length and part partials and then maybe
if Lake partials turn out to be the true
Tru thing what I can tell myself in my
intellectual Journey let say in the year
20127 was robots and everything we all
only do length and partials for
hypertrophy I can talk about on a
podcast or something like we started at
full ROM and as the literature presented
itself and got stronger I moved into
length and partials I didn't just jump
into that there's a chance I'm wrong
that I'm too conservative and I should
have just jumped in cuz maybe it's
already clear enough but I like to move
maybe not slowly but gradually from one
thing to the other sure that makes a
little sense final question do you see
any benefits for example to
incorporating shortened partials or
shortened overload movements or anything
that emphasizes that shortened position
as opposed toos and practice Yeah uh
strange Sports specific things like arm
wrestling a lot of the times like
there's all kinds of technical moves
that occur at this range and you're
going to want to be really strong at
this range also in biceps flexion you're
not very strong at this range and
there's some neural technical abilities
you have to develop to be really strong
here cuz most people they're strong here
not so strong here when you go from here
to here it's kind of like there's a mind
muscle connection loss almost like I
don't even know what I'm doing here for
[ __ ] like arm wrestling I think it it
matters um obviously uh you know
accommodating resistance and equipped
powerlifting where the bands make it
easy at the top hard at the B hard at
the top easier at the bottom reverse to
what you want for hypertrophy but that's
exactly what it's going to feel like
when you put on the squat suit or very
close so you want to train like that
soide of some sport specific stuff maybe
there's something to it another really
quick application is some muscles you
seem to be able to connect with them
much better in a shortened position
there's a crunch you get in the back
various muscles of the back that you
train where there's vertical pulling
horizontal the muscles used to get that
crunch they seem to be somewhat
different than the ones that you feel
the biggest with so if you get a really
awesome mind muscle connection with your
back in a way that you just don't feel
with the super stretch and it's novel to
you and it seems like it makes you soar
in different places and allows you to
connect with your back and activate
parts that maybe you weren't able to
then I think it's worthwhile exploring
that definitely through full range but
maybe even some shortened partials and
just to see if there's any fruit on that
tree so to speak I'm not guaranteeing
it'll get great results I'll tell you
this if someone's like look I used to
have real trouble connecting with my
back it was even hurting my posing when
I started doing some work with lap coold
Downs lightweight where I crunch squeeze
come up crunch squeeze I really
connected I'm not going to tell them
like well you're wrong cuz # science
I'll just be like dope that's a clever
way to figure it out is just like going
to the average and saying what should
the normal person train like what I
would say for people entering the gym
for the first time especially because
most people with new workouts they want
some form and some function I would say
full range of emotion is king with a
bias to the loaded stretch and if you
get more advanced hypertrophy training
you may find that many of your full
range exercises are even better if it's
just the load and stretch and you may
not find that and then I would navigate
that 2023 on a personal individual basis
Mike you killed it check out
the indeed range of motion Dead full Ram
is dead team full Ram is dead apparently
folks check out the Renaissance ization
YouTube channel and Mike thanks for
being here huge honor