my name is Gregory OG Gallagher and I'm
24 years old the weight of that
statement I'm 24 years old people let
the movies like oh my God what's going
to happen next is the Drone going to
continue to zoom in on an obscenely
large house I hope this kind of music
you would hear in like a documentary
about how someone like escaped child sex
slavery and then ended up winning the
Oscars or some that's probably what
this is about right something really
impactful it couldn't possibly about not
eating for most of the day and then
eating after your workout could it even
though just woken up I won't eat for 8
hours this increases fat mobilization
boosts mental alertness not eating only
boost mental alertness in some folks
because they get a fight ORF flight
response from not eating however in
almost every way that they've tested
this eating actually improves your
cognitive performance more than not
eating so you may feel more alert but on
highly demanding cognitive tasks of
which I'm sure he has very many in his
day like driving his Lambo and working
out and that one for a
while it's better to eat so no these
benefits are mostly elusory