there are many different ideas put forth
when it comes to maximizing muscle
hypertrophy one idea is that muscle
should be trained according to fiber
type this idea suggests that
predominately slow-twitch muscles should
be trained with lighter loads for higher
reps given slow-twitch muscles are
highly fatigue resistant and produce no
amount of power whereas predominately
fast-twitch muscles should be trained
with heavier loads for lower reps given
fast which muscles fatigue quickly but
produce greater power but do these ideas
work should you be training muscles
based on their fiber type a recent paper
by showing feeling colleagues aim to
determine just this the muscles
investigated by the soleus medial
gastrocnemius and lateral gastrocnemius
these muscles were picked as it's
believed the soleus it's put romney
slow-twitch while the two heads of the
gastrocnemius are a mix of both fiber
types 26 untrained males had a one leg
assigned to use a heavy load which was a
six to ten rep max weight while the
other leg was assigned to use a light
load which was a twenty to thirty rep
much weight each leg with their assigned
loads performed the standing calf raise
and seated conferees four sets to
failure twice per week for eight weeks
to remove any potential confounding
effects of exercise order different
combinations of exercise orders were
performed throughout the protocol the
first four sessions look like this this
structural was repeated four times
totaling the sixteen sessions the
participant performed ultrasonic imaging
was used to obtain thickness of the
soleus medial gastrocnemius and lateral
gastrocnemius before and after the
training period measurements for all
muscles were taken 25 percent of the
lower leg length
what the researchers found was that
neither muscle substantially favored the
use of heavy loads or light loads in
other words the slow-twitch dominant
soleus and mixed fiber type
gastrocnemius both responded similarly
theories of heavy and light moves
therefore this study does not support
the idea of trading muscles according to
fiber type however as with all studies
we should consider its limitations this
study was conducted on untrain young men
and so these results could not
necessarily be applied to other
individuals only the soleus and
gastrocnemius were investigated and so
these results could not necessarily be
applied to other muscles thickness of
the soleus and gastrocnemius were
investigated at a single site which was
25% of the lower leg length differential
growth could have occurred at other
sites of these muscles muscle biopsies
were not taken in the study as possible
fiber time may vary dramatically between
individuals but as we'll see in a second
the likelihood of this seems low lastly
the study lost at eight weeks perhaps
five type specific hypertrophy may
manifest in the long run but of course
future research would be needed to
address this and some of the other
limitations with this study nevertheless
on a practical level there doesn't seem
to be much of an appeal to training
muscles based on fiber type based on
numerous studies the vast majority of
the lower body appears to display a
fairly even split of slow-twitch and
faster muscle fibers
however as alluded to a few moments ago
the non use of muscle biopsies in the
previous detailed study is likely not a
massive deal as we have good evidence to
believe the soleus is predominance loads
or the gastrocnemius is or mixed fiber
types but the rest of the lower body on
average appears to be fairly split
between slow twitch and faster to fibers
the same applies to the upper body
numerous studies again demonstrate that
the upper body muscles are also quite
evenly split between slow twitch and
fast twitch fibers even if you as an
individual do have muscles that
predominately slow twitch or fast which
apart from the fact that studied detail
in this video does not support the need
to train muscles according to file type
there isn't a practical and reliable way
to know there have been previous
suggestions that one can determine
whether they're more fast which will
slow twitch depending on the number of
reps they can achieve with a submaximal
load one example suggests that if you
can perform more than nine reps with 80%
of your wanna it Maps the muscles
involved in that exercise are more slow
twitch dominant whereas if you perform
less those muscles were more fast twitch
dominant the 2006 study by doris and
colleagues did find a statistically
significant relationship between the
number of reps before with a 70% one Ram
Road in the leg press and quadriceps
fiber type of composition in untrained
woman however the relationship wasn't
particularly strong his Pearson
correlation coefficient was - 0.48
additionally an indirect method was used
to determine fiber type in this study by
terra's and colleagues whom did their
atlases fiber type through biopsies
the pearson correlation coefficient
between vastus lateralis fiber type
composition and reps a super 70 percent
and 85 percent of water on the leg press
where young men was less than 0.2
in other words fiber type had little
role to play with the amount of reps one
could perform with the submaximal load
[Music]
taking this together with the rest of
the video a current evidence suggests
that for the time being at least
training muscles according to fiber type
is not a consideration that needs to go
into constructing a training program
you