this video on delayed hypertrophic super
compensation is sponsored by Squarespace
okay so there's this brand new study
that was published just this month from
researchers in Norway
that's actually pretty groundbreaking
you can hear dr. Eric Helms and Greg
knuckles talking about it in the math
research review I really like this
article you covered it's something that
we've talked about in the Bible in
community for a very long time the idea
of overreaching and super compensation
not just for strength but actually
Frankfurt Rafi super super interesting
article the study title was delayed by a
nuclear addition myofiber hypertrophy
and increases in strength with high
frequency low load blood flow restrictor
training to volitional failure Jesus
Christ that's a mouthful so before we
dig into this new study over here I want
to give you guys a quick rundown on the
basic theory behind super compensation
first over here on the y-axis you have
your level of fitness or you can think
about this as performance on the x-axis
you have time just for our reference
here let's say this is the end of your
eight-week program week program and so
you begin your program over here and
it's actually a pretty challenging
program and initially you actually lose
a little bit of fitness because you're
not able to fully recover from the new
training however as your muscles and
tendons and immune system recovers your
fitness level comes back up to baseline
however your body actually ends up
overshooting that adaptation and you get
all of these delayed gains over here and
this is what we would call super
compensation so we can actually break
this droop part over here up into two
separate phases so this section over
here where you're actually losing
Fitness initially we'd call that over
reaching and in this segment here where
you're recovering we would call that the
recovery phase overtraining would be if
you never end up entering this recovery
phase and you just continue to see this
downward trend and that usually only
happens in beginners who take on a
program that's a little bit too
challenging for them however it can
happen in more intermediate to advanced
trainees if you ignore the warning
signals from your body which we'll get
to in a minute
so how your progress and recovery looks
is going to depend on how new you are to
lifting so how overreaching and super
compensation works for a beginner is
gonna be different than how it works for
an advanced trainee so as someone who's
relatively new
weight training you actually don't
really need to worry about super
compensation and overreaching really at
all you should be able to make more or
less linear progress from workout to
workout as you get a little bit more
training experience and enter the
intermediate phase now you're going to
need more of a training stimulus to make
the same progress so you may need to dip
down into slight phases of overreaching
but still you can see that over time
you're more or less still getting linear
progress now once you get into the
advanced stage of lifting experience
here's where things may change a little
bit but essentially you may need to
apply so much of a training stimulus for
continued progress that you end up
dipping down into these more extended
phases of overreaching that will then
add up to this super compensated phase
over here over time if I were to say
pluck a random day over here from your
program and have you go for a bench
press PR the weight might actually feel
really heavy because you're not fully
recovered but then if you were to run a
d load for a couple weeks and pick out a
day over here or you're in that super
compensated stage now you'd be so much
more likely to hit a PR because you're
actually recovered so up until now a lot
of this has been pretty speculative most
of it is based on research in runners it
has also been applied in powerlifting
circles for decades where for example
you can run several overloading weeks
leading into an overreaching week where
you train harder than normal followed by
a recovery week or a taper for one to
two weeks so that you line up your
competition day with that super
compensation phase when you're making
the most gains and most likely to PR now
to give you some reference for the
expert climate on this and a podcast
interview just last year you can hear
dr. Mike Israel and dr. Eric Helms
expressing some skepticism towards the
idea of super compensation sweet yeah
I'm not willing to bet one way or
another as to whether there are true
super compensatory processes at work
with overreaching but I will say the
following as you train harder and harder
and as your body adapts to that harder
and harder training and visor overload
for its poor requires more how much
training you need to get better
naturally be more than what you can
recover from discounting the possibility
that you can see a nonlinear rebound in
performance
possibly from doing a lot of work and
then doing a recovery period that could
be better than kind of your normal
standard overload I would really love to
see that state and well here we are just
one year later and that study has now
finally been done they measured a lot of
different stuff from gene expression to
cellular signaling and we're gonna skip
many of the details here but you can
find them all in the mass research
review at the link below so they
basically took 16 untrained subjects and
put them on a pretty grueling leg
training program especially for
beginners that was split up into two
training blocks each block actually only
lasted five days but in those five days
they hid their legs seven separate times
so on some days they'd hit legs twice in
the same day now the leg workouts were
actually very simple they do four sets
of leg extensions to failure using blood
flow restriction training where you
basically wrap a band around the quads
which forces blood to pool in the muscle
and actually 13 of the 16 subjects
actually ended up completing the study
and making the final analysis as three
dropped out and one showed signs of a
rhabdo so they did a five days of the
leg extension protocol that was block
one and they took ten days of complete
rest and then did the same five days of
leg extensions again in block two now
we're gonna look at muscle fiber size at
four different time points toward the
end of block one in the middle of the
first rest period three days after block
two and then ten days after block two
now if the delayed hypertrophy theory
was true you'd expect to see the most
hypertrophy after all the training was
over
so the hypertrophy would be delayed so
they'd end up finishing the second
training block rest for ten days and
then that's when you'd see the most
muscle growth and in fact that is
exactly what they found they found that
muscle fiber size decreased initially
maybe because they weren't recovering
well was still lower than baseline
during the first rest week but then
increased in the three days following
the second block and increased even more
ten days after the second block so I
think that what we have here is the
first evidence of delayed hypertrophic
super compensation where you do see that
drop in muscle size initially during the
training but then in the recovery period
after training muscle size continues to
increase
now a few disclaimers here first they
didn't take
another biopsy after that second 10-day
rest period so it is possible that their
muscle fibers kept growing after 10 days
but all we can say for sure is that
their muscle fibers definitely were
bigger 10 days following the second
training block and second even though
muscle fiber biopsies did show delayed
hypertrophy when you look at their
ultrasound results trends were a little
different and they didn't see much
evidence of delayed hypertrophy at the
whole muscle level however anabolic
signaling did also point toward delayed
hypertrophy I'm so basically I think we
really need to replicate this study
before we can take these results and run
with them but when it comes to delayed
hypertrophic super compensation I think
this is the first bit of evidence
showing that it certainly is possible so
what does all of this mean for our
training I would say as a beginner this
is something to keep in mind for when
your progress starts to slow down down
the road but I don't think it really
applies to you just yet I don't see any
reason why a beginner should
intentionally overreach and risk
overtraining
just for a potential super compensation
response now for an intermediate to
advanced level bodybuilders I think this
research leaves the door open to the
idea that you can run a functional
overreaching cycle where you push the
upper limit of training volume and then
run a lower volume phase or a D load
where you're gonna realize the gains
from that previous training cycle and I
have actually noticed myself that if I'm
running a very strict program with a
very aggressive progression I don't
notice much in terms of muscle fullness
until after I finish the program and
then chill out on my training for a bit
so this could be a very practical
takeaway as well you're currently going
all out on your training program not
seeing much gains easing up on your
training for a few weeks might actually
allow you to realize those gains from
all those tough training sessions now
personally I'm not fully comfortable
making the broad recommendation to use
overreaching cycles to force super
compensated progress at the moment we
really only have this one study showing
delayed hypertrophy and even it has some
contradictory findings but with that
said from my personal experience I
definitely have observed this effect in
general especially in terms of strength
and if you're overworked we're taking a
deal owed pretty much will always lead
to improved strength performance and I
have noticed a similar
visual effect in terms of muscle
fullness both in myself and in others so
I think this is an exciting new area of
research and I'm excited for new data to
come out on it but until then I think
that if you do decide to give an
overreaching cycle a shot you don't want
to flirt too much with that boundary
between overreaching and overtraining
and if you do push it always listen
carefully to feedback from your body
like increased soreness joint pain lack
of sleep poor mood and performance
detriments and know when your body is
telling you to ease up okay so you guys
can read more on this topic in the mass
article they go into a lot more detail
over there on the blood flow restriction
aspect and that's something I think I
will cover in a future video at some
point and before we go I want to thank
Squarespace for sponsoring this video
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that I use to run my own
website in my own online store where I
sell all my training programs they have
sleek designer custom templates in 24
hour customer support and the whole
process of getting your website up and
running is actually very simple and easy
to do as if you guys are looking to get
started with creating your own website
or your own online store then you can go
to squarespace.com forward slash and
that's gonna save you 10% off your first
purchase as thank you again Squarespace
for showing your support on the channel
I really appreciate it thank you guys so
much for watching please leave me a like
if you enjoyed the video don't forget to
subscribe if you happen to be new and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
video