look at your program you might be doing
leg extensions and they're fine they
will grow some muscle in your quadriceps
but if you want bigger legs you might
need something more extreme the reverse
NY
Crow welcome back Dr M wolf here with
wolf coaching breaking down some signs
around quad training and why the leg
extension might not be ideal there are
about three reasons why I think the leg
extension isn't the best quadricep
isolation exercise first most people's
knee flexion range of motion in other
words how much they can shorten and
lengthen the quad is around 150° of knee
flexion so if you wanted to maximize the
stretch on your quadriceps all else
being equal you would need to flex your
knee to about 150° importantly the way
most leg extension machines are built
you're getting 90 to maybe
110° of knee flexion so you're missing
out on about 40 to 60° of knee flexion
range of motion that could be providing
a better stretch on your quadriceps
similarly most L extension machines have
your hips flexed to about 90° why is
this important well one of the parts of
the quadriceps of the Rus femoris is
also a hip flexor which means that when
your hips are flexed it is more
shortened so both in terms of the knee
positioning and in terms of the hip
positioning the leg extension tends to
be a more of a shortened exercise now
you might say I can just extend my hips
just like the good old Tom plats did to
increase the stretch on my Reus furus
and circumvent that issue of the L
extension machine that is fine and it
might work to an extent but the issue
there is that it often leads to a
reduction or compensation and knee range
of motion where you could actually be
reducing the stretch at the knee on the
qual receps by extending your hips so
issue number one is that it reduces
range of motion at the knee it doesn't
maximize the stretch issue number two is
that it flexes the hips shortening your
Reus phorus even more and finally there
is issue number three the way most liion
machines are built it is most difficult
in that shorten position and easier in
that stretch position why is this one an
issue well based on the evidence we do
have on Resistance curve and hypertrophy
and there's not aot of this we do want
to have the most tension probably in the
stretch position versus the shorten
position the two studies we have one is
a study by n and colleagues comparing
the cable preacher curl to the barbell
preacher curl in the barbell pracher
curl you have greater amount of tension
in that stretch position finding
slightly more High PR feet with a b
preure c the difference was quite small
so I'm not sure there's a true effect
here but it's worth noting the second
study is a study by Zab Coran colleagues
where they compare the incline curl an
exercise where there's very little
tension at the bottom to the preacher
curl or an exercise where there is quite
a bit of tension at the bottom of the
rep while the biceps are more stretched
in the incline curl there's simply less
resistance at the bottom conversely in
the preacher curl they are less
stretched because the shoulder is flexed
but there is more resistance at the
bottom and the exercise where there was
more resistance at the bottom and less
top saw better hypertrophy the preacher
curl grew the biceps to a greater extent
compared to the incline curl and finally
some preliminary results that may or may
not have been published at the time of
this video by our own lab with Stan lson
up in Norway compared two approaches
with one arm participants were doing
cable curls with their arm neutral by
their side the cable was set up so the
resistance was greatest at the very
bottom with the other arm they also had
the cable set up in this fashion but
they hyperextended their arm to stretch
out the biceps even further in both
cases the resistance was maxed out in
that relatively stretched position what
did we find well bicep hypertrophy was
pretty similar in both cases suggesting
that at least in the biceps maxing out
the tension in that stretch position is
quite important and in fact might be
more important than just maximizing the
stretch on the muscle all that to say
broadly speaking having more tension in
the stretch position appears to be
beneficial for hypertrophy and the leg
extension does the opposite of this it
puts more tension in a shorten position
so how exactly does a reverse nautic
curl address these issues well first off
it provides a maximum stretch on all
foreheads of the quads at once you can
get all the way to 150° of knee flexion
and the additionally by extending your
hips you're also maximizing the stretch
on the rectus femoris so you're both
getting an additional 40 to 60° of knee
flexion getting a deeper stretch and
you're also extending your hips
maximizing the stretch in the rectus
femoris now you might be saying butak
everyone can do like extensions not
everyone can do reverse noric curs and
there is absolutely some truth to that
just like some people find leg
extensions painful in their knees you
might find that reverse NY curls are
painful on your knees but most people
can do some version of the reverse NY
curl to good effect even if you can't go
all the way back because you're not yet
sufficiently strong flexible or anything
else you're still likely getting a
deeper stretch on your quads than you
would during light extension the reverse
ntic curl starts at 90° of knee flexion
which is for a lot of light extension
machines roughly the bottom position
likewise with the rectus femoris keeping
your hips extended you're getting a
deeper stretch on the rectus femoris
almost no matter what compared to a leg
stench with that being said the further
you lean back and Down AKA the more knee
flexion range of motion you go through
the more rest stretch you get on your
quads the more effective the exercise
likely becomes but even if you can only
go some of the way back and then you
have to come back up as long as you can
get at least five reps it is still a
pretty effective exercise over time
instead of adding reps I would aim to
get deeper and deeper and the final
reason I think the reverse rtic curl is
better than leg extension is because it
also maximizes tension in that stretch
position in the leg extension tension is
maximized in a shorten position
meanwhile in the reverse ntic curl it
gets harder and harder as you go down
and get into that stretch position but
all what I just said was based on
scientific principles and not on Direct
findings in the quads so let me give you
a few studies that do show that what I'm
saying is likely correct first we have a
study by peda and colleagues where they
compared a full range of motion to a
partial range of motion in a light
extension to further my earlier point
the full range of motion group only got
to about 100° of knee flexion so they
were still missing out on quite a bit of
stretch and importantly when they
compared a full in of motion to length
and partials or just doing the bottom
half and at least increasing the
emphasis on the stretch in the quads
they generally saw more favorable
hypertrophy at nearly every sight when
doing lengthened partials and focusing
more on the stretch compared to doing a
4ange of motion next we have another
study by our own research group that
recently got pre-printed in the quads we
compared doing leg extensions single leg
either with 90° of hip flexion or 40° of
hip flexion because the rectus femoris
is more lengthened when extending our
hips in that 40° of hip flexion
condition we would expect to see more
hypertrophy of the rect for moris in
that condition and that's exactly what
we saw we observed around 50 to around
170% more hypertrophy when training in a
more lengthened position for the Reus
for moris so both when it comes to
focusing on the stretch as far as the
knee range of motion goes in the pedis
study and increasing the stretch on the
Reus femoris in our own study by Larson
and colleagues there seems to be a
benefit of focusing on the stretch for
the quads and finally there is one study
and it's not in the best Journal ever
that looks at the effects of the reverse
n curl on hyper Hy to make a long story
short doing reverse NY curls did result
in Quad hyper so at the very least there
is evidence of it causing growth even
academically so now that I've hopefully
convinced you that even though we don't
have any direct comparisons yet by the
way we are working on study on exactly
this comparing the leg extension to the
reverse Nordic curl I have a strong
suspicion and this is backed by evidence
that the reverse Nordic curl will grow
bigger quads than the leg extension and
in fact even the squat will grow
bigger quads than leg extension and that
is why I previously called of the leg
extension of the worst quarters of
exercise because amongst Alternatives in
the quad isolation exercise category leg
extensions squats and reverse n CS
it is probably the last one so that's
why I said that and now that I've
hopefully convinced you of how cool
reverse Nordic CRS are let me give you a
few technique points first based on a
recent narrative review We conducted
there's about three main four main
components of technique that you should
be paying attention to one is a good
Tempo each repetition should likely last
somewhere between 2 and 8 seconds you go
too slow and it takes over 8 seconds
that likely isn't ideal for hypertrophy
you go too fast but lower than 2 seconds
and that likely isn't ideal for
hypertrophy additionally based on some
more speculative evidence or preliminary
evidence rather we probably want a
slightly longer lowering or Ecentric
phase and a slightly more Explosive
Lifting phase or coming back up
additionally we can try emphasizing the
stretch through the tempo so controlling
the lowering phas a bit more in that
fully stretched position position
pausing briefly in that stretch position
and being explosive at the start of the
rep when your muscles are still
stretched out range of motion wise we
want to be emphasizing the stretch
position fortunately in a reverse ntic
curl it's kind of like a dumbbell fly
for your chest it is functionally
lengthen partial the exercise starts at
90° of knee flexion with your hips
extended that is already a somewhat
stretched position it's about the most
stretch your qual would get during a
light extension and so you probably
don't need to do life imp partials and
reverse curls although you certainly can
if you hate yourself the third component
of good technique is minimizing the
involvement of other muscle groups in
this case there's not really any other
muscle groups that could get involved
only your quads are really responsible
for extending your knees that said we
will want to keep technique pretty
strict and I'll come to that in a second
when I walk you through how to do the
reverse n curl step by step and finally
the fourth component of good technique
that isn't in the paper but that I use
as a coach is to minimize the pain being
experienced throughout the lift using a
technique that causes the least pain and
also using a technique that you prefer
when it comes to pain positioning your
feet in a certain way or pointing your
knees out or in a little bit more might
be a bit less painful if you find that
one variation of your Technique or
positioning consistently causes more
pain than another and both technique
variations still adhere to all the
components of good technique I mentioned
earlier you probably want to pick the
one that is less painful secondly if you
prefer going a little bit slower for
example a 4sec decentric versus a 2C
Ecentric you can do that too as long as
you're within the effective Tempo range
you're focusing on the stretch and
you're minimizing the involvement of
other muscle groups you might be doing
quite well before I go into technique
this lift will likely take two three
maybe four sessions to start feeling
comfortable so even if it doesn't feel
amazing at first give it a few sessions
without further Ado here's exactly how
to do the reverse ntic curl to maximize
quad growth first take your shoes off
and kneel down you'll probably find it
more comfortable to be on a Surface
that's somewhat soft to make the lift a
bit more stable consider slightly
elevating your feet this might also
increase how deep you you can go a
little bit I use a mat folded underneath
my feet but you can experiment with
different items first extend your hips
fully this will maximize Reus for more
stretch you could even hyperextend your
hips a little bit if you can bag out
five reps of these pretty easily
consider oring your back for a bit more
challenge in the stretch position a word
to the wise if you do this that will
slightly increase rectus abdominis or
overall core involvement if you'd like
to keep this down and simply focus on
the quads consider not doing this lean
back slowly over at least 2 seconds when
start out feel free to have something to
hold on to nearby to reduce the worry of
tipping over once you're relatively
experienced this won't be a concern
anymore plus if you do fail a rep you
can just flex your hips and the set is
over slow it down at first this will do
a few things first it'll probably make
the lift more comfortable it may also
make it slightly safer as this is a
pretty stretched movement at least when
you're new to it again if this movement
doesn't feel amazing in the first
session or two don't worry that is
relatively normal go as deep because you
can the deeper probably the better from
a muscle growth perspective and over
time instead of just adding reps or
weight consider trying to go deeper
pause when you reach the fully stretched
position come back up keeping hip
position and your spinal position as
they were on the way down a common
mistake is to flex your hips or spine to
make that bottom position easier to get
out of which is the opposite we want we
want that botom position to be
challenging so keep your hips extended
keep your spine extended and come back
up strictly when you want to end the set
just flex your hips and you're done I
frequently go to failure on these and
use this trick to get out of apposition
if you find that you're in the brink of
falling backwards and your knees are
starting to lift off of the ground
consider elevating your feet a little
bit as I mentioned earlier with a mat or
what I found to be helpful as well is to
Simply go a little bit slower at the
bottom as far as breathing goes you can
probably Breathe In and Out freely with
no detriment to Performance or you can
use the ball maneuver especially if your
spine is a bit more extended it might
make sense stor out with like a set or
two of these you don't want to go
overboard initially and in general any
major shift in your excess selection or
training volume what have you should be
a bit gradual through using reverse
Nordic CRS and Cy squats I basically no
longer do like extensions unless I'm
doing super high rep training for some
reason say much above 20 25 reps to
address a frequently Asked question what
about loadability this exercise isn't
that loadable well I have never met
anyone that actually needs to load this
for a lot of people it is just improving
your Technique I can squat for lb 450 lb
for 10 reps at my strongest High bar
asass and my relative strength is at
least decent and yet if I use good
technique I can get maybe 6 to 10 full
reps of this and so for most people this
won't be an issue loadability isn't an
issue if you do need to load the
movement even with great Tempo and range
of motion just hold a light plate onto
your chest with one hand and use your
other hand to hold on to something for
stability that is the video broke down
how to do the reverse noric CW what I
would argue might be one of the best if
not the best quad exercise do you think
the reverse ntic curl is a good exercise
or do you think it's terrible and it's
going to cause injuries leave a comment
down below letting me know if you enjoy
the video leave a like comment subscribe
if you want to build bigger quads I've
got good news for you we've got a
training app coming out that will guide
you through how to train your quads
it'll build a whole routine for you so
if you want to specialize on quad
training for example it'll allow you to
do just that in fact the app only
recommends the most effective exercises
for your goals for your situation for
instance the app sorts through different
exercises ranking them based on how
effective they are for hypertrophy so an
exercise like the squat or the
reverse n curl would be ranked better
than leg extension and the app will
recommend these exercises to you in your
routine that way your whole routine is
composed entirely of really effective
exercises for hypertrophy it's like
having a coach in your pocket at a
fraction of the price of most coaches
out there and we're constantly updating
the algorithms behind the app to make
sure it reflects the science and I'm
conf in saying there is no other
training app out there as good as my
adap my adap is getting released in the
next few months to be notified when it
comes out and to lock in at a lower
price than any other time check out myad
app.com and put your e in in the
meantime if you like this t-shirt check
out Rascal apparel.com they have a whole
range of designs and honestly their
clothing is the most comfortable
clothing I've ever trained in so go
check it out see if there's anything you
like and use code wolf at checkout for
10% off and now that I've successfully
completed my influencer duties have a
phenomenal date you're lovely and I'll
see you next time peace