[Music]
it's not uncommon for individuals to
train with only a single rep range in
their whole program of course this isn't
bad positive adaptations will
unquestionably still take place but as
we'll examine in this video training
with different rep ranges May provide a
variety of potential benefits When I say
training with different rep ranges I'm
mainly referring to training and
exercise with different rep ranges on
different days of the week
but training a specific muscle group
with different exercises performed with
different rep ranges also applies for
example you may train your quads with
leg presses squats and leg extensions
either in a session or a weekly schedule
you may train the squats with sets of
six repetitions the leg extensions with
sets of 12 reps and the leg extensions
were set of 25 reps let's dive straight
in
[Music]
before detailing what training with
different rep ranges can do it's worth
understanding what it doesn't do as a
misconception around this exists
as mentioned in other videos per set
reps between 6 and 35 are similarly
effective for increasing overall muscle
size provided those reps are performed
two or close to failure
some speculate despite the similar
increases in muscle size low and higher
reps May grow different muscle fiber
types very broadly muscles contain slow
and fast twitch fibers
slow twitch fibers are highly fatigue
resistant but produce low forces fast
touch fibers Produce High forces but are
very fatigable
it speculated lower reps with heavier
lows preferentially grow fast twitch
fibers while higher reps with lighter
lows preferentially grow slow twitch
muscle fibers
so combining a low and higher reps in a
program ensures optimal development of
all fiber types
yet the evidence suggests this isn't
quite correct a meta-analysis by gergic
combined the results of five studies in
the papers the higher reps involved
around 20 to 40 reps performed two or
close to failure with loads between 30
and 50 percent one rep max
while the Low Reps involve 3 to 10 reps
perform two or close to failure with 75
to 90 percent one rep max loads it was
found both low and High Reps similarly
grew the slow and fast twitch muscle
fibers thus so long as reps are
performed two or close to failure both
low and higher reps are similarly
effective at developing slow and fast
switch fibers
[Music]
though different rep ranges produce
similar hypertrophy including similar
slow and fast twitch fiber hypertrophy
as just established other Fitness
attributes are optimized with either
higher or lower reps so training with
different rep ranges can be a highly
efficacious way to concurrently develop
different Fitness attributes
this can be great for overall health and
well-being a point notable for
non-professional or non-competitive
lifters
lower reps better optimize the maximum
load you can lift for a single rep turns
your one rep max via increasing your
skill with heavier loads and better
promoting neural adaptations that
enhance your ability to recruit and
expose your muscle fibers to tension
the literature consistently finds
strength is notable for longevity
one cohort study found regardless of
muscle mass low muscle strength was
independently associated with an
elevated risk of death from all causes
in individuals above the age of 50.
lower reps with heavier loads May
potentially be superior for bone
strength though High Reps can certainly
enhance bone density the literature
seems to more consistently find heavier
loads produces greater effects
higher reps of course better promote
endurance adaptations numerous studies
indicate higher reps more effectively
increase the number of reps you can
complete with a given percentage of your
one rep max
these endurance gains may be explained
by higher reps better producing
mitochondria and blood vessel
alterations
mitochondria are components within
muscle fibers that play a crucial role
in generating energy for things
including muscle contraction
and more blood vessels increase the
ability of the body to deliver oxygen
and nutrients to the muscle as well as
remove waste products
a 2019 Canadian study found as we'd
expect training too failure with a 30
one rep max load was similarly effective
for slow and fast-itch fiber hypertrophy
to an 80 one rep max load yet increases
in the content of several mitochondrial
related proteins were Superior when
training with a 30 One Rate Max load
having healthy mitochondria function and
numbers plays a crucial role in overall
health
as for blood vessels one study actually
found no statistical difference in
capillarization between training with 20
to 25 reps or 8 to 12 reps yet the
percentages did favor the 20 to 25 reps
physiologically there's reason to
believe higher reps would more
consistently produce the formation of
new blood vessels as the stimuli that
achieves this is hypoxia and shear
stress two things that are going to be
enhanced with higher reps
over the long term concurrent
development of various Fitness
attributes achieved through training
with different rep ranges may not only
benefit overall health but also
potentially hypertrophy let's explore
this
[Music]
most studies find no difference in
hypertrophy between training with a
single rep range or training with
different rep ranges but a limitation is
these studies largely last 12 weeks or
less in the long term as just alluded to
there could be a difference between the
two for example a 2003 study from the
USA found in previously untrained women
training for nine months compared to
training with the same rip range
training with different rep ranges per
week ultimately led to Greater increases
in fat-free mass now this is far from
strong evidence it's just one study
conducted on previously untrained women
and fat-free mass is far from the most
precise muscle growth measurement
nevertheless an array of potential paths
Exist by which training with different
rep ranges could benefit hypertrophy
firstly we know lower reps optimize
neural adaptations that enhance your
ability to recruit and expose your
muscle fibers to tension this is notable
because mechanical tension is the
primary hypertrophy stimulus that is
muscle fibers can detect the tension
they produce and transduce it into a
signaling Cascade that produces
hypertrophy
thus having a better ability to recruit
and expose your muscle fibers to tension
via neural adaptations can enhance the
overall mechanical tension you
experience during your set of
repetitions
the fact is not all individuals have an
equal capacity to recruit and expose
their fibers to tension moreover it can
depend on the muscle in question one
study established around 15.5 percent of
the muscle activation potential of the
quadriceps was inaccessible to
individuals whereas these values were
five percent for the elbow flexors and
coughs
so in cases where muscles cannot be
easily recruited from the onset neural
adaptations from lower reps may change
this and enhance one's ability to expose
a muscle to Greater overall mechanical
tension
secondly the endurance benefits provided
by higher reps such as the formation of
new blood vessels like capillaries may
have hypertrophic benefits interestingly
some data indicates capillarization may
have associations with hypertrophy a
2017 study from Canada found in older
men those with higher capillarization of
fast twitch muscle fibers from the
vastus lateralis ultimately saw the
greatest fast twitch fiber hypertrophy
in response to lifting weights
another 2019 study found similar things
in older men subjects with greater
capillarization of vastus laterized
fiber so greater vastus Lateralus
hypertrophy
in younger individuals a fascinating
2022 study from Canada found those who
saw the greatest fast witch fiber
capillarization from aerobic training in
the vastus lateralis tended to see
greater vastus lateralis fast touch
fiber growth in response to a subsequent
10-week resistance training period
on top of this it's important
individuals recognize lifting weights is
fairly aerobically demanding despite
what it may seem for example a 200 meter
sprint something considered very
anaerobic still involves a 29
contribution from the Aerobic System
also recovery between sets performance
on later sets in a session and Recovery
between sessions are going to be relying
on the Aerobic System to a large degree
so the aerobic adaptations provided by
higher reps can enhance all of these
things finally higher reps are more
painful than lower reps but developing
the capacity to withstand pain and
continue can be beneficial getting
accustomed to the pain associated with a
set of 20 to 30 reps two or close to
failure is going to make a set of eight
reps two or close to failure feel like a
breeze
I should note dedicated aerobic training
is going to be superior for aerobic
adaptations versus higher reps
especially for Central adaptations
related to the heart so this is one
reason why I believe aerobic training
can be of great utility to lifters plus
it just makes you feel great more on
this in the future
in any case I still believe High Reps
have their place even if you're
performing aerobic training as remember
mitochondria and blood vessel
adaptations are specific to the muscle
being trained So High Reps can help spur
aerobic adaptations in muscles not
involved in your dedicated aerobic
training modality
[Music]
the research tends to find that training
with different rep ranges does produce
greater strength adaptations versus
training with a single rep range however
a notable limitation is the groups
training with different rep ranges
ultimately trained more frequently with
lower Reps versus the groups training
with a single rep range so this may
explain the greatest strength gains
rather than using different rep ranges
per se
so more research is needed to determine
if training with different rep ranges
truly enhances long-term strength gains
in any event this data at least shows
training with different rep ranges is
unquestionably going to be effective for
strength gains
both low and High Reps similarly
increase faster and slow twitch fiber
size so training with different rep
ranges on the assumption that different
rep ranges preferentially Target slow or
fast Edge fiber growth is incorrect
however training with different rep
ranges can be effective for concurrently
developing different Fitness attributes
something beneficial for overall Health
and Longevity furthermore there are
potential Avenues by which training with
different rep ranges could potentially
enhance long-term muscle growth
as for strength more research is needed
to determine if training with different
rep ranges is superior
if you've made it this far I have a free
ebook you might like it's the ultimate
guide to bench pressing for strength and
or hypertrophy with over 100 scientific
references whether you train for
strength and or hypertrophy we discuss
technical factors like grip width and
bar path training factors rep ranges
volume and frequency comparisons between
the bench press and other similar
exercises and other fascinating science
conducted on the bench press access the
ebook via the link in the description or
comments
foreign