foreign
okay what's going on guys and welcome to
the first episode of the ultimate
push-pull leg Series in this video we're
hitting our first push workout of the
week and over the course of the next six
videos I'll be taking you through the
rest of the push-pull leg sessions to
complete the full week of workouts now
if you want to get everything in your
hands right away you can pick up the
full push-pull legs hypertrophy plan
which just launched over on
jeffnumber.com and I'll have a little
more info about that at the end of the
video so without further Ado let's dig
into push day number one where we'll be
doing seven exercises that Target the
chest shoulders and triceps alright so
after a quick warm-up of five minutes on
the treadmill or StairMaster and a few
upper body Dynamic drills like arm
circles and cable external rotations
we're kicking the workout off with just
one nearer Max effort set of three to
five reps on the bench press now
obviously before that heavy working set
we'll want to do a full warm-up pyramid
to get the blood flowing and prepare
ourselves mentally for that heavy load
to come on the top set and I'll put my
full warm-up protocol here if you want
to pause and read alright so with the
bench press you want to set up an arch
that feels comfortable to you with the
most important thing being that you get
tight and stable on the bench it doesn't
have to be a huge power lifting style
arch but you should at least dig your
upper back into the bench so you'll have
a strong base of support you should also
pinch your shoulder blades together and
tuck your shoulder blades down that's
what I'm doing here is I roll my elbows
forward which will further increase that
stability for the max effort top set
have a spotter help you unwrack the bar
by lifting the weight out softly not
yanking it up aggressively and make sure
you have three points of contact with
the bench your butt your upper back and
your head lower the bar down and
slightly forward until it reaches the
highest contact point on your chest and
then press the bar slightly back and up
with as much explosive force as possible
your elbows should be slightly tucked on
the negative and then you can optionally
flare them out as you push the weight up
however some people may find flaring
uncomfortable on their shoulders and in
reality there's a pretty wide range of
elbow tuck that's perfectly fine on the
bench press because when you look at the
way the PEC fibers fan out anything from
0 to 30 degrees of elbow tuck is gonna
line up with the majority of the PEC
fibers anyway So within this range you
can pick a level of flair that you feel
working your pecs well and that you're
reasonably strong with and that doesn't
give you any pain or discomfort if you
don't have a spotter you can try
unwracking the bar with your butt up off
the bench this is legal in competition
and then once you've unracked drop your
butt down onto the bench and start your
set from there now one thing worth
noting is that the international
powerlifting Federation recently updated
the rule book in an attempt to combat
the increasingly out of control range of
motion problem with more and more
exaggerated arching so now you need to
reach a certain amount of elbow depth in
order for the lift to count so according
to the new rules you need to get the
bottom of your elbow below the top of
your shoulder joint in order for the
lift to count so this is what bottom of
the elbow below top of the shoulder
joint looks like to me and I would say
that as long as your arch isn't really
massive this shouldn't be an issue for
most of you watching anyway and this is
a Rough Guide for how difficult your top
set should be on the final reps you're
grinding it out the bar speed has
clearly slowed down but you're still
keeping your form tight and maybe you
could have gotten one more rep but like
likely no more than that now if you
don't like to bench press for whatever
reason feel free to swap it out for a
flat dumbbell press or even a machine
press for the same number of sets and
Reps okay so after our heavy top set
we're doing two sets of 10 reps on the
Larson press for these you'll want to
drop the weight back to about 75 percent
of what you used for your heavy top set
so if you did 295 pounds for your top
set you do about 225 pounds for your
Larson press now the Larson press is
basically just a normal bench press
except your legs lie flat on the bench
rather than having your feet planted on
the floor I'll usually grab another
bench or a box that I can set my feet on
so they aren't left hanging and that
helps me keep my balance on the bench a
bit better so you'll do the same setup
with the same Arch the only difference
is that you keep your feet up this way
you'll completely eliminate any leg
Drive which will help isolate the pecs
front delts and triceps more and then to
make the movement even more hypertrophic
I'll take a slightly closer grip which
will increase the range of motion and
shift the emphasis slightly more toward
the upper pecs and triceps and unlike
the top set where we're using explosive
force on every rep here we want to use a
nice smooth and controlled Tempo with a
one to two second negative in a one to
two second positive with just a soft
touch on the chest at the bottom you
want to feel the pecs and triceps
stretching and Contracting as you press
rather than just moving the weight from
point A to point B all right after that
we're moving on to three sets of eight
to ten reps on the standing dumbbell
Arnold press for the most part I think
any optimized push day should have both
a horizontal press to Target the pecs
more and a vertical press to Target the
shoulders more of course if you're
really pressed on time you could
collapse them both into a single incline
press like we did in our minimalistic
workouts but here we're going for
maximum Effectiveness over Maximum
efficiency so we want to do both pushing
movements so for these you want to start
with the dumbbells facing Palms in and
then as you press you're going to flare
your elbows out until you get to full
elbow extension and then reverse the
motion Back Down Under Control in the
past I've often hit these in a higher
rep range and thought of them more as a
mind muscle connection pump style
exercise and because of this I've often
limited myself to 30 or 40 pound
dumbbells but lately I've been loading
them quite a bit heavier and I've worked
my way up to 60 pound dumbbells for sets
of eight to ten I found that thinking of
it more like a barbell overhead press by
squeezing my glutes and driving through
my heels to help me overload my
shoulders better and these days I think
of it more like a in-between movement I
still want to feel my delts working and
I still want to get a good shoulder pump
but I'm also much more focused on
gradually increasing the weight as well
also this is an exercise where wearing a
belt and wrist straps can make a pretty
big difference so if you have either of
those I definitely recommend throwing
them on for this one okay after that
we're super setting two sets of 12 to 15
reps on the cable press around with two
sets of a static PEC stretch for a 30
second hold so the Press round is one of
those exercises that can feel a bit
awkward for some people at first but
once they play around with it for a few
weeks it tends to really click I think
of it like a combination between a cable
fly and a cable press except you're
doing one arm at a time and the key
thing is that you're pressing around
your body past the midline to get the
most end range contraction out of the
packs possible if you think about pretty
much every other exercise that hits the
pecs they almost all stop at or before
the midline when you press you stop
before the midline when you fly you stop
before the midline when you dip you stop
before the midline but the chest isn't
fully contracted until well past the
midline so with the Press around we're
trying to Target that very end range of
motion that hardly ever gets hit now is
that in range of motion really important
for a hypertrophy I'm not sure as far as
I know it's never been directly studied
at least not in this context but I
certainly can't see it hurting
especially if the stretch isn't being
compromised so after hitting one side on
the Press around we'll stretch that same
Peck for a 30 second hold and then
switch and do a press around with the
other arm and then stretch that other
pack for a 30 second hold as well now
three years ago I uploaded a video
breaking down this study which showed
that holding a stretch for 30 seconds in
between sets at about a 7 out of 10
intensity so just before the point of
pain or discomfort was able to increase
muscle growth by approximately 50
percent the group that did traditional
training without intercept stretching
saw a 6.2 millimeter increase in muscle
thickness while the group that did
stretching in between sets saw a 9.4
millimeter increase on average since
then more research has come out on the
topic than just this past month a new
review was published by schoenfelding
colleagues where they concluded that
intercept stretching May enhance
muscular adaptations without increasing
the time spent exercising that's because
you can just do the stretching while
you're resting in between sets so the
benefit of stretching in between sets
seems to be gaining as opposed to losing
scientific Support over time and we also
don't need to worry about any potential
strength interference because we're
doing the static stretching on our last
exercise for the pecs for the day
however even if we were doing that
stretching earlier it wouldn't be a big
deal because contrary to popular belief
static stretching doesn't seem to
interfere with strength unless the
stretch is held for longer than 60 to 90
seconds so to me this seems to be
something with only potential upsides
with no clear downsides as of now I mean
you're just resting between sets anyway
why not add some stretching okay after
that we're moving on to three sets of 12
to 15 reps on the crossbody cable y Rays
now I first saw this movement in a
training Vlog from one of the natural
bodybuilding goats Alberto Nunez he was
talking about how he gets a much better
stretch on these than regular cable
lateral raises and I can see why for
example if you look at the lean away
Egyptian cable lateral raise which I'm
still a big fan of by the way you'll
notice that your body sort of blocks you
from getting a really deep stretch on
the delts and just think about it if
you're gonna stretch your side delts as
much as possible you're not just going
to put your arm against your side
instead you're going to pull your arm
across your body and that way you should
feel a big stretch in your delts so with
the crossbody y Rays that's kind of the
stretch we're going for except under
active tension and the way Alberto
described these was to think about
drawing a sword at the bottom and then
sort of flicking it up and out at the
top now one thing to be aware of is you
don't want to turn this into a front
raise we're not lifting the cable up in
front of us we're lifting it out and
back in a diagonal plane of motion also
if we look at the anatomy of the deltoid
muscle fibers it's pretty calm common
knowledge that there are three heads
there's the front or anterior head the
side or lateral head and the rear or
posterior head however the latest
Anatomy literature suggests that the
deltoids may be better thought of as
having seven intramuscular segments and
so some of these compartments like the
D4 D5 segments could be hit more
effectively with something sort of in
between a front raise and a lateral
raise so something like a y Rays the
bottom line is that lifting the arm out
at slightly different angles and in
slightly different planes of motion is
more likely to maximize development of
the entire shoulder and help create that
round 3D dealt look more effectively
okay up next we've got three sets of
eight reps on the squeeze only tricep
press down superseted with three sets of
eight reps on the stretch only overhead
tricep extension and we'll be hitting
both of these exercises as a superset so
doing them back to back without resting
in between so basically we're doing
partial half reps on both of these
exercises except on the Press Downs
we're only doing the second half of the
range of motion so hitting the squeeze
part and on the overhead tricep
extension we're only doing the first
half of the range of motion so hitting
the stretch part only now I want to give
credit to hypertrophy coach for this
combo I first saw these on his Instagram
so I tried it out for myself and it
immediately clicked and the reason I
think it works so well is the second
half of the press down is the hardest
part of that exercise hypertrophy coach
calls this staying where it's the
hardest but you can't just do half reps
because we know that the stretch aspect
of the lift is probably the most
important however it's actually really
hard to get a good stretch on the
triceps with press Downs so instead
we'll just flip around and do half rep
stretched partials with the overhead
extension so this is a fun combo move
and I think you guys will really feel
your triceps working in a unique way if
you want to try it out then to finish
off the workout we're doing two sets of
10 to 12 reps on the crossbody tricep
extension the goal here is to get in a
little extra tricep volume with the arm
positioned at a less conventional angle
most people pretty much always do tricep
extensions and tricep press Downs with
the arms tucked into the sides but much
more rare early if ever do tricep
extensions with the arms flared out to
the side so I think this is a good
variation to include because the long
head of the triceps crosses both the
elbow joint and the shoulder joint and
so varying your shoulder position can
impact which region of the triceps
you're emphasizing as of now I don't
think we have the scientific evidence to
be able to say with any real confidence
which shoulder position is best at
targeting which division of the triceps
and they're most likely going to be
individual differences regardless so my
best recommendation is to include a
variety of tricep exercises that put the
shoulder in different positions
periodically swapping them in and out
and like I said at the beginning if you
guys are looking to get started on the
full week of training right away I just
launched my new push-pull legs
hypertrophy system over on
jeffnipper.com this covers 12 weeks of
push-pull legs workouts and is split up
into three phases phase one uses the
workouts that I'll be doing here on the
channel which have moderate to high
volume and moderate to high intensity
phase two is a low volume and ultra high
intensity phase it's a really fun and
unique four weeks of training phase
three is what I'm calling the super
compensation phase this is where we jack
volume all the way up even higher than
in Phase One and do very high rep
metabolic style training the idea is
that after the low volume of phase 2
will be much more sensitive to the
increase in volume in phase three then
after week 12 there's a full deload week
so you can start the program over again
and keep running it through for as long
as you're continuing to make progress
for launch week it's going to be 30 off
so you can get the full 12-week program
for just 35 bucks you also get a full
spreadsheet for tracking your progress
an ebook that explains everything you
need to know about the program and
access to a full video library of
exercise demos from me there's over 75
exercises included in the program it's
designed for intermediate to Advanced
trainees so if you're still in your
first year or two of training and
suggest running through my fundamentals
program at least once first before
moving on to this routine for the record
I'll be running this program myself for
the next three months so if you want to
run it as well you can pick it up over
at jeffnipper.com which I'll put a link
to in the description box down below so
that's it for this one guys thank you so
much for watching don't forget to leave
me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one