[Music]
previously at the house of hypertrophy
we demonstrated that testosterone is
simply not the primary determinant of
muscle hypertrophy across people people
with higher testosterone levels do not
consistently see more muscle growth than
people with lower testosterone levels it
is very possible for someone with lower
testosterone levels to build more muscle
than a different person with higher
testosterone levels quite a few people
completely misunderstood this previous
video some said the fact people inject
testosterone proof testosterone matters
for hypertrophy and that the video is
wrong this is stupid disappointed in
this video who would question the
effects of testosterone cope
others said when they increase their
testosterone their muscle and strength
improved don't care what your study says
however absolutely nothing mentioned in
the video disagrees with what they said
they are providing counter arguments to
an argument I didn't actually make the
first minor point is the data in the
video examined testosterone levels
within the normal range something
mentioned in the first few seconds of
the video plus it was evident the data
involves subjects with normal levels but
the more critical point is the data in
the video examined the between people
relationship between testosterone and
muscle hypertrophy not within person
effects of testosterone I made this
point in the video itself as some folks
seemingly missed it let me briefly
explain it further consider this
question do people with higher
testosterone levels always grow more
than people with lower testosterone
levels the between people data answers
this question and the answer is no as
mentioned it is very possible for
someone with lower testosterone levels
to build more muscle than a different
person with higher test testosterone
levels the reason for this is numerous
factors regulate a person's muscle
hypertrophy imagine one person's
testosterone levels are 400 nanograms
per deciliter but all the other
Regulators of hypertrophy are quote
unquote to maximized for them imagine a
different person with testosterone
levels of 900 nanograms per deciliter
but all the other Regulators of
hypertrophy are quote unquote minimized
for them the person with 900 nanograms
per deciliter of testosterone won't
build more muscle in fact the person
with 400 nanograms per deciliter might
build more muscle
but now consider this question does
increasing the testosterone levels of a
single person increase their muscle this
is a different question no longer are we
dealing with differences in the other
Regulators of hypertrophy between people
therefore the between people data does
not answer this precise question again I
made this point in the video and I said
the next video the one you're watching
now will answer the question does
increasing the testosterone levels of a
single person increase their muscle and
strength let's Dive In
increasing a person's testosterone
levels predominantly does not increase
the muscle and strength they build
directly from training rather it
primarily does something else let me
explain the seemingly ludicrous
statement this famous paper assigned to
men with normal testosterone levels into
one or four groups one group lifted
weights naturally a second group lifted
weights while injecting 600 milligrams
of testosterone enanthate weekly
elevating their testosterone to
suprophysiological levels a third group
also injected 600 milligrams of
testosterone per week but they did no
weight training a fourth group did not
train nor inject testosterone we don't
need to worry about this group here are
the quadriceps cross-sectional area
triceps cross-sectional area bench press
strength and squat strength gains for
each group for the muscle measurements
gains were Superior in the weights plus
testosterone group followed by the
testosterone only group and then the
weights only group for the strength
strength measures gains were Superior
for the weights plus testosterone group
followed by the weights only group and
then the testosterone only group some
may be thinking hang on a minute the
weights plus testosterone groups are the
largest gains so doesn't this prove
testosterone increase the gains directly
from training no we need to look at the
numbers closer take the quadriceps
cross-sectional area measurements the
testosterone only groups saw a 6.7
increase while the weights only group
saw a 5.4 increase adding them together
we get 12.1 percent which is close to
the 13.7 increase seen by the weights
plus testosterone group thus increasing
testosterone didn't really enhance their
gains directly from training in other
words there wasn't really much of a
synergistic effect instead increasing
testosterone produces gains independent
from training increasing what we can
call your Baseline muscle and strength
these Baseline muscle and strength gains
are just added to whatever gains you
experience from training therefore we
can say testosterone has an additive
effect on muscle and strength not really
a synergistic effect we see the same
thing with the triceps cross-sectional
area and strength measurements the gains
were largely additive between
testosterone and weights
now this is only one paper do other
studies support this idea this study
recruited older men with testosterone
levels in the low normal end and
assigned them into one or four groups
one group lifted weights naturally a
second group lifted weights while
injecting 100 milligrams of testosterone
enanthae weekly elevating their
testosterone to 656 nanograms per
deciliter a third group also injected
100 milligrams of testosterone per week
elevating their levels to 595 nanograms
per deciliter but they did no weight
training a fourth group did not train
nor inject testosterone we don't need to
worry about this group now although the
group supplementing with 100 milligrams
of testosterone enanthate per week had
these average normal levels these levels
were measured seven days after
injections this matters because
injections can produce temporary Peaks
and testosterone levels for a few days
after the injection which would have
subsided after seven days for example
this data set here shows with 100
milligrams of testosterone and Anthony
levels can rise to 1 200 nanograms per
deciliter for one to two days and then
lower down to 800 nanograms per
deciliter by the seventh day so be aware
there would have been time periods where
testosterone levels were above the ones
reported and probably net or within
Supra physiological ranges the same
logic applies to the previous study we
just mentioned the testosterone levels
were reported seven days after
injections and although these levels
were super physiological there would
have been times where levels were even
higher back to the study at hand the
lower body was only trained and after 10
weeks leglin Mass gains were Superior in
the weights plus testosterone group
followed by the testosterone only group
and then the weights only group the
testosterone only groups or a 1.07
kilogram increase in leglin Mass while
the weights only group saw a 0.49
kilogram increase adding them together
we get 1.56 kilograms which is close
enough to the 1.41 kilogram increase
seen by the weights Plus testosterone
group so increasing testosterone didn't
improve gains directly from training
rather it increases your Baseline muscle
which gets added to the gains you'd
always get from training as a small note
lean body mass includes things on top of
muscle mass so be mindful that these
values may not entirely reflect muscle
mass changes leg press strength gains
were largest in the weights plus
testosterone group followed by similar
gains between the weights only and
testosterone only group interestingly
the game seen by the weights plus
testosterone group was slightly less
than additive in this case nonetheless
this data still supports that I did
testosterone isn't improving your
strength gains directly from training a
third study recruited older men with
testosterone levels on the low end of
the normal range and assign them into
one or four groups one group lifted
weights naturally a second group lifted
weights while applying a testosterone
cream daily resulting in slight
testosterone elevations to 458 nanograms
per decided a third group also applied a
testosterone cream daily resulting in
slight testosterone elevations to 405
nanograms per deciliter but they did no
weight training a fourth group did not
weight train nor apply a testosterone
gel we don't need to worry about this
group since a daily cream was used by
the groups increasing their testosterone
we don't need to be worried about
significant temporary Peaks lean body
mass increased by 1.4 Kilograms for the
weights plus testosterone group and 0.7
kilograms each for the testosterone only
in weights only group demonstrating the
effects of testosterone were additive
not synergistic to that of weight
training strength was measured on a
range of exercises some demonstrate
additive effects of testosterone on
weight training While others did not
this might indicate testosterone may not
consistently influence strength
[Music]
in the previous section we saw this
study which involves subjects elevating
their testosterone levels to
suprophysiological amounts this large
increase in testosterone produced
significant effects on Baseline muscle
and strength a lot of you would have
noticed the muscle gains produced by
being supplied with testosterone and not
training were greater versus weight
training naturally although this wasn't
the case with strength gains
testosterone only still produce notable
Baseline gains so large changes in
testosterone powerfully increase your
Baseline muscle and strength something
supported by a fair number of other
studies for example this study recruited
men with very low testosterone levels
due to various conditions and treated
them with 100 milligrams of testosterone
enanthate per week for 10 weeks average
testosterone levels increased up to 767
nanograms per deciliter by week 10. but
again the researchers didn't measure the
peak level so be aware there would have
been times when testosterone levels were
greater than this their fat-free Mass
increased by 5 kilograms triceps
cross-sectional area by 12 their
quadriceps cross-sectional area by eight
percent their bench press strength by 22
percent and their Squatch strength by a
massive 45 percent no resistance
training was involved in this study so
large changes in testosterone can elicit
massive gains speaking about significant
gains if you're ever going to make
significant progress consistency is the
foundation Alpha progression is a
tremendous app that helps track workouts
and motivates you long term input your
own program or utilize their incredibly
flexible custom workout generator you
can modify everything to your taste
specify what equipment you have
your preferred training frequency and
session durations and if you want to
focus or even neglect specific muscle
groups
to help long-term progression the apps
algorithm dissects your past performance
to provide recommendations of what
weight and rep numbers to go for each
session your progress is presented
graphically allowing you to decipher
long term if there are any correlations
between certain training variables and
your progression rates thereby helping
to optimize your training the app now
has a database of over 550 exercises
providing video and text information
behind the movements by using the link
in the comments and description you'll
have two weeks free of all its features
plus twenty percent offer yearly or
monthly subscription if you do purchase
the app the house of hypertrophy will
receive 50 and so This truly helps
support these free videos thank you
foreign
[Music]
studies involved the far less extreme
increase in testosterone around 100
nanograms per deciliter or less since
daily creams were used in this study we
don't need to be worried about
significant temporary Peaks this less
extreme testosterone increase produced
trivial effects and strength since
weights only produce much greater
increases than the testosterone
Administration only as for lean mess
interestingly testosterone
Administration only was as effective as
weight training only for gains however
the lean mass increase was only 0.7
kilograms which is certainly something
but it also isn't that massive also
although the weights only saw the same
0.7 kilogram lean mass increase the
effectiveness of the weight training in
this specific study for muscle gains is
questionable circuit training with short
risk was used and it isn't clear how
close the failure subjects got in other
studies using more traditional weight
training programs involving subjects
going too on their failure it's not
uncommon see trained individuals gaining
over one kilogram of lean mass in six
weeks as a reminder lean body mass is
not necessarily exclusively reflective
of muscle mass changes so just be
mindful of that throughout this section
nonetheless this study indicates less
extreme changes in testosterone can
still increase Baseline muscle and
strength but the effects are expectedly
far from large additional studies
support this this study recruited
healthy men with testosterone in the
normal range and supplied them with 100
milligrams of testosterone enanthate per
week fortunately these researchers
measured the peak levels from the
injections and it was
1196 nanograms per deciliter measured 24
hours after the injection level seven
days after this was 735 nanograms per
deciliter no resistance training was
involved in this study no strength
measures were assessed but their lean
mass increased by 1.3 kilograms after 8
weeks a fair but not massive change also
remember Peak levels of testosterone did
reach 1196 nanograms per deciliter so
technically the increase in testosterone
in this study may not fall under the
category of less extreme increases
another study recruited healthy men with
testosterone in the normal range and
then suppressed natural testosterone
production with gocerellin all while
subjects either received a placebo gel
1.25 gram 2.5 gram 5 gram or 10 grams of
testosterone gel daily the graph shows
the average testosterone levels each
group had throughout the treatment the
first four groups either decreased or
saw similar testosterone levels to
Baseline while the fifth group saw an
increase in testosterone to an average
of 805 nanograms per deciliter the
subject in this fifth group increased
their thigh muscle area and leg press
strength while subjects in the other
four groups did not consistently see
this since this study used daily gel
application we don't really have to
worry about Peak levels so around a 300
nanogram deciliter increase in
testosterone Australian benefited
Baseline muscle and strength but the
gains were small in the range of two to
four percent now all of the studies in
this section still use non-natural ways
to produce these less extreme
testosterone increases can you increase
testosterone through natural means the
answer is of course yes but there are
certainly nuances the most supported
ways appear to be through managing body
fat levels correcting nutritional
deficiencies nailing down sleep and
avoiding excessive chronic stress let me
know if you're interested enough in this
and I can make a video on the literature
surrounding optimizing natural
testosterone levels I can also analyze
testosterone boosting supplements to
determine if they are truly able to do
as they claim understandably folks wish
to optimize their testosterone levels
but I should just mention you shouldn't
be under the illusion natural increases
in testosterone levels have a large
impact on Baseline muscle and strength
as shown the effects are fairly small
[Music]
combining this information with the
previous video when you compare between
people those with higher testosterone
levels do not necessarily see more gains
than those with lower testosterone
levels but within a single person
increasing their testosterone levels
increases their muscle and strength it
predominantly does so not by improving
your gains directly from training rather
it just increases your Baseline muscle
and strength remember that the biggest
gains in Baseline muscle and strength
are seen with large changes in
testosterone which for most people can
probably only be attained by non-natural
means less extreme increases in
testosterone which might be possible
naturally in certain cases still benefit
Baseline muscle and strength but the
gains are much smaller
[Music]
so increasing your testosterone can
increase your Baseline muscle and
strength so its logical decreasing your
testosterone can decrease your Baseline
muscle and strength recall in this study
the first four groups either decreased
or saw similar testosterone levels to
Baseline while the fifth group saw an
increase in testosterone to an average
of 805 nanograms per deciliter the
groups that decrease their testosterone
the most sort of loss in thigh muscle
area and leg press strength we also have
other studies demonstrating this concept
this study recruited healthy men with
testosterone levels of around 535
nanograms per deciliter and suppress
their levels to 31 nanograms per
deciliter 10 weeks later their fat-free
Mass decreased by 2.1 kilograms if you
decrease your testosterone levels
notably while training muscle and
strength do not improve as much
illustrating this is this paper which
recruited men with Baseline testosterone
levels of around 600 130 to 660
nanograms per deciliter all subjects
trained three times per week for eight
weeks one group of subjects maintain
their normal testosterone levels while
another group suppressed their
testosterone levels down to 57 to 31
nanograms per deciliter through
gosserellin lean mass and isometric
strength gains were lower in the group
that lowered their testosterone levels
at face value these results May lead you
to believe having higher testosterone
levels increases your gains directly
from training and that lower
testosterone produces lower gains
directly from training but given all the
information supplied in this video we
know this would likely be an inaccurate
takeaway rather it's likely the
suppression of testosterone lowered
Baseline muscle and strength causing the
appearance of lower overall gains if
this study had a group that only lowered
their testosterone and did no weight
training we would likely be able to
mathematically see the subtractive
effects of lowering testosterone on
muscle and strength now although I noted
isometric strength gains were lower in
the subjects reducing their testosterone
leg press and bench press strength gains
were actually similar between both
groups this may further support the idea
of less consistent effects of
testosterone on strength
foreign
[Music]
testosterone predominantly increases
Baseline muscle and strength yet I do
want to mention that our theoretical
path through its super physiological
testosterone levels May improve muscle
and strength directly from training I.E
it could have a synergistic effect
firstly it is likely super physiological
testosterone levels improve your work
capacity and ability to recover between
training sessions therefore those with
super physiological testosterone levels
might be able to handle recover and
thereby benefit from greater training
volume resultantly this is an indirect
path through its suprophysiological
testosterone technically improves gains
from training yet I'm unsure if this
point is universally applicable
suprophysiological levels or not there's
reason to believe not all people benefit
from higher volumes of training the
reasons for this might be due to things
like ribosome biogenesis capacity
something I plan to discuss in a book
I'm working on secondly elevations the
super physiological levels potently
increased the number of myonuclei muscle
fibers contain in the long term this
means you might see more gains from
training let me explain muscle fibers
contain numerous myonuclei these
myonuclei are crucial for directing the
formation of the proteins that
ultimately make muscle fibers bigger
however each myonucleus is believed to
oversee a certain amount of space within
muscle fibers term the myonuclei domain
but there is a limit to the amount of
space each myonucleus can oversee so as
muscle fibers increase in size the
myonuclei domain increases until its
limit and from this point further fiber
growth cannot occur an increase in my
nuclei numbers would be required to
enable further fibrocise increases no
increases in myonuclei numbers simply
from lifting weights naturally can and
often do occur but it's likely super
physiological testosterone produces a
lot more of an increase in myonuclear
numbers than can naturally be obtained
Pro probably meaning your capacity for
increasing muscle fiber sizes in the
long term directly from training is
greater you may experience fewer
plateaus it is not as clear if less
extreme testosterone increases I.E not
intercept for physiological zones have
any meaningful benefit on your ability
to recover and your myonuclei numbers my
speculation is it might not but future
research is required to validate this
foreign
between people those with higher
testosterone levels do not necessarily
see more gains than those with lower
testosterone levels but within a single
person increasing their testosterone
levels increases their muscle and
strength it predominantly does so not by
improving your gains directly from
training rather it just increases your
Baseline muscle and strength decreasing
a person's testosterone levels decreases
their Baseline muscle and strength
remember that the biggest gains in
Baseline muscle and strength are seen
with large changes in testosterone which
for most people can probably only be
attained by non-natural means less
extreme increases in testosterone which
might be possible naturally in certain
cases still benefit muscle and strength
but the gains are much smaller having
said all this it's worth understanding
there are potential paths through its
super physiological testosterone levels
specifically could improve the gain seen
from training over the long term in the
next video we're exploring what some
suggest to be a hidden key within
muscles dictating hypertrophy Androgen
receptors finally I have a free Ultimate
Guide to bench pressing ebook that
covers these areas feel free to get it
in the link in the comments and
description
[Music]