and there was another study that was
done 2017 where they found 10% of
pre-workout energy supplements and
weight loss supplements roughly 9 to 10%
had ban stimulants in them I can believe
that because like a lot of pre-workouts
even just on marketing and and
advertising or like this will
 kill you you're like really it's
like no seriously it might kill you
you're like I love it give me two
scop hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance puz and I'm here with my
esteemed colleague and guest Dr Dr Eric
Helms for 3D muscle journey and Eric has
been doing some digging and he has found
something in the supplement industry
that I consider at least concerning not
to put all of my cards on the table
generally I'm an anti-conspiracy
theorist I think almost all conspiracy
theorists are are insane people and all
conspiracy theorists almost all are
insane I also do not like anti-corporate
propaganda or even Nuance so I think
when someone's like yeah the supplement
industry it's like great government's
going to be better government has a
great track record but the ultimate
thing I'm very concerned with is
integrity and truth and for a proper
capitalist system to work we need to
understand what is in our supplements
Eric welcome and what is in our
supplements um yeah it's the problem is
is what is sometimes not in your
supplements like we've learned testerone
supplements may not have testerone in
them nor does testerone even if present
do anything but please continue well
that's something we've known about the
supplement industry for a long time
there's a handful of supplements to do
something yet there's far more than a
handful of supplements yes um that's not
new news and I think um yeah this is
something for those who want to really
do a deep dive and watch more in this
video if you like reading uh there's a
free article that came out that I wrote
originally for Mass research review uh
that is now freely available because I
think it's an important topic so you can
definitely check that out I'm sure we're
can have the link yes in the description
um but um
I think most people when they view the
risk to reward ratio of supplements they
generally view it as you know what I
watch Dr Mike I know supplements are
only going to take me so far I know it's
like creatine caffeine maybe a couple
others depending upon my goals literally
maybe take some protein if I have
trouble hitting my targets but you know
this new supplement came out it's got
half of a decent study that might
indicate something could be happening I
have some disposable income what's the
downside 30 bucks right you know and
it's not hard for me to take an extra
pill when I do in the morning so the
evaluated risk of kind of the meme we
always say in the evidence-based
Community it's neutral to positive you
know dispers some cost so they evaluated
as low risk low potential for reward why
not sure and I think unfortunately
unlike certain strategies that you might
do in training or trying certain things
with nutrition um where there probably
is no downside but there may not be an
upside but you can do it that's not the
way we should be evaluating supplements
especially if you're a drug tested
athlete or honestly just generally
interested in health yeah I think
everyone's generally interested in
health yeah and uh I'll say I'll add to
your point by saying definitely for drug
tested athletes if there's other crap in
there but also for even also enhanced
athletes specifically people looking to
Peak for their best look and their best
body composition if you have substance
in there that are doing things to your
body water and your look uh which you
don't want you don't think you're on
them because you're not on them because
you're just taking whe protein but it
has like dball in it and it
Waters you up to some level you could be
a very I didn't plan this thing look all
the people that are enhanced are
perfectly fine getting exactly all their
drugs from exactly where they think
they're getting the drugs nobody trying
to get extra drugs that you don't know
what they are and your supplements So to
that point Eric what is the bad news
yeah so I won't bury the lead but there
is some Nuance to discuss after I talk
about this um this has been something
that's been documented believe it or not
for over two decades I've been aware of
it for a long time yeah so if we go back
two decades to the point where the uh
dietary supplement Control Act of 2004
came out in the US which was basically a
clarification saying hey anything with
hormonal products is considered steroids
and therefore regulated under this and
that was in response to the pr hormone
era yes um and it was right around the
same time when they dragged out cono
Mark mg
s samyos and had like the the government
era yes it was right in the mid 2000s
where you could go to GNC or on
bodybuilding.com and just purchase
things that are actually just steroids
just steroids there's a GNC lockbox
thingy where it's glass and then you
unlock it and turbo 1 a yes so there was
actually a 2004 analysis where they
purposely uh sampled hundreds of non
hormonal products
and then they test claimed non- hormonal
products correct so the the sorry Eric
what like give us an example because I I
just get tired of the
generalities like what are we talking
about like creatine whey protein CA
protein pre-workout supplements any any
vitamin and mineral supplement oh my God
a whole line of stuff just all the
at the GNC basically correct
okay and then they classified the
companies that sold them as either they
have no hormonal products in their
product line they're not selling pro
hormones not selling DHA anything like
that or companies that also sold them
right and then they analyzed they tested
hundreds of products I think roughly 600
something and they wanted to look at the
rate at which they had were adulterated
which just means they had a
contamination something wasn't on the
label that should have been there and on
the whole 14% of them had uh something
not on the label that was hormonal
typically a ban substance yeah and when
they delineated it based upon whether
the company was selling
a hormonal product in their product line
or not it changed a little bit but it
was still pretty Stark it was like 9%
and the in the companies without any
hormonal products and around 25% in the
companies that did sell hormonal
products so that 9% let's zoom in on
that yeah you run a company ostensibly
does not make any hormonal products you
test your products and for you
specifically in that 9% demographic you
have a high enough level of hormonal
contaminant that at least registered on
a detection scale my quick question to
you on that is are these physiologically
relevant amounts or is it like
technically seawater has uranium in it
and I probably just breathed in a couple
uranium molecules right now but it
doesn't matter because the sun's a
 nuclear bomb and who gives a
 uh what are we talking about with
these effects here unfortunately a wide
range and oh yeah the probably less
of an issue back in 2004 and
specifically in the companies that
weren't selling it um and that's because
uh anti-doping technology has gotten
more and more and more precise over time
so the issue is really in some cases for
tested athletes a little bit different
for the enhanced and all that because if
you're taking a product that is a low
enough dosage that has no physiological
effect it probably is still enough to
pop the worst possible combination
you're benefits you're like you're on
wistw you're like I am yeah now here's
the thing this is this was a 2004 study
this is actually right around the time
where these companies were trying to
sell off their products and pro hormones
were rampant on the market and the
companies that did not have hormonal
products then you're going why is that
happening well the issue was one step up
the product yes wasn't One Step Up the
chain it's at the manufacturer so all
these manufacturers are being asked to
make hormonal products so it's in the
shipping container or it's say on the
actual equipment yes now to speak to
what you were talking earlier about the
way the supplement industry is regulated
and it's not just the US um it is all
what I would describe as postmarket or
post Hawk regulation unlike say the
pharmaceutical industry where you have
to go through clinical trials in vitro
uh trials and animal trials over
multiple years to prove both safety and
E efficacy yeah and then the company
itself has to decide is there a large
enough effect for this to be profitable
for us to even make it the supplement
industry I could literally in most
countries uh decide to go in my bathroom
yeah and I could mix together pill
bottle a pill pill maker or if I want I
could just put flour in a tub with good
marketing that says protein on it yeah
and I could sell it sure now immediately
someone would probably go what the hell
this is flour in a tub with labeled
protein and then the FDA would do
something yeah but in the US uh there
was a you know a classic act law passed
back in the day where supplements were
regulated differently than food yeah if
because they're supposedly only or
they're regulated like food they're
supposedly only correct only containing
uh Source sources of supplements from
food products so it's all postmarket now
like you said you can say what you want
about your perspective on government
regulation but the reality is is the
industry is functioning in a certain way
and it's not necessarily working and you
have to ask yourself the question do I
want to wait till there's an adverse
event before something happens sure and
do I want to be that person sure and you
know we're not going to sit here and
solve the rules the world's Problems by
deciding at what point or if Government
regulates things but we can Empower you
as the consumer of what you want to do
about it yeah well real quick there are
a few ways you can attend to this one is
learn who the reputable companies are
that are never for this sure but
certainly there's an ability to get some
company that makes good stuff and then
that can be a thing and uh just uh
understanding that companies going
forward have a market pressure for more
and more people to demonstrate the clan
of L impurity is a big deal because if
you have to do clan of security to sell
any units you're going to do it you know
like if cars killed you on the first try
but someone could save a lot of money
making them Nobody Does that with cars
even if total absence of Regulation so
be like do you want to make another car
car and make another bit of money like
it won't happen if your first car kills
someone safety is good for both sides
transparency is good for both sides
unless it's a new market unless the
people who are consuming don't so much
care or know and some many of the people
producing it's definitely some are like
not the greatest people of all time and
there's a lot of that and Shady startup
business there's a lot of Fly
by Night Quick Cash grab I'll be around
for one year then I'll change the name
myself my company never happens
supplement companies it's huge in
supplement in this up industry
unfortunately it's like the the default
almost now I had one comment on uh when
I first talked about this on our podcast
it was like ah this is a problem in 2004
after that happened they went way down
which is actually true there was a
follow-up study that was in a conference
proceeding a couple years later and the
percentage had fallen to 7% okay but the
thing is is there was no fundamental
change to the industry for this not to
keep happening again sure so we're
probably aware of sarms were probably
aware of the the 20 ODS period where
there were dmaa in in certain products
or basically methamphetamine analoges
and they kept just changing the chemical
name yes so the same problem keeps
cropping up and there was another study
that was done 2017 where they found 10%
of pre-workout energy supplements and
weight loss supplements roughly 9 to 10%
had ban stimulants in them I can believe
that absolutely that's at least more
comfortable to believe than that your
whey protein has steroids in it because
like a lot of pre-workouts even just on
marketing and and advertising are like
this will kill you you're
like really it's like no seriously it
might kill you you're like I love it
give me two scoops yeah that so to me
that's not as big of a tragedy obviously
the ideally is something like very
little of this happens perfect Justice
is difficult in a real world but yeah if
it fell down to 1% of all stimulant B
based pre-workouts I could feel okay
with that 10% still pretty
gnarly it is quite high and
unfortunately it's not the only category
and it's not the only data and we can
understand what's going on here it's not
always Happening by the supplement
company a lot of the times it's that the
manufacturers are not adhering to the
standard they're supposed to okay so
let's just get folks really quickly
informed as to how the industry
structured is super super simple you
have uh actual Agro businesses that make
food like Farmers Dairy Farmers
like that and Dairy Farmers we is almost
useless to them so they sell it at a
massive discount to the next level which
are the distributors or manufacturers
Distributors like you know will sell you
10 tons of whey protein in a truck they
don't give a what you do with it
and it's almost free but they're not
particularly concerned with what's in it
because it's a refug product from
another industry and you said it's
totally cool to buy and they didn't put
anything in there on purpose they're
exactly like micro cleaning their mixing
equipment for you you get down to the
manufacturer level after the distrib
distributor and this is a a company that
you never see heard or named this is
something like when people open up their
own supplement company right like dildo
nutrition something we're trying to work
on and like our new dildo way you know
it's the best way ever there's a dildo
mixing spoon like we don't have a
physical facility at which we do this
and if we have a facility which we put
it into things it arrives in other
containers from somewhere else and
that's not the Dairy Farmers there's an
intermediary and that's a manufacturer
that makes a crapload of mixes and stuff
and they don't always care how pure the
things are because the next step down
supplement companies may or may not care
now if you're a reputable longtime
supplement company you get this right
you make sure your manufacturer is
not only vetted prior but also tested by
you if you're the president of dildo
nutrition you may not even be aware of
this existing and if you become aware of
it you're like ah yep and those manufa
at the manufacturing level is where a
lot of the issues come because they're
servicing multiple supplement companies
yes and by multiple sometime we're
talking if it big dozens exactly maybe
so some some some places serve 60 to 80%
of all supplement companies in the
United States exact if you have whe
protein made in Australia that maybe two
or three companies that sell manufactur
and grade weight protein period yep and
here's the issue so uh you might have
heard of GMP right um General
manufacturing practices so at the
manufacturing level the FDA does have a
legal standard for what is good
manufacturing practices however again
all post hawk or postm Market regulation
FDA is not knocking on the door ensuring
that you meet GMP but you can actually
pay to be thirdparty tested which we'll
get to I don't want to jump into that
just yet at the manufacturing level to
say hey this product was made or mixed
in a facility that was certified GMP in
2013 uh there is an FDA audit that was
done of I think a couple hundred of the
manufacturers uh just just to see what's
going on in the industry and they found
that 70% of them were not meeting GMP
standards were they labeled as GMP or no
no okay so we're just talking about they
just went across okay and they didn't
have the seal or anything like correct
yeah because very few are actually have
the seal because they don't they don't
need to to operate right it cost some
money it's that super expensive but it's
like why even bother changing our design
for our label exactly if our customers
don't care which is kind of the root of
the problem if you think about it yeah
yeah and and change does happen at the
customer level and you're seeing a lot
more as this awareness happens there's
more pressure on companies to do this
yeah right so if 70% of Manufacturers
are not adhering to manufacturing
standards we can understand where
contamination occurs because you're
servicing 50 60 supplement companies and
maybe some non- companies who sell
things to people right um and there's
always been a very close tie to the
underground drug market and the
supplement industry a lot of the same
people are involved absolutely because
they're both involved with the
bodybuilders yeah yeah y so anyway um
there's this kind of convergence of
impacts that are going on here that are
kind of culminating this issue and uh we
see consistently the same types of
supplements are the ones that are most
consistently adulterated and that is
Sexual Health Energy pre-workout weight
loss and muscle building things you can
feel often times yes so muscle building
it depends on which ones the muscle
building ones are the ones that are more
likely to have anabolic steroids sure so
far what we have is this many
supplements are still contaminated
usually would say almost always in doses
not relevant to increase your
performance or outcome in any way
probably depends on the brand or the
type I think if it's a pre-workout or a
muscle building supplement probably
pre-workout they might have some in
there a muscle building pill not like a
powder definitely something could be in
there but largely this isn't the kind of
like you know you're on special
when you're on it and they just usually
it's not the case with supplements so we
know these things for now um
Eric what is how deep does this go and
what are some what are your
recommendations to folks for how they
can navigate the current environment
good question so for how deep does this
go um there's a the most recent
narrative review on this uh was by I
think it's jum and colleagues you say
jagam jagam in America J G IM this is
published uh in 2023 they estimated when
they reviewed everything else all most
of the studies I'm talking about and
then some that somewhere between 10 to
30% of all supplements are adulterated
which is Bonkers and no matter where you
are in that range sure and I tend to
agree with that conclusion so that's how
deep it goes the question of what and
again I I mentioned the classes of
supplements and what they're adulterated
with um for the most part but there are
some concerning things uh when you look
at the fda's reports of okay here's all
the supplements that were adulterated
and we tested them what were in what was
in them yeah um we see a lot of crazy
stuff like laxatives are very common in
weight loss drugs that makes sense right
but that can be pretty serious weight
loss supplements correct thank you there
is weight loss drugs in weight loss
supplements as well yeah um in the
energy based supplements like I said
we're talking about methamphetamines in
some cases um there's a reason that
pre-workout feels a lot different than
caffeine and that you just really want
to keep taking it I need my pre-workout
yes uh another unfortunate thing is that
uh in the sexual health realm you're
seeing a lot of things like uh like
basically erectile dysfunction drugs and
the mechanisms of actions for those and
the potential drug interactions pretty
intense yeah what is an example of a
sexual health drug I'm a involuntary
celibate I don't have sex but I read
about it on the internet so like your
Viagra no but like the drug for sure but
what are the supplements that people are
buying oh yeah so testosterone boosters
right they're supposed to be sexual
health drugs yeah that's that's when
when you're looking at the research like
we you know in the bodying industry you
buy a testosterone booster um because
you're trying to get big and it might be
marketed as a muscle building supplement
but also get your dick going but you
might see the exact same ingredient
profile be marketed more to the general
public yeah as a sexual male Health
enhancer right feel like you did when
you were 20 yes and in my case still dry
yes so anytime you're looking at a
testosterone booster um that potentially
has prescription grade um you know
erectile dysfunction medication in them
and another really unfortunate thing is
that a lot of the times and this was
when it's more intentional the drugs
that are actually being adulterated into
these products they are classes of drugs
that are no longer prescribed by
physicians due to safety issues sure so
there that means two things one they're
unsafe and then two they're less safe
less safe that's very good is that it
probably being acquired by means that is
maybe less than legal sure not my
 problem but less than legal
acquisition usually means less than high
quality standards that's exactly my
point so you you've got these no longer
being prescribed drugs being acquired
illegally and put in a supplement at a
high enough dose probably to have an
effect yeah because you're trying to get
a market Advantage oh these pills get my
dick hard must be the testosterone yeah
so I think there is actually a concern
Beyond just being a tested athlete and
having a small dosage that could be
picked up by these really high Precision
tests these days if you're out there
taking a lot of supplements you're
rolling the dice and unfortunately one
one two or three out of 10 supplements
is potentially adulterated has there
been any research onto what size of
company or which companies are more or
less or even not at all complicit in
this because I imagine some companies
would make it their mission statement to
not have any of the stuff in there maybe
they small companies maybe they're big
companies and some companies flat
categorically don't care or that's part
of their job to put as much in
there everything in between of course
has there been an index published or do
we have any kind of semblance of logic
about where should we likely try to buy
our supplements from if we're really
concerned about them yeah the latter yes
and it's it's almost indirect and I
think it speaks to the fact that when
you have a larger company that is trying
to stake a reputation and have a
sustainability in the market yeah um
that they make different decisions than
one of those kind of fly by night I'll
just change the name yes on the LLC next
week Walmart's not trying to get you to
trip over your feet in the store they
want to be around a little longer
probably not yeah I I I like I said we
don't have hard data on this so I I I
would recommend a a different strategy
than just buying from a big company
what's your strategy we'll get to that
but here's an interesting thing have you
ever heard of uh licensed products yeah
like creapure or carnis sure sure sure
so we we mentioned at that that kind of
supply chain one up from the supplement
consumer you might have a manufacturer
who specialized in a single ingredient
like micronit creatine or beta alanine
um two most prominent companies that I
can think of SL products are Korea pure
yeah registered trademark or carnis
registered Trade trademark and they
stake their reputation on providing high
quality pure potent versions of these
ingredients and a big enough supplement
company with a big enough budget it
makes sense when you talk about
economies of scale reputation and just
not having to worry about that aspect
yeah the are you a lawsuit on your
table when you're making 10 million raw
a month like that you don't need that ex
exactly you'll see that they have
creapure in their product or cariss and
that's dependable it it has to be and
when you look up if you just go to
creapure or Caron's site they have third
party testing they have GMP compliance
and you're confident in that absolutely
because those licensed products they're
entire business model it's B2B not B Toc
business to business not business to
customer both people that care yeah I
need to pitch this multi-million dollar
company or sometimes multi multi-million
dollar company why you should license my
product instead of just making it cheap
somewhere else right way cheap and your
profit margins are higher but it's like
look you're going to get into some
 if you do that yeah I'm going
to end up saving you money in the long
run it's going to improve your
reputation you can put this on your BR
etc etc etc um now that is one way that
is not exactly thirdparty testing that
includes it uh where you can ensure that
the product you're getting is almost
assuredly not contaminated um most
likely now that is only valid if it's
the single ingredient in the product so
like if you get a pre and it has you
know carnis in it but there a buch of
other stuff pre-work out if I was
lifetime drug free like it's just not
worth it this is honestly writing this I
want a drug like effect because I'm drug
free it's already a drug
caffeine's a drug anyway sorry
yeah honestly as someone who has been
writing this article I have been I've
vastly changed how I'm going to write my
third edition of my books the supplement
uh chapter and I've also vastly changed
my own behavior I basically just take
creatine you know uh and and only
products that are that are third- party
tested which we'll talk about next so
you can buy the licensed product but
often they are included in
multi-ingredient
uh you know formulas and that means that
yeah it might not be that ingredient
that has a possible contaminant but
something else so I think the way to
look at this is uh okay how do I protect
myself and in this case we go okay
there's a higher risk of harm so that
means we need a higher threshold for the
potential benefit I'm getting before I
decide to pull the trigger yeah and
ultimately when we talk about the effect
sizes that you're even going to get out
of even the best supplements uh my
colleague Dr Trexler Dr Eric rexler at
Mass he had a great article and a great
schema where he outlined different tiers
of supplements from Tier 1 2 3 and four
basically any new supplement starts at
tier three it's unproven right or not
proven enough to be a higher tier or a
lower tier so that is basically saying
we don't have enough evidence to know
whether this is worth taking now this is
where most people make that kind of
decision hey neutral to positive just
cost money whatever what I would say is
never buy a tier three product period
because it let's say it is the next
creatine what are you actually going to
get out of the first guy to take
it bro yeah well you're getting really
very little out of it even if it is
creatine which to this day there's only
one creatine sure it's the only tier one
supplement for bodybuilding in my
opinion creatine creatine period nothing
else I think matches the kind of uh
benefit without any potential downside
yeah that you don't get it anywhere else
I think weight protein would make that
but you can get protein from a high
protein diet in a different way than you
can't get that much from a high
red meat diet correct I think protein
powders are excellent but they're
conditionally useful if you need it to
hit your protein Target does caffeine
not make it or is it because it's also a
food that doesn't so I see caffeine is
the perennial tier 2 champ okay so what
is tier two tier two is when there is
enough evidence to back it however the
effect is only conditionally useful uh
or there are potential downsides that in
some situations it wouldn't be useful to
you we're talking about muscle building
for the for we'll say more broadly more
broadly athletic enhancement so here's
an example of a tier 2 supplement um
I'll say citrine malet there's mixed
data as to whether or not it'll improve
performance acutely but we do don't have
any long-term data showing that it'll
actually improve hypertrophy we are
speculating that it will so in my mind
that doesn't cross the threshold because
again we know the effect is not as large
as creatine so it's going to be small to
trivial and then we're assuming that
what you're taking that might be
improving your performance a slight bit
is therefore somehow going to lead to
muscle growth down the line sure so that
to me is something that goes all right
is it worth the risk probably not
creatine just pretty much either for
almost all people either neutral or
positive there's just really no
downsides the toxicity is basically
insanely High what is tier four
supplements that have been shown to be
almost certainly in effective there
actually is a tier five too so tier four
tier five actively hurts you right
correct so altic is tier five tier four
has been shown to be uneffective
equivocally right we know for sure
there's no reason to buy tier four it's
just going to burn a hole in your in
your wallet so everything kind of starts
at three then has an opportunity to
climb or fall fall I would probably say
9 to n and a half supplements out of 10
go from tier three to T4 tier four so
when you're going to Vegas like we are
now and you're going to bet on a tier
three supplement you're already looking
at two things more than likely it's not
going to be tier two and more than
likely if it does become tier two or
tier one the effect is going to be very
small yeah so there's no benefit to
being an early adopter yeah I I often
people will ask me about like do you
hear about XYZ new supplement I'm like
I'm just no don't care yeah when if it
if it's great we'll know about it I'm
not trying to like test that out of
my own body yeah so you have very little
upside and unfortunately now as I've
come to learn with the adulterated
contaminants and all this stuff a pretty
high chance of a downside much more like
I me I mean if you think okay hey
there's six bodybuilding supplements
that I want to take that are on the
quote unquote evidence-based list yeah
and you could make a defensible list
yeah the odds are one of them if you're
not actually buying third party tested
or you know licensed products is going
to be contaminated yeah so I think you
really want to evaluate the neutral to
positive effect of supplements
differently than you would say you know
what I'm going to get a velocity tracker
instead of doing RP sure or you know
what I'm going to try doing some static
stretching on my off day yeah you know
like those things might benefit you and
they have very little possible downside
a supplement is not just the cost to
your wallet it is a potential cost to
your I mean can you imagine if Eric
Helms failed the drug test what that
would do to my life talk that I
always knew this guy's a
drug so first thing is most supplements
don't do stick to the top five
second if you don't even have to take
the top five because most of them aren't
that great could be replaced with food
contextually dependent and then so for
them you can even consider like do you
really want five Cs maybe that's like
one to three yes then in those one to
three you want lab tested vetted third
party approved we for sure don't have
any drugs in them and then you're into
this zone of like you're pretty outside
of freak incidences or giant
conspiracies you're probably don't have
any weird drugs in your body and if you
are not untested and you're not
competing currently and you're taking a
bunch of drugs no worries you can
probably regress back to like just take
the top five best supplements just make
sure that with your pre-workout and
stuff you're may be choosing reputable
brands that don't have actual meth in
them or if you like meth choose the ones
with meth in them Jack 3D the original
formula I mean if you're already getting
illicit drugs why not just get meth Mike
pre-workouts still work man you're not
up for 36 hours with them generally I
guess that makes more sense see this is
just a silly Natty speaking but um yeah
I think it's an excellent summary um
when you're looking for thirdparty
testing do be aware that some companies
just kind of put kind of the same way
you can put natural label and it means
nothing you want to look for reputable
like look it up like you've got a phone
you're in a supplement store you're
online ask chat GPT what the best
supplements are yeah like AIS Shield uh
NSF informed Choice informed sport
there's a bunch of them out there now uh
they differ by country and typically the
local arm of water has a lot of
information on this great um we also
have more information in the article
that's linked below but I basically just
want to caution people that you want to
know what's in your supplement and
sometimes and we've only talked about
the stuff that shouldn't be in there but
there's also rampant issues of what is
in supposed to be in there is not even
in there or it's vast underdosed amino
acid spiking and stuff like corre we'll
we can get back to that some other time
uh there'd be a lot to say Eric thank
you so much for helping us get educated
on this and um you wanted to promote
your new supplement line called my
supplements are the best. XXX I believe
correct I will first plug Mass research
review.com um but um but after that
absolutely my supplements are the best
link below we don't do third party
testing because are the thir part we are
the third party if you don't trust us
you don't trust yourself or science
that's right folks trust science see you
guys next
time