this is something I've seen a lot of
people talking about lately both Fitness
content creators and the viewers as well
which is that YouTube needs to quote
unquote fix their algorithm in order to
reward content that is factually
accurate rather than promoting all these
BS clickbait overhype videos that are
full of misinformation now that sounds
nice in theory however what a lot of
people don't realize or what they don't
really think about is that when it all
comes down to it whether it's here on
YouTube or over on Instagram or Tick
Tock the central focus of these
platforms has nothing to do with the
information itself their algorithms are
not broken and they have no interest in
fixing it in the way that so many people
think it needs to be fixed at the end of
the day these are businesses and the
primary goal of a business is to
generate a profit and the way they
generate profit is through advertisers
and the way they maximize those earnings
is by keeping you on the platform for as
long as possible so that they can then
show you as many ads as possible and how
do they keep you on the platform for as
long as possible it's by promoting those
pieces of content that's most
effectively capture attention it's not
oh wow look at this knowledgeable
science-based Creator giving a
biomechanically accurate description of
how to optimize hyper atrophy in the
lower pectorals this is very high
quality information and therefore we
need to give this Creator more exposure
no that's completely irrelevant if the
content isn't producing a high level of
Engagement across a wide audience that
keeps people using the app this might
just sound theoretical at first but
stick with me because in a minute I'll
explain how to use this to your
advantage in a practical sense as far as
your actual muscle building and fat loss
goals are concerned but that's why
someone who starts their video off
shirtless and greased up with cooking
spray and a pump from a perfectly lit
angle and then making bold promises
about some collection of cool looking
exercises with catchy background music
added in that's why that person on
average is going to get way more views
and follows and comments than someone
standing in front of a whiteboard
wearing a t-shirt and breaking down
biceps anatomy in a monotone voice for
10 minutes even if that first video is
complete and at her horseshit as far as
the information goes and the second is
perfectly accurate it really doesn't
matter especially considering that the
majority of people consuming this
content they don't know the difference
between what's correct and what's
incorrect anyway now there is going to
be a smaller segment of the population
who will prefer that more
straightforward boring video and who
aren't as susceptible to all the bells
and whistles and we're thinking more
critically and can see through the hype
and are really trying to learn things in
more depth but the simple fact is that
the general masses are just going to
gravitate toward whatever is flashier
and more attention grabbing on the
surface and not only that and this is
where it gets really crazy which is that
even if you know that a certain piece of
content is complete garbage information
wise you're still likely going to watch
and engage with it for that exact reason
a negative reaction is still a reaction
it's still getting your attention and
keeping you on the platform maybe you
comment maybe you share it with someone
else and so it still signals to YouTube
or Instagram or Tick Tock that for
better or worse this is an engaging
piece of content period and that's the
key thing to understand here which is
that that's ultimately what the
algorithm is you know people like
default these platforms for the way the
algorithm is set up when in reality the
people are the algorithm you are the
algorithm the algorithm is basically a
representation of the collective brain
and what that Collective brain is most
drawn towards regardless of whether the
information contained within that
content is factually accurate or not the
goal isn't to show people the content
that they need it's to show people the
content that they want or that they
think they want and the big kicker that
ties all this together is that very
often the things that are the most
factually correct in terms of training
nutrition supplementation etc those are
precisely the types of things that
people don't want to hear for example
people don't want to hear that muscle
growth is a slow process that takes
months and years to significantly
accumulate and then it mostly comes down
to repetitively executing fairly basic
tasks in the gym in the kitchen over and
over and over no they want to hear the
one weird secret that will double their
gains in a matter of weeks or five
little known arm exercises you're
missing out on or take this
groundbreaking new supplement for
steroid light gains without the side
effects or whatever else they don't want
to hear that in order to lose fat and
achieve a lean physique it mainly comes
down to maintaining a calorie deficit
while consuming sufficient protein
combined with consistent weight training
and cardio they want to hear that they
can hack the process using some special
fasting protocol to effortlessly get
down to seven percent body fat or that
if they just cut out these five foods or
this one macronutrient they're gonna
speed up fat loss by 50 or that this
special type of cardio can supercharge
their metabolism or that eating like our
answer is the key to burning stubborn
belly fat I'm gonna take a huge bite out
of these testicles and that's exactly
why you see so much of that type of
content all over the place because on
average that's where the collective
attention flows that's also why some of
the most viral most viewed content
you'll see on these platforms is
complete and total nonsense and why some
of the most followed accounts out there
are the ones routinely putting out the
very worst advice now I know this all
sounds pretty bleak but the good news is
that by being aware of this okay by
understanding that surface metrics like
someone's follower counts or likes or
comments that those aren't necessarily
indicative of the accuracy of the
information that they're giving nor is
the production quality of their videos
or other surface appearances like their
physique or their charismatic speaking
ability if you're just consciously aware
of these things then you're much less
likely to be misled because you can
start evaluating the information you
find based on the information itself
which is going to greatly increase your
chances of success toward your goals
whether it's in Fitness or in any other
area of life for that matter and you're
also going to get ahead of the
competition so to speak since that's not
how the general masses go about things
the average person out there is much
more susceptible to Simply fall holding
the herd and basing the quality of
online content purely on social proof
and other superficial factors they just
see that someone has a big following or
that a certain piece of content has a
lot of likes and Views whether that
person looks good and speaks confidently
and they just assume that that means it
must be valuable information and they
won't even really question it those
things are enough on their own they just
blindly believe whatever they're being
told and this is one of the main reasons
why so many people out there fail to
reach their goals in the gym or even
just in life in general you know there's
a lot of great high quality information
out there if you know how to look for it
and how to assess it but very often it
just gets drowned out by all the BS that
just happens to be packaged up in a more
appealing attention-grabbing way but
always remember that a turd covered in
chocolate and sprinkles is ultimately
still a turd and it's crucial that you
always remain skeptical and not just
take things at face value is the person
you're watching actually giving
information based on solid logic and
reasoning that objectively makes sense
and do they have a track record of that
in general can you verify what they're
saying through some of your own
independent research from other sources
are they basing their advice at least in
part on Legit scientific research and
not just on anecdote and logical
fallacies are they willing to revise and
update their stances based on new
information now obviously this is a
whole other complex topic on its own as
far as assessing information goes and if
you're still a beginner to intermediate
then of course you're not going to be
able to just know right off the bat
what's correct versus what isn't no
one's perfect in that regard and
everybody's constantly learning but the
point here is to just be aware of the
fact that these content platforms are
not necessarily your ally as far as
quality of information goes and at the
end of the day it's up to you to figure
things out for yourself just because
something shows up at the top of your
feed just because it has tons of
Engagement just because it has a comment
section full of people giving mostly
positive feedback that does not
necessarily mean you should follow the
advice given hope you found this helpful
if you do want to grab a free no BS
fitness plan to get yourself onto the
right track make sure to visit
shawnell.com custom the link for that is
in the description box here are two more
videos I'd recommend watching now don't
forget to subscribe to the channel to
stay up to date thanks for watching guys
and I'll see you in the next one