why liver King sleeps in a wooden plank
bed there's no off gassing chemicals
that are possibly cartic but definitely
hormone disrupting what your mhus is
hormone disrupting chemicals other than
the fact that it's really comfortable
and objectively beats lying in a fucking
wooden bed for 99% of all people but
whatever Sleep Quality is overrated no
metal Springs no real mattress which
prevents you from getting your deepest
most restorative sleep that's fucking
literally backwards guys try to monitor
Your Sleep Quality when you sleep on a
really comfortable cushy bed versus a
completely Harding bed made of wood very
few people will prefer a wooden bed
versus a real bed it's not rocket
science the height of this bed is only
12 in so the flexibility that's required
to get in and out of it I get to keep it
for the rest of my life what you train
your flexibility by having a bed that's
uncomfortable to sit down into and get
up out from you know like you can lift
weights and do yoga and shit like that
but what do I know