[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna be looking at how to perform
several different shrug variations with
perfect technique but before we get into
the technique itself let's have a quick
look at the biomechanics and anatomy
involved first so with the shrug were
mainly targeting the upper trapezius
levator scapulae muscles through
scapular elevation so basically just
lifting your shoulder blades up i will
also be performing the scapular upward
rotation because we shouldn't simply be
shrugging the barbell straight up but
also bringing the shoulders in closer to
the neck so in viewed from the back you
can see that this is going to result in
the shoulder blades rotating upward and
actually handled by the upper and mid
traps exclusively and this upward
rotation component is important as I try
to remember it as we'll be applying it
here in a minute and even though we
won't emphasize it much there will be
some degree of scapular retraction
occurring in the mid and lower traps
will be active to some degree as well so
the traditional shrug where you load the
barbell up and just shrug it up seems to
be a bit of a hit-or-miss
exercise some people feel a very strong
upper trap contraction while others feel
it mostly in the levator scapulae muscle
more along the side of the neck and
while there's nothing necessarily wrong
with engaging the neck musculature we're
going to be covering that in a separate
future a technique Tuesday episode with
direct neck training exercises and we're
going to instead focus our efforts here
I'm really isolating those beefy upper
trap fibers so there are two important
concepts I'd like to emphasize here from
the outset that we're going to be
applying pretty much to every shrug
variation first one in 1994 ever study
found that because of the orientation of
the upper trap fibers they can't as
effectively elevate the scapula when the
arm is in neutral meaning that the traps
will be recruited more effectively with
the arms in about 30 degrees of
abduction and second the traps are more
effective at scapular upward rotation
than the other shrugging muscles meaning
that if the goal is to isolate the traps
we should be focusing on this a scapular
upward rotation component of the lift so
with this in mind I'll just say up front
here that my current personal favorite
on the shrug is the trap bar shrug and I
like it because it automatically forces
your arms into just about thirty degrees
of abduction because you stand inside
the bar frame you don't need to worry
about the barbell rubbing up against the
front of your body as you shrug however
not everyone has access to a trap bar so
we'll be covering the traditional
barbell shrug here first and then some
creative alternatives after now but
you'll just want to keep in mind that
most of the same basic techniques will
apply across these variations now in
general I recommend loading the shrug in
a more moderate rep range something
around eight to fifteen reps because
loading the shrug more heavily will more
often than not impair your ability to
take the weight through a full range of
motion especially at the top end of the
range now a power struggle leg drive
involved to help waist the weight up can
be used as an advanced cheating
technique however it should still be
performed with be centric control
meaning you don't just let the weight
fall down and it should be used
sparingly and only once you've already
mastered technique on the proper strict
shrug first so you want to set up the
bar and a power rack above knee height
so you can easily unwrap the barbell
without fatigue in your lower back grab
the bar with a double overhand grip at
about 1.25 to 1.5 times shoulder-width
and I think that using straps to truly
overload the traps on the shrug will be
necessary for most lifters however if
developing grip strength is an equal
priority for you you want to make sure
you do at least one heavy set without
straps while maintaining a neutral lower
back you want to drive your hips forward
to unwrap the bar similar to how you'd
flock out a deadlift you're standing
inside the rack you can just stay put
but if you're shrugging outside the rack
is I'll do here for demonstration
purposes and you can take two or three
steps and back with the bar and plant
your feet slightly wider than
shoulder-width with a slight foot flare
at this point you want to lean your
torso slightly forward by about ten
degrees by hinging at the hips and you
want to make sure that your scapula
aren't protracting meaning your upper
back should be neutral and engaged your
knees should be nearly straight however
a slight bend in the knees and hips can
prevent the bar from getting in the way
of your manhood on the way up so you
want to elevate your scapula but not
only lifting your shoulders up but also
pulling them
as if trying to touch your shoulders to
your ears and this inward drive is
really important because remember that
we not only want to perform a scapular
elevation but also scapular upward
rotation so to emphasize this further
you can think about pushing your arms
slightly outward as if doing a lateral
raise which is really gonna drive the
shoulders and both up and in you want to
shrug the weight all the way up until
you reach terminal elevation or the
point where you can no longer elevate
the scapula any further regardless of
the load and you can think about
squeezing at the top but there's no need
to pause or hold the shrug in that
terminally elevated position simply just
reverse the motion by lowering the
weight back down under control as the
traps actively stretch resisting the
load on the way down now there are a
bunch of creative modifications on the
basic shrug that I like the Smith
machine shrug can be used if your lower
back is hurting or fatigued as it can
take some of the stress off your lower
back
when you beam slightly forward however
just in general I think that a smith
machine shouldn't permanently replace a
free weight option and similar to the
trap bar dumbbell shrugs are a nice
alternative since they eliminate the
problem of having the barbell rub up
against you however trying to maintain
some degree of abduction can cause the
lateral delt to become a limiting factor
and most dumbbells may simply be too
light at a certain level of advancement
but I do like them for doing high rep or
slow rep work a standing calf raise
shrug is another reasonable option for
isolating the traps if your grip ability
happens to be compromised so these are
all fine but I think my favorite
creative variation is the dual cable
shrug just almost always a great fix for
anyone who's struggling to feel their
traps firing with traditional shrugs so
you want to stand in the middle of a
cable rack and grab the two D handles so
that when viewed from the side the
cables run directly through the mid
frontal plane lean your torso slightly
forward as before by about 10 degrees
and think about shrugging the cables up
in in toward your ears you can also
slightly abduct your upper arms similar
to what you do in a lateral raise I'm
just gonna increase the upward rotation
range of motion allowing the upper traps
to reach peak contraction and here you
can see dr. Mike Israel performing the
same basic exercise but allowing his
arms to bend a bit near the top which
isn't required but may
you get a stronger track contraction and
I think this variation is more
effectively loaded a bit lighter than
the standard shrug so I'd recommend
uploading more in the 12 to 20 reps on
here focusing more on establishing a
strong mind muscle connection rather
than focusing on overloading with heavy
weight now I would say the most common
error that I see on the shrug is simply
going way too heavy how the shrug
shouldn't be a test of how much weight
you can hold with straps on and going
too heavy can really cut the range of
motion way too short I remember that a
properly performed shrug actually should
have a pretty large range of motion and
you should be making it a goal to reach
that point of terminal scapular
elevation on every rep so just because
you're loading up the bar with
progressively heavier weights doesn't
mean you're actually progressively
overloading the traps you may just be
progressively reducing the range of
motion so don't be afraid to lighten the
weights get your form in check and
gradually build your way back up well
keep informed consistent from tweak
another very common error is rolling the
shoulders forward or backward or
allowing your scapula to protract and we
tracked the upper traps can elevate the
scapula most effectively when they're in
neutral or retracted so you should keep
them in the same position and maintain
that upper back tightness throughout the
range of motion and rolling your
shoulders is only going to throw you out
of position and create form
inconsistencies if your protracting to
avoid hitting your crotch I think you
should instead create that slight
forward lean by hinging at the hips or
using dumbbells or one of the other non
barbell variations that we discussed how
so guys that is all that I have for the
shrug now there's still our other
programming factors like frequency
volume and other movements like the
deadlift and rack polls that I've
discussed in detail in my neck and trap
science explained it video if you'd like
to check that out and I'll have that
link down below and I always get
questions about my training gear so
stuff like belts and straps so you can
check out the description box for my
recommendations there and some discounts
I don't forget to hit the like button if
you enjoyed the video subscribe to the
channel so you don't miss future
technique Tuesday episodes and I'll see
you guys all here next Tuesday
[Music]