rp+ welcome back dr. James Hoffman here
and today we're gonna kind of whet your
whistle for a topic we're gonna talk
about later athlete testing and
monitoring another one of my favorite
ones to talk about so for today's
lecture what we're going to talk about
is just kind of a basic review of what
athlete testing and monitoring is kind
of what the differences are between them
how we can evaluate some of the data
that we've collected over time how do we
pick the right tests and I'll give you
some examples of what they might look
like now later on hopefully we're gonna
have another huge lecture sheet excuse
me lecture series on testing and
monitoring that's going to go way deeper
but for now this is just meant to kind
of get you excited and introduced to
this kind of more formalized concept of
testing and monitoring so let's go ahead
and get started so first question that
you might have is why bother doing
testing and monitoring at all
right this is kind of one of those
things I think a lot of people think
about it and I think we pay a lot of lip
service too but we don't really do it
for the right reasons for lack of a
better term sometimes it can become a
dick wagging contest where people just
want to show off all these different
tests that they do all this different
numbers that they collect but then they
don't actually do anything with that
data so what is the point of doing all
this data collection testing and
monitoring the first place the way I
like to think about it is that testing
and monitoring serves is kind of one of
the central focal points of you being an
evidence-based practitioner this it
gives you the opportunity not only to
look at the available science and the
scientific papers that are out there but
it allows you to actually do data
collection on your own you don't have to
be a doctor you don't have to be a
scientist to go and collect data and see
if your things are working or if they're
not working right you can be anybody you
can be a coach trainer strength coach
personal trainer whatever it doesn't
matter right so this kind of gives you
that opportunity to start actually doing
a little bit of science in the field
with your own clients so why do we do
testing and monitoring in the first
place well first off it gives
credibility to your program you want to
be able to establish not only just on a
fundamental level that your program is
working but you actually want to have
the numbers to back it up right can't
tell you how many times this comes up in
the real world
we're maybe a sports team or an athletes
not having the best season that they've
ever had
stinkin on the field who's the first
person to the chopping block
usually strength conditioning staff one
of the things that you want to be able
to document over time is hey you know
what my program has worked really well
I've done testing and monitoring I can
show you overtime that athlete a or
athlete B have been getting more
muscular they've gotten stronger they've
gotten more explosive they've gotten
leaner or more fatigue resistant right
so from my end there definitely should
they definitely should be improving
right so if they're sneaking on the
field that's not because they're not
getting more fit you want to be able to
make that case for yourself and protect
yourself in the long term also it just
looks good for you right no brainer
there we want to start figuring out what
things work and what things don't work
right that's part of the ongoing process
of testing and monitoring you might
start implementing things that maybe you
weren't sure if they were gonna have a
real positive impact or you weren't sure
how to do it right for example like
doing it
resistance LED toe you might be like oh
I'm trying this work load that I saw in
the paper but I maybe want to try this
other workload or I might want to try
these weight lifting movements how do
you know if any of that stuff is having
an effect on your athlete well the only
way to monitor those things is to
measure those things right so that's how
we're gonna figure out is what I'm doing
actually working is there no effect or
is there potentially even a negative
effect is there actually getting worse
after I've implemented different things
or different changes right so sometimes
those things are also really powerful I
think we get caught up too much on the
positive effect positive effect positive
effect but an equally important
component of testing and monitoring in
what you're doing is sometimes no effect
like what I did basically yielded no
change are no different results or maybe
a negative effect and said this made it
worse right now I know I can exclude
this from now on because this clearly
did not have the effect that I wanted it
was a negative effect so those are all
equally positive in my opinion getting a
positive effect no effect or potentially
even a negative effect because it allows
you to start narrowing down what you're
actually doing with your athletes and
your clients we want to make sure that
your program is quantitatively making
your athlete bigger faster stronger
leaner and more fatigued resistant or
any other combination of Fitness
variables that you
look at but again it's not just a
qualitative thing where we're saying
well they look like they're better they
look like they're leaner they look like
they can benchpress more no we're
actually able to document they've
actually made physical measurable
improvements in all of the fitness
characteristics that are going to lead
to them being a successful athlete in
whatever sport that they're in so we
need to actually measure those things
over time and make sure that our
programs are working we can also start
to figure out kind of some of the
questions of our needs analysis which
was our first lecture way back when in
this series right we can start figuring
out how strong how fast how powerful is
the person that I'm working with
can I start figuring out are they kind
of trained or untrained or highly
trained or what kind of things do I
think that they're capable of doing what
kind of techniques are they able to do
what type of training should they be
doing right so we don't actually monitor
them and measure them there's no way for
us to assess them we can take their word
for it but let's face it people tend to
either lie or embellish a little bit we
want our own objective way of
identifying what we're working with with
this particular athlete and that comes
as part of our needs analysis so we can
actually see right off the bat needs
analysis testing and monitoring are
already intertwined so before you even
get started there's probably going to be
some type of assessment period with your
athlete so you can figure out what it is
that they are capable of doing at the
current time and then certainly we've
already kind of mentioned identifying
factors that may negatively or
positively affect performance this can
be any number of things and I also like
to include that note no change effect
but we're going to be implementing
things throughout the year with our
athlete we want to be able to validate
those things and said you know what this
strength program worked this number of
sets that I implemented or estimated to
be around there mrb seems to be working
they seem to be training more and
continuing to make positive improvements
these are examples of things that we
need to assess continually continually
continually and we can't just take it
for granted which is where I think a lot
of people fall short where they just say
like oh yeah we collect numbers we do
testing I do a 1 rep max every now and
again and we do jumps every now and
again but are you really using that
number are you really using that data to
drive your program that's what
evidence-based practices let's go on to
the next slide
so we have these two terms testing and
monitoring hopefully you've figured out
there are two different words they
probably have two different meanings
absolutely true our testing and
monitoring always two distinctly
different things not always sometimes
they tend to overlap a little bit we do
have two distinct purposes for each of
those things and which we're going to
get into later when we're talking about
testing we're usually referring to as
you can see on the slide a comprehensive
evaluation of the athlete generally
using very very precise laboratory
equipment whereas monitoring on the
other hand is a less comprehensive
evaluation usually done using simple
field based tests right so you can kind
of think of testing as what we
traditionally think of testing where
they go into a lab they get the fancy
equipment out they take time out of
their schedule and we can hook them up
to like a vo2 max or force plate
analysis or anything like that
whereas monitoring on the other hand we
might not even ask them to do anything
special for us they might just show up
to their normal practice and in some
cases we might just actually collect
numbers on them without asking them to
do anything or we might ask them to do
something really really simple like do a
sprint do a jump let me look at how much
weight you're lifting something like
that so monitoring is a much less
invasive process where we're basically
saying hey just do your normal thing
we're gonna collect some data on your
performance or what whatever your that
is you're doing today let's go on to the
next one so we have two columns here
here's just some examples of things that
you can use in testing and monitoring so
if you look at the testing column you
can see we generally have more
complicated tests on there right so we
have hydrostatic weight jumps on the
force place isometric squats or
mid-thigh polls goniometer e graded
maximal exercise tests 2d 3d movement
analyses all of these things are great
right they're really really useful
unfortunately they are time-consuming
sometimes they require a lot of effort
and you have to take the athlete sort of
out of their element which is their
normal training practice and recovery
time to do this laboratory style testing
it also takes you as the sport coach or
the strength coach or a sport scientist
out of your element for a little while
because now you have to instead of
hanging out with your athletes or
training them or assessing them you have
to go and assess all this laboratory
numbers that you've collect
and then you have to go into data
analysis on it later so it tends to be
kind of a big process not to say that
it's right or wrong but it's just more
involved for on everybody's part right
whereas monitoring on the other hand you
can see we have much easier tests we
have things like Sprint's agility
dynamic strength jumps on a switch math
session RPE skin folds body weights
stuff like that really really simple and
easy to measure most of these things you
can measure out on the field or with
very very minimally invasive techniques
right so asking their athlete to measure
their body weight instead of going in
and doing a bod pod or hydrostatic
weight really really easy right just
keeping track of their lifting numbers
right they're dynamic strength like how
much they live for 3s and 5s versus
having them do a 1-hour M or a maximal
isometric pull on a force plate we can
see the difference there right one of
them requires quite a bit of effort on
everyone's part the other is pretty easy
and that's something that they're
probably already doing right so we can
kind of see the invasiveness on both
sides however we want to keep in mind
testing is probably going to give us
some really cool and unique data that we
would not otherwise get with monitoring
the limitation on monitoring is it's
easy
less invasive but we're not going to get
really really precise measurements we
might not get that many variables
testing on the other hand because we
have that cool laboratory equipment we
can get really really precise
measurements on some really really
whacked-out variables make sense all
right let's go on to the next one so are
there any kind of testing and monitoring
methods that maybe are in a gray area
they kind of fall between the two yeah
absolutely so there are a whole bunch of
different ones that might not fit
exactly that that model of testing or
monitoring a couple that come to mind
burping the other one surveys sometimes
surveys can be really quick and easy can
be like a five-point Likert scale five
questions survey sometimes they can be
massive hour-long ordeals like the I
believe that rescue and some other ones
like the doll tub they're humongous and
they take a long time surveys are
generally good for both testing and
monitoring how you use them as kind of
up to you and what what you think your
athletes are willing to tolerate kind of
day to day week to week month to month
some surveys are massive and they will
take upwards of an hour but they can be
very very powerful in terms of
predicting things like illness
potential for injury or poor performance
other ones can be really really short
and simple and might be good for using
just quick assessments of our my
athletes kind of where I want them to be
right now or does something seem to be a
little little awry something that I
should look into skinfold analysis you
do need a set of calipers and you do
need a little bit of experience using
them it does take you know a little bit
of time especially the first couple
times that you've let you do it but once
you get kind of seasoned in the skinfold
analysis you can kind of knock them out
in like 10 minute pop sits really really
easy to run through a whole team it's
kind of somewhere in that gray area
right it gives you a pretty good measure
but maybe not as good as some other
testing methods like a DEXA scan right
but still pretty good so that's kind of
right in between hydrations another one
where you actually need to have a
urinary specific gravity refractometer
right which is not the most expensive
thing in the world it's not the hardest
thing in the world to do but you do need
to have them pee in a cup you need to
take the sample of the pee and take a
look at it right sometimes it's brown
and nasty it looks like the plague other
times it's fine all the times people
hand you pee that's ice-cold hmm I
wonder where that came from drinking
fountain right so hydration is another
one that we want to incorporate in there
if maybe is kind of a gray area between
testing and monitoring and then last on
the list jumps and Sprint's right jumps
and Sprint's are probably some of the
best best best indices of just general
athlete performance meaning just how
athletic they are in general we can look
at them on really really really finite
scales or really really grow scales
right so we can just look at something
as simple as doing like a vertex or like
a 10 meter sprint with a stopwatch still
very useful but we could also look at
things like jumps on a force plate or we
could do Sprint's using infrared I
forgot the things called but there's all
sorts of devices that can measure like
ground contacts foot speed all sorts of
crazy stuff right so there are different
ways to assess those exact same tests
depending on how deeply you want to
delve into them let's go onto the next
one okay so what is the point of
collecting all of this data right we're
saying it's not just for showboating
it's not just to say look at all the
cool tools I have the data that we're
collecting is going to be the driving
force behind how we set up our training
program remember in the needs analysis
lecture we said from the needs analysis
we should be able to determine
the normative standards of success for
any given sport for our kind of athlete
excuse me athlete demographic that we're
working with so we need to look at what
does my athlete need to be successful
how high should they jump how fast
should they sprint how strong should
they be testing and monitoring is how we
figure out how close they are to those
normative standards right now how we go
about that is slightly different from
testing and monitoring so if we're
looking at testing and this is the way I
like to think about it
testing is a periodic evaluation to
determine if an athlete's physical
characteristics are approaching that of
established normative values for success
meaning are my athletes as big fast
strong a fatigue resistant as a
comparable group right so if I'm working
in division 1 men's soccer is my men's
soccer player as strong as fast as other
people in that same demographic right
monitoring on the other hand is a
continuous process of evaluating an
athlete straining stress physiological
state psychological state and
performance capabilities now we can see
a big difference right off the bat right
testing is periodic meaning not done a
lot maybe two or three times a year
whereas monitoring is a continuous
process meaning we do it all the time
possibly as frequently as day to day
right so we've already have a time scale
difference we're also looking at with
testing are they reaching those
determined values whereas monitoring
we're kind of trying to figure out are
they in a state that is acceptable for
the current time so let's look into it a
little bit more we're gonna break these
down into some more specific questions
so if we're looking at testing there's
two big questions that we should seek to
answer with our testing protocol has my
training program been effect first of
all so that's kind of a quick yes or no
and that's something we can look at is
am I making them stronger faster more
fatigue resistant or whatever it is that
we were working on number two how do the
results compared to normative standards
right how close is my athlete to being
competitive on all the fitness
characteristics and variables that
you're looking at now the way that we do
that is by looking at really really
precise measurements there's all sorts
of things you can look at for testing
and I've just listed a few on here for
example looking at things like rate of
force development peak force vo2 max
impulse really really hard to measure
without some really really fancy
laboratory equipment right and again
it's not something we do all the time
it's something that we do maybe a couple
times per year at the most but again has
my training program been effective how
do the results compared to normative
standards of performance those are the
two big ones for testing let's look at
monitoring there is similar but slightly
different so the two big questions for
monitoring are is the athlete in an
acceptable training state and this can
be both physically and psychologically
and then number two are changes to the
training plan warranted so the first one
is a very powerful question right is the
athlete in an acceptable training state
meaning for whatever you're doing right
now are they in an okay state we know
that throughout the annual plan our
athletes might be in varying degrees of
fatigue and recovery right so there
might be some times like if they're
doing a hypertrophy overreaching week
and they scored really really high on a
fatigue survey you might initially think
oh that's bad right there really really
fatigue but at the same time very in
their overreaching hypertrophy block
like of course they're really really
fatigued so you might actually say you
know what I planned this this is
actually what I expected them to be at
at this time is my athlete in an
acceptable training state yes our
trained excuse me changes to the
training plan warranted not at the
current time right and there's a number
of different ways that you can go about
that depending on what you're measuring
but that is something that we need to
keep reassessing day to day week to week
is my athlete in an acceptable state
both physically and psychologically we
can evaluate them kind of collectively
and independently either way we want to
make an assessment and see are they
excuse me are they where they are
supposed to be and then we can ask our
to the plan warranted but again an order
for changes to be warranted we have to
have some type of measurable change in
either performance physiology or
psychology that seems to indicate that
they are not where they need to be now
for monitoring we're not going to be
using crazy crazy precise measurements
like we did for testing we might just
look at things like simple surveys body
weights jumping ability sprinting
ability and maybe
thing like perception of fatigue
something like that really really easy
again not the most precise not the most
crazy crazy specific measurements but
still useful nonetheless and again we're
not trying to determine the exact change
and body fat with this assessment we're
just trying to figure out is my athlete
where they're supposed to be right so
it's a more generalized assessment all
right let's move on to the next one
so when we have collected all this data
we have to start figuring out some of
these questions are they an acceptable
training State is my athlete improving
in their fitness characteristics towards
the normative standards how do we do
that well we have to evaluate those
numbers somehow right and Sport and
Exercise Sciences we have a couple big
tools that we rely on very heavily we
kind of have some quantitative ones and
some qualitative ones so for testing we
typically rely a little bit more on
quantitative analysis not to say that we
can't use qualitative but it's just
harder to actually make a really precise
qualitative assessment right so for
testing we use a little bit more
quantitative measures a couple things
that we use things like t-tests and
anova which are a really really simple
statistical test that take groups means
of groups and they basically try to
figure out how much do those groups
overlap right so if the groups overlap a
lot like this it basically means that
they're not significantly different from
each other or if they are distinctly
different they don't overlap then the
tests usually says they are
significantly different from each other
and this can be done on a number of
different levels we can just look at pre
post training kind of stuff we can look
at multiple dependent variables it
doesn't matter but it's a tool that
basically says are these two groups are
multiple groups different from each
other and we can figure it out from
there
another one that we use a lot is
correlations and this is basically just
trying to see how much do changes in one
variable account for changes in another
variable and this is something really
really simple you can do in Microsoft
Excel using a linear regression equation
which is really really easy correlations
do not give us cause-and-effect
relationships but they give us strong
relationship characteristics meaning if
I get a very strong correlation there's
a very good chance that whatever my X
variable was has a very strong effect on
my Y variable my dependent variable
right so not to say that it's a perfect
relationship but we use it a lot to
establish relationships between things
for example like legs strength and
jumping and sprinting at
something along those lines right for
monitoring the other hand we do use a
little bit more qualitative analysis but
we can still use quantitative at the
same time one of the most powerful ones
for monitoring does not require a lot of
math does not require a lot of
measurements and I would argue is
probably one of the most useful ones out
there is simply just observation which
is kind of a key foundational component
of the scientific process anyway you
don't necessarily need to do a 2d or 3d
movement analysis to see that your
athletes technique is all out of whack
they're not sprinting properly they're
not tackling properly they're not
shooting a layup properly any of those
things how can you determine that while
your coach's eye is probably pretty good
at stuff like that do you necessarily
need to see numbers that validate that
your athlete is totally dragging ass
during this training session no you can
see it for yourself
right observation does go a long way
obviously we would like some numbers to
back that up too but don't shy away from
observation usually your gut instincts
are probably pretty good probably on
point especially if you've been involved
in your sport or activity or training
whatever it is for a long time if you
see it you notice it it's worth bringing
up and it's worth noting right outside
of that we can start using things like
trend analysis we can start looking at
changes in certain variables over time
right our variables going up are they
staying flat are they going down body
weights a really great example on this
one if they are gaining weight right we
can just look at body weight over time
and we see okay if the trend is upward
then they're gaining weight didn't need
anything crazy for that if the trend is
flat they're not gaining weight right
and if the trend is downward they're
losing weight no surprise there and you
can use that same idea for any number of
variables and then one of my favorite
which will just give a really brief
quick synopsis of here is a process I
like to we like to call statistical
process control which is kind of a fancy
way of setting boundaries on a lot of
your variables so let's go to the next
slide I really like this method because
one of the questions and one of the
problems that you run into when you're
assessing your variables especially for
monitoring is I don't really know what
an acceptable number is or what is an
acceptable range of numbers to operate
in for this particular variable whatever
it is can be heart rate can be jump
height can be number
efforts it can be GPS data whatever
right sometimes it's hard to figure out
like what is an okay state or what is an
okay number for my athlete statistical
process control is a really really handy
way of setting upper and lower bounds
for our monitoring program so we can do
this with any variable that you want to
look at some are probably more
meaningful than others but you can pick
and choose whatever you want essentially
what we're going to do is start
collecting some baseline data on our
athlete or our client whatever it is
right and that's usually going to be
anywhere between two and pretty upwards
of four weeks right we're just gonna see
kind of what is normal for this variable
for my athlete and we're gonna establish
a mean value and that's gonna be our
baseline so that means on average for
any given time I would expect my
athletes heart rate or that I expect
their jump height to be this right once
we've established that we're gonna set
some upper and lower bounds the way that
we generally do that is by using the
standard deviation of that mean that we
established so you can see in my little
chart here the blue line represents data
points you can see the blue dots and the
lines that are all squiggly right the
green line represents the mean of that
individual so what on average we would
expect to see and then the dark red
lines are the upper and lower bounds set
by the standard deviations now the
question then becomes how many standard
deviations do we generally use to set up
run lower bounds if I only use one
standard deviation excuse me I burp a
little bit if I only use one standard
deviation
I might start getting kind of false
positives right where I just start to
see a lot of things exiting and entering
my upper and lower Browns too frequently
and I might not be able to determine if
that's okay or not it's just going to be
kind of showing me data outside of my
range maybe a little too frequently
whereas on the other hand if I use like
upwards of three standard deviations I
might not get anything to ever register
outside of my upper and lower bounds
simply because the range is too large
right because now I might be getting
false negatives right where something
might be happening that I can't actually
pick up on because my boundaries are too
big so typically what we use is
somewhere around two standard deviations
from the mean which seems to be kind of
a happy place where it's not so small
that we get lots of noise but it's
enough to kind of differentiate bad data
from the normal data points so let's go
onto the next slide again this is kind
of just reiterating that same idea we're
going to collect data get that baseline
data on our athlete that's going to be
our mean we're going to be setting our
upper and lower bounds probably around
two standard deviations away from that
mean and then we're just going to start
plotting our data for that variable over
time now we want to just make sure that
we don't jump the gun when we see a data
point that's maybe not exactly where we
want it to be the upper and lower bounds
are useful but just because we have one
data point that pops out of our upper
and lower bounds doesn't mean we have to
jump to alarm and stop everything that
we're doing right typically using this
analysis you want to see kind of a trend
of data points exiting your upper and
lower bounds so one point outside that
person might have just been having a bad
day maybe they were dog in a little bit
maybe their girlfriend died who knows
any number of things could have happened
right but now we start to see two three
four points outside of our upper or
lower bounds now we can see there's a
trend indicating that this person is
really deviating outside of their normal
resting condition and maybe I should
take some action right so that goes back
to monitoring and we say is my athlete
in an acceptable training state I now
have four data points outside of my
upper bounds you can make a strong case
and say you know what no this is not
acceptable our training our changes to
the training plan warranted in this case
yes I need to address whatever is
happening with my athlete and make sure
I get them back to where I want them to
be so that's kind of a nice quantitative
way of going about that process so we
can use this for whatever variables that
you want it's really really easy and
quick to set up let's go to the next one
so we need to start figuring out what
types of tests and what type of
monitoring tools we are going to be
using for any given athlete or for our
clients right we need to start figuring
out which tests should we do so I'm
going to give you some examples of
specific tests that we should include
but basically all sports all activities
personal training what have you should
at least have some of the following in
there and some capacity doesn't have to
be overwhelmingly perfect but you should
address a few things right one
anthropometry particularly things like
body weight right if you're working with
somebody who is of developmental age
their limbs might be changing their
height might be changing those things
might be worth noting
working with an adult their limb lengths
their Heights probably not going to be
changing much probably not at all so
that might not be necessary but
certainly things like body weight you
can also include things like body
circumference measurements in there
possibly hydration is always important
for ice you always be assessing
hydration in some capacity because we
know it has a direct relationship with
performance some type of body
composition assessment it doesn't always
have to be DEXA or bod pod or anything
like that even skin fold or even just
BIA every now and again it's better than
nothing absolutely and then of course
I'm not a psychologist I don't claim to
know a lot about psychology however I do
think it is worth having some type of
psychological assessment even if it's
just perceptive perception that although
have scuse me perceptive measures should
be in there in some capacity whether
it's something that is your forte or not
it should be there right now let's go
into some more specific things we should
have some type of assessment of maximal
strength we know that strength is
probably one of the most important
things in all of sport is the underlying
physical excuse me fitness
characteristic for virtually everything
I would go as far as to say everything
so we need to be able to assess maximal
strength in some capacity right really
really easy way to do that is just
through dynamic strength test right
having somebody do like a 1 - anywhere
between a three repetition max test now
typically if you go through the research
you'll typically see squat bench press
every now and again you'll see a power
clean for some sports like volleyball
and then rarely but on occasion you'll
see something like a deadlift but almost
squat and bench a 1-2-3 RM very very
common across most sports right now is
this something that you necessarily need
to test in my humble opinion no this is
something that you can probably do
really really well with with monitoring
there's only a few sports we're actually
doing like 1 RM testing is warranted and
this is just my humble opinion I would
say powerlifting when you have your
powerlifting meets weightlifting when
you have your weightlifting meets and
then strongman in some capacity right
other sports
you probably don't necessarily need to
be doing 1 2 3 RM tests though it still
could be valuable from a testing and
monitoring perspective couple other
things that you can look at are doing
isometric maximal strength
now these can be hit or met - excuse me
hit or miss depending on how you use
them and how you assess them however
they are so that they are worthwhile in
the sense that there is data normative
standards used to back up their use so
it can be used effectively to compare
with your athletes so you can see in the
picture here we have somebody doing an
isometric mid-thigh poll standing on two
forceplates if you've never done that
test before it is brutal your knees your
shoulders your neck it's gonna be blown
up for a couple days which you know
again presents the question of do I
really need this data if it's going to
take my I have to plan a day for them to
come in and do this test and then it's
going to take them out of commission for
a couple days as well you can make a
strong case either way now the data
could be useful but you have to cut away
the cost of actually taking the time out
to do the test there's no right or wrong
answer it's up for you to decide
another one we can look at is an
isometric squat which is basically the
same setup in here except they're
loading it up in a high bar squat
position usually nice at around 90
degrees or so also really brutal if
you've never done that one before
alright let's go to the next one usually
we have some type of assessment of power
and explosiveness usually we want to
kind of vector these out a little bit so
we can usually break down our assessment
into vertical power assessments and
horizontal power assessments so for
vertical hands down by far can't go
wrong jumps jumps are wonderful really
really good indicee of performance and
can be used very effectively for testing
and monitoring typically we're going to
use things like vertical jumps either
counter movement jumps which are just
done at a standing position the athlete
can jump as high as they want however
they want or static or squat jumps where
they start at 90 degrees and do a
concentric only jump up this can be done
weighted or unweighted really really
good data and tons of it's out there for
for comparison another one in that
direction is actually looking at bench
throws for a lot of sports they see that
when reoccuring a lot where they
actually do kind of like a modified
bench press sometimes on a smith machine
sometimes on a special apparatus where
they actually lay down and throw the
barbell or an implement up as high as
they can and they usually look at the
bar displacement and they can look at
the velocity and power output up the
movement on the other hand we can look
at horizontal power right so this is
usually looking at things like jumps in
the horizontal direction like bounce or
skips and Sprint's of course
Sprint's probably being the better
option usually Sprint's were looking at
mostly shorter distance Sprint's for
most sports with the exception of long
track and field events most team sports
the average sprint distance is usually
somewhere around 20 meters or less so a
lot of the times doing like the 30 or 40
meter sprint assessment might not
actually even be necessary since most
sports like soccer rugby basketball
field hockey on average they usually
move anywhere between 0 and 20 meters
for most efforts now there are there are
times where they break over that and do
much longer sprint the question is how
useful is that data to use so I usually
write down something like 5 10 20 30 and
maybe upwards of 40 meters but probably
not much more than that
unless they're doing like track and
field or something like that right there
are some other tests that you can do the
power endurance tests these are ones
that I do not like to use I have seen
other people use them the one that comes
to mind is the Bosco test which is a
vertical jump test that is done I
believe it's done for like a minute or
two and it's basically maximal vertical
jumps until more or less failure brutal
brutal brutal brutal brutal it can give
you some good data on the amount of
power drop-off from repeated maximal
efforts however your athlete is going to
be out of commission for like a week
it's gnarly so use with discretion okay
next slide a couple other ones we can
look at agility tests for a lot of field
and team sports this can be useful for
other sports maybe not so much some
really simple ones like reactive agility
where they're given a cue they have to
respond to either a color or a sound or
a movement and they have to change
direction some other common ones 505 pro
agility t-tests and every now and again
you'll see some real sport specific ones
like this particular soccer a particular
basketball type test and all those are
fine and then certainly we want to have
some type of conditioning or metabolic
test now this is really where you have
to keep in mind the specificity of your
sport so more often than not what you'll
see are peak power and vo2 max type
tests which for some sports might be
applicable like an endurance sport
however it does require a lot of
equipment it's going to take a day out
of their life just to actually do the
test and then it's going to be very very
fatiguing they're going to make
through maximal effort on that treadmill
around that bike and they are gonna be
out of commission so just keep that in
mind other tests have similar problems
doing like the Windgate it's a maximal
anaerobic test I had a student who ate
like a box of pop-tarts this last year
and decided to do the Wingate test you
can imagine how colorful the room ended
up after that was not good and there are
some other ones that are actually very
useful ones that I actually recommend
our time trials time trials are really
really good for assessing endurance
performance because they actually
directly assess the sport itself fret so
endurance sport you are doing some type
of distance trying to get it in the
lowest completion time possible you can
actually do time trials to mimic those
conditions and you get a very very
direct measure of performance of their
not only of their actual field
performance but their conditioning
metabolic capacity as well there are
some submaximal ones out there like some
shuttle runs some functional threshold
tests however I have not used those with
as much success not to say that they
can't be used what's going on the next
one okay so we know that for monitoring
a lot of these tests may overlap a
little bit and we're gonna kind of vary
them in the degree of frequency and
invasiveness so we don't want to
necessarily pick tests for monitoring
that we have already done for testing
because it just ends up being redundant
and overly complicated for no benefit so
when we're doing monitoring we kind of
have a standard thing that we want to
hit and that's again some type of
anthropometry assessment some type of
body composition assessment some type of
psychological survey so basically the
same as testing just a little bit less
comprehensive and then last but not
least what we must have for monitoring
this is kind of the differentiating
factor from training excuse me from
testing is their training numbers
training numbers absolutely must be a
part of monitoring now this can be all
sorts of stuff right can be on field
performance if you have like GPS data
which is difficult to use but very
useful can be their strength numbers it
can be their sprinting numbers they're
jumping numbers the practice numbers you
need their training numbers whatever it
is that they're doing in training you
should be keeping really really detailed
logs so that over time you can actually
say has my athlete gotten faster has
they got have they gotten stronger you
know in last year they were squatting
for fives
five now a year later four fives they're
squatting 235 240 did they get stronger
well for my monitoring program I didn't
need to do a 1 rep max but I know that
their fives have gone up therefore they
have gotten stronger I didn't need to do
a really formal assessment of that
really really easy and it did not take
any extra effort on the behalf of the
athlete all it took was a little bit
effort on your end to keep some good
records of what was going on alright
let's go on to the next one so for
monitoring generally we're going to just
look at general strength we're just
going to be collecting the strength as
their numbers of their training program
we're not going to be doing really
really hyper specific strength
assessment we're just going to have them
do their normal strength training
program it should be progressively
overloaded over time anyway as a good
program should be right and then we're
going to make sure that their numbers
are improving over time so simple thing
like trend analysis or even like a
t-test over time will indicate that they
have gotten stronger or hopefully has
maybe I've gotten stronger for power and
explosiveness we can look at things like
vertical jumps usually we'll use
something like a switch mat jump mat a
vertex or you can even go old school
with chalk on the hand touch the wall
better than nothing really really easy
to assess can boot same things static
and counter movement jumps nothing
different there and then one that people
use a lot are med ball tosses and all
you need is a ruler really to get that
our measuring tape toss the med ball see
how far it goes mark it accurately no
big deal there and then some other
horizontal ones typically we're going to
be looking at jumps and bounds and
Sprint's with probably Sprint's being
the more preferred method and again this
can be done with a stopwatch and
measuring tape you don't have to have an
infrared timing gate system to get this
going
you just have run 10 meters stopwatch
and just keep some numbers on that now
again it's limited in the sense that
it's not going to be as accurate as
using an infrared but it's still going
to give you a pretty good idea of where
they are currently at so very very
useful nonetheless next slide for
conditioning metabolic typically this is
not something that you're going to be
doing a lot of with monitoring there are
some things you can do there's some
functional threshold tests some repeated
sprint tests and then actually I would
say doing their time trials again is
probably a better idea for an aerobic
sports so I team sports strength power
sports I would say probably don't need
to do a lot of conditioning metabolic
testing and monitoring probably can use
things like their sprinting
and their gameplay performance is
probably gonna be really really good
whereas for endurance sports again time
trials time for house time trials it's
something that they're going to be doing
anyway keeping track of like their race
pace times mile times things like that
lap times really really useful does not
require super formal assessment next
slide so here's just some examples of
what this might look like in the real
world don't take these overly literally
there's just some examples that I have
pulled so that you can see what this
might look like so in our first example
here we have basketball we basically
split this up either into three days or
maybe two days with one of those days
being an AM and PM style testing session
right so the first session that we're
going to do really really simple we're
just gonna do anthropometry so things
like height weight seven sites can fold
nothing crazy their second session
they'll come in we'll do some jumps some
sprints like a 5 10 20 meter sprint some
sit and reach and then maybe some
basketball specific drills and a
conditioning yo-yo test which is a kind
of like the beep test if you've ever had
the Presidential Fitness Challenge the
beep test we're all your friends threw
up and then you made fun of them the
rest of their life that one right same
idea and then the last session is going
to be kind of our strength and power
session where were actually more just
strength session where we'll just do
some like 3rm squats through our end
bench press no big deal can you cram all
of those into one mega session yes good
luck especially if you're working with a
basketball team that has you know maybe
20 and 25 guys on there that's going to
take you all day to do that so probably
a better way to do that is have them
come in and kind of waves and split it
up into multiple sessions that way it's
not unnecessarily grueling for all of
them and for you as well all right let's
look at the next example
my favorite can't get out of it can't
get away from it rugby union not rugby
league weirdos rugby union what we got
here so for rugby we might do same thing
3 days testing session first day we
might just do some an throws some
vertical jumps some sprints and then the
yo-yo test is actually a good one for
rugby as well sometimes you'll see at
the yo-yo one or the yo-yo IR two
specifically for rugby so again height
weight 7 side skinfold
and then for a rugby because certain
positions do have standards of body
weight
we might actually look at something like
lean body mass rugby's a strength sport
and a lot of those guys actually need to
be really big and really muscular so
actually
during their lean body mass over time
might be a good idea we might just do
some squat jumps and some counter
movement jumps squat jumps mmm I don't
know how much I buy into it but some
have suggested that it's more similar to
the scrubbing position we have to start
in that Crouch position and then do a
concentric homing explosion maybe maybe
not not sure but still worth measuring
and then we'll do some sprints 10 and 40
meters again most of the rugby type
activities usually somewhere around 0 to
20 meters with 40 meters being kind of
on the upper end so we have our short
measurement in a longer measurement and
then we have that metabolic assessment
day 2 will just come in and do some
strength we might do it one our M squat
bench and then for whatever reason
you'll see this one I don't think it's a
good one necessarily but you'll see it
in there research is a prone grip chin
up
I have no idea why it's in there but it
keeps coming up so every time this is
why I'm bringing this up because you
should be skeptical when you see some of
these things so when you're looking
through the normative standards you
might see some goofy stuff every now and
again and I always read rugby ones and I
always see this prone grim chin up and
I'm like why is that in there what who
cares right so squat bench probably
really really good right and then day
three one that you'll probably see a lot
is a repeated sprint ability test or
like to call repeated effort ability
where in this case typically they'll do
like a six times 30 meter sprint with an
incomplete rest in between they look at
how fast they run the first sprint and
they look at the speed and power
drop-off of each subsequent sprint so
it's kind of like a power endurance
style test ok let's go to the next one a
little bit different than what we've
been talking about triathlon again
probably a pretty good idea to split
this up into multiple sessions because
ok as you'll see all these tests are
pretty grueling so the day want first a
session we might actually do our swim
assessment usually somewhere around a 1
kilometer swim you can actually break
that up into laps so a lot of times
you'll see like 0 to 200 200 400 4 to 6
6 to 8 8 to 1 0 to 1000 all the way up
through there you can actually look at
completion time their heart rate and
believe it or not you can do heart rate
underwater you can look at their stroke
rate stroke count of things like that
absolutely day 2 we can kind of split
into multiple sessions or we can do one
we can see some different cycle power
profiles so a lot of ones you'll see a
lot are similar to at the Lambert
cycling test where they'll cycle at like
60 80 90 % of their max heartrate
they'll make a power output assessment
of those submaximal workloads and then
eventually they'll move into the maximal
effort test which is a peak power test
very similar to how they do vo2 max on a
treadmill right we're little dried up
and it can be ramp or stepwise ramp up
as high as they go high as they go high
as they go get the peaks sustainable
power really really useful test and then
on the third day you might do that same
exact test on the treadmill for the
person where you get vo2 Max peak
running speed time to fatigue lactate
all that other stuff right so again can
you do them all in the same day yeah but
you better believe that the last two
tests you do are going to be totally
squashed right so it's probably good to
split those up into multiple days okay
I think last but not least one that near
and dear to all of our hearts at Rp
volleyball team that we love to work
with so another good one to split it up
just because the tests are inherently
hard so day one we might do some ham
throws right height body weight seven
side skin fold nothing crazy there
usually we'll look at some jumps now
volleyball you can see a little bit
crazier jump analysis if you move
through some of the papers usually they
do some type of counter movement jump
usually you'll see some type of depth
jump somewhere in there and then every
now and again you'll see a spike jump
which is kind of more of a they try to
make it a more volleyball specific jump
where they run up to a point and jump up
as if they were going to spike the ball
and they measure the jump height things
like that we're also going to look on a
different session power and strength
typically you'll see a mourner this is
one of those where you'll see a power
clean pop up every now and again and
then like a 3rm squat through our own
bench and then last but not least you
will see some volleyball repeated effort
now these repeated effort like sports
specific tests again be skeptical make
sure that they've been validated to some
capacity so sometimes you'll see if just
like Joe Blow soccer test or James
Hoffman stupid rugby test right you
shouldn't just look at that and accept
it at face value and say oh this is a
great assessment of volleyball or of
rugby performance right it should be
validated but volleyball is one where I
have seen this come up more often than
not
so there are volleyball specific kind of
repeated effort tests where they do like
a run jump back up move around bump a
ball spike a ball kind of repeat type
thing usually what they look at is like
the number of jumps number of time
completed and like the percent drop off
in each lap that they do or something
like that so be skeptical but that's not
to say that there aren't ones out there
that are useful and then last but not
least just keep in mind
a lot of people get on this kick of
testing super super frequently where
they might test their athletes every two
or three months or so with some of these
lab tests and that comes at a big cost
right at the very least it's just taking
away time from their training regimen at
worst it's taking away time not only
from training but time from recovery
from really really hard training right
so you want to find that sweet spot
where we're using the testing the
testing is giving us meaningful
quantitative data that is telling us is
my athlete progressing in the way that
they're supposed to approaching or maybe
hopefully even exceeding those normative
standards of performance and then if I
can rely on my my monitoring methods my
continuous assessment methods I won't
have to pull them out of their element
quite so frequently I won't have to take
them off of the pitch or off of the
court as frequently and I can still get
valuable numbers so what is the right
answer there is no right answer it's up
to you and your athletes to figure out
kind of what is that sweet spot in your
relationship where you're getting the
data that you need and you're not
interfering with their training program
so again I'd like to reinforce that
testing and monitoring is kind of the
central part of good evidence-based
practice we have science available to us
but science doesn't always answer all
the questions so we need to be able to
rely on our own data that we have
collected with ourselves and our clients
to fall back on and say you know what I
didn't know I tried
I got a result and at least I can mark
it down and say yes no or maybe right so
we always want to make sure that testing
and monitoring is driving all the
changes and major milestones of our
training program guys I hope you enjoyed
my little blurb on testing and
monitoring we're gonna have another big
series on this in the future so if this
is something that really tickles your
fancy stay tuned in the future rp+ we'll
have more to come on testing and
monitoring thank you so much for tuning
in and I will see you guys next time
[Music]
you