[Music]
thank you
folks I'm Dr Mike Israel I have all
sorts of degrees and also my favorite
ice cream flavor is Rocky Road I'm
kidding is that really even true do you
know what rocky road is really how do
you know you're from Europe we have that
trip get out of here you don't have a
lot of those don't don't even start
don't don't make this a euro versus USA
thing I'll fucking do it motherfucker
that's it we're out of NATO
uh this is Milo wolf he is almost
finished with his PhD in sports science
and he is the world's expert on range of
motion and he has been doing lots of
research and reviewing even more
research
focuses on lengthened partials normally
we don't see that sort of thing in the
gym what we see are shortened partials
where you yell a lot and do this we see
mid-range partials where you yell a lot
into this length and partials what are
they
why would we want to be interested in
doing them and then lastly how would we
do them just the first one first so that
I can make my bullshit jokes and make
this video terrible what are length and
partials specifically how would you
define them as a scientist and how would
you define them in Practical terms sure
as a scientist links and partials or
partial repetitions so Porsche range of
motion being performed at longer average
muscle lengths that are for range of
motion so in Practical context using the
curl as an example because everyone does
them if you don't do them you don't even
lift you know it is absolutely agreed a
four range of motion curl takes you from
Full extension of the elbow to full
flexion of the elbow the average muscle
length being trained for the biceps
maybe somewhere representative like hail
about 90 degrees right if you were to do
shortened partials that would be the
tall path for example where your bicep
surveillance between a shorter average
muscle lengths or shortened partials if
you were to do the bottom half that
would be length and partials because the
biceps are on average being treated
lower muscle lengths than they would be
throughout a forage motion so the
average muscle is being traded might be
somewhere around like here got it so
length and partials are the bottom X
fraction of a lift length and partial
technically could be the bottom eighty
percent more commonly the bottom half
and sometimes the bottom third in some
of these studies yep so generally Within
These study is what's being used is
about one third to two-thirds of forage
motion so as a rule of thumb if you're
looking to apply the research findings
that we have on Nathan partials to your
own training likely a good place to
start is around one third to two thirds
of a full rep excellent and okay so
that's what length and partials are and
you can do them technically on any
exercise why would we be interested in
doing them there is now a sort of
mounting body of evidence across
different areas suggesting that lower
muscle length training is superior to
hypertrophy compared to Shorter muscle
length training and there's plenty of
evidence suggesting that's the case for
for example partial reps of different
muscle links so for example doing the
bottom half of the curl versus the top
half and there's some evidence not
suggesting that it's at least as
effective or potentially more effective
than a full range of motion even and
there's what like a several percent
difference in growth outcomes it's not a
huge difference let's say between three
and eight percent what they're about
totally but like look like it's a free
three to eight percent oh fuck you go to
the gym five days a week
yeah down there down somewhere
anyways how would you recommend people
get into experimenting with length and
partials for length and partial you
probably want about one third to
two-thirds of your four inch motion so
about half correct yes on average but
because it's a range we can use that
wiggle room to find something that is
standardizable for you
for a lot of machines around one third
to two-thirds of the range of motion you
have a certain Landmark you can sort of
row it into so that every rep you get
the same range of motion it's very
consistent week to week your performance
is very predictable and reliable and
it's great same way pushing exercises
same with isolation exercises
otherwise what you can't do since you
have wiggle room
let's just find some sort of bodily
position
that you can consistently replicate yes
for a lot of compound pressing exercises
or pouring exercise for example that
could be for dumbbell rows pulling to
your knees right just past your knees
and then back down same for rdls if you
want to do it already else for pressing
it can be an elbow act with about 90
degrees yes or for shoulder pressing
press to just to your forehead and then
exactly just once you've had for example
like work really well and so you can
find certain features certain lab marks
or certain positions that are pretty
consistently repeatable
and since we have a range and we don't
really know if like quarter reps are
better than half reps or vice versa as
long as you're someone within that
ballpark you're likely getting the
benefits of length and partials yes what
do you think about
taking it back to a theoretical level
and saying it's the imposition of heavy
challenging load under a deep stretch
that seems to be the mechanism likely by
which this works agreed so far yep then
maybe it's worth doing two other things
thing one is to control your eccentric
at the bottom third so if you're coming
down from a bench from here to here
you're like yeah whatever get get now as
soon as it starts to get lower you
really take some time to time spent
generating tension is higher as a
fraction of the total set
decent idea absolutely decent and in
fact it's not just a time it's also by
controlling the weight more you're
exerting more Force yes so it's not just
timer retention it's also how much
tension are you producing at those lower
muscles yes the integral of time and
tension so it's more time tension
correct more tension really totally if
you think about it if you think times
leading a concept man you know I mean
Lord
oh you got a little Ali G in there you
know what I mean uh and then the second
thing I can think of is maybe some
pausing at the bottom because if you
pause at the bottom in an actively
tensed position and in most exercises
like you have to actively tend so you'll
rip apart if you don't maybe like at the
bottom of a leg press coming down slow
getting to the bottom where you feel
your quads being fucking pulled apart
and down there you go one two three and
then press out maybe that's another fun
idea to try for sure and the third thing
I'd add potentially is an explosive
concentric at the very start of the rep
right let's say you're at low muscle
lengths you're at the very bottom of
your leg press your quads are stretched
being explosive out of that story
position is inherently requiring higher
active tension requirements or forced
production requirements from your quads
at almost yes do you think that's
dangerous
more inherently okay I think if you're
used to it and again gradual exposure is
a huge thing with any sort of injury
risk or pain ultimately if it
consistently hurts you don't do it right
but if it's a position you're used to
and you can gradually get used to being
explosive out of the bottom position it
is likely going to add to your
hypertrophy stimulus so in a bench press
maybe if you're really strong and you're
using crazy weights don't pulse out of
the bottom but maybe get some fucking
oomph into it and then when you get to
the top you're like exactly and then
resist slow pause yep oof you kind of
let it die out that's what I tell her as
well yes there's a money for the Uber on
your way out don't untie me don't speak
to me don't look at me I'm bummed
I love you
and that's been Milo and I pretending to
have a dominatrix hooker in our domicile
and by pretending I mean recalling see
you guys next time
[Music]