hey folks Dr Mike here for aniss sance
periodization and everyone knows that
big girls need love too but older gents
also need muscle gain too yeah yeah why
not how to gain size in your 40s
gentlemen who are in your 40s and all of
these rules apply to your 50s and 60s as
well but especially so let's tune on in
and if you're a young wher Snapper then
uh um
hello but maybe if you have clients that
are older this is a good video or if you
ever plan on even getting older yourself
maybe this is a good video but two
caveats before we really start digging
into the media advice for which you
came caveat number one this video is for
folks specifically that are in their 40s
or 50s or 60s but they started training
like five or 10 years ago or less so
maybe they started kind of in their late
30s if they're in their 40s started
training in their late 40s or early 50s
if they're in their 50s and so on and so
forth what this video is not intended
for people that have been lifting
consistently and diligently since like
their 20s because then in your 40s it's
really tough to gain muscle mass you've
gained most of what you will and you can
gain some more with a professional
attempt at the equation so these tips
here and I think I have 11 tips for you
today it's going to be uh much more
emphasis on the folks they're a little
late to the game versus the folks that
have been around a really really long
time now if you've taken a five or 10 or
even two-year break at any point that
you're absolutely in the running for
this advice caveat number two if you
need a refresher on How to Train
properly to begin with because
everything I'm going to say is a
modification to how normal training
should work or young people training
godamn young
people then I would highly recommend our
series hypertrophy made simple and
that's on training it's like 16 videos
tells you very very short very No
Nonsense very little terminology videos
about how to get right with your
training for muscle growth and then we
have the muscle gain dieting Made Simple
series for how to eat in order to get
jacked and all that stuff applies to all
of you folks over
40 and the question we're going to
answer today is how should my training
being that I'm over 40 be different for
what I'm trying to gain
muscle compared to folks that are
younger especially given that I got a
little bit of a late start or a little
bit of a late comeback to train now that
we're through that let me take you
through the 11 strange number pieces of
advice
first I highly advise more careful
warm-ups not skipping anything taking
three warm-up sets of light modern and
heavy before your first lift taking one
or two warm-up sets between all lifts
after that really going through the
technique and the range of motion going
nice and slow resting plenty of time
between warm-up sets never skipping you
can skip warm-ups as a 20 or 30y old and
probably nothing will happen you skip
them as a 40 or 50y old you might get
hurt and young people heal from injuries
faster anyway so it doubly sucks that
that would happen to you number two
slower Ecentric control instead of
dumping the bar in your chest in a bench
lower under control very slow that
maximizes the muscle growth stimulus you
don't want to be a young dummy and not
grow any muscle or grow less because
you're rushing that Ecentric phase but
it also reduces to a meaningful extent
the risk of injury because you're
lowering the velocities and the change
of Direction speed that's a big deal
slow and controlled on the way down
Point number three consider pausing at
the bottom of many of your lifts that
actually really hits that deep stretch
which causes a ton of muscle growth and
because you took a pause and then
reversed back up gently your probability
of getting hurt is much much lower than
it would be
otherwise and a lot of older folks have
a little bit more of a challenge with
flexibility and getting deep into that
stretch as deep as possible and pausing
at the bottom for a second or two can
actually improve both your flexibility
and your strength through that range of
motion which means those two added
together equal your Mobility can go up
substantially if you're a a a young ass
little bitchass little young ass little
tick tocker then you'll have plenty of
Mobility anyway but if you're older this
could be a very wise tip for you to give
some thought to number
four it's true that across the
population sets of 5 to 10 sets of 10 to
20 and sets of 20 to 30 repetitions are
all roughly equally at least in the
short term a few months equally
effective in growing muscle but sets of
5 to 10 present much higher forces to
the body so the probability of injury is
low for those but higher and for older
folks since you really want to steer
away from injury for two reasons you
might want to prioritize sets of 10 to
20 as your number one rep range and sets
of 20 to 30 as your number two and maybe
more rarely enter into the sets of five
to 10 what are the two reasons why as an
older individual you want to not present
High forces to your body uh it's because
you don't want to get hurt but there's
two reasons there really one Higher
forces increase the probability of
injury and you don't want to get hurt
because you are more likely to get hurt
as an older individual it's just a lot
of wear and tear to your body and a
little more stuff can go wrong it's just
a fact of life hopefully Advanced
genomics any day now can fucking get rid
of Aging but until then that's probably
best practice and the second reason is
that if you get hurt which sometimes
shit just happens right and as a young
person you heal quick as an older person
fuck man it takes longer to heal you
don't want any part of that and sets of
five to 10 reps a lot of times the only
reason they are done Often by people who
want to grow muscle isn't even technical
Sport Science hypertrophy reasons it's
not that they grow more muscle it's this
young people just want to fucking lift
kind of fucking heavy godamn it but
you're older and you're wiser and you
know that stupid ego bullshit gets you
nowhere so you're going to be smart
enough to mostly do sets of 10 or more
repetitions on average unless you want
to roll the dice and listen it's totally
cool to roll the dice every now and
again especially if it's slow and
controlled and safe it's okay to do sets
of eight sets of six whatever but just
understand that if you ping your PEC on
a set of six in the bench when you rack
that motherfucker you are the only
person to blame because you knew the
shit you were getting into you still
rolled the dice for what
benefit have nothing I can tell uh ego
maybe and come on man if you're over 40
still doing eag lifting in the gym look
you're you're in 20s you're doing Eagle
lifting it's just a part of growing up
in your 30s you're doing Eagle lifting
you're a fucking idiot in your 40s
you're doing Eagle lifting you're not an
idiot anymore it's just sad and
everyone's looking at you being like you
need a
hug number five when you start lifting
let's say you want to start lifting
again took some time away from the gym
or it's your first try or you got hurt
you're coming back start with very low
frequencies and volumes
very very low because you can always
work up but if you start too high you
can Crush yourself get hurt get
overreached and then that's not great
two
times per muscle per week training chest
and back and legs all get their Just
Desserts twice a week each not four
times a week of some crazy shit will
grind your joints
off per muscle per
session begin with one to two sets I
mean it that means if you have squats
programed for quads that's one or two
sets of squats that's all you do for
quads that session later that first week
you come back and you do one or two sets
of leg presses or something for quads
and that's all you do for quads for the
rest of the week but Dr Mike that's so
little volume no shit motherfucker
that's on purpose it's easing you in
Fools Rush In And the rest of the quote
I don't remember but you guys know what
I'm
saying if your recovery isn't challenged
you can add a set here and there that's
totally fine now how does that work if
you are no longer sore in the muscle and
if the muscle feels re-energized and
strong again and the joints feel good
you can add a set next time because it
just wasn't enough so if Monday you did
one set of bench press and by Thursday
when you do chest again your pecs feel
totally normal and healed and your chest
feels strong next Monday you can do two
sets of bench press and so on and so
forth just doing more volume outside of
the contact text of the ability to
recover from it is stupid and I do not
recommend that you do it and if you need
some help with auto regulating your
volume because you're never quite sure
should I go up should I not you just get
into the link in the description of this
video and you download the RP
hypertrophy app and it will set up your
workout for you you got to customize all
the stuff and then once you start
working out all you do is hit the rating
systems and the app tells you exactly
how much volume to do all the time based
on your feedback so it's a real big
helpful you don't have to do it but hey
it pays me money and you
know come on damn it I know you over 40
motherfuckers got that money been
working all your your life give me give
give me some money man come come
on point number
six in most
cases week to week to week when you're
purposefully increasing the difficulty
of your
lift you can go up by reps or you can go
up by weight facts for everyone
if you're over 40 I would recommend
almost never going up by more than 5
pounds at a time even on the leg press
or bu more than one repetition at a time
did 15 last week now it's 16
per you can go faster than
that slow clap amazing what did you
accomplish you increased the pulsatile
exposure to stress of your body and
jacked up the probability of acute
injury good job if you went slower you
still provide an overload stimulus your
results are going to be fucking amazing
and at the same time you are going to
have a very minimal risk of injury
because it's the slowest possible way to
add and think of it this way if you have
20 good weeks of training for a year in
a single exercise which would be pretty
sweet you make 20 increases of five
pounds each that's 100 pounds on the
exercise if you don't lose any reps holy
shit you're a different person so don't
you dare say well five pounds isn't
enough to increase what the fuck you
just keep increasing five pounds every
week and sooner or later you're going to
get into some shit now when you're
really catching a Groove when your
Technique on an exercise has improved so
much that like if you just add five
pounds and last week you added a rep now
you're at like eight reps in reserve on
that exercise you're like this is a joke
I could add way more it's totally cool
to add more just understand that it has
to be super fucking easy for you to add
more if it's remotely challenging just
add the minimum don't worry it'll catch
up to you and then adding even the
minimum will be hard so most of the time
not all the time you want to add the
minimum amount because adding big chunks
presents a huge increase relatively
speaking in the probability of injury
for almost no upside by the way point
number
seven I highly recommend for older folks
proactively de loing every four to six
weeks that means every four to six weeks
and really more like four to five for a
lot of folks after four weeks of really
hard training de lo for one whole week
you don't feel like D loing D Lo anyway
I hate D loing D Lo anyway bro I don't
need a D Lo D Lo anyway D loading makes
sure fatigue is super fucking low older
folks have a hard time with accumulating
too much fatigue and they have a harder
time dropping
fatigue and D loing takes wear and tear
and stress off of your joints as well
and they need more love because you're
older and the scientific literature on
what happens to your body as far as the
rate of overall gains if you take a D Lo
never and somehow magically don't
accumulate fatigue versus once every
three weeks versus once every six weeks
versus once every nine weeks or whatever
it is it basically just doesn't show up
so a D Lo week every four or five weeks
is a week in which it just does not
measurably affect the rate of your gains
you're not fucking losing muscle you're
not not gaining for a week and it's
muscle you'll never get back how does
this happen during that week you drop
fatigue dropping fatigue makes you more
sensitive to muscle growth during that
week you're not training much and the
lack of training makes you sensitive to
muscle growth so while you can drop a
little bit of muscle during that week or
just not grow much and miss a week you
grow so much more in weeks one two and
three of your next phase because of that
increased sensitivity due to the lower
fatigue and the fact that you're
desensitized because or resensitized
rather because the fact that you haven't
been training much during that deal week
it it makes up for it and then at the
very least it's the same but you get all
the fatigue reduction benefits and thus
your injury risk stays low your risk of
overreaching stays low so even if you
don't feel like it take a fucking D Lo
because you're smart because you can
think ahead and you used to do shit just
because you felt like it and then you
were outside of a club in Downtown
Detroit and your 20s going why am I
naked I should have never had those
drinks cuz I felt like it tough times
but you're smart now you live in the
suburbs like me you drive maybe Scott
what was a successful man in his 40s
Drive in the Metro Detroit
suburbs por you drive a Porsche really
which you got a small dick or something
H yo Scott the video guy what kind of
car you
drive forus get the fuck out of here
that'd be sweet me I drive a Mercury
Sable see now we're all over 40 everyone
who's over 40 will get that reference
everyone who's Tik tocker will be like
is that a kind of Tesla get out of here
kid scram I need a fucking broomstick to
get these dumbass kids off my porch
anyway all right number
eight every five months or
so you want to take a special month an
easy month to reduce fatigue and Joint
NE connective tissue wear and tear like
crazy how is this month going to look
for two weeks you just do one to two
sets per muscle per session minimum low
volume mik Menor call his ass up you're
doing that shit then for the last two
weeks of that month you are totally off
of the gym I highly recommend going
somewhere nice on vacation during that
time because you'll have shit else to do
you won't be
training you will gain fat during that
month by a smidge you will lose muscle
during that month you can tell even your
wife will be able to tell and make a
fucking biag commercial out of that shit
I used to be attracted to my man but
then he lost muscle what was the girl to
do sibian no too far Scott do you know
what a sibian is
no
really should I yeah are you googling it
it's like a sex
tour it's like a sex machine I think for
couples oh that's bullshit it's not for
couples oh see so you like it playful
pink or classic
black Scott's already looking through
color options anyway guys Google civan
don't do it at work and I get you one
and maybe your wife will like it um
number
nine sorry finishing off number eight
that one month is going to heal the
living shit out of everything so that
you get another five months of ultra
productive training and I fucking
promise you within the first month the
probability that you gain back
everything that you lost is like
99% and then in the second and third and
fourth month you'll make the best gain
that you haven't made because you were
so L tired and by the fifth month You'
be pretty fucking beat up and then that
sixth month boom you ease up and you
take that two weeks of low volume
training and then that two weeks of time
totally off when you gear back in and
you come back in it's going to be
awesome and it comes back fast and your
joints and your connective tissues
everything is going to feel
amazing Point number
nine take the stimulus the fatigue ratio
very seriously and choose your lifts
wisely as well as becoming a master of
technique what is the stimulus to
fatigue ratio stimulus is proxied by
things like how much tension you feel in
the Target muscle in the Target muscle
not through your joints and some shit
like that how much burn you get at High
Reps how much of a pump you get for
multiple sets of it how weak your
muscles get and how shaky they get after
a certain lift versus your joints
hurting and your body just being tired
how much soreness you get and tightness
you get after lift you want those things
to be maximized what you want minimized
is the degree of joint and connective
tissue pain that you experience or even
just discomfort the systemic fatigue
that you experience if just being beat
and not even want to train hard after a
certain exercise because that exercise
beat your whole body up and your brain
so much you can't even try hard and
psychological fatigue exercises that you
hate that you're really just like fuck
these lunges I'm out of here I don't
even want to train anymore try to make
sure that the stimulus is as high as
possible in the fatigue as low as
possible in any exercises you pick so if
you're like you know low bar squats hit
my legs but they fuck my back up they
fuck my knees up I used to love them
when I was 22 oh I should do them again
I'm gonna pop up like a fucking genie in
the middle of the gym and be like bro
stop sorry sir stop please what about
the hack squat you're GNA be like it
really is good to me my back's great my
knees are great my quads feel crazy I be
like yes why are you going over through
the low bar squat area and you're like
I'm M that joke was stupid there's no
such thing as a low bar squat area and
I'm like you smarty art motherfucker but
after we sort our differences like that
through fist to cuffs what's going to
happen is you're going to say you know
what I'm just being a fucking idiot and
I should just be picking the good
fucking exercises let me speak some old
guy shit to
you when you're fucking in your
20s you go to Europe or some shit you
stay in hostiles some fucking teresas
type of shit you don't know if you're
getting your dick cut off or you're
going to get your dick wet you have no
idea what's happening but you don't give
a fuck because you're in your 20s you
stay at hotels and you eat like food
from fucking restaurants the roaches
don't even eat there but when you grow
up when you're in your 40s and you have
a bit of a career you have a bit of a
cushion you got some nice things your
wife's like hey I'm booking us a hotel
for the fucking vacation what do you
think like a shit hole Motel you're
going to be like baby come on we worked
hard for this shit let's buy something
decent let's treat ourselves because we
earn the shit because we're not dumbass
kids anymore and we can pick choices
that are fucking good to us that we know
are going to maximize our fun so you
have some good meals on that vacation
you're like hell yeah can't believe I
used to eat the kind of shit I used to
eat back when I was a kid now this is
fine dining and this is great hoteling
just the same way you have exercises in
the gym you can use use the ones to
treat you right don't be the red-headed
stepchild in the exercise world and come
begging back to the low bar squat low
bar squat just comes home drunk and
takes swings at you it loves you but it
can't see straight because it's had too
many beers and it'll just hit your knees
and lower
back and
lastly when you do any exercise you
become a master of technique that means
all the shit I said earlier like slow
Ecentric controlled pauses perfect
positioning you need to be a technique
God why because out of all the things
that are not in your control your
chronological age the degradation of
your joints the fact that your hormonal
profile isn't as good as it used to be
that shit you're not in control of you
are absolutely in total control of your
Technique and because good technique can
maximize the stim
way reduce the fatigue manyfold decrease
your probability of injury and get you
better results all
around why wouldn't you do good
technique so again I'll be straight up
with you guys and you can tell I'm
really passionate about this particular
topic when I see 20-year-olds with shit
technique at the gym I'm like hey
fucking kid hey fucking kids am I right
I see 30-year-olds and I'm like fuck
stupid I see 40 and 50 year olds doing
bad technique
I'm sad hey Tommy this fucking I fucking
got tears here I'm fucking crying whoa
that's like when they reduce my union
benefits whoa oh Scott is that okay to
make Union jokes I know you're a huge
Union
proponent thanes teamsters and shit I'll
be hey you look good with fucking lead
shoes fucking concrete socks you fuck
fuck anyway New Jersey Union culture
aside technique
Master because older
people that's some Jedi Master type shit
you want to be on none of that Anakin
Skywalker
bullshit number
10 I only recommend trying to gain
weight if you're older if you're already
pretty
lean you can do four to eight week
gaining phases of half a pound a week
that means you gain somewhere between
two and four pounds total of tissue and
then you can juxtapose them with fat
loss phases that take off all the excess
fat you gain and you slowly jigsaw your
way up in
gains that's okay at kind of any body
fat level but ideally you get your body
fat to something like 15% is or a little
below and you start that as your base of
operations and lastly be careful when
you're gaining even from that base of
Ops so if you're in a
position where you're
gaining half a pound a week I would say
at the most if you do that for a while I
would just say don't exceed 20% body fat
in most cases before resting and then
leaning out again to get closer to that
15% or below because you're older muscle
gain and fat gain is stressed to the
system it's stressed to your heart all
of your organs and it's not something
you want to just be like fuck it dreamer
bulk to
400 might not make it there Mr heart
attack will make it there before you do
he generally plays for Keeps lastly
after a gain
phase if you're serious about your
health consider getting your blood work
checked and you don't even have to know
anything about blood work you just show
up to the doctor's office and say hey
like you know I just want to see if like
everything's generally healthy like
heart kidneys liver Etc and if the
doctor's like remotely a decent doctor
he'll be like yep here you go blood work
and then if you're doing good it'll be
kind of obvious if you're doing not so
good the doctor will talk about shit and
you might have to think some shit
through you want to stay on top of your
health because if you're healthy and
you're older best time of your life if
you're unhealthy and you're older not a
great time if you're healthy and older
and you're jacked and lean holy shit
trump card played you're kind of the guy
at the casino with the salt and pepper
hair and like 18 hoes around him
giggling at every joke just waiting with
anticipation to see if the dice turn red
Scott is that a bad analogy for the
casino dice don't really turn a color do
they I've never been to a casino being
Jewish I'm like a vampire at them shits
money that's just leaving my pocket and
the probabilties that I won't gain it
back hey getting for CLT just thinking
about it I'll see you guys next time
questions comments see you guys in the
comments