those with high levels of testosterone
in the normal physiological range builds
more muscle right at least that's what
seems to be commonly believed if someone
has an impressive physique people may
chalk it up to them having high
testosterone various proclaimed
testosterone boosting supplements may
play on this idea claiming to boost
testosterone and by extension muscle
hypertrophy but it is testosterone
intrinsically related to muscle
hypertrophy let's examine the data
[Music]
do people with higher testosterone
levels build more muscle than people
with lower testosterone levels a study
out of the USA helps answer this young
trained men performed a range of
exercises with these variables training
successfully increased the whole biceps
cross-sectional area as well as slow and
fast Stitch fiber sizes extracted from
the biceps resting testosterone levels
did not change from the 12 weeks of
training average levels were around 580
nanograms per deciliter with a standard
deviation of around 172 nanograms per
deciliter this indicates around 68 of
the subjects had testosterone levels
within the range of 346 nanograms per
deciliter to 690 nanograms per deciliter
yet no significant correlation between
subjects resting testosterone levels and
whole biceps slow twitch fiber and
fasted fiber gains were found that is
those with higher testosterone levels
did not consistently see more games than
those with lower testosterone levels a
limitation of the study is only 11
subjects were recruited fortunately
another Canadian study recruited 49
trained men and had them train a range
of exercises with these variables
training increased lean mass as well as
slow and fast Stitch fiber sizes
extracted from the vastus lateralis the
researchers actually analyzed the
relationship between a range of resting
hormones and the hypertrophy
measurements through backward
elimination regression fundamentally the
analysis did not find a relationship
between any of the resting hormones and
muscle hypertrophy so that includes
testosterone as well as free
testosterone in fact the coefficients of
determination were quite low in
non-statistical lingo this just
indicates little of the muscle
hypertrophy could be explained by
resting hormone concentrations so
testosterone levels were not predictive
of muscle hypertrophy those with higher
levels did not necessarily see more
gains fascinatingly the researchers
divide divided the subjects into low
responders and high responders and then
explored if intramuscular free
testosterone differed between them
intramuscular free testosterone
concentration ranged from these levels
and we can see there was no difference
in levels between the higher and low
responders so those who built the most
muscle didn't have greater intramuscular
free testosterone levels overall either
a third study from the USA recruited 67
untrained young men and had them train a
range of exercises with these variables
after the study the researchers
categorized subjects either as high
responders moderate responders or low
responders based on how much they grew
their vastus lateralis if testosterone
was the primary determinant of muscle
hypertrophy across people we'd expect
that high responders to have the highest
levels yet average testosterone levels
measured before and after training were
comparable between the low moderate and
high responders here are the individual
data points superimposed on the bars we
can clearly see there's no association
between testosterone levels and being a
low moderate or high responder each
category involves subjects with lower
testosterone levels moderate
testosterone levels and higher
testosterone levels one subject in the
highest responder group had relatively
low testosterone levels while a
different subject in the lowest
responder group had quite high
testosterone levels so higher responders
didn't necessarily have greater
testosterone levels and this
demonstrates perfectly how factors
beyond testosterone levels play a role
in muscle hypertrophy across people I
also want to mention a few other
interesting things from this data set
most subjects did not experience any
increase in testosterone from before to
after the training period this is
consistent with the majority of the
literature most studies fail to find
resistance training increases
testosterone levels we've examined this
data in a previous video however there
were some individuals who did see an
increase in testosterone in fact some
individual source and priority crazy
changes like this one individual in the
low responder group who increased levels
from around 750 nanograms per deciliter
to above 1 500 nanograms per deciliter
Supra physiological territory it's not
clear if this is due to some measurement
error for this person or if it's
actually a real change if it was a real
change the funny thing is he was still a
low responder in the overall study there
were other individuals seeing increases
in testosterone from before to after
training so maybe this suggests certain
individuals can increase their
testosterone through resistance training
yet confounders still exist changes in
their lifestyle elsewhere such as sleep
or nutritional factors could explain the
changes and not necessarily the
resistance training another interesting
thing with this data set is there were
some individuals who had super
physiological levels or at least close
to it one individual in the higher
responder group had Levels Close to 2
000 nanograms per deciliter the subjects
of this study were supposed to be
natural it's possible some of them lied
explaining these levels but it is also
possible they are natural and that they
are just anomalies
irrespective of your testosterone levels
consistent training long term is
Paramount for making gains looking
workouts and being mindful of your
progress is useful an alpha progression
is a high quality app that can Aid this
process neat graphs contract pretty much
any measure long term such as benchwear
strength number of workouts body weight
and even set numbers per muscle and
circumference measures you can input
your own program or explore their custom
workout generator their app has a
database of over 450 exercises with
great text and video tutorials the
review speak to the app's quality 4.9
stars on Google Play and 4.8 stars on
Apple Store by using the link in the
comments and description you'll have two
weeks free of all its features plus 20
off a yearly or monthly subscription if
you do purchase the app the house of
hypertrophy will get 50 so this
sincerely helps support these free
videos thank you
[Music]
foreign
testosterone is not the primary
determinant of muscle hypertrophy across
people those with high levels of
testosterone in the normal physiological
range do not necessarily build more
muscle it is very possible for someone
with lower testosterone levels to
experience greater muscle hypertrophy
than someone with higher testosterone
levels this perfectly illustrates how
factors beyond testosterone are crucial
for the hypertrophy process finally I
need to make a technical point the
studies we looked at made comparisons
between the different people because of
this our conclusions must be specific to
this as I've carefully worded throughout
this video the data proves people with
higher testosterone levels do not
necessarily build more muscle than
people with lower levels and I also
believe that data demonstrates that
testosterone is not the primary
determinant of muscle hypertrophy across
people however this data isn't strictly
able to tell us what happens if we
change a single person's testosterone
levels what I mean is if we get 1 person
who has testosterone levels of say 400
nanograms per deciliter and they manage
to increase levels to 800 nanograms per
deciliter would they as an individual
now build more muscle from training
compared to if their levels remained at
400 nanograms per deciliter again the
between people comparisons detail
throughout this video cannot truly
answer this question fortunately we do
have data that can help answer this
question there are studies analyzing how
increasing testosterone influences
muscle and strength gains when training
as well as gains if no training was
performed whatsoever the Insight from
these studies is highly interesting and
shall be examined in our next video
nevertheless the key point from this
video is testosterone is simply not the
primary determinant of muscle
hypertrophy across people it is very
possible for someone with lower
testosterone levels to build more muscle
than a different person with higher
testosterone levels finally I have a
free Ultimate Guide to bench pressing
ebook that covers these areas feel free
to get it in the link in the comments
and description
[Music]