hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization you're not getting sore in
your training and you want to grow
muscle is that a problem well let's see
I've given this an extreme amount of
thought and I've come up with at least
four scenarios and you'll have to think
about which one of these describes you
I'll go through each scenario and try to
tell you if you're in that scenario what
your best options are and why to think
about should you be worried about not
getting sore
your training you think you're going
pretty hard but you're not getting sore
option number one looks like this
in all of these you're not getting very
sore or sore at all in the first one
you're also just barely recovering your
performance week to week that means if
you did a whole lot more stuff you would
start to under recover and stop
progressing you're really pushing your
body to its limits
and you're making great gains
your muscles are visibly larger over the
months your performance is going up over
time the veins are there etc etc you're
getting stronger and stronger things
seem to be going very well
should you be concerned that you're not
getting sore
no probably not there is not a huge
concern no changes are needed and
generally speaking when you're in a
position of getting pretty great gains
at least good stable consistent gains
the idea that there's an onus to change
rapidly and in a big way is just not
true if it ain't broke don't fix it is
somewhat true you can always optimize
but optimization needs justification and
if you're doing really really well you
definitely don't want to screw with a
lot of stuff so the default here is
touch nothing definitely no changes
needed you can play with a few things
though in order to try to optimize the
situation you may be able to get even
more growth for a similar or lower
amount of fatigue resulting if you play
with your Technique to try to increase
your mind muscle connection that is
perceived tension and or burn in the
Target muscle when you're doing the lift
such that you are spending the same or
smaller amount of physical energy on the
lift more of that energy goes to grow
growing the muscle less of it dissipates
off as fatigue that could be a great
thing to potentially get you even better
results that might help you get a little
bit sore though that's not really what
we're looking for because results is the
reason soreness is even on our minds and
also it won't cost you any more actual
inability to perform on the exercise
fatigue Etc so it's not a big deal in
this case even though you're pretty much
topped out in how much stuff you can do
so if that's you those are your
recourses again just to review real
quick if you're not getting sore but
you're pushing your performance hard
such that you're barely recovering and
you're making great gains leave well
enough alone is the best advice and if
you want to mess with something try to
improve your Technique so you get a
better mind muscle connection and that
may give you small improvements in that
context definitely don't add a ton of
Subs to your program just to try to get
sore because you'll overreach because
you're already pushing your body to its
limits as defined by barely being able
to recover performance
number two scenario is you're easily
recovering your performance and you're
making great gains first rules you don't
have to do anything because this is like
a magical thing you're getting great
gains you're easily recovering you could
easily do more but you're getting great
gains without you're getting great gains
you're already winning so you don't have
to change anything the second thing is
if you want to change something you can
definitely try to increase your mind
muscle Connection by messing with your
Technique and your awareness you can
also up the relative effort you might be
going four reps shy of failure when you
really should be going to rep shy
failure so you can try to train a little
bit of heart harder within each set a
little bit better technique within each
set and if that happens but you're still
way overly recovered and having great
results you can experiment with
increasing the volume a little bit by
adding a set here there every few weeks
to see if you can get even better gains
again not a big deal because you're
already getting great gains so it's
dealer's choice
number three scenario
you're just barely recovering your
performance you're just barely hanging
in there
but you're making not so great gains
poor games or no gains at all in this
case I have one almost fact for you that
you can really rest your ideas on and go
from there more is almost certainly not
likely to be better
how could it be you're barely recovering
and you're not making great gains if we
do more you're going to under recover in
What scenario is under recovering and
getting weaker over time going to result
in best long-term gains gee whiz I can't
really think of a ton
so the number one thing you do not want
to do in this case is add more you say
but hold on but I'm not getting sore
yeah but in whatever other ways your
muscles are fatigued it's not reflected
by soreness clearly they're really
fatigued because you're barely
recovering and you've got bad gains to
go with
it's totally cool in this case to work
on your mind muscle connection or your
Technique but doing less is the better
option here so if you're not getting
sore but you feel totally inundated with
your program you can barely recover and
increase your performance week to week
then you can try to do two-thirds of the
sets you normally do even half the sets
you normally do make sure they're good
technique high quality High effort but
take a deload and then reduce the volume
of work and see if that smaller volume
of work can actually allow you to
recover better it might in fact result
in better gains but whatever you do if
you're pushing your body to its limits
already and you're still not getting
sore doing more than your limits is not
a good idea it's almost certainly a
wrong answer
last scenario
you're easily recovering performance the
amount of volume you're doing is thus
not pushing you very hard
but you're also making poor gains and
you're not getting sore that's kind of
the trifecta of you need more stimulus
so first what you want to do is attend
to the Mind muscle connection which
means better technique to really hit
your target muscles hard
secondly you want to make sure your
relative effort is attended to each set
is pushing you hard it's not just junk
volume
it's quality volume because our sets are
now with really good technique and each
set is as hard as it should be we fix
the quality portion and now you can mess
with the quantity if after you fix the
quality you're still easily recovering
from performance you're not making
really good gains and you're not really
getting sore more probably is the answer
so once every week or two weeks increase
in exercise or muscle Group by a set
here and there instead of three sets of
leg press go to four if you can still
recover great after a few weeks of four
sets go to five so on and so forth such
that you raise the training volume and
because your effort is great and your
Technique is great and you have no
problem recovering you're probably going
to get two things probably more sore and
better results and that better results
is what we're going for so in other
words just to review all of this
soreness can be an indicator that if we
don't get it we could be working harder
getting it and also growing but if we're
already working as hard as we can via
performance tracking and the ability to
assess if you can even do more work then
even if we're not getting sore more
isn't the answer not because soreness
will be bad but because you can't do
anymore as your body is telling you so
if you can do more and you're not
getting very sore
it's a good idea to work on quality
first get your Technique better get your
effort better per set and then if that
doesn't fix it you can absolutely start
adding sets in order to try to get two
things one more sore which if that
happens great if not no big deal as long
as your results also improve folks if
you have any questions about this please
shoot them in the comments like
subscribe and I'll see you next time