we got some uh shoulder front raises
these are good for front delts actually
say they're they're very far away from
an ideal exercise if Mr John Cen would
simply flip around in the bench to face
up it turns out muscle grows a little
better when you stretch it deep than
when you contract it at the peak of its
contraction so if you turn around and
simply did front raises from that
incline position versus doing them from
the decline position it' actually be a
better exercise because then more of the
forces are positioned at the stretch and
thus you get more muscle hypertrophy
muscle growth than you would at the peak
contraction doing it I would say the
reverse way now as a variation this is
totally fine it's not ideal results but
it's still good uh it's not not my
favorite thing