hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization you asked I answer how to
get a date because really that's why
we're all trying to get jacked trying to
get dates well don't worry I've applied
my brilliant scientific mind to this as
well and have found the reveal truth of
how to get a date I broke it down
into shit at least eight Pro tips that's
right Pro tips I'm a professional
getting dates
just obvious from everything about me
here we go Point number one leave your
house yes I know that sounds scary but
Dr Mike you aort I can't be in front of
YouTube and Reddit 100% of my Waking
Life outside the house I need to
ambulate there are obstacles cars even
dogs that bark at me people I have to
talk to people I have to see and they
see me back as opposed to the one-way
mirror of my computer screen well folks
the girls are out there not in your
house if the girls are in your house say
motherfucker what you need to watch this
video for you're straight you're set
turn turn me off but you ain't turned me
off have you because you are alone
inside your house get out there right
but before you get out there you got to
put on clothes social convention and the
law demands that we not leave the house
consistently naked as was explained to
me recently by an officer of the
law so you have to dress the part and
remember you're not just leaving the
house to leave the house you're not
going to you know what I'm saying Kroger
some of you around the world may not
understand that's one of our grocery
stores in Michigan it's it's quite nice
it's the nice store you go to Kroger you
put on you want to be seen right you're
not just going to the store to buy food
you're going out to the world to get a
fucking date you dress the part for
example girls love Walmart brands people
know I only wear two kinds of clothes
free shit from RP or team full ROM same
thing it's
free or things I purchase at Walmart
that's right Walmart Oh Dr Mike you have
this whole company you make an app you
have a YouTube channel really successful
don't you have money no no I choose to
spend the little tiny amount of money
that Mr Nick Shaw gives me at Walmart so
I can look fucking amazing like girls
know they can tell like a lot of guys
they don't know what they're wearing
they're like hey what's that guy wearing
guy the other guys I don't know clothes
girls can tell And when they see that
Walmart snug fit priced well made in
China the bitches lose their minds so
make sure to dress nice from Walmart I
don't have a Walmart I'm sorry you're
not getting laid sorry on a date dot dot
dot you can fill in the blanks Point
number three you have to go to your
place of ability where your swag is
highest you don't fight an enemy on
their Turf you fight an enemy on your
Turf right so let's say that's the gym
let's say you feel able in the gym you
feel confident you feel apt go go to the
gym you know what I'm saying talk to
girls at the gym you don't have to go to
some place where you feel weird you're
sure as hell don't go to their Turf what
are you going to do and go to a nail
salon that's crazy you get kicked out of
there so fast go to Victoria Secret
don't do that that's a bad idea I've
tried it I've spent a long time in jail
so maybe you say oh Dr Mike you know the
gym I'm just getting into it that's why
I watch your channel really I feel
myself most able at a comic book Expo
yeah I could have told you that
motherfucker I know you watch our shit
go to the comic book
Expo uh convention ComicCon whatever you
guys call it uh certainly there are uh
are females there you know I don't want
to be gender exclusive whatever you're
into it might be at the ComicCon at the
very least what about a cooking class a
cooking class is fun you take a cooking
class to the local community a little
restaurant or something you get to meet
other singles that's fun also if you're
like me you're what other people have
termed dominant at cooking and so you
get to really show off you know like
when girls find out you can can cook
holy crap you're going to have to be
denying bitches left and
right Point number four you got to feel
your own
swag 100% of the time when you're out
there good news you're at your place of
ability anyway let's say you're at a
cooking class how can you not feel your
swag the teacher like blah blah we're
going to be making pasta blah blah blah
and bitch I understand cooking from a
fundamental Direction you don't even
know what pasta is you people make their
own pasta I grow my own wheat that's the
shit that's the level I'm operating at
you got to feel that swag 100% of the
time when you're around so if a female
of attractive female of reproductive age
approaches you in the cooking class and
she's like oh my God what are you making
you got to be like pause can't you see
I'm doing something you come up to
Michelangelo and knock the paintbrush
out of his hand no and she's
automatically going to know based on
your response that you're a serious
person she may feel herself inclined to
be around serious people and she'll kind
of bumble around in the background to
when you're ready to talk talk to her
and you go yes you and she's like oh I
just I was just I just wanted to Marvel
at your abilities I know I know have a
seat and you tell her and then voila
you're you're on a fucking date already
more or less right once they're around
other humans you want to talk to chat
them up chat chat chat away you don't
see me being quiet on these videos for a
reason I'm feeling my own swag right now
chat them up they should be so lucky and
are that you're even talking to them who
talks to you on a daily basis your mom
your grandma
same same household where you live in
the basement your cat every now and
again so you are a person who a lots
there speaking to a very tiny and
unbelievably lucky minority of people
you let one extra or two extra girls in
that equation holy shit it's like how
many times you get to like have dinner
with Elon Musk how many people can say
that almost no one Elon Musk doesn't
have dinner with that many people same
idea except you're a little bit more
talented than Elon just a tiny bit
remember that
shit
now when you interact with the opposite
sex in this case I'll use females my
expertise level maybe it's a bit of a
fib you got to be sweet to them you're
not a dick being a dick is it's not it's
not going to get you to be a gamma male
or whatever that shit kids say Omega
Sigma male Scott Sigma male is that what
it
is no no Alpha's old school it's Sigma
now Scott's like a hundred so he's like
back in my day I call it Alpha M see
it's from the 20s so you don't want to
be a dick you want to be sweet but the
big problem of sweetness being sweet
gets you in the door almost every time
because people like nice peep but you
can't be a little punk about it you got
to be sweet but you can't sweat these
bitches out here you can't do it so for
example you could lean over say you're
cooking pasta to cooking class and bitch
is cooking pasta whatever regular
untrained people say they is cooking
you can you would do a little you're not
lying really you're saying something
from a nice place in your soul so you go
oh my God that pasta you make looks so
good and and then she's like oh my God
he's so nice but maybe he's a creep
because he say too many nice things and
they're like oh he's a fucking creep so
then you could say like well you know
like you're not a trained Continental
Chef like
me but you're trying and I'm like I love
that you're trying it's so sweet a and
they're like oh my God Not only was he
nice to me he demeaned me in the process
which at the end of the day is a fucking
turn on once you're in there you get
that little jab in there you get the
convo going you're vibing chat away
that's Point number seven Pro tip number
seven chat away you're there to talk
Talking get you into everything you want
to do get in that convo right and here's
the thing people will often ask well
hold on Dr Mike what am I supposed to be
talking about lots to talk about first
of all any old bullshit that comes to
your mind that's rule one one for me if
I want to talk about some shit we're
talking about it you know she's like so
what do you do I'm like n do you ever
feel like like the laundry machines at
the store when you look at them before
you buy them they're different somehow
in a way that's difficult to explain
when they arrive to your house and she's
like no you're like you know you don't
hear voices in the from fucking laundry
machine she's like what you're like
exactly I do I'm important shit happens
to me I'm interesting and all a sudden
she's like oh my God he's so interesting
it's too easy fishing with fucking
Dynamite but other than talking about
some shit just whatever comes to mind
you got to in a sense kind of interview
these females out here because they need
to know a few things to hang out with
you for example I understand you to be a
dungeon master you play Dungeons of
dragons does she play Dungeons of
dragons does she know anything about it
because if he doesn't pass hard pass
next I don't have time to teach you the
ways of the world right I'm not I'm
interviewing a potential candidate for
uh dating I'm not interviewing you know
like someone to to be my student on how
to be a a cool person I'm sorry so you
don't play Dungeons and
Dragons I have a problem with you but I
don't have any I don't have any need for
you anymore you know one of the things I
talk about constantly in such a
situation back when I was single I'm
married now would you know just be like
oh yeah like uh you know surely you must
be familiar with the coming predictive
timeline of of of the technological
singularity and if she's like huh I'm
like oh
uh and I just point and if she turns and
looks I just scoot I don't need to be
there anymore you either into nerd shit
or you're not with me that's it I know
all your motherfuckers are nerds so you
don't need you know what I'm saying they
need to earn it is what I'm trying to
say you have you can I'm not out there
trying to get dates I'm out there
exposing myself they're trying to get
dates and I'm mostly just have to SWAT
SWAT
SWAT then how do you do the asking if
you're so uninterested you never ask and
that's Point number eight Pro tip number
eight never in a million fucking years
ask for a date you simply announce that
you're doing something and they may
choose to invite themselves you say you
know I'm hanging out on Friday you
should come there's zero request it's
actually a command it's a soft command
but a command n less and you smirk
you're like shit you can even say that
if you want
and you're not asking them you the man
are telling them what's going to be
happening and they should be so lucky
and the typical response is ang okay
H he's in laughter save up your laughter
as making you laugh 24 7 on Friday and
she's like oh my God I can't wait again
the
laughter all right those are the pro
tips eight tips there's a 97% chance
you're getting a date now on the off
chance that it didn't work what do you
do first of all who gives a shit okay
not everyone can see greatness even if
it's fucking right in front of their
eyes they talk to you they didn't want
to go on a date with you idiots when
you're ruling a post-apocalyptic Earth
from your Empire on the super skyscraper
is the only surviving thing in the
nuclear rubble and she's like one of the
creatures down there getting radiation
poisoning you're going to be like oh oh
what's that oh you didn't go on to date
with me I don't remember you right it's
fine some people just can't be they
can't be uplifted they they need to be
down in the mud okay no sweat on to the
motherfucking next you know they say
there's a thousand fish in the sea is
that what they say Scott is that the
term or plenty of fish in the sea plenty
doesn't even begin to describe it there
are so many fish in the sea
that you have a sorting and labeling
problem if you even want a serious
statistical attempt at analyzing who's
compatible with you or not so I mean you
don't need anybody they should be so
lucky and they sorted themselves out
fine you have another free weekend
yourself to play Dungeons and Dragons
with your mom and grandma like you
usually do which is sweet also your cat
plays what if it worked who gives a shit
that's right you are not excited because
being the fucking man is Hobby enough
you got so much other shit going on with
just you that someone's like oh my God
I'd love to go on a date on the one hand
you're like sweet on the other hand
you're like fuck I had other shit to do
Friday that I don't have to I can't do
now because I got to be out at Applebees
with this bitch right we got enough
going on without dragging fan girls on
dates you see
me success let's say you got yourself a
date the dating itself actually being on
a date comes with its own tips and
tricks and you guys want to see a dating
guide where I go through a typical date
dinner date maybe movie date you let me
know let me know the comments and I'll
give you a a tactical Guide to the date
itself hopefully without getting my own
dumb ass canceled by saying stupid shit
and on that note remember you're the
fucking man woman whatever you're the
shit like subscribe buy our shit
contribute to Lamborghini fund see you
guys next
time