anything above 40 g of protein in a
given meal just wastes Protein that's
right as far as muscle growth goes when
you consume more than 40 g of protein at
once you don't see any additional
benefit well it turns out that's wrong
and that's according to a recent study
that compared 25 g of protein after a
training session to 100 g of protein
after a training session they measured a
variety of markers of protein metabolism
and muscle growth over the following 12
hours this is a higher protein dose and
a longer time course than any previous
study you looked at so its findings are
very important here's what they found
first 100 gam of protein after a session
led to more myof Fiore protein synthesis
or roughly speaking muscle growth
compared to 25 G secondly while 25 g of
protein intake did stimulate myi protein
synthesis for about 6 hours afterwards
when taking 100 G that response lasted
for at least 12 hours and finally the
common belief that anything above about
40 g of protein in a single meal will
just get burnt off as energy by your
body just doesn't seem to be true