hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization our video today is in the
BS series and it is intermittent fasting
and Longevity BS
let's get into it not a super long video
but I think one in which we can all
learn a little bit of something about
ourselves
here's the deal Point number one
yes it is true that eating only one or
two meals per day may have a small
effect on boosting how long you can live
AKA longevity
but at this juncture in early 2023 we
made this video it's not so clear that
that's definitely the case
and if the effect turns out to be real
which it probably is it's almost
certainly going to be a very very small
effect on longevity thus if you eat five
or six meals a day calorie controlled
same lifestyle versus a few one or two
meals a day you're not adding like
decades to your life or anything like
that it could even be just months it
could be a year or something like that
in a very good case scenario
so it's not a big deal first a lot of
people think it's a big deal and they're
probably wrong
number two the big longevity booster
that is mostly affected by diet is other
than just eating healthy and making sure
you're not eating all kinds of nasty
toxic shit that fucks you up is being at
the low end of the healthy range of body
mass index that's right the people that
live the longest are people that are of
a normal body weight but on the skinnier
side of things it is true that below a
certain body mass index
people actually have a lowered longevity
but that is the statistical artifact in
most cases because they measure people
that are skinny from cancer treatment or
drug addiction or other comorbidities if
you factor that out the optimal body
mass index at which you could be in
order to live the longest is around 20.
if you look that up that's a pretty
skinny person not deathly skinny but on
the skinnier end of normal
how you get there as long as it's
through a healthy way being that it's a
healthy diet that gets you there and
being that you did good amount of
physical activity that is going to be
the big differentiator for how long you
live genetics and getting hit by a bus
aside
it's not so much the six meals a day
versus one meal a day that's a tiny
potential difference as far as we know
now the big difference is can you
maintain a lean relatively active
Physique in any way that is sustainable
to you and involves healthy eating
practices which means eating three four
five six or even one meal a day
at the end of the day I implore you and
if you're not doing it your friends and
colleagues might be so go yell at them
stop trying to hack shit
eat better exercise weigh a little bit
less
and you're going to get almost all the
benefits that you can
I would also implore you
to
watch out for upcoming pharmacological
advances in anti-aging medicine and age
reversal because it is coming the next
10 years are going to be really exciting
in all probability and that stuff is
going to make the biggest deal of
anything but until that happens eat
really healthy do plenty of physical
activity stay on the leaner and lighter
side of things and that is your huge
weapon set for living as long as
possible I would also say have a career
or interest you're very passionate about
surround yourself with loving friends
and family and lots of social
interaction you get plenty of sleep and
don't do anything that's too stressful
for too long and starts to wear you out
makes you want to fucking kill yourself
that's a bad deal on longevity not the
suicide part necessarily but the part of
insanely high stress with no respite
and sure if you want to do intermittent
fasting and that works for you that's
totally great
but if you think that with high stress
shitty social relationships not enough
sleep too many calories and a shitty
body composition that eating one meal a
day is some ticket to longevity that's a
whole lot of
that's a whole lot of what was that term
like I forgot oh yeah bullshit see you
guys next time