[Music]
training card is clearly important for
developing muscle and strength it's
logical to think the more you train the
more you gain
you don't want to take your foot off the
gas
this has some truth to it more training
volume up to a point tends to produce
more size and strength on average
but some evidence indicates maybe
counterintuitively that training breaks
could improve long-term muscle and
strength gains
in this video we'll examine this
evidence try to figure out how deloads
fit into this and wrap up with potential
takeaways
[Music]
this 2013 japanese study about ogre
sawara and colleagues is one of the most
interesting weight training studies ever
conducted
14 previously untrained men were
recruited and designed into a continuous
or periodic group
the continuous group trained for 24
weeks straight
while the periodic group alternated
between training for six weeks and
completely resting for three weeks for a
full 24 weeks
during the training weeks both groups
train three times per week with each
session consisting of training the
barbell bench press for three sets of
ten repetitions with a 75 percent one
net max load with two to three minutes
of rest between sets
note the 75 one rep max load was updated
every three weeks
by the end of the 24 training weeks
triceps growth pectoralis major growth
and bench press warner max strength
gains were similar between both the
continuous and periodic groups
that is despite the periodic group
training 25 less due to the training
breaks they took they still saw similar
gains to the continuous group by the
24th week
the graphics tell us how this was
possible for all the measurements
pectoralis major growth triceps growth
and bench press strength the continuous
group continued making gains across the
24 weeks but we can see their gains
progressively slowed and became less as
time went on
for example during the first six weeks
the continuous group increased their
characterized major size by around 15
percent but by the last six weeks of
training they only increased their
pectorized major size further by
approximately five percent
conversely the periodic group lost some
muscle and strength during their rest
weeks but once they resume training
their gains increased at the greater and
faster amount versus the continuous
group ultimately resulting in similar
gains by the 24th week
in fact the periodic group continued to
experience a similar amount of gains
throughout their training weeks their
gains did not slow down and become less
for example during the first six weeks
the periodic group increased their
pectoralis major size by around 15
and by the last six weeks of training
they again increased their pectoralis
major size by around a further 15 to 20
percent
now
here's the key point what happens if
this study continued beyond 24 weeks
given the continuous group gains
gradually slowed down while the periodic
group continued experiencing similar
gains across their training weeks it's
very possible the periodic group would
surpass the gains of the continuous
group at some point
in other words training breaks could
enhance your long-term muscle and
strength gains
[Music]
why did the continuous groups gain slow
down as they continue training and how
did the periodic group continue gaining
a similar amount during their training
weeks
desensitization and re-sensitization of
anabolic pathways could be their
respective answers
within your muscles myofibular protein
synthesis and myofibrillar protein
breakdown are always ongoing
myofibular protein synthesis refers to
the creation of proteins that increase
your muscle size while my fibular
protein breakdown is the destruction of
these same proteins
when the amount of myofibular protein
synthesis exceeds the amount of
myofibrillar protein breakdown muscles
increase in size
at the cellular level myofibrillar
protein synthesis is stimulated by
signaling pathways
signaling pathways are where a bunch of
proteins interact with one another to
ultimately increase or decrease protein
synthesis or breakdown
the pi3k
akt m2 pathway is one of the best known
pathways that increase my fibular
protein synthesis
one part of this pathway involves the
p70 s6k protein enzyme and researchers
often measure the activation of this
protein after lifting weights
as you'd expect phosphorylation which
can be thought of as activation in this
case of p70 s6k is increased after
lifting weights
and this brings us to our main point
another study by ogre sawara and
colleagues found that after 12 to 18
consecutive training sessions training
was performed every other day
phosphorylation of p70 es6k gradually
decreased across these training sessions
in other words the consecutive training
sessions desensitized and lowered
activation of p70 s6k
implying lower my fibular protein
synthesis increases and by extension
muscle size gains
however
taking a 12-day training break was
enough to re-sensitize p-70 es6k
now this study was done on rats but a
recent study corroborated these findings
in humans
they found only seven training sessions
consisting of leg presses and leg
extensions were enough to significantly
reduce the phosphorylation of p70 s6k
after training
however a 10-day training break was
enough to restore p70 s6k's
responsiveness
therefore
consecutive training sessions seem to
desensitize the anabolic pathways
potentially explaining why the
continuous groups were progressively
fewer gains
but training breaks can re-sensitize the
anabolic pathways potentially explaining
why the periodic group continued gaining
a similar amount of gains during their
training weeks
we just saw that 10 days of no training
was sufficient to resensitize p70 essex
k in humans
but recall the periodic group took three
weeks off between training weeks
unfortunately as noted in a recent
analysis the research isn't crystal
clear on the time course of muscle and
strength loss during detraining
but a few other studies also demonstrate
losses of strength and muscle do occur
within three to four weeks of no
training
of course
strength and muscle loss would likely be
a lot less if any at all with a 10-day
break
in fact one study by han and colleagues
found that muscle fiber cross-sectional
area was not significantly decreased
after eight days of not training
thus
what if the periodic group instead of
taking three weeks off only took 10 days
off between their training weeks
given muscle and strength loss would be
a lot less if any at all during a 10-day
break and this duration may be
sufficient to re-sensitize anabolic
pathways perhaps the periodic group
would have seen more gains and surpassed
the continuous group earlier
of course this is speculation but it's
very possible
before moving on i want to note it's not
clear how glycogen and its associated
water changes fit into this
lifting weights can increase glycogen
and thus water storage within muscle
fibers so some of the muscle size loss
with the training is likely related to
glycogen and water decreases
nor actual contractile tissue loss
unfortunately how much glycogen
fluctuations can impact muscle loss and
regain isn't super clear
yet some data indicates it might not be
that important
one study found by just over doubling
the relative concentrations of glycogen
within the quadriceps which was achieved
by having subjects first lower the
glycogen levels through carbohydrate
restriction and then significantly
increase it via extreme carbohydrate
intake the cross-sectional area of the
vastus muscles increased by 3.5 percent
this seems like a decent muscle size
change but remember this was achieved by
just over doubling the relative
concentrations of glycogen stores
here's the thing
one study by hanan colleagues found
although glycogen did increase with
training
the relative concentrations of glycogen
remain the same indicating glycogen
concentrations only scaled with
increases in fiber size
thus
the effect of glycogen fluctuations on
muscle size might be very little when
discussing lifting weights only
overall more research is needed to
examine the relationship between
glycogen and muscle loss during training
breaks
[Music]
so far
we've been talking about complete
training breaks but what about deloads
where you reduce volume and or intensity
well-structured d-loads likely maintain
muscle and strength and if they can
still re-synthesize your anabolic
pathways they could be an alternative to
taking training breaks
however i'm skeptical dealers would
enable re-sensitization of your anabolic
pathways as even though your volume and
or intensity is decreased you're
presumably still stimulating the
anabolic pathways to a fair degree
potentially preventing it from resetting
but this is me purely speculating future
research is needed
[Music]
recall both the continuous and periodic
training groups kept training with the
same regime the barber bench press was
trained for three sets of ten
repetitions with an intermittently
updated 75 one rep max load
however
what if some kind of paradise regime was
used instead
whereby volume and intensity fluctuated
throughout the program
one idea behind periodization like this
is to consistently vary the stimulus so
gains continue increasing at a good rate
something that could have helped the
continuous group
yet the current researcher does question
this
paradise training does not seem to
produce more muscle growth than
non-paradise training
strength gains do appear to be greater
with paradise versus non-paradise
training but limitation is in the
studies finding this the paradise
training groups ultimately train with
heavier average relative loads something
that's better for strength if you equate
average training relative loads between
non-paradise and paradise regimes
strength gains appear to be similar
having said all of this a major
limitation with all the paradise
research is pretty much all of them last
between 6 and 16 weeks
so longer study durations are
unquestionably needed to make better
conclusions
nevertheless if periodization is
superior long term the question is by
what mechanism if periodization regimes
can reduce the amount of desensitization
experienced by your anabolic pathways
then perhaps training breaks would not
be all that important
but at the same time perhaps
periodization plus training breaks would
be even better for long-term gains
if periodization regimes work through
some other mechanism then again the
combination of it with training breaks
might be even better for long-term gains
but future research is needed to
establish the true effectiveness of
periodization in the long term
[Music]
in summary short training breaks around
10 days could re-sensitize anabolic
pathways responsible for muscle growth
over the long term this could mean
occasional short breaks will result in
you building more muscle and strength
it's not clear if deloads would be
sufficient to re-sensitize anabolic
pathways if they are this could be
another route one could take if they do
not wish to stop training altogether
overall more research is needed in this
area and for the time being it would be
misleading of me to state for a fact
that short training breaks will 100
build you more muscle and strength in
the long term
based on your interpretations of the
data overviewed you may wish to
experiment with training breaks
at the very least though a practical
takeaway from this video is that you
should not be worried about training
brakes whether you want to try and let a
nagging injury heal but life's
unpredictability gets in the way of
training taking time off is perfectly
fine at the very worst your muscle and
strength remain the same or decrease
during the time off depending of course
on how long you took off but if you did
lose muscle and strength once you resume
training you will regain this lost
muscle and strength at a faster pace
thanks to muscle memory
at the very best you actually
re-sensitize your anabolic pathways and
set yourself up for more gains once you
return to training
[Music]