oh come on oh you want me to kill myself
two more just a little bit killing No
Rest nobody said rest nobody said rest
Mike nobody said rest let's go you're
fine you an
[Music]
athlete Dr Mike here for RP strength and
this is Doctor spelled out Mike for
trademark purposes Dr Mike Mega social
media
sensation competitive boxer uh People
magazine most eligible sexiest Bachelor
I read it once 10 years ago okay well 10
years ago I was a no one and had nothing
just like today so being that I'm
diminutive and clearly 5T shorter we
have to try to get this guy in a workout
and beat him up oh I think uh my
weakness is going to show very clearly
when the weights come out nonsense in
any case you might be on the floor
though you floor you might the good part
is once I end up on the floor there's
two strong gentlemen to carry me backal
we don't train oh you don't I don't I'm
too lazy to pick anybody we are here to
put people down instead of pick them up
it's a channel motto now Dr Mike is
still a real practicing doctor and you
may be watching this and maybe you're a
practicing medical doctor maybe you're a
nurse maybe you're a fighter fighter
maybe you're a business person maybe
you're a real human being and a stupid
BS YouTube nonsense person doesn't
actually work all us I guess um and you
don't have a ton of time to train or
maybe you're just getting into training
you're like what the hell do I do in the
gym compound unrelated muscle super sets
you do one working set of something
difficult usually multi joint getting
DIY already yeah it's going to get worse
yeah another one without resting hardly
at all oh my God you rest about 30
seconds just to barely catch your breath
and then you repeat the process after a
couple of sets of that you go to the
next and the next and the next you have
not been
training super hard last months so we're
going to go close to failure not quite
to failure we're going to be paying
attention to technique and it's the
timing no rest for the weary no rest for
the wicked and since he's both No Rest
for Dr Mike Folks three two one what was
it I was going to say pain I'm getting
P90X flashbacks from college more or
less yeah just vomits
it's going to be slow and control
Ecentric like three count at the least a
deep stretch and a hold in a deep
stretch two three and up what you're
going to do is you're going to put your
pelvis into anterior tilt pushing a but
out chest up you're going to Bent bend
over like you're doing a stiff legged
deadlift until you feel a lot of tension
in your hamstrings lower back still nice
and tight you're going to relax your
arms deep stretch come up slow and
controll come up notice only my arms and
shoulder girdle are moving the upper
body stays completely straight your
Technique breaks down the set is over
only very good meticulous technique the
entire time slow
slow there nice pause at the bottom slow
slow slow almost look forward so your
Chin's not touching the ground first
there it is beautiful look right up
those dumbbells look forward and
remember what happens first when it gets
hard your stomach starts to drop try to
keep it up yes try oh come on oh two
more did I kill myself two more just a
little bit killing look
forward and then one more look forward
slow control up there you good stuff
right to the dumbbell that was good good
bend over further there it is good Big
Stretch at the bottom good big
chest good yes three
more good and one more
slow beautiful down as if you're going
to do another
and rack right back to push-ups that's
not fair come
on what we want here is a whole body
workout so these are both compound
movements the push-up trains the chest
the front of the delts and the tricep
the dumbbell road trains the back of the
delts it trains the entire back and a
little bit of the biceps as well
definitely forearms for grip so that
takes care of that and also these are
basically unrelated muscle groups so if
we do any kind of suets in which the
same muscle is hammered over and over
over it starts to be the limiting factor
by pairing push-ups to the bent over
dumbbell row we get a really quick
transition time and also the muscles are
non interfering they're unrelated so
it's just getting all the work in for
the muscles and because we're not taxed
too much by one muscle amazing cardio
workout especially if you take shorter
rest breaks and shoot for higher reps
one
slow come up two two more come on you
got
it three good good good good good very
good let's get one last one one last one
one last one but I'll both them look
forward slow control and then up yes
right to the dumbbells nice good effort
man deeper there it is
good good down slow forward big track
forward big one big chest sink it low
two one last one coming
up three slow as if an another Big
Stretch rack take a couple breaths we'll
get you warmed up for the next
[Music]
set the next pairing is the dumbbell
lateral raise and the body weight squat
now any kind of squat works if you're
more advanced it can be with weights the
dumbbell laterali and squat is kind of a
strange peering but again the idea here
is we want unrelated muscles we want one
muscle group to be recovering while the
other one is being trained in the
dumbbell lateral raise we hit the
shoulders and a little bit of the traps
in the squat it's really entirely lower
body so we get a great cardio workout no
one muscle has hammered too much to be
the limiting factor and especially with
the squats we jack up that heart rate
get some awesome cardiovascular fitness
as well yep and that'll be the exact
control with the dmill on the way down
and you can be forceful forceful on the
way up nice and fast and nice and slow
knee Strack forward and over your toes
okay is there a reason why the back
thing for lack of flexibility or yeah
it's literally just he ankle Mobility is
like the number one issue for people who
get into a deep squat okay so that's the
first fix that we usually make for
anyone he's doing pretend scientific
curiosity to delay the workout
motherfucker we'll explain all the shit
later tring help you
out I'm trying to learn I'm just trying
to learn we try to get as much forward
knee flexion as possible oh yeah oh
you're getting sore that looks great
well I'm already
sore s all right so this is first
working I know you said you only want to
do one set I'm willing to do two you
want to do two Mike you're crazy don't
don't this is
irresponsible all right this is work set
yeah and I know you want to go two and a
halfs but come on seven and a half
you're a man you have to prove yourself
here right okay let's do it ready my
keys are perfect change nothing keep
going oh yeah two convincingly Hold the
top right back
up three and then one more coming up
[Music]
four
nice all right same stance in that last
one up we did got a waight at the bottom
deep nice and deep nice and deep oh yeah
down right away three more Misha three
more up good very good oh shit extra
credit that's it dumbbells right away no
rest
[Music]
dumbbells two very good Mike one more
good one
yeah slow control good rack them hell
yeah down slow big chest yeah just like
that down slow slow keep the chest up
keep the chest up wait for it until I
say up that's
it still alive it's not working Jared
you have one series left and we're done
[Music]
so the first thing you're going to do is
a lying dumbbell curl this is a exercise
that Jared invented back in
1896 you look great for your age thanks
so much right I would write in a chart
appears younger than statee appears
younger than stated age possibly liar um
so it's not even incline it's a flat
dumbbell cor correct the most muscles
are better trained at the Deep stretch
position and this is what allows that to
oh yeah deep stretch and
weight and up so it's almost like a
cheap curl lying down correct but with
no
momentum next exercise after that will
be a lying dumbbell skull crusher you're
going to take your elbows and push them
towards your hips you're going to let
the dumbbells come a little bit outside
and touch your
ears interesting I've never seen this
done with dumbbell and that gives you
like a better stretch than the easy one
a little bit Yeah but just like
different ways to skin a cat sure while
the cat's alive and begging for his
life by cat in this you're the cat yeah
and then the last exercise stiff legged
deadlift you're going to take your knees
and you're not going to want to
completely straighten them yep nor you
going to want to do this they're going
to want to do that you're going to keep
them just between those two positions
how do I get my veins to do that tons of
steroids I just shot each one is really
just etched with a steroid needle yeah
so you're going to push your hips back
keeping your chest up and keeping your
knees back so it's two cues chest up
knees back on your Go sir go deep
deep good Stu come up about halfway back
down yes big chest Ultra deep
stretch oh fuck yeah Mike now we're
cooking go
man one more down slow big chest good
stuff good after good
after beautiful skull crusher time no
rest break toward the hips first of the
elbows that's
one
[Music]
two three slow slow
deep and up and rack very good right
away stiff like a deadlifts
chest
up now because Dr Mike is long time not
training we kept the dumbbells the same
for all of these typically you would
have similar dumbbells for the dumbbell
curl and the lying skull crusher but
probably heavier dumbbells for the sleed
deadlift you go man there you
go one more
deep big chest deep deep knees back deep
deep fuck yeah right back on the bench
girls no rest nobody said rest nobody
said rest Mike nobody said rest let's go
you're fine you an athlete we got a box
on our hands let's do the shit you get
punched in the face sometimes this is a
this is it is go go go go go go go I
know all the stalling tricks my
friend he has not trained hard for 6
months and people in that circumstance
often times especially someone like him
who's literally a professional athlete
they want to go hard again just right
away they want to get right back to
where they they were before that's you
know good thinking but it's probably
smarter to approach your session
something like this maybe getting back
into the gym three four times a week and
just using loads that really emphasize
the stretch and emphasize the goal of
putting your muscle tissue back on
especially if he keeps training like
this for the next let's say 3 to six
weeks and within that time frame he's
going to put on a majority of the muscle
that he probably has lost over the
course of however long he has been
training start light start slow start
with less volume and build back up to
where you were before take a little
break here at the bottom and press
that's it right is simply good good good
that's good enough oh shit we got more
all right all
right who am I to say keep last one last
one last set of the day let's do it make
these
quality good hang out at the bottom
first Split Second knees back hang up
good again slow deep knees back up
that's one again butt back knees back
two again but
back
knees come on there you go three and
then one last good
one big chest big chest and de knees
back nice and deep now wait and then up
and then W good stuff good
stuff
oh all
right oh my God you're sweaty that's
what happens when people work out I know
I've been out of the touch uh for so
long that's the workout that's it that's
it man yeah I'm not tired or anything
let's go again uh yeah well yeah let's
lunges in the parking lot yeah what do
you think man your first back uh back to
lifting in six months out of the feel it
feels
safer to do this from The Eccentric
stretch perspective than to go heavy and
sure miss the good old days of lifting
heavy sure I don't think that's
necessary you know what especially on
your first time
light good technique clearly you worked
hard and a lot of you folks might be
wondering like why didn't we toast the
guy we could have easily toasted him we
could have done three super sets we
could have increased the weight we could
have gone uh all the way to failure the
thing is he has like a real job to do in
the real world and he hasn't been
training a little bit uh a couple months
of no no training or minimal training if
you really cook someone full body the
probability of rabdom my liis is still
very low but goes up a significant
extent we're not trying to kill Dr Mike
I mean in my evil plan to become only
doctor like actually damn I could have
done it but we're actually decent people
here if you're looking to get back into
exercise if you're a busy professional a
busy human being and you want a quick
session I mean Scott the video guy
earlier was like and we got to get you
talking on camera a little bit gets
saying something because the workout
straight up did not take a long time and
you know what regular Fitness for
regular human beings does not have to I
could tell my heart rate went up to the
point where I'm also getting a
cardiovascular work up when normally if
I'm doing my 5 by traditional upper
lower split my heart rate's chilling in
the 120s 130s here I can tell it's in
the 150s 160s beautiful we have an
interview which will be either out
already or uh out at some point or
they'll edit it and be like this guy's
an idiot we're never cutting that one a
fucking deal we're talking about robots
and homeless people we get to talking
about some stuff that's related to I
don't know what my usual bullshit Dr mik
huge pleasure huge honor thank you so
much and uh in a couple of days when
your body starts changing you'll look
like jar I'm going to make a video and
I'm going to send it very upset about
the soreness good uh just send it right
to our legal team perfect folks see you
next time
[Music]