weed has upsides and downsides as does
any other variable introduced into any
kind of system upsides for weed as far
as recovery from training is concerned
first it helps you or can help you relax
big deal relaxation is a huge Wellspring
of recovery awesome it just basically
switches you to parasympathetic style
nervous system output and that really
sets up the stage for a ton of recovery
another thing is that weed can help you
sleep which is a huge deal because sleep
is the most powerful recovery tool that
you have as a matter of fact eating a
high protein diet with plenty of
calories and then sleeping a lot that
combination is like the thing that heals
you and grows all your muscle
and if appetite is not your thing and
you have trouble eating enough to put on
weight or to recover then weed can help
you eat which is a big deal a
potentially really good thing