there's a bit of a difference in
terminology between a quick fix and a
near Panacea that requires some effort
so I would say that for most people
substantially reducing their body fat
and thus body weight substantially
elevating their muscle mass and
increasing their daily physical activity
comes real close to being a near Panacea
it don't mean it heals and cures
everything but it's a thing that if you
take any body and reduce their body fat
by 20 lb increase the muscularity by 10
lb and get them from walking 3,000 steps
a day 11,000 steps a day you're going to
see across the board improvements that
are quite radical if you saw those
improvements with a drug based therapy
you'd be like dude call fizer holy crap
we're trillionaires now but I wouldn't
call it a quick fix cuz it's like how do
I get these benefits like G you got to
train with weights twice a week and you
got to walk every day and you can't just
throw food down your gullet that just
like shows up on the news feed so not a
quick fix but definitely a huge main
effect with I would say few downsides