hey folks it's me Dr Mike Israel for
Renaissance periodization and I have a
question for you are you doing too much
volume
and your muscle growth training plan
to get your best growth possible and if
you are doing too much volume how can
you tell like intellectually we know for
sure there's doing too little if you did
like one push-up a day can't say your
chest is going to grow as much as it
would if you did more than one push-up a
day but there's also a certain number of
well anything but push-ups per day that
you can do then it tires you out so much
and it taxes your recovery abilities so
much that you could get better doing
less volume now we know through just
talking to people that a lot of people
have experimented with high volume
programs and then they went back to
lower volume programs and got the gains
of their lives after going back to lower
volume which is a very clear way to
illustrate this happens to tons of
people as a matter of fact if it's
happened to you in the uh in the video
uh please just hit up uh hit us up in
the comments tell us your story tell us
about a time where you used to do higher
volume programs and you were getting
results or good results but not amazing
and then you switch to lower volumes
and things went better you can also tell
us the opposite story if you time where
you know you did less and then you did
more and it got better that's less of a
mysterious thing because we know volume
has a dose response relationship up to a
point the more volume you do the better
but here we're talking about what that
point is and what this curve on this end
looks like because you still make gains
on this end here's the zero point all
the way from the peak gains to no gains
there's still gains to be made we want
to make sure that if you're here we put
you back over here that you're doing
less volume but getting the same or even
better growth how do we go about
intellectually examining that we know
it's a real thing in the world
first thing biggest thing
if you are hitting many PR's in reps or
load you're doing 200 pounds for 11 Reps
versus 10 you're doing 205 pounds for 10
Reps versus 200 pounds for 10 reps last
time if you're making these little
progressions on average over time you're
good to go fundamentally you don't need
to care about this at all you're really
good to go your volume is not
fundamentally misaligned it's clearly
Within
between your minimum effective volume
and maximum recoverable because you're
making gains duh
and you can always keep going and just
make changes at the margins do a little
bit of less volume and do a little bit
more volume so that's definitely a thing
that means you can just keep training
the same and not change a thing however
however we have to ask the next question
is like yes okay you're making PRS but
maybe if you did lower volumes you would
make even bigger PR's in uh your
performance you could do more reps every
week on average more weight every week
on average because you're not as tired
from all that volume
and potentially grow even more muscle
doing less volume and again we know this
happens practically we've talked to lots
of people who'd happen to please share
your story below if you want
and we know theoretically it has to
occur because the maximum adaptive
volume at the top of the curve is pretty
far away from the maximum recoverable
volume and you could be doing a lot of
work in between here that's like more
work than you should be doing for Less
results than you should be getting still
positive results but you could be
spending less time in the gym doing less
work having more fun doing it because
you're less fatigued you can get
stronger faster and everything could go
better how do you know
if you're in that position well first
there are more likely situations that
you're in that position than not even
before doing this alternate way of
training this big change that I'll
propose later in this video for the very
serious of you that really do think man
I really do think I'm doing way too much
before you conclude you're doing way too
much let me read you off a list of
likely situations in which every single
checklist item that you check this
applies to me this applies to me this
applies to me builds our case a little
bit more that you're probably doing a
little bit too much and could benefit
more likely by pulling back so here's
the thing first
if you're objectively as compared to the
studied population of athletes doing a
higher end of volume so for example if
you tell me yeah man I do three sets of
chest per week I think I'm overdoing it
come on the direct literature says you
can on average handle a lot more now
maybe you have a particular case where
your genetics and Recovery are weird and
for you three sets of chest a week is
too much but like
I don't think that's the case however if
per session
let's say you hit chest twice a week or
three times a week if per session for
chest as an example for any muscle here
you're doing consistently more than
eight working sets
you're doing a lot of volume
and the chance that it's not enough
volume is a very low the chance that
it's a little bit too much volume to get
your best gains just exact uh subject of
this video is pretty decent if you're
telling me you're doing eight sets of
chest three times a week but your chest
isn't progressing as much as you want
I'm not inclined to believe that more
chest work is probably the right answer
if you're doing four sets of chest three
times a week I'm inclined to believe
that doing five or six or seven will get
you better results so first check mark
is you're doing plenty of volume and for
me plenty of volume is eight sets per
muscle group or above for reference Jeff
nippard's analysis of the data
shows that about six hard-working sets
per muscle per session is basically
Optimum so this is eight it's even
further removed with more volume down on
that end of the spectrum so it's
unlikely that it's not enough now it's
possible that it's not enough but less
likely than it is you're doing a little
bit too much
next your performance plateaus maybe
even every two to three weeks and you
have to back off you feel like you're
training a ton but every two to three
weeks you get so tired that you're
unable to beat your matcher reps from
last time
you take a recovery half week you take a
deal and everything gets better you do
it again and within two to three weeks
you crash and burn again that is another
thing telling me you're trying to do a
little bit too much volume at a time
another one is oftentimes your muscles
feel flat and tired and empty
people talk you know about how their
training feels like man I fucking love
this low volume chain and get in there
my muscles are swollen I get fucked up
sore every single rep I feel like
they're gonna explode and you're like
yeah yeah it's interesting what do you
how's your training I feel really tired
and like trained but like it's high
volume you're supposed to feel like that
now if it's high volume and you're
recovering from it you're not supposed
to feel like that if it's high volume
and you're barely recovering and making
small gains but you're carrying way more
fatigue than you should be it will feel
like this that tired drained no pump
feeling that's not a good thing that
means you're doing a little bit too much
and you could back off so there's
another little hint
another one is your pump Peaks early in
the workout and then recedes during the
rest of the workout so if you're doing
12 sets for chest you do some bench
presses your pump is glorious you do
some flies your pump is the best
then you do some deficit push-ups and by
the end of deficit push-ups you actually
have less of a chest pump than when you
were doing the the Flies and you're like
is this good idea no your pump is
supposed to be the biggest it ever is
when you walk out of the gym at the end
of the workout if at some point your
pump starts to take a turn for the worst
while you're still doing working sets
for that muscle group a very highly
likely that those extra working sets are
a bad thing you would be better off
without them you could grow more without
them
and over the course of weeks to bring it
back to the point before this that your
muscles feel tired Etc you could just
not be getting great pumps for a few
weeks and you're doing all this volume
and you think well it's got to have some
kind of effect but if your pumps aren't
great and they're usually good with
lower volumes
not great so another more technical way
I can put that point is this if you've
trained with a certain amount of volume
let's say 10 sets per week per muscle
group and you got a good pump on average
now that you're training with 15 you're
getting a worse pump on average per
session
very possible I would even say likely
that you're still making gains but not
as many as you could because you're on
that excessively high end of of trading
volume
another hint is if your muscles are
chronically still sore before you hit
them again if you train hamstrings on
Monday and Thursday and on Thursday
you're still brutally sore from what you
did Monday you're still trying to train
through that soreness that was me under
the table doing mock leg curls by the
way
then what are you doing
your muscles still need to recover still
need to grow that's what soreness is and
in the middle of that process you're
saying we got to go again that's almost
by definition doing too much volume in
this case it's some combination of
volume of frequency that you're doing
wrong but in in any case if your muscles
have plenty of time to heal and or they
don't get super sore you know you're you
might be overreaching but not a super
big concern but if you're hammering your
muscles before they've had a chance to
recover and you're doing this often
you're probably at least doing too much
volume
versus what you could be doing optimally
another one is especially before those
mini delos you have to take too often
your mind muscle connection starts to
feel a little bit off your Technique
feels a little bit off it just feels
like it's too much stuff
that's a hit that well it may be too
much stuff and another last little hint
to yourself as to if you're experiencing
this if it's high rep sets of 20 to 30
you can add a rap and reload here and
there and still progress but if it's
lower upsets that's a 5 to 10 10 to 15
with heavier weight you're having a big
time progressing the reason that's the
case is as you train with very high
volumes possibly too high
your muscle fibers start to change from
being acting like the average slower
twitch faster twitch combo fibers to
more of the fibers that used to act in a
faster twitch manner
starting to act in a slower twitch
manner
and slower twitch muscles as they adapt
their endurance goes up real fast which
is why you get really good at doing High
Reps and you can progress at High Reps
but they're cross-sectional area their
size and their strength doesn't change
nearly as much so when you go and do
sets of five to ten if you're really
struggling to add load to sets of five
to ten
and you're doing a ton of volume and you
feel fatigued and all these things are
happening yeah you're probably doing a
bit too much volume you need to do less
volume so that your fiber type
transitions back into a faster twitch as
you begin to progress again and since a
5 to 10 and 10 to 15 and all the rest of
the rep ranges and not just turn into
basically like an endurance machine now
if you're turning in a nurse machine you
can recover really quick but so can
marathon runners how come they're not
jacked because they have the fiber type
composition that allows them to recover
fast and also prevents them from
basically growing hardly at all you do
not want to be in that position you do
not want the gym to turn into a place
where you do
praying at the altar of high volume for
meager Mana from Heaven you start
rebelling against the old gods and then
Zeus and shit they fight and all that
stuff happens eventually Arthur Jones
comes in and hits everyone just kidding
but on a serious note you don't want to
just be doing volume for its own sake
too much falling for its own sake is
really just a bad idea so how do we pull
back away if we're in this position
if you have lots of these signs that I
just sort of listed off you might be
doing too much chronic volume just too
much volume all the time
you probably have high fatigue right now
which is all those symptoms that I can't
get a pump and all this other stuff
you're probably desensitized to high
volume
which means that your body will only
grow if you give it high volumes and not
that impressively but if you go back to
low volumes your body's like I don't
even tell we're training so it's not
going to grow right away from low
volumes if you switch which what a
fucking disaster that would be you're
like okay I think I'm trading with too
high volume
you switch to lower volumes you go for a
month and you barely grow it all and
you're like okay well like I guess that
wasn't it what am I supposed to do but
it could have been it you're just
carrying way too much fatigue and you're
way too desensitized how do we
resensitize you to volume how do we
lower your fatigue so you can progress
again and the answer is you need a
volume reset what the hell does that
mean does it like the great reset where
you dress up in a funny outfit
talk to the World Bank maybe but a
little bit simpler here it is
we've got a multi-step guide for how to
do your volume reset and how to
construct your first phase back if you
think that you've been doing maybe a
little bit too much volume
here's the deal first
finish your last mesocycle however it
was written finish it do it really well
instead of taking a deload after
and then just going back into the next
message cycle take an active rest phase
which means one deload week like normal
and then week one week of doing
basically nothing just like frolicking
in the field with your friends plenty of
sleep plenty of food plenty of rest this
is going to heal your fatigue like crazy
bring it down and also start to
re-sensitize your muscles to volume
because they're just not experiencing
volume for weeks on end
after this take two to four weeks of
additional training at maintenance
volume just enough volume to make sure
your muscles don't get any smaller or
weaker and no more volume than that so
that while you're training a maintenance
volume for two to four weeks you're
maintaining the same physical
characteristics your body is just the
same size and strength and you're
thinking what the fuck am I doing I
could be getting better but hold on
maintenance volume is such low volume
that your volume sensitivity how much
growth you will get out of any number of
hard sets of training goes up and up and
up this entire time you're essentially
prepping the system to begin ready to
grow again
two to four weeks of Maintenance volume
how much volume is that on average it's
going to be about one third of your
typical volume
holy fuck shit did I say that right I
sure did it's really low and I know it
sounds crazy but you will not lose
muscle and strength doing this in almost
any case and anything you do lose in
some weird way we'll come back within
two weeks of you starting normal
training again so don't you worry about
it let me put this into perspective if
on average over the course of a week you
do 15 sets of quads
for two to four weeks after your active
rest is over in this Paradigm you're
going to do five sets of quads per week
that means three sets on Monday two sets
on Thursday and that's it
try to get them a little heavier than
normal this is not mandatory but sets a
five to ten generally or better for
maintenance than sets of you know 10
plus
focus on technique
it's just going to be like maybe four
sessions a week and each session is
going to be like 45 minutes if you're
full-time super hardcore trainee the
train six times a week for two hours at
a time it's way less work
your system and your local muscles will
build an ability to be sensitive to that
volume again the fatigue will come
crashing down and then after that you
are ready for a really really serious
approach back into training then you're
ready for real training again so at the
end of that two to four weeks one of
those last week will be a deload as
always
so you basically deloaded twice in the
last six weeks and then another Act of
rest you're you are ready to go you are
very very sensitive to training volume
which means like if you do two hard sets
of curls you'll blow up right away and
get a huge pump in the super sore but
you won't want to do that yet because we
want to ease in so how does that look
like how do you construct your program
back because remember
we're not just going to go back to our
same crazy high volume program we
suspected it was too much volume so
we're not going to do that we need to do
a slightly different approach so here it
is
first you build your program as normal
just build it normally all the suds and
Reps and exercises
when it comes to choosing how many sets
you start out with go to half the normal
amount if you normally do four sets of
bench press in week one of a program
you're doing two
if you normally do three sets of curls
you're doing one or two sets there on
the side of one
half the set numbers this is on purpose
we want to start you out on that lower
end of volume and slowly come up to see
if you experience better growth with
lower volumes that's the whole purpose
of this test
Point number three
keep your volume the same unless there's
a very very clear impetus for you to
increase the volume and then if there is
increase it only by one set at a time
per session per week so for example
if you have a terrible pump like zero
fucking pump
the session is super easy you got no
soreness at all no Doms you feel really
barely doing anything okay you can add a
set
but if you're using one of our custom
Training templates or anything like that
what you want to do is just give middle
of the road ratings
for even the easy stuff so that your
custom template keeps you on the low end
of training volume so only increase if
you have a compelling reason to do so
which comports with Point number four
that if you have some pumps some sort of
some fatigue even if it's not crazy just
leave the volume alone remember those
three sets of bench instead of going to
five or six cents a bench we're gonna
try keep doing three or four sets of
bench for most of the meso to see if
that lower volume still effective just
like the higher volume was is a little
bit more effective for Less fatigue if
we're bringing you closer to that
equilibrium point of Maximum adaptive
volume away from training almost at
maximum recoverable volume all the time
if you choose to increase a set
add a set to leg press it had better be
because it's just really really really
profoundly easy no challenge at all
anything the remote is like okay this is
a workout don't increase from there in
most cases
if you're going to increase just add one
set at a time so if two sets of leg
press was like a clown show for you and
you're like this is nothing
had a third set don't go okay right back
to the old days I'm gonna go right to
six of course that's going to tort you
but maybe the torching was too much
which is why we're starting off nice and
slow
if you have been overdoing volume
and you are correct about it this new
way of going on the lower end of volume
still Progressive still hard training
still quality sets but a little less
volume than you used to should give you
better results in rep strength gains in
that mesocycle and I've seen this happen
to tons of people they're doing German
high volume training they're cooking
themselves all the time they take a
little break they come back they do
lower volume and within three weeks
they're like I'm hitting fucking Mega
PR's on every single lift I feel so
strong this is crazy weird how less
fatigue makes you feel stronger you will
feel this pretty damn quick and if
that's the case stick to it you found a
new volume Baseline that's your home
base now you can go up a little in
volume you can go down a little in
volume but you found a real good thing
that's better than your last thing so
don't just go back to that crazy abusive
relationship you've had with training
volume
if you think okay yeah this two or three
sets per muscle group per session thing
works really well better than the eight
sets I was doing
but I think four or five cents could
work better Hey listen I believe you
ease into it though try three or four
for a while a few weeks if that works
great fuck five forget about it try five
some other time
if three or four works okay try four or
five if that works way better hey then
that's your new kind of Maximum adaptive
volume range what I'm trying to tell you
is this two or three sets or three or
four sets per muscle per session starts
to work way better than eight sets don't
just be like all right that was great
that worked let's go back to eight sets
or don't be like okay okay but like six
would work really ideally you don't know
that your new home base is your new
better guess at what you like it what's
good for your body doesn't mean it's the
ultimate guess but it means this is
where you know what's called like
Bayesian statistical reasoning you start
from the prior Assumption of yeah yeah
two or three sets seems to be better for
me than eight or ten
so instead of cutting the middling just
going right for six or five or whatever
I'm gonna hang around two or three and
maybe go to three or four and see how it
goes that is probably a good way to look
at it
of course your fatigue will rise anyway
after four or six weeks of this your
fatigue will go up you'll need a deload
you'll recycle but then you look back on
that program and you count the number of
sets average that you did per muscle you
say wow that was really like 10 sets per
week for chest where I used to do 20 and
you look back at how your progressions
worked with 20 sets for the past few
months and then you look at this past
month and see how it went for 10. oh God
actually got a lot stronger and I'm
physically bigger my pumps are better my
training is better everything's better
there's your answer
if you think okay 10 was pretty good and
I'm strong but I feel like I could be
getting better pumps I feel like I could
still milk some more growth out hey no
worries in the next meso slowly trying
to work out from 10 sets on average to
15 sets an effort don't just go back
running to 20. that is a disaster it's
almost like uh running back to like I
said like an abusive relationship you're
like he'll love me again Mr high volume
no no no no no if high volume was really
nasty to you and it worked okay that if
this lower volume works better Hey
listen like
start from here and work up slow if even
you need to work up at all because
remember
more volume isn't better the right
amount of volume is better the right
amount for you how do you check if it's
the right amount well is the training
process resulting in really good rep
PR's and really good feelings in the gym
if it is you're on the fucking right
track there's not a magical reason to
think like oh more will still be better
you know it's like if you go to a
restaurant have a really good meal
you're like oh oh this is great put up
oh perfect and someone's like hey
another serving of soup and you're like
but I just had that super was amazing
but I'm done they're like no no you want
more soup yes more soup now and you're
like this is crazy but people do that to
themselves with volume you think wow in
a great huge progression doing
12 sets of quads per week the biggest
progression I've ever had I repeated
that for another month I got another big
set of PRS should I go back to doing 18
why would you say that try 13 or 14
maybe and if the progression is a little
worse go back to 12. that's how you got
to read this it's all about Longview
Auto regulation
after many of such these phases you'll
start to develop a pretty good idea
pretty objectively about which volume
averages give you the best meso to meso
long-term performance gains for example
you can have a situation in which 10
sets of chest work per week let's say on
average makes you have a very low
fatigue environment but doesn't grow a
ton of muscle growth some but not a ton
so your first meso goes real well
because you're fresh for the first time
in your life but then second or third
missiles after that they kind of Peter
out
you can have another situation where the
high volume one where it's 20 cents per
week and you're just slowly making gains
but you're slogging along crazy fatigue
bad pumps Etc
if you realize 15 sets a week really
just gets you the best results overall
that's your new home base that's where
you discovered 10 is not enough
20s both are survivable these all of
these are within your minimum effective
to maximum recoverable window but
there's parts of that window you can
exploit better than other parts some is
a little too little some is too much
some is just right so break into that
stupid house the bear had and the Bears
had Goldilocks and you know what I'm
saying I just get like a auto shotgun
because if the Bears are in there you'll
at least eat that I'm not saying kill
the bears but they're dangerous animals
if they don't want to give up their soup
shoot like the the
kid Bear right in front of Mama Bear and
she's like nah when the dad's like oh
could you do this to our family you're
like holy shit that fairy tales are
fucked up in any case
don't just look at one mesocycle by
itself
you did a high volume phase then you did
a low volume phase the low of your face
went great you're like that's it that's
it I'm a low volume guy are you though
maybe all of the muscle you gained came
from the high volume phase and when the
low fatigue of volume phase allowed you
to show that muscle off that's what got
you the big pumps that's what got you
the big PR's another two mesos of low
volume you could be like ah I'm not
progressing much I got to this new level
but I didn't progress much whereas if
you had an intermediate volume between
the ultra high and ultra low you could
both have had an amazing first meso
after the high volume thing and
progressed progressed progressed so
low volumes can seem like winners
because they don't produce a lot of
fatigue and if you had a lot of fatigue
they make you instantly much greater but
they might not be the answer to long
term because they just don't build much
muscle
looking at strings is the best taking
all muscles all the volumes into
consideration of future plans
and at some point you may get to a
situation where you've had great results
you've altered the volume over many
months since your last volume reset
you're looking at it now and you're
thinking fuck I'm back to high volumes
again because your sensitivity will drop
over time so it's natural to raise your
volumes over time
and you're saying I'm back in that place
I was eight months ago where I think I'm
doing too much hey guess what you do
another volume reset just like we
described it's going to wash you out you
get a new Baseline and you go from there
and because that volume reset gives you
so much time to do low volume it's great
for injury healing it's great for injury
prevention it's great for long-term
motivation because if you have times
during the year where you're really not
training super hard it fucking brings
that fire back like crazy and then you
go into another foray of starting with
lower volumes and working your way up to
a really great midpoint where you get
your best results folks thanks for
tuning in let me know if you have any
questions below and we'll see you next
time