deload weeks or all the hype these days
this study had two groups one group
trained for nine weeks straight the
other group trained for four weeks
straight took a one week break from
training and then trained hard for four
weeks again both groups during any given
training week performed the same
training for the quads this was 20 sets
per week to volitional failure pretty
hard trading the common narrative has
been up delos will improve your gains
well the results don't really support
that the conventional training group
that didn't deload generally saw about
the same muscle growth as the deal with
group if anything the difference is
actually slightly lean in favor of the
traditional group that just created hard
for nine weeks straight without
deloading with regards to Performance
this generally again laid in favor of
the no dealer group specifically one
repetition maximum strength and
isometric strength improved more in the
group consistently training
interestingly with a group consistently
training reported decreases in muscle
soreness and consistent motivation all
throughout whereas the group deloading
reported increases in soreness and
reported lower motivation to train the
authors also noted most of the
participants didn't feel like they
needed to take a break from training
even though this was some of the hardest
training that they had ever done before