Dorian Yates changed the game in a big
way for sure you just didn't see people
that big in the 80s on average on stage
Lee Haney who was the best of a
generation and tied for the best of all
time with eight Mr olympas dominated the
80s in bodybuilding and from what I
understand he was on stage roughly 245
LBS or so and Dorian Yates brought a 265
to the stage and I think was a smidge
shorter that's a big deal but there's
another deal Dorian brought at that size
a level of conditioning that you would
see every blue Moon from a bodybuilder
that weighed 190 or 210 lb photos and
videos don't quite do it justice from
what I understand because I've
communicated with a few folks who saw it
in real life back in the day even in
photos uh there was almost a new term
invented for dorian's appearance his
level of conditioning was termed grainy
it looked like he had sandpaper under
his skin and it also looked like he
didn't have skin was just sandpaper wild
it was wild stuff it was describing
people who saw it in real life to be
like d I don't even know what that is
what how did that happen