here's a highly effective 30 minute
science-based upper body
workout welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
today with wolf coaching taking you
through a highly effective 30-minute
upper body session that you can fit into
your busiest days and still make
progress this workout takes advantage of
a technique called the paired suet in
this technique you generally try to
superet two exercises that don't really
overlap with each other for example oh
no
[Music]
in the case of the incline dumbbell row
and the incline dumbbell press we suers
setting two antagonist motions in one
case you're using your chest and triceps
to press the weight up in the other case
you're using your back and biceps SP and
large to row the weight because there's
no overlap in the muscle groups involved
you can suet these two exercises with
relatively minimum rest between sets and
still get a good performance on both
exercises which allows you to get a good
stimulus for muscle growth now why the
incline dumbbell press and the incline
dumbbell Row the incline dumball press
allows you to get a full stretch for
most people on the upper chest and
targets the chest triceps and front bels
pretty effectively as a compound
exercise gets your lower stimulus for
lower muscle groups the incline D row on
the other hand gets you a good stretch
on the back and actually doesn't really
allow you to get a full range of motion
to begin with which as a lengthen
partial might be effective for
hypertrophy and you can see a full video
on that topic in the top right of the
screen right now why are we doing 8 to
12 reps well it's a sufficiently light
rep range that you don't need a ton of
warmup sets but it's sufficiently heavy
that it won't take a lot of time to
perform each set oh
[Music]
no moving on from this we're doing three
sets of 12 to 15 reps on the Easy Bar
preacher curl and on the dumbbell
overhead extension why are these two
exercises well the preacher Cur has a
very advantageous resistance curve
wherein the most tension is present at
relatively long muscle lengths likewise
the dumbbell overhead extension by
having your arm overhead you're
lengthening the long head of the triceps
to a greater extent additionally with
both the incline dumbbell press the
incline dumbbell row and the dumbbell
overhead extension the advantage is that
you're minimizing time taken to warm up
and set up because you're using
dumbbells you don't need to go through
the process of loading the bar and
setting up the exercise you can just get
straight into your set again we're super
setting these two exercises with maybe
about 1 minute between exercises so as
to get a time efficient stimulus in all
of these sets should be very close to
failure as you can see here oh
[Music]
no next we're doing a super set of
dumbbell wrist curls with inclin
dumbbell lateral raises again you'll see
a common pattern these two exercises do
not have any overlap in terms of the
musculature involved in one case you're
using the side belts and in the other
case you're using the forearms if every
you do find that your fors give out
during ladder raises feel free to just
use straps and that effect will be
entirely circumvented why the incline
dumbell lad R well as you can see here
the tension is actually greatest when my
arm is parallel to the ground which is a
pretty long muscle length compared to a
traditional dumbbell lateral rise
likewise dumbbell wrist curls simply
allow you to get a good stretch on your
forearms again take all these sets very
close to failure performing three sets
of 12 to 15 repetitions so during the
session we perform the following We
performed three super sets of two
exercises each first we performed three
sets of 8 to 12 on the in dumbbell row
and the 45Â° incline dumbbell press
second we performed three sets of 12 to
15 reps on the Easy Bar preach craw and
the dumbbell overhead extension and
finally We performed three sets of the
incline dumbbell later raise and
dumbbell wrist curl for 12 to 15 reps
each for the first two exercises aim for
two warm-up sets on each exercise then
going into subsequent exercises like the
preach curl and overhead extension and
the lateral raise and wrist curl you
shouldn't need more than one warm-up set
to get sufficiently warm for the
exercise one benefit of a highly time
efficient session like this one is that
going from one exercise into the next
you should be sufficiently warmed to
really need only one warm-up set by
minimizing time spent on warm-ups and by
using antagonist paired super sets or
nonoverlapping super sets as a means to
save time and superet exercises that
don't have any overlap this session
should allow you to get a really
effective stimulus for muscle growth in
in less than 30 minutes additionally
this session really takes advantage of
dumb BS dumbbells just like stack loaded
machines are generally more time
efficient than something like a barbell
exercise or even a Smith machine
exercise where you need to load the
plates yourself often times you need to
set up the barbell in the right position
whereas with dumbbells it's essentially
just plug and ple you take the dumbbells
and you get into your set so by
minimizing warm-up sets by using paired
super sets and by using dumbbell
exercises this session really allows you
to get a lot of stimulus in in not much
time likewise all of these exercises
provide you with a good stretch on the
target muscle group and will provide
great growth for how little time they
take so give this highly effective
30-minute upper body session a try and
let me know what you think likewise if
there are any other muscle groups you
want to see me break down a quick
session for leave a comment down below
and I'll make a video about it finally
if you enjoyed the video please comment
like subscribe and I'll see you guys in
that next one peace