[Music]
guys I'm original with Renaissance
period ization and today we're going to
do beef and veggie taco meat this is a
recipe from my first cookbook the
Renaissance kitchen and it's one that a
lot of people have given me really good
feedback on if they really like it so
we've got some yellow squash and
zucchini chopped up in our pan and I'm
going to turn the heat on we're gonna
cook the veggies with our lean ground
beef and you know on your RP template
you always want to go with 90% or better
lean ground beef we don't need any
liquid in here don't need any oil or
anything this is a really good nonstick
skillet and these veggies are gonna
start to release their liquids as they
cook so I'm not concerned about sticking
or burning it or anything like that so
this is cooking down really nicely since
you're going to add the tomato sauce if
you do have a lot of juice at this point
go ahead and strain it off pour it all
to one side and use some tongs and stick
a paper towel in there to absorb some of
the liquid it's a pretty safe way you
won't burn yourself we're gonna go ahead
and add some chili powder and cumin and
then you just want to cook these spices
for about a minute before we add the
sauce the dried spices need just about a
minute to kind of heat up and wake up
add our tomato sauce and bring you turn
your heat down to low at this point
we're gonna stir the tomato sauce in and
just let it heat through three or four
minutes
all right so we'll pull this off the
heat and we're gonna add some lemon
juice to brighten it up
at a ton of fresh cilantro
I love cilantro you might not if you
don't lose any of your favorite herbs
whatever you like and then like we
talked about I wanted to show you a few
different ways that this is really good
so I've got some low-carb wraps right
here and then I've made some this is
just a like a steamed jasmine rice a
coconut jasmine rice actually so there'd
be a little bit of sweet with spice
which i think is really good but then
this is just some brown rice and millet
ramen noodles and you can find those I
found those in my grocery store I've
also seen them at Costco and this is I
found like a small pack so it's a
smaller portion and they they you boil
them for like four minutes and they're
ready I'm ready to go three really
delicious ways to have this beef and
veggie taco meat it is a great meal prep
idea
you
[Music]