what you want out of your hand position
is for your wrists to feel good your
elbows to feel good your shoulders to
feel good and also for you to get a nice
gnarly deep stretch in your pecs and
feel the movement in your packs so with
your grip play around to find out what's
best for you start with just outside of
shoulder width grip try one fist length
out you guys are used to fist lengths
I'm sure so fist length in is here
another fist length in is here so on and
so forth play with fist lengths at first
if one of them feels all almost good
you're like you know this feels great
this feels a little bit worse but this
doesn't feel ideal play with finger
lengths instead between those two you
will find a really really good pressing
point the way you can tell again is all
of your joints feel great and your pecs
are getting torn to shreds at the bottom