welcome back soon to be dark tomorrow
Warfare with wolf coaching and today let
me put on my hats of plus five
weaponsmithing as we review and react to
current events in the fitness industry
specifically let's talk about Sam sulik
currently quite a phenomenon within the
fitness industry getting a lot of views
without much click bait very interesting
but what about his training is there any
good from a sports science perspective
that's what we're here to discuss today
so without further Ado let me break down
one of his night days and review if from
a sports science perspective it's
actually good now this video is 36
minutes long so I'm not going to watch
all of it however I will be watching the
workout portion of it I wanted to do for
biceps
tries have my complete Focus 100
attention
same with hamstrings so
it's uh let's just quit talking
get this [ __ ] get this cut started
holy [ __ ] so this is Samsung's first day
of the cut apparently where he's
training lives I'm not going to try to
honestly if I were to just jump straight
into hamstrings after not hitting them
for a [ __ ] while and like try to warm
up to the whole stack
I'm not going to say it's a guarantee
but I'm I'd be more than likely to
[ __ ] pull my ship and that's the last
thing you want so instead of starting
off with some heavy [ __ ] on the you know
seated leg curl I like this kind of uh
Jerry rigged style single leg standing
leg curl
you uh you may need to put like a
[ __ ] plate or something underneath
your feet just so that your knee is that
like this height you kind of just have
to [ __ ] try it but I'll start off
with a couple sets of just I mean
relatively light squeezing sets and then
move on to whatever else so Sam May or
minol have a pointer
maybe after you haven't been Lifting for
a while you don't want to just jump into
the longest muscle length training ever
and there is some evidence around
warming up preventing injuries
um to what extent it plays a role within
lifting weights is somewhat unplayed
um but I think it's worth being cautious
and especially if you haven't trained
hamstrings anymore which from the sounds
of it he hasn't might be worth coming a
bit slower and sounds like he's doing
just that which is very good
foreign
okay
so technique on these starting like
crawls is a bit questionable yes he's
getting a full lockout on the knees and
getting a deep stretch on the hamstrings
at the bottom as much as you can anyways
but it's not very strict and he's not
exactly going close to failure either I
think for maximum growth it might be
worth going a bit closer to failure here
it didn't really look like his form
really broke down at any point it was
just consistently
not great without some body English all
throughout but otherwise you know
besides the body English and the
slightly rushed eccentric pretty solid
nothing too much to explain about that
[Music]
again if I were Sam I would just slow
down The Eccentric a little bit reduce
body English slightly potentially maybe
potentially actually slightly increase
the height of the boxes currently it
looks like the pad is kind of hitting
his mid lower leg ideally you want the
pad to be just against your sort of
Achilles heel right but sort of the rear
of your foot it looks so high that it's
difficult to get a full range of motion
if that's something he wants to do so
I'd consider putting the pad a little
bit lower I've had enough of this
let's do some normal leg curls not gonna
go crazy with the weight
uh only a little more than half the
stack
same thing and do slow-ish controlled
reps yeah these are not slow ish
controlled reps whatever you say like
they're just not slow controlled reps
also real quick doing two types of like
curls in the same session probably isn't
the best use of time unless you're
trading hamstrings once every two weeks
and you really need to hit your
hamstrings perfectly which is not the
best strategy anyways training in Lost
group at least twice a week is better
for muscle growth than training it once
a week and so if you're training
hamstrings twice a week you really don't
need to be doing seated like lying like
curl standing like curl all in the same
session it's just not necessary they all
accomplish broadly speaking the same
goal is there a point to having some
variation across the week yes absolutely
the line like curl for example Couture
the Sartorius and the gracillus a little
bit better whereas the sea the leg curl
could be targeting the hamstrings
themselves a little bit better but
equally they're just not that different
to the point that it makes sense to
include both of them within the same
session you're getting a lot of overlap
for not any additional benefit
[Music]
so I really like that Sam is leaning
forward in the seated light coat right
here what this does is by increasing the
degree of hip flexion you're actually
lengthening the hamstrings at least
three of the foreheads even more and so
as far as stimulating growth within the
hamstrings I See the Light curl where
you're sort of bending forward it's some
of the best hamstring training you can
possibly do you change it up a little
bit but same [ __ ] machine instead of
doing both legs at once I'm just going
to finish off with two sets of single
leg yeah so single leg hamstring curls
are absolutely fine there's nothing
inherently special about them but they
do allow you to just isolate each side a
little bit better and so if you have any
sort of imbalances or if you want to
prevent the balances including some
single leg and some single arm work
within your trading routine is a good
idea
what I would like to see Sam do even on
these single like leg curls is to just
control The Eccentric a little bit more
and potentially pause in that fully
stretched position before curling it
back down
hamstrings are now sufficiently pumped
hamstrings are sufficiently pumped
grabbing them
oh
dude holy [ __ ] like I can feel him like
touching in between nice similar
approach to quads
I'm not going to start off with crazy
heft
I'm gonna do lightish weight single leg
slow controlled reps really squeeze
again nothing wrong with single leg luck
prevent some models potentially reduces
existing imbalances because typically
what I do is I start off super heavy
fatigue the [ __ ] out of my whatever
Muslim hitting and then at the end
lighting the weight and do slower
squeezing reps real quick I don't really
like the light extension I think it's a
fine option if you're looking for a quad
exercise that doesn't load the spine
that you can do for High Reps without
being limited by your systemic fatigue
but equally it trains the quads at very
short muscle lengths you can't get a
full stretch at the bottom of the leg
extension nor does it load the quads
very well in that lengthen position in
that bottom position in fact it does the
opposite it loads the quads most heavily
when the quads are most shortened which
is the opposite of what we want for
hypertrophy as I described in this video
about lower muscle length training yeah
[Music]
so Sam has his feet oddly close together
when he does leg extensions that's not
beneficial nor is it necessary it's
likely going to accomplished largely the
same thing whether you fit together or a
bit further apart
let's go do something else I agree let's
go to something else you've done only
isolation exercises so far for the claws
and hamstrings so let's go with
something else to ask credit though
having both a knee extension and knee
flexion exercise within your routine is
something some strength focused
bodybuilders don't really do and it's
definitely undervalued a knee flexion
exercise like a light curl will actually
train one head of the hamstrings the
short head of the biceps femoris that
hip extension exercises like the audio
or the good morning just won't do and so
if you don't include a light curl you're
missing out on growth in that one area
of the hamstrings likewise if all you do
are compounds for your quads there's
actually one head of the Quad the rectus
femoris that doesn't really get trained
very well when you're just doing squats
or leg press or hack squad or any sort
of compound exercise where it's being
lengthened at the hip while being
shortened at the knee a bit of
inspiration from
a very well-known Jake Cutler workout
video
so I must do some front squats I take
very cool I want to try some [ __ ]
Smith respect nothing more though I've
literally never what you need to realize
about Smith machine squats is that
they're very awkward John rack
oh I don't want to go too crazy I've
never done this but I think two for a
solid set
two plates should be quite light for
young son
so he seems to be training with sort of
constant tension once again what I would
do if I was him is again slow down the
East entry because as much as he says
they're controlled reps they're really
not controlled Slow Down The Eccentric
pause at the very bottom get a full deep
stretch he can definitely go lower than
what he is here
and at the top it still skips the
lockouts it doesn't really matter for
approach fee in fact there's some
evidence that makes impartials are
better than full range of motion reps so
the top is fine and then he appears to
be supersetting it with some sushi
squats some very shallow ones now for
most growth I would go a lot deeper than
what he is doing here a lot deeper I'm
getting a lot of glutes
and I'm trying to destroy my quads
yeah let's go back to leg extensions so
the reason Sam might be getting a lot of
glutes here is because he actually
pre-exhausted his quads doing leg
extensions and so his glutes were kind
of untapped right like there's kind of
true trains of thought when it comes to
pre-exhausting number one is that by
pre-exhausting the quads you then good
front squats and you feel your quads a
lot more and they're a lot closer to
failure and so forth however by the same
token You could argue that well because
your wallets are fatigued your body is
going to shift more of the overall
demands of the exercise towards other
bus groups like The glutes so
potentially the reason he's feeling his
glutes is because the body has said well
your quads are tired let's shift the
work towards the glutes instead
more light extensions honestly no stop
doing leg extensions please I gotta get
home you did it's [ __ ] late I gotta
go to bed and get up for party in the
morning before my 8 30 goddammit did he
just do a leg session composed of light
extensions light curls a different kind
of like curl and finally like one set of
front squats let's see what that looks
like
very cool legs okay he's famous on tick
tocks on here
let's see the side
honest legs bro what can I say I'm not
sure if Sam's actually competing in
bodybuilding but he's looking pretty
interesting in the coming weeks
should start to see
a bit more [ __ ] going on down here
right because obviously right now
they're fully pumped so worst case
scenario for striations and um that is
very true the more pumped your legs are
generally the less striation you'll see
the fewer separations you'll see and
generally this is what that stage if you
ever go to a bodybuilding show you won't
see competitors often pump up their legs
it's because a it makes sort of poses
harder to maintain like when you're
hitting frontal biceps flexing your
quads becomes quite hard when they're
pumped and additionally when they're
pumped they just don't quite look as
defined or as shredded and so it's worth
usually avoiding this I would say it was
a [ __ ] success yeah so I'm not sure
I'd call it a success I don't think it
was a terrible session but you could
tell it was kind of half-assed in a way
like it was kind of oh what do I do I'll
do this which is fine if you train to
enjoy your training then do whatever you
enjoy I suppose but equally a session
composed of almost exclusively like
extensions and two different kinds of
light Coral just not the best like
session at the Atticus and the glutes
just didn't get much training in now I'm
pretty sure this isn't how Sam usually
trains his legs if it is then Jesus
Christ dude has great genetics but as
far as training went it's like a it's a
five you know there's a few things about
his technique that I'd improved like
controlling The Eccentric a bit more
going a lot deeper and that sort of
stuff but overall it's not terrible you
trained reasonably close to failure for
the most part generally he was getting
reasonably deep on most things and
getting long muscle lengths on most
exercises although he could still go
deeper but the biggest issue to me was
just the exercise selection you're not
going to get your best growth doing a
few play extensions a few Like rules and
calling it a day pretty much anyways
that's my review of Samsung's light day
if you like the video please comment
like subscribe let me down in the
comments below who else you want to see
me review as far as their training their
nutrition breaking it down as a sports
scientist come back next time as we
break down more science and more
people's training peace