hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and this week's quick tip
um it's really just a
a personal a personal attestation of
mine on what is uh I think a more decent
and less decent way to behave yourself
oh boy what are we even talking about
and it's the the tip here is don't brag
about non-compliance what do I mean
exactly by that so the thing is a lot of
people will do this will they'll brag
about the results they're getting either
in words or in Instagram posts and I
guess Tick Tock posts gotta appeal you
young ass tick talkers
and they'll brag about their physique
they'll say they'll post a physique pick
or they'll be at the gym with you and
they'll pull up their abs and flex their
bicep in the mirror and you say
something like or comment something like
hey that's really great and then you
read the caption or they tell you in
real life and they say yeah man it's not
bad for and then they give a laundry
list of reasons why they're not an even
better shape
yeah man it's not that four hours of
sleep every night
it's not bad for barely eating I don't
fuck I don't even fucking eat bro man
I'm off subs right now bro
amazing Etc
they're not training right they're not
sleeping right they're not doing any
cardio
LOL this is just off cheeseburgers and
this drives my wife
um at Dr Crystal on Instagram if you
want to follow my wife who that came off
weird but I like it yes yes we're always
looking for a third
don't take that personally Scott the
video guy you're always a shoe-in number
one spot
but you go on vacations
and we have an appetite don't we
uh this is a personal pet peeve of hers
is when people who have taken 17 gallons
of clenbuterol
and 18 gallons of trend do that picture
where they're like have three
cheeseburgers at a restaurant and
they're sitting in there and they pull
up their abs with veins and the captions
like LOL this is like this just me
living my life trend
here's the thing
what is the supposed take home of
bragging like that I know what it is you
might not know what it is when you're
doing it but I know what it is when
you're doing it and it is that you have
amazing genetics because what else could
explain the fact that you are in such
unbelievable quote-unquote shape with
such minimal or dare I say dare elected
inputs
and here's my big rejoiner to that so
fucking what you have amazing genetics
nobody cares about that unless you work
at your genetics and make something
impressive for your genetics because if
you're a personal trainer and someone
finds out that you just have good
genetics and that's what you look like
which is a lot of personal trainers by
the way they realize if they're remotely
intelligent and think through this for
about three seconds they go if my
personal trainer looks like they look
with basically just genetics as they
always essentially intimate to me and
they are doing everything wrong I hire
them because I want it to look like them
I cannot hire their genetics I should
fire them and go find someone who
actually knows how to improve bodies and
does it themselves
I want a personal trainer that looks
pretty good
but bled and died and worked for that
shit and had to figure everything out
because they don't have good genetics
versus a personal trainer or Fitness
coach or online coach or inspirational
person who was just like that's just
sort of what God made him look like it
was a little extra drop of trend into
their primordial soup and boom they come
out just with cap delts for no reason
if you do have cap delts for no reason
and you want to impress somebody put in
the consistent work and stop bragging
about how little you do because then you
can actually become truly great and not
just some guy with really cool looking
delts at a random uh 24-Hour Fitness in
Pomona California uh sorry if that's a
human being you know and then tell him
to start trying because there are people
with amazing genetics that looked
unbelievable before lifting Brandon
Curry former Mr Olympia
has pictures of himself from his
childhood where he's like 14 and is
jacked never lifted weights all the way
you know beginning like his college
football career barely lifted weights
basically looks like a natural Pro and
you're like how but then what did
Brandon Curry do
he bled for the ship for a generation
and then culminated with one of the best
physiques in history and I truly think
that's physics unbelievable
also if you see him in real life it
doesn't make any sense because you're
like oh like that he's pretty short
actually and then he pulls off his
sweatshirt and you just see him in a
Stringer and you're like
what the hell is that his waist is like
this big and his upper back's like that
I don't understand he goes to a tailor
because he actually gets really really
good looking fitted suits as Taylor's
probably like the first time he was like
I don't understand Dan we can't go off a
shirt template because your body does
not look like it belongs in a shirt what
is this
unreal impressive but he earned that
shit and he wasn't always amazing he had
his ups and downs in bodybuilding so if
you have amazing genetics imagine
talking to Brandon Curry like you have
great genetics you weigh like 180 and
you're kind of stripped up and shit and
you've been derelicting your sleep and
your food and he comes up to you in the
gym you're like oh my God you're Brandon
Curry and he's like he's training he's
like yeah man he talks he's like dude
you got a good look and you're like yeah
man and then you hit your usual bullshit
you're like you haven't even been
sleeping you know and small subs and
it's barely been training you know do
you think Brandon fucking Curry is going
to be impressed by that
he's gonna be like oh you know what I'm
saying that's what's up
some like Smooth black eye shit because
black guys are the best people in the
world talking to random people and being
cool with it because I would just
straight up be like
get out of my face and I get arrested
again it's terrible
Brandon Curry will not be impressed
because he used to be you but then he
ascended with his Blood Sweat and Tears
so if you have great genetics or
whatever Gen X you have and you find
yourself bragging about how awesome you
look despite the fact that you haven't
been trying hard
who are you bragging to you're insulting
yourself you are insulting yourself
because genetics is not an
accomplishment like by definition you
born with it what is potentially an
accomplishment is you doing something
about it so you're bragging about your
genetics is like bragging about your
parents inheritance
I don't know what to say my parents did
leave me 10 million dollars and uh well
it's just me it's just how I do things
no that's how your parents did things go
invest in something or whatever rich
people do buy a Lamborghini for God's
sake that's not investment
but really
it's an investment in yourself into your
soul
at the end of the day no matter where
you come from where you started what
genetics you have put in your work to be
the best that you can be don't bother
with little humble brag bullshit about
how we haven't even been training and
this is what this looks like and here's
it's dangerous thing ready and I do this
shit sometimes I'll post like a leg vein
on Instagram you're like start a prep
manual slug being God here hey Mike shut
the fuck up
see you guys next time