[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
you're serious about your goals and the
RP diet app is here to help it creates a
diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
world
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today folks welcome back weekly webinar
with dr. Mike and dr. James dr. Mike how
are we doing good good how are you I'm
good I'm good I'm ready to go I'm
actually feeling really good I just
finished up my cut so I'm kind of easing
my calories back up a little bit
feeling a feeling pretty good actually I
did the weighted vest this whole time
and I can confirm some of the stuff that
Kriegers
you know one subject study design guy
had where like I really never felt super
hungry this whole time lost weight like
pretty weird I had to do one calorie cut
on the app and then at you know that was
it was just very cool yeah never really
felt like I was wearing it too much I
might have to try the weighted vest at
some it's annoying at first so like I do
this one like during the day and I do I
treat it like business hours like I wear
it from the time that I'm not lifting it
which is you know I lift first thing in
the morning but I put it on wear it
until about 5 o'clock and then I take it
off and like I can relax for the evening
and then I have a the bomb though like
terrorist one that I wear for a cardio
and I feel like my back actually grew a
little bit from having just like that
downward pressure from like the sixty
pound vest and just I felt like the urge
to eat like I felt like oh I want to eat
but I never felt like the crippling
hunger you know what I mean sure of
course which was a nice like side
feature on this one so I had pretty good
experience with the but I'm gonna keep
wearing it until we go on our trip to
Thailand and then I'll take it off and
take a break from it from a little while
yeah I'm wondering if I can jump dunk
like that what's his name Josh I think's
been asking us about dunking so that'll
be me out Yahoo all right yeah shall we
I'll pull it up here I'll see
screenshare put on my porno away there
we go
good to go okay yard mmm okay Sean
berroco Rueben hey guys been studying a
whole lot from all the rp+ videos and
webinars and I've learned a lot mich
wanders he makes sure if I can't I
budgeted for concepts from the past
several weeks together correctly well
see if James I remember them yeah
that'd be a good start yeah let's say
you've got 20 reps on the first set of
an exercise and on the second you got 15
reps assuming your breath was caught for
the second set and the muscle was a
limiting factor both sets are roughly
equally hypertrophic right um I don't
know if they're equally hypertrophic but
they're very close and there's no reason
to think there's a massive difference I
mean like I would say it's fair to say
that their knots but they're probably
immeasurably small like the difference
is immeasurably smaller because you
could you could you could kind of play
both ways like okay well 20 reps is just
more than 15 reps so that's an obvious
difference but the second set you might
have a slightly better mind muscle
connection things like that so my and a
roughly the same I would say probably
different but immeasurably do there's
another problem there it goes like this
um your sets as you continue to train
inevitably come less and less
hypertrophic with every sense that you
do this same for frequency every session
you add to the week is less hypertrophic
then I can take a session away so that's
not a proper way to get it the rest
times just to say if I rest long enough
than the size equal hypertrophic it's
not going to be equally hypertrophic
either way but if you rest for three
minutes one day and for two minutes
another day that second set that you
rested for two minutes ones three
minutes another time is it going to be
as hypertrophic as its other second set
if you rested a different time the
answer to that is yes if you could meet
all the criteria so and like even like
this is like such my new Shai don't even
know why I'm even going here but like
you could even look at like okay well on
the first set maybe the power output on
each rep was just a little bit higher
because you were so much fresher than
the second set you have a little bit of
fatigue already sitting in you get 15
raps but each one didn't quite have as
much steam in terms of the velocity or
force on it maybe maybe not it's hard to
say that's why we would say like
probably close but if there was a
difference if you can't detect it the
premise a is true because assume you've
caught your breath and second stuff the
only reps you missed out on comparing
the first set were primary slow-twitch
and not primarily slow-twitch but more
slow-twitch than otherwise
so yeah you still get as many equally
effective over the most effective reps
ya see and since the effect of reps
count stay the same roughly five percent
in this particular example primarily
coming from the intermediate fibers both
sets will be almost equivalent front of
per trophy if the five rep difference to
the first and second side would mean we
just view from slower fibers wouldn't
come from much of virtually very true
but remember that the first set is going
to be more heavy to every for the second
set just by the fact that each
additional set causes less but if you
factor that out yes absolutely
mm-hmm and the best way to compare those
two programs one has you resting for
minutes each time one is arresting two
minutes each time but two is more than
uh free to catch a breath strong again
the most of programs will essentially be
roughly the same set for set and then go
ahead James I was just gonna add like
just keep in mind two like these are
theoretical discussions that are like
heavily based in like some very similar
research but this is not something that
I don't think least that I can recall
top my head where they've really like
looked at these things in very specific
context these are things that we can
kind of infer from other studies that
we've seen but we just want to be
careful how we stay some of these things
Shawn because we don't want to state
this it's like this is something that
you can verify on PubMed and say look
this exact situation's been tested it
right it's not this is like a
theoretical discussion yeah
premise C would be a good example of
proper usage of the effective rest
principle since it accounts for the fact
that a 20 rub set first at 50 Rob's that
second set although there are some still
some truth to the last final fact of
rest principle in this case is primarily
intermediate fibers being maxed out just
the fast twitch fibers would have
accumulated too many metabolites at this
point to fully activate properly I don't
know about that it's not sure that's
more true with 20 to 30 rep sets than it
is to 15 and 20 rep sets if we get a
passing grade I'll be very happy
gendered uh I don't know if we were I
didn't know we were grading you let's
just use let's just use pass/fail
pass/fail you definitely pass all right
there's a little bit of nuance there and
the way we're phrasing these things most
yeah which is how it's how it usually
goes in science right like nobody can
agree on anything because we get caught
up on a particular word or for sure
description
all right Cole Nishikawa are you related
to Sean Murtagh a Reuben mm-hmm hey
Doc's had a few questions about my
training in nutrition I was hoping could
help with for context I'm a vascular
surgery resident holy fuck
so my daily stress is high as well as we
could work hours typically 100 to 120
hours in the hospital the fuck and on
call from home the rest of the time yet
when absolutely
on average I try to get 5 to 6 hours of
sleep nightly what this is frequently
interrupted with nursing pages or
emergency operations I'm beginning i'm
beginner as fuck but i've been trying to
prioritize my training nutrition over
the past year so i've made some small
gains i understand my lifestyle is not
the best for optimizing methods ii when
i was hoping to get your input basically
using the 6-day chest backs to it and
going to the gym whatever i leave work
before 10 p.m.
starting work daily at 6 a.m. so on some
weeks i may actually be getting the gym
five to six times a week whereas other
weeks may be only 2 to 3 is this a
reasonable approach it's not I would say
you should get a floating program or a
program that lets you yeah yeah I'm
definitely chest back is I guess you can
use it as a floating program split the
difference just do four times a week
that way it'll be more consistent than
yeah then the four time goes best I
would say get four times a week I don't
know if I'm assuming he means chest and
back emphasis meaning that there is
there is legs in there it's just yeah
but make sure there's some legs in there
too but yeah this I mean the thing is
that there's so much variability between
training six times per week and training
two times per week it's like how do you
even how do you manage that if that a
four time per week program would cover
your bases during those two to three
times per week weeks much more than a
six time per week program which really
derives more of its value from having
all the days in the particular spots
which they belong so right
Stanzi program you could run more than
four times a week if you're really free
on some weeks and then totally 2 times 2
3 times it would still be a really good
thing to do and like a perfectly
reasonable option would also be to
entertain the idea of doing a 3 time per
week training Pro
that's mostly just like maintenance
training right you're probably not going
to be hitting like MeV ma V range at
three times per week but I mean you got
bigger fish to fry and that's perfectly
fine like you can do a really good job
with your nutrition and doing health
promotion that way you can make sure
you're getting some cardiovascular and
some strength training in and you know
hitting lifting three times a week
perfectly fine for like living a healthy
lifestyle and just know like okay well
you know from that I'm gonna be working
my ass off until I get my doctorate and
once that's done then I can maybe think
about putting fitness as a priority but
for now it's not and that's okay yes
which brings us to the next point also I
want to do a mini cut next mezzo is it
better to start after the D load or can
I start my mini cut on the deal a week
or does it really not matter for the
training can I use research sedation
measure from the mini cut no don't do
that well they're not in volume it's not
I thought you would use mess like a 1
for mini cut I would also in your case
not do a mini cut because you're under
way too much stress for that to be a net
benefit I would do a regular cut maybe
eight weeks long and just do it slower
and steadier so you could still eat
plenty of food and not do a bad job at
work many cuts are for people who are
more advanced and I'm sure going to mass
e to the next level yeah you're not
gonna mass doing three times a week
right like think about it that way like
that's just like an unreasonable
expectation at that yeah I would just
train at a very slight surplus for most
of the year and then one or two times a
year I would you like an eight-week cut
and cut off on the body fat gained from
out I think that's good enough you got a
very very small move small steps cuz
you're under a ton of external pressure
yeah I'm like um who's Brett's really
big on like the the kind of the very
small long longitudinal like small
changes so he would be a good person to
look into some of his death I don't
totally agree with it but that's kind of
more more along the lines of agus
needlessly constraint but interface you
are very needlessly constrained exactly
need fully constrained and then he says
also regard to last month's contour
while surgeons we do actually operate 12
to 16 hours without breaks but that's
usually only a few times a month make
sense for the most I'm still I still
think that that's technically like not
legal it's just common practice yeah
legally enforceable is what I'm saying
for sure
for the most part our cases are two to
six hours long make sense there's always
time in between operating to smash
protein shakes and bars but on those
16-hour days it can be difficult to get
the protein in well if it happens a
couple times a month that's actually not
a big deal it's actually not a deal at
all yeah it's super easy for cutting
those
best of luck it's a shitty shitty time
residency sucks my wife is at the tail
end of her residency in sports med
family med and she's been slaving for a
long time she tells me surgery your
residency is some order of magnitude
harder than that
so she's half dead so I'm kudos to you
best of luck
Jason Koshi says high jump guy here by
the mic I don't know if you saw but he's
been tagging us and some of his
Instagram stuff I almost never see any
tags yeah I'm sure you get but he tagged
us and I was like who is this fool
tagging me right now and then I was like
oh it's dunk guy all right as a side
thanks for the content my podcast I
enjoyed the RP as well as arrived
starter podcast super informative
content from both of you I also really
appreciate the every class lectures in
this particular forum when I dug for the
first time at 32 years old and five
seven oh well because of your help
that's some like mad UPS dude I'm 6 foot
1 and I can't dunk so kudos for context
of the questions below I will try to
dunk in August I just finished a cutting
phase have a strain focus seven week
power focus on unique and gem specific
focus seven week and overreaching three
week left you know I'm just looking at
that like it doesn't look bad on paper
but I'm wondering if you need to have
like a jump specific focus for that long
yeah
I would also specific I would maybe four
weeks of age yeah I was thinking like
maybe break up a little bit of that jump
specific focus and maybe do two times
power focus or you could even do it on
the front end and do like two times bank
focus yeah I would do a strength focus
for like eight weeks
yeah yeah I'll revoke asfalt jump focus
for like two yes yeah
and the jump focus might even just be
kind of built into like the functional
overreach before you got your actual
jump test right you might not even need
to make it like a mezzo so much as just
like that's your functional overreaching
before you do your taper for jumping
just finish make up with the RP app down
10%
during an eight week period that's
really good that's impressive because
the app shouldn't let you do that if we
do a cap of 1% per week but if the app
doesn't flag you if you go faster it's
just you responded really well to it so
then you can't have a kid set a goal
like that in the app just used RPI
perfect end let's maintain muscle only
like we just went up week to week
actually lured upper body lifts falling
would increase lower body like volume
didn't care if I lost my body mass now
that's we might you won't lose any upper
body mass as long as you're like
actually lifting and you can shift some
of your volume landmarks around right so
you're saying okay legs emphasis upper D
emphasis that's perfect yeah test of my
vert probably three plus inches Wow went
from barely touching room to now
grabbing holy fuck god damn dude you're
gonna be danger zone increases fucking
awesome well later and you'll be there
yeah that was like a pre post three so
he's done an extra three inches since
his last on the cut from the codger yeah
man were you super fat what the hell
well so get me I'm kidding I'm kidding
me when I was cutting at Appalachian
State we did jump testing all the time
and I would jump in and get my jump
testing done on the potentiometer which
was super accurate my John what sky high
after cutting oh yeah in order weight
ratio is like just obscene yeah and for
my dissertation of ETSU we actually
looked at like a group of 90 plus
collegiate athletes and we found that
one of the best predictors of jump
height is your body fat percentage
go figure a rest by itself not even
incorporating weight and then if we
factored leemaster fat mass ratio it was
like an unbelievably high correlation to
jump high yeah it's amazing how like
there's like a downstream effect where
it's like sprinting and jumping are like
really associated with like lean body
mass and like body fat percentage and
then like most sporting activities are
highly associated with sprinting and
jumping yeah it's not a causation but
it's definitely like alright well if you
want to be a good athlete you probably
need to be able to jump in sprint that
means you probably got to be at least a
little bit muscular and at least not a
lot a bit fat not
that fat person alright onto the
questions number one I finished my cut
four weeks early which means I'm not
food prepared with a plan from F
restrain psycho I'll eat advice for
building general streets for jumping
should I do some maximal lifting using
lower training percentages like Jared on
meth or 2.0 yes or keep it simple and
try to progressively over to intensity
specific rep ranges each week 95 percent
actual 5 around 100 percent actual fiber
and 105 percent actual fiber I'm close
to failure stuff you could join a 2.0
style though as much better
you could feasibly do both the latter is
just more difficult to not be pushing
that failure boundary a lot so so like
when you ask like should i do sub max
lifting the answer is almost like
exclusively yes there's only like a few
instances like peaking for power lifting
or weight lifting where you should
entertain like the thought of doing max
lifting and tram so that's one of those
kind of like it's a it's an easy
question to answer but maybe you're not
thinking of it the same way that I am
where like you should always be doing
sub max lifting unless you're in a
barbell sport oh I'm glad you brought
that up James because it helps me answer
the next part of the question asked
differently during the strength phase
will I have better transfer as I move to
power then jumping and then jumping
sorry slowly progressing and that
eventually adding high intensity member
Orca Sicily training at higher
intensities for rep range
recommendations first of all strength
teams takes a lot of time to build so
the juggernaut 2.0 approach is just
better slowly progressing and eventually
getting very very strong is way better
than grinding yourself more into a pulp
yes but secondly your best bet is to use
that German our method 2.0 approach
because it's so much submaximal loading
but you don't just want to eat is this
really really really really really
important on like power lifters and a
bunch of other folks you don't want to
just get the reps done every concentrate
part of every rep especially for squats
you want to promote performance maximum
concentrate velocity the intent to move
should be 100% that will transfer
incredibly well to your jumping versus
just getting the reps in so not only
should it be some maximal but take
whatever weight off the bar that is
different than maximal and put it into
your speed
and then already the strength directly
and indirectly builds James yeah no
that's a it's a really really good
recommendation I'm still I'm still kind
of struggling to figure out what his
it's really his specific question is is
he just saying transfer as I moved to
power than jumping slowly progressing
they mentioned hitting a high-intensity
number consistently training it higher
I'm not entirely sure what the question
is so basically like in the juggernaut
method James you start out really really
submaximal and build strength as a
technique and a skill and then after
three or four months you get really
really strong because you work up but
you don't go super close to failure at
any point until the end
mm-hmm he's thinking just grind close to
failure with low reps and the same
number of sets and then deal oh diamond
grind a little bit oh I see okay yeah
yeah yeah
then no I totally agree with what Mike
said number two when I want a peak for
jumping I would like to overreach by
dropping weights squatting weighted
jumps taper is the dropping weights and
yeah so you would you would still do
those things during the overreaching
portion and then you would drop them for
the tapering portion yeah how many weeks
before I want to overreach should I stop
lifting can you just got on me and s.vs
muscular implications yeah yeah so
you're probably gonna include at least
some element of lifting all the way
through the functional overreaching
period it might not be a lot but it
might be still something and then you
change yeah you're gonna be doing less
of it and then what I would say is you
could consider dropping lifting out
during the tapering period which you
know I think you kind of go either way
on this I kind of I was thinking about
this your specific situation I was
saying should you do like a two-week
taper or one-week taper I can't really
say that you you need to do a two-week
taper I think if you want us totally
focused I think one is fine yeah I was
thinking like two weeks is might
actually just be like a lot of time
wasted without a lot of extra gain you
might gain like a fractional amount of
maybe more of jumping ability but if
it's a it's a week off of training at
that point too so you probably are at a
net loss at that point so I would say
probably just one week functional over
week the overreach d load go for it
[Music]
last week you provided recommendations
to do triples as I move into the power
phase later in the week versus earlier
minimum/maximum
SEC ranges lifting for three years
earlier thirty seconds short etc for
intensity should I work up to my 3rm and
simply try progressively add five pounds
over you know none of our SEC Rangers
I'm not sure I think I thought he was
thinking seconds it doesn't make any
sense it doesn't make sense but I can we
can tackle the last part really what you
should be doing when you're working with
triples is doing like submaximal triples
so probably a better approach would be
starting at like 85 percent of your best
3x3 right like and maybe you don't know
what that is maybe you just have to
guesstimate with that yeah and that's
fine and then working up to like 90
percent of your best 3x3 what you don't
want to wait 3 by 3 and 5 of em are very
civil right but 3 by 3 and 3rm are
significantly different right - in this
context it's worth it's worth to note
and those are not the same so if you're
using 3rm you're probably gonna be
overshooting more often than not whereas
if you use 3x3 and then scale that down
you probably will be keeping you know
one to two reps in the tank more often
than not and that's exactly where you
want to be yeah it can be hard to gauge
or IR when you're doing less than 5 reps
because it's kind of like well yeah
there's no there's only so many reps I
can actually do right so when do I stop
so it can be more difficult but the kind
of the take-home message on that is just
like Mike said earlier don't grind out
triples to the point where you're
bleeding oh yeah yeah right that's what
you don't understand number 4 our deal
is necessary even beneficial for my
apply metrics and sprints fuck yeah oh
my god yeah it's gonna say more than
anything else 7 tonight we progression
here only weighted movements will be
squats and deadlifts for triples yes and
even that by itself
Ward's the deal oh but I mean jumping
sprinting absolutely yeah especially
plyometrics which fuck you all yeah I
mean so you have like the nervous system
components the central and peripheral
but you also have the connective tissue
components all take a lot longer than
the muscle takes to kind of recover I
understand so for way to counter move it
jumps any meaningful difference oh by
the way just for D loading this is a
difference in D loading
hypertrophy strength and power / speed
especially speed remember that for D
loading speed you essentially only alter
the volume you still have a maximum
intensity still do your clients still do
your sprints Sprint fast but do like
half of the usual sprinting volume you
do and you will recover a ton because
you know these things because especially
because they're unloaded a lot of the
times it's totally fine to keep the
intensity super high and it conserves
their adaptation super well if you start
to lower the intensity lot on Sprint's
and jumps and plyos the conservation of
effect really really goes down not the
same thing for hypertrophy and strength
especially for hypertrophy but so you
can't absolutely do them in a maximum
manner or close to maximal just really
slash the ball a month or a week and
you'll get a huge benefit and you can
even take the intensity down on your
lifting if you're really yea worn out
like you could drop you know fifteen
twenty percent of the relative intensity
and it'll be light but you're doing d
load so that's fine and the bigger
outcome here in this case like my cardi
was alluding to is the power and speed
what you have to the thing is like as
you train power and speed the thresholds
for maintaining and of course
overloading power and speed keeps
creeping up and up and up and up and up
as you go a little bit so like Mike said
you got to keep at it otherwise D
conditions very quickly yep remember
five for weight at counter movement
jumps any meaningful difference in
exercise selection between hex bar the
weighted counter movement jumps hex bar
dumbbell or barbell loading so I'm gonna
I'm gonna say yes and I'm gonna say the
most stable of those and they're one
that allows me more athletic return to
the ground is your best bet
um dumbbell jumping is cool but is a
little unstable and often times doesn't
result in the best powers forces for
these experts play a little better but
can also suffer from that barbell we
could think about barbell jumps is that
the thing is fucking stapled to your
back and it forces you to produce tons
of vertical force and oftentimes it
allows the return to be rather athletic
so I have a honestly this is gonna be
some super fucking lean the best way to
do weighted jumps is with a vest by a
longshot
boom then you can focus on all of your
jump mechanics super well in my personal
opinion experience the barbell comes
second the thing the hex bar is good the
dumbbells swing forward on you there's a
way to swing the dumbbells which you
could sort of use them as a second pump
for the jump and it just gets really
weird James anything to that yeah so I'm
gonna build off what you said so I'm not
super opposed to the dumbbells for that
reason what I am opposed to the dump and
this actually kind of ties into question
six like the advantage to using the
dumbbells is that you can drop them
right pretty easily but the disadvantage
is when you drop the dumbbells you can
land on them which is a very large yeah
right so it's kind of a ticklish you
toss it out to the side which is
hilarious I'd love to see that at a gym
so the thing with the weighted jumps is
for something like dunking because the
best transfer of training effects are
going to occur at loads that are
probably less than 10% of your body
weight the dumbbell is a good option
because you can use very light weights
whereas the barbell and the hex bar are
a fixed weight you might not actually be
able to get low enough to be within that
10% now you might be able to and in that
case the barbell are the hex hex bar are
much more stable in that regard and so
as Mike was saying that's what are those
body bars that aerobic Studios use their
light yeah or a women's bar or this far
short bar or like Mike said a vest is it
really good and like this one I'm
wearing right now is 12 pounds the one I
have another one that's 10 pounds it's
the same thing it's really easy to put
on so if you wanted to do the weighted
ones keep in mind like we're gonna be
using loads that are like 10% or less of
your body weight so any of those you can
do that with the dumbbells you can and
I've seen people do this where they'll
do the counter movement portion and then
dump the dumbbells to just jump and land
unload it which is in theory a good idea
just reducing the impact of landing at
that point which is probably the
limiting factors to how much do you
think you can tolerate but then again
you might actually land on that dumbbell
and eat shit so sure yeah be careful
with that I'm gonna say something which
might not be true James I'd like you to
tell me if it's true I think that when
you're training for jumping I think
there's a lot to be said for three types
of training and three modalities not
necessarily competencies and I think
there's not much middle ground between
them there might be two major ones and
one of those could split number one is
high resistance high force heavy
squatting or any kind of movement that
generates a ton of strength in the lower
body the second may be useful some type
is like a like a power variant where be
it a clean snatch or a dynamic squat
will you squat all the way to your tippy
toes pushing through like a ballistic
squat and that's generally you know half
as much loading or a little less than
your squat and then there's way down at
the other ends option three is minimally
loaded or unloaded jumping and I'm gonna
say something James I don't know if it's
true I remember learning to some extent
that it could be true but I have other
sources here's the kicker I don't think
there's a lot of good to come from
between those three main areas is that
it's like a 50 pound weight vest no he
could just follow us your mechanics for
jumping in not sure if 250 pounds you
know like right exactly so it's one of
those like something like a 50 or 75
pound weight vest is not enough it fucks
your jump mechanics enough to to fuck
that up but it's not enough force to get
you stronger it's okay for power
production but what's a really good for
power production is one of those squats
to tippy toes are clean or a snatch
which is a relatively high force but can
allow you to execute a movement that's
not the jump so there's not that tech
the infection going on and then squats
for a good range of motion with high
loads are great for strength development
no one in the right mind is gonna tell
you the technically gonna transfer
jumping and so when you do jumping I
think load of jumping is a benefit but
it's got to be a little small enough
weight that your technique isn't
poisoned and that's know people say they
up to ten percent they give it a 5
percent past it makes a big difference
and because is totally great like your
vest you're wearing out of ten pounds
they just totally fine isn't the
heaviest you ever going loaded jumping
is downtown yeah I completely agree so
you know for those of you who are
exercise science savvy Mike's basically
talking about loading on the three major
portions of the force velocity curve
where you have the high force emphasis
part which is done at low speeds you
have kind of that power range which is
usually done you know between like 20
and 60 percent of maximum force and then
you have like the high velocity end
right and so what they've shown is that
like building a lot of force tends to
improve jumping improvement in the long
term building high power outputs can
improve jumping in the kind of more
moderate term and training the velocity
side of things can have very acute
effects like just getting people to try
and learn how to move quickly they just
it's like doing a like doing the balance
test like if you practiced during the
balance test you get really really good
at balancing and a really really short
amount of time same idea if you start
trying to move fast
you make rapid improvements but the
longitudinal improvements usually come
from the force and the power right so
really really good to Train all three of
them and then if you actually look at
the there's a lot of evidence now
looking at weighted jumps and resisted
Sprint's and looking at their transfer
of training effects into sporting
movements like unweighted jumping and
unweighted sprinting stuff like that
there is a definite like bell curve and
in the loading and most of it seems to
indicate like 10% is that of your body
weight or 10% of movement speed
alteration both of those seem to come up
is that's the top end so anything less
than that is good anything more than
that and it actually is just a
completely different activity that
you're training for it doesn't seem to
transfer training anymore and that's
they did this with resistance sprinting
and a really a really good I know if
there was a review art or study but
there was a really good one where they
did like a variety of different loads
and they showed that was like 0 to 10
they did a couple different increments
massive improvements in acceleration
right
and every subsequent one thereafter it
was like worse worse worse worse worse
yeah and that worse worse worse doesn't
improve your power much and it doesn't
improve your your strength much either
so it's kind of like you get not a whole
lot for yeah so you gotta watch out for
the middle grounds they're number seven
any notable benefits to isometric hold
regression specifically would be holding
a quarter squat type position specific
to jumping through form though almost
certainly not not in your case if you
want to be holding that position great
jumping so dynamic it's it's just
completely opposite of what you want
your triangle so the stimulant ratios
awful yeah yeah biometric gets to mister
fatigue all right Doug shmore says not a
question just to thank you thank you dr.
Mike for having a debate with Greg you
said ha I got a lot of flack for that to
be mostly from Greg's fans that knew he
got served that's how I found RPE wow
that's kind of cool
his latest video top ten overrated
muscle building foods what's the most
click Beatty shit but so like greg has
admitted publicly that he exclusively
produces clickbait cuz he wants to make
money on YouTube and he doesn't give a
shit if he says stuff that's wrong or
makes his fans like calls and idiots he
thinks they're stupid for subscribing to
this so this is not like it sounds like
I'm talking shit he's literally admitted
this so I'm gonna create it I'm gonna
write a video tonight called is spinach
destroying your testosterone like battle
really that'll have a lot of clicks man
so he says four out of the first five
are directly opposite of what Stan
efforting advice is okay
he plays down rice later in the list he
downplays rice later in the list blows
my mind and 48 of a training for my 35
years the biggest mistake that I made
for years was not eating enough calories
so it really left for it ruffles my
feathers when I see Greg leading young
man astray with all these low-fat
protein choices and trying to stay lean
it does not work well and I think Greg's
been putting on muscle for a long time
as we didn't lose it losing muscle on
purpose to compete classic for a long
time so in his defense that makes sense
from his perspective um everything Greg
gives a shit to be completely honest I
don't even think he's that bad of a guy
he's just sort of aloof and
I could make money saying stupid shit
over the Internet this is great and it's
just what he's doing it could be really
thought a whole lot about like where
he's leading astray or not and you know
he says most of his fans are stupid
anyway so yeah it sucks man that sucks
it sucks but it's also like it's on the
consumer to make smart choices right
like he's not like he's now like fucking
Moses over here leading ya to the the
Promised Land ya know people can choose
or not to choose things that sound
ridiculously so exactly to that point
James people like have asked ever since
the debate before somewhat and a lot
ever since like so what is it what do
you think of Greg 2sat I think like you
know like I could appreciate the humor
sometimes like he's a pretty funny guy
I'm Instagram like or whatever I'm not
you YouTube he like yells a lot it's
funny um I think that he's got some
great wins and tips every now and again
I just wouldn't consider him like a
serious authority on anything meaningful
like you know if you know stuff already
Greg can preach the fire pretty well um
and you can contextualize some of the
stuff he says this is clearly a joke
some of it's just wrong and some of it's
like pretty good stuff it's just when
you have a group of people you consider
serious to look up to you know Stan
efforting John Meadows like those are
the guys that like you wanna learn stuff
go read their stuff and Washington yeah
Chad Wesley Smith I mean like I was just
trying to speak it up but yeah like you
know Steve Hall air calms you know guys
like that like you know they really know
their stuff and they usually don't
peddle in bullshit um Greg is mostly a
comedian it he's very good at it the bad
but it's just like I just people like on
trying to learn like principles from
Greg you're sound like if a lot of
fucking god please don't do that he
doesn't even know any principles like if
you don't believe me go watch my debate
with him and find out what the 10% rule
means and get back to me anyway yeah
thank you so much for your insight and I
sure hope I think young man it's it's
good it builds character for young men
to follow folks that don't steer them
right because it teaches some skepticism
I've honestly encountered this before
and James manohar talking about from our
alma mater some folks come up getting
the right thing spoon-fed to them their
entire careers they just don't develop
skepticism because they never have to
it's good too
some dumb shit you know and I think
maybe that maybe just because we were in
the academia route and maybe we're like
on the top end of the Millennial
category I think both of those things
like I forget and I can't relate to the
fact that a lot of people really do get
a lot of their their content for fitness
on like YouTube and stuff you know what
I mean that's just not how you and I we
we watched YouTube but I watched all of
Layne Norton's fucking videos when I was
like an undergrad it got me pumped I
watched all branch Wornall Bahrani I
watched it for entertainment but I never
watched it thinking like oh this is
something like serious that I need to
really share and critically out it was
like I'm doing that on my own
this is different retainment but now
it's like no people are using YouTube as
like a legitimate source for information
and effort you know so sometimes I'm
like what are you doing why are you
listening to this dumbass but then it's
like oh no but that's like how people do
their research now yeah take big folks
you wanted to use for entertainment
mostly into reaffirming stuff you
already know folks you want to learn
real legit stuff from I would pick those
folks very carefully alright Daniel
hacker says so I was watching a Joe
Rogan clip about best fighting styles
for general self-defense / Street
altercation and they wanted your guys
take on it he said if when I had a
background a basic background in
wrestling and boxing they find is one or
two years training in each that's called
just enough to get you in trouble yeah
he thought that the individual will be
more than equipped to handle any
physical altercation and would even be
dangerous and give someone who knew how
to fight he would certainly command
respect against someone to do how to
fight so these people that know how to
fight anytime they go up against someone
who doesn't know how to fight even or
know something they have respect because
they know how one punch can end it all
and they know how much strength and size
matters so definitely with one or two
years boxing and wrestling me commands
respect and then he says what do you
guys think what I think of the question
I feel like it doesn't matter what kind
of martial art you pick so long as you
train for it for a while because you'll
be good because 98% of people have no
idea what to do when they fight ok so I
got a decent answer here I'll see you
James thinks wrestling jujitsu boxing
specifically more Thai but regular
boxing is fine to a group those in the
same category of
act of striking judo and some
interesting variants of Hawaiian Kempo
karate like lyoto machida does which is
really just MMA those four or five core
arts are effective and if you get good
at them you're pretty safe against one
person at a time
because you have such a huge advantage
on all of those the one that is gonna be
legally the best for you to learn and
not get in trouble if you fight people
as jiu-jitsu by a long shot because it
doesn't leave scars bruises or marks and
you can actually put someone out and
just walk away hold on let me cut you
right there for a reference what Mike's
talking about if you guys haven't seen
the video you can google search Matt
Serra like takes down drunk guy like or
something like that that the weekend of
the Hall of Fame ceremony that he was
being inducted into he was at a
restaurant with his family some drunk
guy I think was getting rough with like
got a server like it wasn't even him and
he stood up and was like hey man why
don't you calm down he takes this guy
down and just jujitsu him he doesn't
even doesn't hit him doesn't armbar him
doesn't choke him he just get something
just mounts him holds his hands and says
calm down calm down calm down until the
security guy comes and takes the guy
away it's amazing yeah amazing the thing
is like if you're a wrestler you know
how to pin somebody but you don't know
how to submit them and once you get them
down
it's my no means clear what's going on
if you're a judo guy that's super great
except judo is dangerous as fuck you
could straight kill someone no problem
dumping about their ass with jiu-jitsu
there's much more gentle takedowns you
can use with someone although judo is
very very effective it's just brutal
with boxing kickboxing you can do
especially with Muay Thai if you do a
great job in keeping distance but at
some point when you start throwing hands
if it's on video you don't look like
you're doing self-defense and they won't
feel like you're doing self-defense in
your boy ty doesn't have any submissions
so you're gonna be knocking a
motherfucker down or out and any time
you knock someone down they could be
knocked out and then you could be in
real deep shit cuz people fall and all
kinds of bad stuff happens so between
all those styles they're all very
effective what I would do is
if you're somebody like a bouncer or a
police officer and you get in lots of
fights but they're altercations that you
know just give a shit about what happens
to the person absolutely the best one of
all those this some combination of them
but the second best is Brazilian Jujitsu
if you are in a nasty area where you're
fighting sometimes multiple opponents
you're getting mugged people don't have
weapons or just minimal weaponry and you
want to just survive or really fuck
people up and show me not to be fuck
with my tie by longshot it's one good
muy Thai practitioner can take three
guys on and break the first guy's leg
with one kick and that ends the fight if
you go down with that first guy jujitsu
you're gonna get kicked in the head a
whole bunch as you try or successfully
submit him it muy Thai just keeping
someone into a fucking car and they fall
over as like that fuck that as soon as
you keep somebody nobody's coming up to
you anymore unless they're drunk or on
drugs and if you like kick someone and
shatter their femur which has happened
they're fucking done forever and they'll
never fuck with you together people will
find out and it's not like oh yo fuck em
I can fuck him up with a stupid
wrestling or whatever he's doing like I
can't he kicked the guy and broke his
leg people gonna be like fuck that right
and you can hit and strike and kick
multiple opponents the fuck away from
you
also my tie teaches you how to resist
takedowns really well you're just a guy
no one's gonna fuck with but that's like
if you're doing this at a third world
country or a really nasty area if you
are really worried about legal person
prosecution if you're going to bars
wrestling is fine jiu-jitsu is the best
boxing and kickboxing you're gonna get
you in some deep shit James so you're
gonna roll your eyes at me on this one
Mike I know it but I agree with Mike
like 50% here because I agree with
everything he said but I don't agree
that those are the best strategies the
problem is is that the best strategies
in these types of situations are number
one by far a long shot better than any
other thing that you can do avoidance
avoiding the situations entirely number
two de-escalation do you know how many
times people have tried to fight me and
you can talk them out of it it happens
all the fucking time
you look bro what the fuck blow like hey
what's the problem like I'm not that I
was it's just it ends up just being like
tough guy contests right people always
want to talk shit but more often than
not you can de-escalate the situation
right if you can't avoid it you can
deescalate it number three right
I'm a fucking gun right doesn't matter
how much punch kick take down whatever
you whip out that gun nobody wants to
fight anymore it's over right and in
most states like it you can it's not a
terribly hard thing to access I'm a like
I know people have mixed opinions about
guns but if you're somebody who's like
I'm wondering which martial art I should
do because I'm worried about like my
self-defense situation motherfucker
don't get into self-defense situation
own a gun right you don't have to fight
at all it's one of the most liberating
feelings you'll ever have in the world
you will never feel afraid ever again
now owning a gun requires quite a bit of
responsibility and a lot of training and
practice on your part right so part of
being a good gun owner is like not
getting your gun taken away from you and
used against you or used against
somebody else right so there's lots of
other things that go with that but like
to me like if you're truly worried about
a self-defense situation why bother
trying to learn two years of boxing or
jujitsu like just be a fucking gun owner
and it's a done deal now if you want to
pursue those other martial arts for
their own sake then by all means there's
plenty of great options there and if you
were to go that route I agree with what
dr. Mike said but if you were to ask me
what my take on that would be I would do
those things first before even
entertaining you know that situation so
for me it's like learn how to not be in
bad situations learn situational
awareness learn how to avoid when you
see a drunk guy and his buddy coming up
on you in the street learn to go the
other way right before it becomes a
thing those are the things that I think
are more important James I know you
agree to that 50% but I agree with you
100% well I mean I agree with your
analysis of the different the different
martial arts that I totally agree with
but I was you know just but I hate that
not I don't hate the question but I hate
the notion of like what fighting style
do I need for self-defense like
motherfucker like what self-defense
don't find anybody you don't need to
shoot him it's funny when James and I
were in Australia they like showed us
some streets in these very nice towns
like president and they were like oh
this is the street where like if you're
around when people are drinking they're
gonna for sure trying to fight you
because you're jacked and they're like
does that happen in America or like
absolutely not they're like why not
because people have guns that's how you
shot the face street fighting in America
is incredibly rare compared to most
European and Commonwealth countries
because it's like and this doesn't
happen you get shot even in our like
worst
most hillbilly places where you would
expect bar fights to just be a staple
thing like we live in East Tennessee
nobody fucks with each other out there
because there's a real probability that
you might get draw down on and that's
not a good situation I've been using the
RP diet to fill my weightlifting
performance for years and our piece
simple science-based approach has been
instrumental to my success with the new
RP diet app following our P's principles
is as easy as entering my goals and
schedule in choosing my favorite foods
the app builds a diet to my exact needs
reminds me to eat my meals and adapts to
my body's changes every single day and
week the RP diet app is a huge help in
my quest to become the best athlete I
can be and if your goal is to be your
best it will help you
all right next question
do you think mass gaining shakes should
come from a need rather than a desire
well the accession to Super Saiyan for
sure needs to come from a need rather
than a desire direct quote from Vegeta
nice nice time but uh mass gaining
shakes can come from a need rather than
desire but I don't think they should
mass gaining shakes and you know Mike's
written on the oh god what's it called
it's the it's like the hedonic treadmill
hedonic staircase that's that's how you
could define like a kind of a systematic
way of saying like what is the need well
the noon is like I'm having a hard time
at this point and I've exhausted these
other options and so maybe now I'm
moving into this other option right
that's that's kind of how you could
frame that this is actually a super
direct question here related to that
regarding food composition amassing with
exotically high carbon atoms fair to say
550 grams plus yet it meant for many
people that were very tough would think
about having minimally processed lean
meats whole grains fruit dairy as 80 to
85% of your intake and 50 to 20 whatever
you want so long as you're hitting your
macros any problems with that
actually have had to introduce more junk
food so we are to actually program
cookies and such into my diet I would
very odd Daniel there's absolutely zero
there's nothing remote there's much more
odd to try to get your calories include
food almost every pro bodybuilder does
this almost every good bodybuilder does
this and we've written about least three
books that say this is the best possible
idea so 100% you're out of the right
thing it is just funny that we're like
oh man I need to start eating more
fucking cookies yeah what am i doing
yeah all right last one this isn't just
a question this isn't a question one
more so observation anyway we're gonna
skip that on doorknobs this is the
question more so it was rationed being
one of those original rb+ members I've
recently decided that RP is like the
matrix from red blue pill scene if you
don't join RP in the evidence-base crowd
you've grown the fitness community happy
as a clam oh man that's so yeah I
already take the red pill on either is
red in the RP logo
uh-huh and you really go down Allison's
rabbit hole made
three baby bad jokes before you three
waste Joe why is it Alison's rabbit hole
I missed that I need the third base joke
before you I don't know
that one's over my head that's totally
over we gotta get the rabbit hole
reference I just don't get the Alison's
rabbit hole reference over my head um
was that the girl well no I was gonna
say maybe it's the girl that had the
rabbit a two matrix
she was like a five whole fucking
whatever she was remember like yeah
she's okay you should come like do
mescaline it's the only way to fly or
whatever and I'd be like bitch fuck
mescaline what the fuck are you up to
later to get lost I'm me Oh goddammit
John he's right though I mean like once
like that's how I felt when we started
like really studying the diet stuff and
like I you know I had worked with you
and it like really reaffirmed a lot of
things for me and I was just like I can
never you look at your friends and
you're just like they'll have like pasta
and up in a breadstick for dinner and
you're like well yeah fuck is that what
are you doing you just can't like how
can you eat like that and then you
realize like ah man I can just never go
back to being like that I always have to
like protein at my 100% you realize
pretty much everyone is doing shit wrong
it has no idea or care yes I used to
relate to so many people in the gym
there work hard energy and never-say-die
attitudes used to excite me and fire me
up now I usually get these people like
buffoons of Oh brains uh-huh and want
nothing to do with them it's almost made
the gym experience a bit lonely or not
completing it's just truth this applies
to professional level body blows
trainers coaches as well as the average
Joe most these people have no idea what
the fuck they're doing they could care
less no better yet they're actually
proud of their ignorance cue the time of
Jack Jim friend of yours tells you his
workout he thinks you actually care and
you give him sound advice to which
response nah man I just train hard
always done it that way can't change I
guess what I'm saying is knowledge is
dangerous thinking might completely
change your experience and ways you
never imagined what for sure that last
sentences is very very wise um I will
say that there is a full circle there
and then I think James and I have both
come to and I think you will too
eventually
Jimmy and I don't I don't think everyone
goes there but I think you almost
certainly will it's something you
your own time it's an emotional thing
rather than knowledge thing that
something only you understand that the
folks doing dumb shit
have all the mental acuity for the
mental ability and the background and
the inputs that result in the production
would be that they would do dumb shit
and you're okay with that it's like when
you build your first sandcastle into
something beautiful you might be upset
for a time that random grains of sand
don't build into sandcastles but then
you'd realize that's a stupid thing to
expect and then you're okay with sand
just lying there not being a Sam castle
and you also love the leagues and
council same thing with weights it's
like training and eating right is
awesome and you love to spread the
message but because there's tons of
people out there that haven't gotten the
message you sort of campus like karmic
relationship really that's okay that
they don't you know everyone's on a
different part of the journey and it's
totally fine and I'm here to be open and
loving and awesome and help people when
they want but if they're not ready for
that or if they've no interest in it
they're still you know for the most part
just great human beings I totally agree
with that and Mike I think the harder
struggles not even like the way that you
look at other people it's like how you
manage your own life where you're like
am I ever gonna be normal again am I
ever just gonna have pizza and not think
about having pizza you know I think
that's like a bigger struggle for me at
least we're just like I want to like
integrate with society but sometimes you
feel like you can't because you have
this weird niche thing that you're
attached to which is like evidence-based
training nutrition on my vacations which
almost always occur for lengthy times
with you James you know like the
retreats we all do together you got one
coming up this weekend right with no and
uh yeah yeah that's right and well I I'm
hardcore dieting right now through that
one but for many of them I essentially
and it's usually works with a pure
ization I program a diet break a lifting
break and a tracking break
I literally just eat whatever the fuck I
want if I'm not hungry
I don't eat if I'm hungry hey whatever
comes to mind and that is such a freeing
experience first of all it's so super
fun but also I feel like three to five
days of that I think
wait yeah can't wait to get back to
awesome programmatic eating and a few my
body like a machine so I think every now
and again snuffing away from it and
going to just do whatever the fuck is
really really healthy yeah times itself
out you think like oh I'll never go back
like you're gonna want to go back to
your normal eating cuz nothing makes you
feel as good as eating an awesome clean
meal that's part of your goals like you
need a bunch of chips that make you feel
good once you eat a bunch of chips
second you're like yeah those are fun
and the third time you eating it you're
like yeah I think that's easier said
than done though I think a lot of people
struggle to dial it back the way that
you described where it's like I'm gonna
try and eat what I want but I feel so
bad that I have to track it I'm gonna at
least write it down right it's like it's
hard to I really step back and just be
like I'm normal I'm just another fucking
Schmo for a couple weeks you know it's
that's tough that's hard for sure I'm
super ernõ toivonen says hello mister
doctors I love it when he addresses mrs.
mister doctors I know it's fun number
one number one let's so it's presumed
someone hasn't squatted for a long time
and start squatting again then he or she
gets serious dogs with very few sets in
these sets let's say being are are five
then every week puts on more weight on
the bar and me the adding a set for now
and again but still staying on our three
or even further from failure while
getting downs after workout
we know that nervous system will adapt
to new movements are those body being
able to lift more more weight on the
lifts well there'd be a good amount of
hypertrophy even though those are our
three you know even above
abso-fucking-lutely especially if you
are reconditioning right so like
reconditioning will happen so much
faster than making new gains like if you
took times off from squatting because
maybe you were injured or just you've
got out of the practice right
you probably deconditioned a little bit
but then you're gonna recondition so
fast it's not even funny
yeah folks here's a huge revelation it
might not be huge it sounds like a cool
revelation there are two pieces of
research or three sort of insights that
people seem to not have coalesced into
one implication and a lot of times they
speak about them differently and they
actually combine them in wrong ways that
are all their own conclusions here they
are an accurate finding is that
beginners miss estimate their failure
point at between three reps away from
fail in reality - all the way to ten
reps so
you see an avid reps is amazing 0ir I
forget what the helmet study says but
0ir is really like for average person
like 500 turns out 4 plus or minus 5 or
ER and so people say that and say like
and then and then there's other studies
because you could be as negative 5 are
at that point too right your technique
broke down or something like so long ago
and then so for other studies also
accurate studies they say that an AR AR
of anything like far lower than 5 or far
lower than 3 it's just not nearly as
effective as IR IR is close to failure
okay folks then conclude wrong that if
as an intermediate advanced person
you're not pushing to you know at least
you know 1 2 or 3 our IR you're getting
no gains and then even beginners won't
get gains because they're not pushing
your IR s folks remind you that these
studies are the two exact same groups of
people when they go to failure in these
studies they're actually going to 500 on
average that's what failure is and they
grow fucking incredibly well and when
they don't grow incredibly well it
studies designed to go to 3 rir it's
before IR which means they're going like
8 or 9 our IR and then they're still
getting gains and their gains aren't
that great so if you are saying we are
at aura are in reality actual R&R oh my
fucking god you're gonna be getting
great games you have to be so for
advanced to not get gains at 3 that's so
funny yeah isn't it funny like I just
put that like I hired that revelation
several weeks ago when I was like wait a
minute
if all these studies are these same
people anytime someone says you got to
go to true failure otherwise you don't
grow they're talking about people who
this has to be failure before which is
funny because like even in the recovery
book like I believe we used 5 rir was
like the big inflection point and yes
it's like so I mean like that's it I
mean within that alone is a huge margin
of difference yeah for beginners 10 rir
is gonna get great gains the
intermediate 5 RER is gonna get you just
fine gains in advanced 5 hours the
minimum that you could do to see any
detectable gains for sure
totally yeah
really number two would I'd be losing
possible games if I only do short
passing periods for example two masses
fall but one measure of maintenance from
another of mini cut and mezzo of
maintained sash repeat so basically
hovering around the same weight plus or
minus 3% throughout the air I hate how
some enhance fit only during certain
periods of time um I think there are
theoretical reasons and lots of
practical coaching experience to say
that just two methyls of me of massing
at a time isn't great
I have done this myself many times I
used to do it in this method that you
describe or no I didn't want to get too
fat and I would do short massing mezzos
or I thought like force feeding food and
going or short and fast as a good idea I
ended up not growing nearly as well as
when I did slightly longer Mazouz I
think there's something to be said for
the slightly longer ones I think that
tuna one is right I definitely wouldn't
do one massive mezzo and then
maintenance than cutting two is better I
think three and four is even better
three is really I would defer to you on
this mic but like do you see a big
incentive to do one mezzo of maintenance
and then a mezzo of mini cut aside from
psychological reasons no I think you
just you know mass mass mass Minicon
mass mass mini cut mass maintenance
longer cut repeat and that's all in the
mini cut manuals you want to see you
know for sure a similar note I know
ernõ you're obviously a male one thing I
have noticed with female clients and you
know this is may be politically
incorrect or whatever I don't really
care but it's this is something that
people will encounter in the real world
so it's worth talking about female
clients a lot of the ones that you get
typically will are more often than more
often than males will have been
chronically dieting for a long time
whether they disclose that to you or not
and so one of the problems that you run
into is that you'll have a female client
you'll do a diet and with them and maybe
they only diet it for the time that you
were with them or maybe they've been
dieting for a while and you're you are
unaware either way you get them to a
point where they're happy with their
their leanness after doing some cutting
and then you just want to do a mass
phase and sometimes getting your female
clients to do a mass phase can be like
pulling teeth because they've just been
engrained for so long I want to be like
lean I want to look good I want to have
abs like the idea of trying to
mass face is like so foreign they're
just like what the fuck are you even
talking about dude no way
but here's so this is a long-winded
story I'm sorry but anyways so what I've
experienced is sometimes you get that
same person you get them to do a 10-week
mass phase and for you that feels like a
big victory right where you're just like
all cool like you finally did something
that wasn't cutting you did something
that was better you have to eat more the
problem that you run into a lot of times
not always but I've actually had this
with several of my clients it's
sometimes ten weeks is not enough to
actually build their calories back up to
a robust levels believe it or not yeah a
lot of it you just get like the initial
bloating and you get some mass gain not
a lot but you get some you know gains
over time and then they say okay I did
ten weeks of mass I'm gonna maintain it
I want to start cutting again but
they're actually not even ready to start
cutting again yet because it hasn't been
enough time and that is a problem that
I've run into so another reason why I
may be doing a to mezzo mass a different
situation but same idea it might not be
enough time not only for gaining muscle
mass but maybe not even for
counteracting the negative effects of
long term cutting yeah especially
psychological ones yeah well we didn't
get into that but number three if one
doesn't have long periods of continuous
work on possibilities for example
business trips three or four times a
year when we're working out
possibilities etc basically causing two
to four weeks of no training should the
training consists mostly or only normal
hypertrophy workouts
this means no reason sedation's or
metabolic training at the newman
metabolite training towards the end of
those blocks of hypertrophy training so
that's still fine but I don't think that
you're gonna need much recess atty zhing
actually you're gonna need none if you
do to four weeks all the time three to
four times a year of no training I will
say this there are in a very very tiny
circumstances is that a thing I think
maintenance training during those times
is totally possible and here is how most
places you can do pull-ups in training
the only muscle group there to really
really have hard time training as the
hamstrings but I think actually if you
get a pretty decent run-up and you can
do a little bit of sprinting hamstrings
can be taken care of maintenance volume
by sprinting couple sprint intervals so
you spread for your hands and then for
your quads all
you do is put like a one or two inch
block underneath each foot which you
could find almost anywhere and do
essentially sissy squats or basically
completely upright squats where it's
essentially leg extension standing doing
mile reps of those with just your
bodyweight will fuck you so hard in the
ass you have no idea what's happening oh
yeah do 100 total reps of squats with
just enough rest between mini sets for
the violent burn to turn into a less
violent burn you won't walk for fucking
week but that takes by the way in a
total of five minutes and you fucks you
up same exact thing with close grip
push-ups fucks you up and same exact
thing with pull ups and then pull ups
just do a couple sets of you know
buddies that you nobody can do my reps
at pull-ups unless they're a climber or
something oh no homeboy last week
remember with the circuit training for
the street routine stuff yeah that's
right 50 sets of colophon do we so
basically pull-ups Maya rap crazy psycho
heel swats bodyweight lunges can also be
done that same exact my rep style and
then close grip push-ups and maybe some
sprinting for hamstrings but hamstrings
also you know don't de train super fast
anyway because they're a very fast
twitch muscle group um with that stuff
combined two to four weeks of that can
make you more jacked than when you left
but I can absolutely maintain all of
your muscle that you could do in a hotel
room twice a week 20 minutes per workout
and lose essentially no major muscle the
entire time yeah that's really good
was this this is the context of like two
to four weeks because you're on a
business trip is that my yep that bet is
a guy figure yeah yes okay so like um
I've actually done this with Mel
sometimes where we traveled to places
where they're illiterate like we went to
Fiji once there was literally no gyms no
gyms on the island at all like no we're
nowhere to go to Train
some things you can do like Mike already
said like the push ups the pull-ups the
lunges the stance for the rest you can
bring bands you can bring occlusion
bands you can do at the time we used to
call them like girlfriend squats or now
I would call them wife squats you can
also use your luggage as like an
implement so you could do a single leg
luggage stiff-legged deadlift yeah
that's like maybe a little bit more less
injury prone than sprinting a lot of
brilliance you could do luggage one arm
rows like on the side of the bed like
upright luggage upright rows like you
can get creative it looks stupid like
you've got to feel stupid if you're used
to working on the gym but it's not
stupid in the sense that like doing
something is better than doing nothing
right because if you do nothing they
just deconditioned if you do something I
don't you don't lose anything and it's
it could be as stupid as doing luggage
upright roads you know what I mean like
just do it super high reps super short
rests keep the pump in the burn nasty
and you will have a good training effect
yeah it's good to get some donkey calves
going oh yeah I hate that dude hey most
hated exercise seth Shulman says hello
dr. Hasan dr. Hoffman he missed one of
your ends in the setting up my first
doesn't made a hypertrophy the
conclusion of my last college wrestling
season oh shit I'm gonna say isn't fun
of Seth Coleman right now we've got a
fucking I would like to know the best
ways to maintain a flood without
violating phase potentiation Prince
Falls I would take an extended period of
hypertrophy training to remedy many
strength imbalances and also a lot of
psychological fatigue to speed before
trans I should've BJJ cool wait hold on
we're doing hypertrophy to remedy
strength and balances homie woman wait
what are we talking about we doing
hypertrophy for hypertrophy sake or we
doing what we do in physical therapy
that sounds like physical therapy to me
which I plan and eventually competing in
that's great you're gonna be very
dangerous but I also want to get Jack to
the process and now we're talking
make your turn ball but now we're
talking I would like to keep doing the
same split that is yielding me the best
results which is a pseudo full-body four
day per week split they went upper Oh
lower butch day to upper push lower Pole
day three aerobic capacity training
cycle then repeats okay I was gonna say
like you said four day but there's three
the cycle of repeats with a completely
passive rest day on the seventh day and
the first upper whole lower push day is
more intense than the second and vice
versa with the other day alternating
which is a lot of high fatigue actually
loaded
which days mainly sja isolation
movements what is SGA I don't know why
they go joints they go burn action
I was thinking soldier boy I don't know
that just soldier boy ass soldier I
don't know yes well you know one thing I
would also say to like that though so
what lifting looks fine to me I don't
really have any major issues there if
your here's the thing though if you're
gonna do cardio for cardio sake you got
to get it up to two days per week if not
more yeah one day per week yeah you
could you're doing maintenance but
probably and the thing is cardio is more
sensitive than your muscles to
deconditioning the cardio will start
going away if you don't train cardio so
if you're gonna find cardio make sure
you I would give that up to two days if
you can yeah as I'm now I'm doing
aerobic capacity training twice a week
well it said one day I know I don't
understand this I think a four day per
week so it's a I think it's 1 2 3 repeat
1 2 3 because it's completely passive
rest on the seventh day oh okay I
thought it was like a four day Wiggins
for four different types of workouts but
not all of them occur of the same week
gotcha
okay as of now I am sorry by the way
Seth first we were misunderstanding you
correctly please feel free for the next
week or two like just write out the
day's what you do in the week g-man our
Thomas Fox so you'll have to just sit
like right out Monday this Tuesday back
they get an example or sometimes we just
we're used to seeing like if you write
day one up or pull day to you know put
we just assume it's like just you know
for the same four day split that we have
seen a thousand times right as ever now
I'm doing aerobic capacity train twice a
week it's good also like higher up high
hang snatch poles for maintenance for
maintaining my Olympic lifting technique
and also as a trap off the back table
one I get slightly sore from my sessions
but the fatigue is never closed to
overlapping and the performances were
going up in both South raps training
that's great and here's the question
my systemic MRV and intro workout Barbie
is ridiculously high as I have yet to
run into doing hypertrophy trade my
started slightly above the volume and
marks in my first mezzo but I'm now a
magnitude of 20 plus sets for weaken
Ramadi part was that's close to failure
this is probably from years of training
at or above memory during rest
yeah I actually would suspected
something else more game that more often
than not us you need to re-evaluate your
what you're doing whether you're using
is fr exercises whether your technique
is generating the most SFR and now
there's something to be said about
having good conditioning from wrestling
like Mike and I can both relate to that
but let's be real like if you are doing
20s 20-plus that's per muscle per week
there's problem the more likely problem
is not that you're so conditioned that
you need you have you know super high
ball and tonic that's more likely that
you're just maybe we're just not strong
enough and as you get stronger that'll
solve itself yeah that's a far thing
that's my point
should I let my aerobic and power
qualities decline during my approach
face slimmer if he come down and seek
better results I should I keep pushing
volume s from what I've gathered more is
usually better um so if you're using
your aerobic and power qualities if
you're still boosting them then it is
going to be harder to grow with more
volume but I think he's just doing the
the power stuff he's just doing
technique maintenance so it's probably
not a huge contributor either way but
the aerobic for sure is that could be an
issue I think you should focus on adding
weight to the bar over time and auto
regulate your sets as as needed to make
sure you're doing enough to stimulate
check off the stimulus proxies and make
sure you're recovering and then let
everything take care of itself but I
wouldn't push volume for its own sake
and I would push incrementally more
weight more weight more way to gain
weight to eat more food and you'll
become much more jacked that way and
eventually your MRV will come down we
don't want that but it'll come down
because you're building so much faster
which fiber or not for either bad
reasons and then he says for a future
are they in love or sport science takes
about your time it can tell you but I
don't think you so do you yeah thanks
period so I'm not trying to bash you
here and just just want to just be real
with you can give you the best answer
that I can so what a couple things to
keep in mind if the answer if the
question is ever should I do more cardio
during my mass gaining phase the answer
is almost exclusively no you should
basically be doing maintenance cardio
which could be like two times per week
and just you know not not a whole lot
your weight lifting stuff unless you
plan on weightlifting ever again I would
just take it out I don't know I mean
look it's if it's something that you
want to do great
the if you're just doing maintenance
falling for technique that's really low
probably not super impactful not a huge
deal okay that's fine but my suspicion
is the big issue here is if you're not
really hitting your m RVs you're
probably just kind of going through the
motions on a lot of different lifts that
maybe are not the most stimulative lifts
for you specifically so what I would
consider doing is a couple things one
trying to figure out which lifts give
you the best local stimulus per the
muscle that you want to train right
that's this idea of SFR that Mike and I
always preach about so start figuring
out like okay I can do like 10 sets of
squats but I just kind of feel like blah
and numb but if I do 10 sets of leg
press my quads are overreached for the
next two weeks it's like ok well now you
know maybe you can just do three or four
sets of leg press next time and then try
and do a volume progression from there
and see because you know the best just
tends to be a better movement for you
right if you're feeling just like oh I
can just do infinity on any given
exercise or any given muscle group it's
more likely that your techniques not
quite dialed in to the point for hyper
tree training that it needs to be and
where that movements just maybe not a
good movement for you and it's time to
switch them out another thing too is
like maybe you've been doing the same
movements for for a year and you're just
just stale on you and you just need to
stretch out your movements that's a very
real possibility as well so if you've
been doing the same fucking routine and
I'm not I'm not coming out don't don't
don't mistake my tone for coming at you
aggressively you just might have been
doing the same shit all the time for the
last year or two and now you've just
completely petered out all your gains on
each one of those movements and if you
just did a whole clean swap on your
movements you might actually bring your
mev way back down to productive levels
and ice and get some easy gains so
there's a lot of things there that could
be could be explaining it so I would say
reevaluate what are your bigger
priorities like do you want cardio do
you want weight lifting or you want to
be jacked and it sounds like you want to
be jacked so I would say okay if that's
the case cardio and weight lifting stuff
move down to maintenance volumes
resistance training volumes go up and
then maybe reevaluate your technique on
the movements that you're using Darren
says hello first I want to say I'm a
huge fan of both of you I appreciate all
the information expertise and comedy do
you provide thank you so much I'm a
recent subscriber rp+ and after seeing
some vids of dr. Mike talking about rpu
on YouTube I'm looking through
the video database and I'm trying to
piece together some kind of structure
for what I should for whatever I should
take the courses in I talked about user
levels one through six as a way to
differentiate between fundamental more
advanced court kinds of courses I can't
find these levels of naming schemes of
the videos are a bit confusing yeah they
don't they don't exist sorry
the rpu is something that'll be for much
later we're just building the
foundations of it now
what are you recommendations for you
order I would just view them in the
order in which they were uploaded and
that's it our more courses being made as
of this QA absolutely yeah and like you
can also just like if you're not so if
you have like a background in biology
chemistry or any like kind of the STEM
fields you can basically move into most
any course that you probably want the
only time I would say that you really
want to seek out those though the basics
courses is if you don't have a
background in some of the STEM fields
and if so if hearing things about like
cell physiology or hormonal responses
you just feel like that is just like I
have no idea even where you start then
take like dr. Miller's basic courses
take my basic courses do those ones
first and then you can kind of go and
explore on but if you've done like math
and science in the in college and in
high school like you can probably just
look at most any of them that you want
to just go for it Mircea belies says
he's our last guy for every class today
hi doc saw the like training video with
dr. Mike and Charlie on Joey
Zack Berry's YouTube and man was it
intense love the way like extension I
erupts were integrated in the program
and wanted to know how you would count
such an exercise do you count it as one
set or each time you rest you count it
as another another one dj khaled voice
also how do you progress when doing my
erupts do you set a total rep target in
increasing each week or do you add more
mini sets the exercise so I add more
mini sense that's the answer
do I count it as one set each time you
kind of Rosanna
yep I count the you know each Maya rep
set as another set and would I use this
type of exercise at the end of and how
do you progress or was that where my
reps I add another mini set I don't set
a total reps are usually
and would use this type of exercise at
the end of a training session it would
be useful in previous ah steps near end
of a training session because my reps
like the thought that abused live you
can be gassed after that whew thanks
anyways can't wait to see dr. Mike in
London again Bob that dr. James will not
be there well that's why I thought what
the fuck Steve Hall I'm just kidding
yeah no today this time Jared and I will
be the contingents to fight the 3d MJ
guys to the death there can be no to the
youtubes ready games away alright share
not the singer I'm gonna be sharing my
head all goddamn day alright right off
for the top Eric Cartman Cartman 1
Patrick we'll have Patrick party we know
address this is big fan of your work
Eric so this is a good question that we
would like to rant on every now and
again what did you take on training
style of wrench Warren in Johnny Jackson
yes I'm a loafer and uh sloppiness
stupid it looks but some of the actual
explosiveness are their reps is there
anything they do that defies logic or
science or is what they do back me
anything lurcher people talk so much
shit I'm Edmund branch is a two-time RL
champ
and runner-up in the mr. Olympia so
there's got to be some merits their
intensity or something else thanks guys
well so first of all let's just take
this so psychologically um but just
because someone wins a lot but doesn't
mean everything they do has merit you
know branch also talks with a southern
accent that doesn't really help you get
jacked and awesome like what he does on
a pump up video might not be what he
does day to day eat sure those are his I
suspect it is in this case but yes he
not could be different
another thing is the number one
requisite for training well is to make
sure your sets are sufficiently
difficult which these guys accomplish
another one is to make sure using
challenging weights they definitely
complex and another one is to make sure
you're doing challenging volumes where
stay for sure accomplished and that's
like 90% of all training effect yeah
he's their method is it necessary to do
high velocity training no can you get
the same results too
or velocity yeah Jay Cutler beat them
all 50 20 times and Jay Cutler never did
anything hardcore violet can tell by the
traditional definition being that strong
dude I keep getting the targeted Jay
Cutler likes our supplement ad it's
fucking killing me do you know you got
missed No thank God it's like it's just
him take like sampling different flavors
of his like supplement line it's like is
this sour enough and he's like nope not
sour enough and they keep giving him
like incrementally more sour drinks I'm
like why do I keep getting this ad why
so you know you gotta watch out for you
know basically there's a survivorship
bias going on where some guys do some
weird stuff all of them do the
fundamentals while which they train hard
or they train enough volume and that's
really what it takes but that's about
all you can learn from that sort of
training and so they're not really you
know like if they were training with 50%
of their what RM 25 reps in reserve and
still jacked I would be very curious as
to what else is going up they're not
right so my biggest concern with them is
the law sustainability of such training
and they survived and they've been right
a lot of fuckers right riddled with
injuries for middle-earth injuries but
like but bathe he had very long careers
the thing is you'll never meet the guys
that tried to train like that it didn't
have long careers because you don't meet
people and body go that aren't body
buffing anymore and the people who try
their style of training there's you know
the corpse littered sort of road to
nowhere for the most part so I would
train more like Dexter Jackson if I was
interested in longevity and very safe
approach John Meadows so on and so forth
Phil Heath trains not in any exciting
way but Phil he doesn't get hurt yeah I
like I said I think I said earlier in
today's podcast to like I watched all
their videos just like you guys probably
do when I was younger and I would get
fucking pumped out of my mind getting
pumped from them is awesome yeah
learning stuff yeah oh wait hold on I
see my I got a specific call-out Roman
Meyer why does James always have a
backpack on it's actually a weighted
vest but I could see why you would think
it's a backpack
we're gonna not count that as a real
question uh Adam Conrad so is going to
be a dad in a few weeks how do i best
conclude when time is basically going
down to zero dad well done zero really
fucked up my sleep will suffer big-time
uh let's see what kind of
recommendations do we have James we
think maintenance volume there he goes
actually I'm not a volley by third I'm
looking at Patrick Barney's response
here it says Mainers behind two times a
week sleep when you can naps eat it
maintenance with enough protein that's a
pretty good start to be honest
hopefully because my big liar are a
thing even if you lose gaze that will
come back exponentially quickly damn
Patrick and that as well before I can
work address disappointment yeah so
that's a good answer so yeah I would
agree with that the idea of trading at
maintenance volume and in this case you
could even take a step back so you asked
specifically about strength but I would
say just do maintenance volume for
muscle mass which is like man not much
right because the strength will come
back quickly
is so long as you have kept the muscle
mass right so you don't have to do a lot
maybe two to three times a week maybe
3045 minutes a pop eat it maintenance
calories get as much sleep as you can
hit naps when you can and just
understand that like strength is not the
priority right now your expanded family
is the priority and that's perfectly
fine you shouldn't feel bad about that
yep
alright this is a good question Emile
Jorgensen says Jorgensen is there any
guidelines recommendation regarding max
length of a hypertrophy is for power
lifters if they need to put on a lot of
muscles be fed of larger we actually
cover this in the scientific principles
of strength training which is available
for sale probably about three mesocycles
of hypertrophy work to results in two
things for power lifter one is you have
to take a break then to do something to
reset some ties fried per trophy work so
it's time to back away and that by the
way is we roughly three to five months
of consistent circuitry and then to is
you might be a little bit too far out of
your normal what the fuck
don't happen do you see that see what in
my screen share
it's my cursor fell James Hoffman and
Sean s Oh somebody might have popped in
there you give them the boot
get out of here show could just pop in
you're not supposed to be able to but
sometimes or do you see us do you see
his actual screen no I don't see a
screen but well we just didn't yeah he's
just in because like people remember
when we were giving people access to the
zoom link fry see oh I see his face what
the fuck that's happened a couple of
times runs like get out of here mute
like boom now we're good don't worry
about it so after you know the three
amount of cycles three or five months
you might be pretty out of touch with
your lifting mechanics for the power
lifts and the rep ranges and techniques
you'd use for strength so as a power
lifter it's probably good to keep in
touch with those and go back to at least
one by two months of strength training
and then you can return that version for
change so I think three to five months
three metal cycles or so is probably as
long as you know I actually think that's
for most intermediate to advanced
sporting athletes in general three
months of kind of GPP style training is
pretty much the top end where you're
really not training for after that
you're really not training for your
sport anymore you're really just doing
body composition training at that point
so means one of two things either one
your priorities are misaligned or two
you've really just let yourself go and
you you just start being a real piece of
shit
yeah lastly we're gonna answer two
questions real quick
at the same time a question for you guys
I just read the four my perfect guy to
realize that the reason to anything
measured about the extensor muscles in
the bracket radialis is that because
they lack the capacity to grow or we
just don't have enough data on them yet
thanks and then a related question is
how to train the tibialis interossei
located on the front folks would all do
super respect I mean really we just
don't mean this isn't installed James
and I um let me get this away from
screen share so am I missing something
uh breccia radius is a flexor
yeah well just
oh fuck oh no oh there to stop Cher
okay first of all those muscles get so
much work from other things that it's
usually not a thing that direct training
wouldn't make them much bigger but more
importantly they have such a tiny
capacity to grow that nobody really
gives a shit if you have them or not
like I don't believe I've ever seen any
ones to the Alice interior and thought
it was large or gave a shit and a form
extensors but even then it just almost
really strains credulity to think wipe
it really want to train them and we're
probably not gonna put out guides
talking about them because it's such a
low priority James I'd have to
double-check that but if he means
forearm extensor maybe but I'm I know
elbow flexor for sure yeah yeah but
because it's involved that it can you
extend your arm completely or elbow it
it is perhaps involved in a
stabilization yeah so here's the answer
to that question it's like how do i
train these particular muscles while you
train the muscle action in which it does
right so if you want to train the
tibialis anterior you do dorsiflexion
right Patrick Varney beat you to it
under I'm Keith Chen hua knees how to
train the tibias interior he actually
commented repeated weight repeated
weighted dorsiflexion which is gonna be
the track you know it's a really good
way of doing that wear shoes and walk
yeah good place to start
the there is like that Mike oh my god
have you seen them little you put your
foot in in the Machine and you can put
weights on the side and you can do the
way to dorsiflex yes yes that's a real
man that is a real machine it's like one
of those machines when you see you're
like ah that's definitely a thing but no
whatever uses yeah yeah the thing is
like the tippy ice on terior generally
is in proportion to your body size and
like your activities right so like if
you run a lot and you need to be able to
have like a rapid reef or foot needs to
rapidly recycle and you're striding like
if you're a sprinter something you can
get like pretty pretty talked and it's
pretty strong tibialis anterior but
other than that that's not really a huge
incentive to Train I don't think
anyone's ever lost a bodybuilding show
for insufficient Tim as workers or
extensors
right in like what my said about the
brachioradialis technical movement
biomechanics aside it's just it gets so
much training just general overlap from
biceps training and from just using
different variations like if you operate
rows lateral raises oh my god it may be
even just switching from like you know
dumbbell curls to hammer curl or to
twist curl or something like that it's
like you got your good you got a
coverage so it's not really worth
fussing over to be that's the you know
other folks might have guides and we
look forward to that like neck training
which used at RPE we officially don't
give a shit about mac training but Geoff
Nippert has great neck training yeah
yeah so just look him up yeah it's funny
cuz people over like when are you gonna
plan our next training item but never
because Geoff nipper had already did
such a great job like well we'd like to
see you're taking it I'm like I don't
have a fucking take on it I look at
22-inch Mac or some shit like that from
just dude being jacked up doing
Brazilian jiu-jitsu yeah there's only a
few contests in which neck training is
appropriate right where it's like one
just want a bigger neck that's the
obvious one but there's a few sports
where it's associated with like lower
injury risk and rugby and American
football come to mind other than that
like you you sometimes like like jujitsu
wrestling and grappling sports you get a
big neck just because you post on your
head a lot like other than that why
that's all we got man I feel like that
was pretty good well we had some like
kind of sporty questions we had some
already building questions how to give a
little variety there good mix okay so I
want to put this out there so I don't
forget later not next week but the
following week Mike and I are gonna be
traveling and we're gonna be gone so
we're gonna be on a modified schedule so
I don't know if we're gonna just record
a video maybe when we're at the hotel
and we'll just do what together or if we
just you know we'll see but we'll just
say not not this upcoming week we should
be still normal I think for this
upcoming week but the following week we
will be on a modified schedule because
we will be out of the country so please
be patient with us we'll still try and
put out a video for that week if not
we'll we'll do our best so ask for your
patience oh excuse me
to me anything else I think that's it
that's it alright we're gonna wrap this
one up
guys thanks for tuning in make sure you
subscribe to our P on YouTube so you get
all of our crazy videos Mike's been
doing a really good job putting out lots
of new videos and there's the RP podcast
or to come man there's so much more
stuff so if you want to make sure you
get the weekly webinar and you want to
get anything else make sure you
subscribe that way just comes up right
in your feed and we will see you next
time thanks tune in ace