as a beginner you can do a lot of
pre-packaged programs where it's
verbatim sets wraps everything written
out for you Cookie Cutter and you can
get a great result because you're a
beginner it's not that hard to give you
a great result as an intermediate you
have to understand that now Begins the
era of pre-packaged programs no longer
being ideal you're gonna have to fuss
with them a little bit you're going to
have to alter them at the margins
because you have a unique knowledge
about yourself you have some limitations
and some very good abilities and you
have to design and tailor even if it's a
little all programs to match your needs
a beginner they'd probably just do what
it says but an immediate you have to
start thinking for yourself if you want
the best results