[Music]
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
[Music]
all right folks welcome back dr. James
here and apologies in advance I'm in the
great state of Florida also known as
America's glory hole and I I don't have
my usual microphone and set up with
everything that I normally would so my
audio and maybe video might be a little
wonky this week so apologies in advance
with me as always dr. mike is retail
without family listen I am gonna be with
Jared feather and dr. wife Melissa Davis
shares I sure bet that that title with
with her amongst three other men because
of this trip it's like that's true she
will be coming with us to the great
nation of India and we will see you
there at the squats connect conference
in Goa December 1st and 2nd this weekend
so I think this video should probably
upload like by then and if you find
yourself to be and go earn Indian
general we'll see you there and if
you're a regular Indian watcher of this
little webinar then come and say what up
shout out the rp+ family dude how
amazing would it be if somebody like saw
this video literally like but after it
gets posted up and it's like I'm
actually going to be in Goa I can't
believe this is this coincidence I'm
gonna make it out to the conference to
see RP instead of Beach vacation
lectures by myself meadow Hanselman s
will be there and so will sana Lehman so
gonna be super fun yeah Meadows been
really sick in India before so it's
considered a resident expert yep
alright should I get started yeah I'll
post it up here and let's get going
alright speaking of India awesome on it
was the worst but most appropriate segue
ever really true he's a version says
seems like this got buried so just for
posting for this next week
hey Doc's hope you're both doing well my
first question is about laying out my
upcoming maintenance phase I'm coming
off a log massing macro cycle and
planning on running four weeks of
maintenance followed by D load
massing macrocycle for weeks Mina's
fallen by a deal other than by week of
active rust so six weeks total of
maintenance before starting a long fat
fete fat loss phase that all sound good
I think it sounds good James yeah it
might even be excessively like small
maybe a bit conservative but it goes yep
I thought the week of active rest might
be a little excessive in addition to the
whole maintenance phase but I figured
when planning that I could take a week
off and really heal up any psychological
fatigue from training consistently
throughout the whole year
sure also a bit wedded to the length of
time I'm maintaining since this way I'll
be maintaining while I'm home and
started my cut when I get back to school
honestly like when things have that much
of an alignment with the rest of your
life they're probably just good ideas
like it you know I'm not gonna tell you
like maintain one last week and then
start cutting in the middle of holidays
so I think you're doing just fine
totally Glee and then he says my next
question is about judging whether m/v
volumes were attained during a
maintenance phase by definition of
performance increased post maintenance
phase would indicate any he volumes
instead of any volumes but since MV
volumes are usually accompanied my
strength training are just larger
intensity jumps in general would they're
really technical definition of judging
performance increases need to compare
multi set performance and exercises
since even if one gets stronger in their
10 rms the five by ten or five by ten
your best just to measure hypertrophy
would remain roughly static after a true
maintenance phase yes I guess I'm just
wondering how you detect performance
maintenance if the goal of maintenance
base is often to get stronger the way we
detect we would detect the performance
measures if we already be very objective
is an average weight in rep over
multiple sets so yeah that's the same
thing as your five by ten basically so
the problem that you run into is when
you switch to the recessive ization
phase two things often go with that one
you usually just see a heavier you see
heavier intensity for that base like you
go back to six to ten or maybe even a
little bit heavier so you immediately
get some acute neurological changes just
from going heavy again from week to week
so you get less acute adaptation to that
but really what you see this is the
bigger confounding factor is you've
recuperate the strength that you have
been losing from all the hard dieting
and or training that you've been doing
for a little while right so it's hard to
kind of piecemeal those
things out and you say like it's my
performance going up or am I actually
just kind of recovering to where I would
normally be at because I have been in a
depressed state from all the training
that I've been doing for a long time so
it is hard to figure that out but yeah
using multiple sets isn't probably the
best way to mediate but yeah and also
there's just gonna be some inherent
mystery to it like you can't do a
perfect job of detecting so yeah
exhaustion that's probably your best
like if you get like if you're like if
you can go up in 5 or 10 pounds on a
compound lift like is that necessarily
that you're at your MeV for strength
maybe maybe not but if you see that your
weight that you should be using to
maintain the intensity that you need are
going up every week that's more of an
indicator that you're probably doing too
much if the goal is empty rather than
actually getting stronger
yeah also remember that the main purpose
of the maintenance phase is to read
sensitize for further training by
dropping fatigue and just sensitivity of
volume and the literature on regain of
even lost muscle is very very positive
such that even if you bias your training
a little bit too low on a maintenance
phase and you sort of lost some
temporary muscle as unlikely as that is
you will regain all if not almost all of
that muscle probably all of it in the
first month of your cutting phase when
your volumes start to come back up
people recon bond early cuts all the
time so I would still say that airing a
bit on the lower side is better so if
you can't exactly measure of strength
and improving and you think god it's
about even but I'm not sure go a little
lower
it's it's okay to go a little lower a
little higher just doesn't have this
huge benefit and a little higher
unfortunately hits the recent
civilization and the fatigue dropping
part of maintenance exactly where it
hurts yeah and we really haven't quite
figured out what a to low situation is
quite yet because you could even stop
training for a couple weeks and comes
back the head muscle real quick yeah
yeah so I mean there's obvious downsides
so that - but in terms of what is
actually too low it's kind of it's kind
of hard to define because it's such as
time-series thing yeah
Tim Fork says hi James and Mike it would
be much appreciated if you can give me
some advice setting up with setting up
my upcoming mini cut any cut question
James
I'm doing juggernauts power building I
program how many days a week should I
lift during the mini cut I was thinking
of doing four days a week also how much
cardio should I do I was thinking of
just doing 30 minutes of brisk walking
three times a week would that be enough
or should I do more I modern 71 pounds
my Mina's calories and takes about 2900
calories have been doing any cardio
recently currently I'm lunching four
days a week during a peaking block and
have my calories and maintenance before
that my lifting was six days a week for
16 weeks during a massing face I
definitely wouldn't do six I think for
us great and as far as cardio we should
do is aim for a certain calorie
reduction which should be concomitant to
how much weight you want to lose or
harmony of each you wanna do the mini
cup once you figure out the Cal
reduction try to think of how many how
much hungry and tired that calorie
reduction would make you if it was all
out of food versus if you added some
calories back in but did some cardio how
tired would that make you like tired how
much would it cost your legs and overall
systemic fatigue and try to get a
balance of cardio and food reduction
that would take you to that sort of not
the most optimal place but least least
optimal place right the less less bad so
once you figure that out I mean it some
trial and error involved but the real
answer is any combination of all the way
from no cardio to tons of cardio is okay
as long as you're not experiencing a ton
of fatigue so find the least fatiguing
way to get in that combination of cardio
and eating and that would be your best
bet yeah those are all really good in
terms of how many days per week should
you lift that's really a kind of up to
you I would say no less than four for a
mini cut that's probably your best
interest I would say more during the
mini cut you want some recent to say
it's a tree sensitization of going dry
he can't and you don't need much to
conserve so I would say any more than
four is kind of like you could but why
yeah so you could make a case that's
like do what you would kind of normally
like what your normal two thirds of the
year training would do and just keep
maintaining that schedule just for the
sake of maintaining the schedule itself
and that that pair just adjust your
volumes right and so you the point by
point only point is you don't have to go
to a different number of days per week
just because it's a mini cut yeah so I'm
very good point but on yet every
that might said about the cardio in the
weight loss of spot ons i toid we all
right Daniel hacker says do you think
for a large majority of people the
barbell is not the most efficient way to
train a fiber trophy no I've been
running into this no I've been running
into this a lot recently the barbell
squat not being great fighter per trophy
unless you tweak a bunch of shit super
slow pause w don't work out but
something like a leg press hack being
amazing or the flat barbell bench not
being great for hypertrophy also unless
you tweak a bunch of shit slow eccentric
pause in your chest etc really call that
tweaking theirs compared to dumbbell
pressing and even certain machine
presses for strength I think it's fair
to say barbell is pretty ideal for most
but to get the adequate quality training
volume hypertrophy I'm not saying for
every member for a large group could
this be the case so a large group is
different than a large majority a
majority means most people I think if
you include every person that trains for
the purpose of hypertrophy at every
training age the barbell is the
overwhelmingly dominant and best tool
for professional bodybuilders that are
enormous and have tons of stomach
fatigue the barbell comes with
legitimate trade-offs but I don't think
you can say it's not the most efficient
way to train for hypertrophy I just
think the most damaging thing you can
say about the barbell is it's not always
the clear choice as a first exercise for
some people but for most people it is
the clear choice for one of the
exercises at least let's let me finish
reading this James and we'll get your
thoughts if that's okay yeah yeah keep
going he says I see it even in myself
and I just don't want to admit it
because I have a quiet obsession with
bobble exercises however undoubtably
the muscles I want to target or trained
wait harder and I'm also way less
fatigued overall when I don't use the
barbell however during low volume phases
that's a 5 and POSCO awesome flat meadow
very natural and logical can you guys
speak to this I think if that's how you
feel and you're basically if you're
ranking you're supposed to fatigue
ratios and the barbells always come
we'll ferry to like low on the list and
even if you've made the adjustments that
you talked about like eccentric slowing
and pauses and even if they still low
then yeah for sure though they're not
great for you right but really for me
for example barbells are typically just
sort of magically replaceable like I'll
do all kinds of different curls cable
curl machine curled
and I'll do like two sets of easy bar
curls and just be like oh my god this is
this is something so special like
nothing has ever replaced squats for me
in my quads barbell pressing you know
some now for injury reasons I do smith
machine mostly but even Smith machine is
a barbell right and that's just in when
I have an opportunities you're free bar
it's even better than the Smith machine
like as far as stimulating my muscles
and it doesn't ever cost me a ton of
fatigue so for me and many other people
the barbell seems to be really good or
hate for most people just trying to get
really efficient training and you
actually you did say efficient way to
train for a per trophy
remember barbara movements cover so much
muscle area of so little time that
actually if you use the technical term
for efficiency time efficiency then
they're the most efficient way but if
they are the most effective are they the
most basic I think what you're asking is
stimulus to fatigue ratio are they the
highest and so then I would say on
average they're very good and certainly
no lower on average but there are
situations which they're a safar's are
lower than other movements in the neck
ace you should prioritize where the
movements change yeah I'm trying to
think of a scenario where I think this
is like a more universal okay more
universally applied snar and I think you
might run into this with people who have
long arms and long legs and like the
bench in the squat for it as an example
it's not to say that it's not a good
movement for them but I can I could see
your point maybe when you're dealing
with people who have kind of a lanky
build where you have to flex with the
technique a lot just to get like a
really good SFR out of it because the
bar path moves so far that there's
various points along the way where it
just might not be that great of a
movement based on where your hands are
where your feet are this and that I
still don't think the barbell is fattest
it's a really good bang for your buck
but I could see your point
like using something like dumbbell bench
presses comparison like you just get so
many more so much more degree of freedom
with the dumbbell it's probably easier
to generate really good SSRS for people
with really long arms just because they
can control exactly where they want to
go along the entirety of the path
whereas with the barbell it might be
good for like one third of the movement
and in the last two thirds it's maybe
not the most efficacious part of the
movement for them I could see that being
an argument but I think on the whole
that this is like a really nitpicky
thing I think I'm a hold of barbells
probably still a really really good way
to go at least until you get to that
intermediate level and then you
we figure it out which SFR exercises are
just the best bang for your buck at that
point and then you can make a calculated
decision where you say like you know
what
squatting just fucking wipes me out I
get just as good of growth doing hack
squats and leg presses like I'm just
gonna do that from now on and I can reap
the reward of using those variations and
not having as much systemic spillover
and that's good for me you know you can
make that argument but I think until you
get to that intermediate level you might
I would press people to keep working
with the barbell and make it work until
you individualize your technique and
make it work the result so related he
says on this point
can you speak to narrowing exercise
selection is you progressing a training
career after maybe three to five years
of consistent intelligent training do
you think it's fair to say that one
exercise ones exercise selection maybe
should become more narrowed because
they've adequately found what exercises
are best for them and which are not he
gets into some other stuff later but
well I would actually like to answer
this while it's very clear in my head I
don't think this is true on average and
I'll tell you why I think that in any
one mesocycle you probably don't do more
than five exercises per muscle group
James would you say that's pretty like
if it's more than five for muscle group
Intermezzo I don't know what you're
doing kind of like Oh reason yeah yeah
I'm not sure like really advanced and
sure yeah
so as a beginner it may be even less
than maybe three right but let's say
it's five that means we have five
exercises to fill our bandwidth and we
can imagine that the universe of
potential exercises that lies ahead is
maybe 40 or 50 exercises and as we sort
of take our band over this this universe
of exercises the width of the band is
only five exercises at a time and you
keep a lot of exercises you don't just
jettison them so what ends up happening
is you you choose new exercises one two
three new exercises per maybe even block
per macro cycle and because included in
those variations are grip widths and
stuff and underhand overhand and differ
Ola pulldown attachments the number of
exercises that you have to explore
probably fills that five or so best
exercises that you always seem to use
bandwidth for five to ten years
eventually once you have a gone through
maybe most exercises that you're
familiar with you know you may have only
five or six that you'd ever do again but
you started with two or three that you
ever do it again so the exercises that
you are doing probably won't doesn't
narrow because it can't get any narrower
than five or six but as a percent of
exercises that you have tried and capped
it's a low percent for many people right
so yes you should be looking for the
highest SFR exercises of all those so by
definition if you have 40 exercises to
do for vertical pulling let's say and
you know your ten top ten SFR exercises
after ten years you're not good to leave
them because everything is below the top
ten is worse so in that sense there is a
narrowing but it's not a narrowing of
your repertoire
it's a narrowing of the universe
compared to what you do but since you
don't use the whole universe of
exercises at any one time during your
training you're not gonna perceive like
you have a narrowing you're not gonna
say back when I was a beginner I get all
kinds of crazy shit no at every stage of
your training you're gonna be able to
say you know every few months I try an
exercise or two and that's been like
that for ten years and I know which ones
are reliable which ones are good but I
still try a new exercise once every
several months because the new grip
booth comes out or new machine comes out
so on so forth and I honestly think
that's sort of trying to exercise or to
I've been training for I think exactly
20 years now I'm still trying new
exercises so I can't honestly tell you
that my variation has reduced versus
what I used to use I can tell you that I
do have my top exercises and a lot of
them are the ones that are gonna be
staying around for good James yeah that
was really good explanation and I liked
your addition there about trying new
exercises as a regular thing and that's
something I think is really important
because a lot of times you won't
discover a really high SFR actress
until you try it until you give it a
fair shot of maybe two or three mezzos
where you really work on it and then you
might find that this is an amazing
movement one that came for me very late
in my lifting career however you want to
call it don't squat yeah
it just never had access to one and it
was one of those look if I didn't just
try it I've had just looked at the
videos or see people doing gotta go okay
yeah that seems cool but when you go and
try it and you realize wow this is great
for X number of reasons you just
wouldn't know it without trying it on
the contrary you get the the negative
effect to where you try something you're
like you know what this just sucks I
can't make this work I actually had a
client very recently they were like bro
incline dumbbell flies no more it's just
there they're in there a lot I get
nothing out of it switch to incline
dumbbell press on that day magic right
like takes off so uses it is worth just
trying some of those things out if even
if you think you have a pretty good idea
of what that movement is keep a little
variety to keep adding new things keep
adding new techniques try and trial and
error things over time it's very
important very good and then he says the
any of these barbells just for the sake
of barbells comes to mind if an
individual is around 10 to 11 of body
weight to lose Oh different question the
idea of using barbells jestro sake of
barbells comes to mind yeah so I guess
so we beat that one to death um next
question if an individual is around 10
to 11 percent body weight to lose would
you recommend that be done in 1 3 mozo
diet or split it up into two easy to
measure diets of losing 5 to 6 percent
of body weight each week with a
four-week maintance month in between
most diets in between both diets man
geez very think about this it's a very
individualized question yeah yeah some
people I have some clients who can do 15
weeks of cut and they it's not great but
they can do it I have other clients by
the end of 10 weeks if we're talking
about what five week myzel cycles right
at the end of the mezzo 2 they're done
they're not cutting any more right it's
not that they don't have more weight to
lose it's that psychologically they're
out of the game and that's enough
there's no shame in that there's no
shame in saying I'm out of the game I
need a break right and that's so that's
just something you take on
one-to-one basis you just lets an
individualization a program yeah Daniel
that's a really good question because
they're ten to eleven percent our RP die
of 2.0 recommendation of one single diet
duration is ten percent body weight we
recommend ten is the top they see if you
had asked like seven or eight James and
I would for sure both say like outside
of unusual circumstances you just one
diet that thing yeah ten to eleven
specifically it's like I technically
have to say that at eleven
you have to highly consider branching
into two diets but then like individual
psychology plays a big role so for
example some people just want to take it
to the teeth and finish and some people
you need in those same people if you
just diet them five percent
they're gonna rebound two percent
somehow and you're gonna end up because
there's some research this is the diet
rebound is some for some people just the
same no matter what they lose so if you
lose a lot of weight the rebound is four
pounds whatever if you lose a little bit
of weigh-in the rebounds four pounds
there goes half your diet right it's
also an interesting setpoint issue or a
settling point issue where if you drag
someone down ten percent body weight
they're settling point if you maintain
is gonna be way different than it used
to be and that's gonna be sort of like
semi semi permanent loss if you lose
someone like four or five percent body
fat it's so close to their own settling
point that's regular life might they
just might gain back up to their you
know what I mean like yes if someone
Falls you have to disrupt the norm at
some point you have to get out of that
that comfort zone literally in that
sense so it it's it I think its split
about 50/50 between people who would
benefit from one versus the other it is
a really interesting question I wish I
had a more solid answer but I would say
I would say that's just like you have to
have a good rapport with your client and
know what they're capable of doing at
that point yeah next question from
Daniel do you think it's fair to say as
a general rule one should be progressing
at five to ten percent a year and all
their movements at least the compound
lifts no I would never say that no their
intermediate of course for beginners
this is the case I'm assuming for
advanced folks more so on the five
percent side an individual progresses
less than five percent of the lifts as
an intermediate in six months or a year
is it fair to say that what the fuck are
you programming no it's not because
genetics determines most of that rate of
progress
conversely if they progressing by ten
percent or more
you can say that was an unreal year of
training you know here's a kind of a
funny conundrum you get with that too is
a lot of the times you keep a movement
in for a long time and this is gonna
sound backwards and I know but just bear
with me sometimes when you have a lot of
practice and repetition with that
movement you actually start learning how
to get that SFR really high and some of
the techniques that you use to get that
SFR up actually causes your performance
to show as a decrease or so you use a
little bit less weight and you if you're
looking at just the numbers you'd be
like my hard rock squat is actually live
kind of going down but what you have
done with your technique is modified it
so you're actually getting much more
robust growth every time you use that
technique right so it's kind of a hard
thing to just say like if you just use
the numbers in terms of performance it
is important to track the performance
but to say that you need to be making 5
to 10% it doesn't apply in all
situations because there's been lots of
instances where I have modified my own
technique and my numbers have seemingly
gone down but I've gotten so much more
out of the movement because I've been
learning how to do it specifically true
or fire per trophy even for strength if
you're just training in powerlifting
you're just compound lift strength let
me introduce you guys so took an intro
interesting intellectual observation of
how this plays out let's say we were
gonna take even metadata on people and
say that you know between years 3 & 6
the average person gains 5 percent
strength ok the average person is doing
an average program as average genetics
so how exactly do you you period you
actually watching this you use that well
that's a little bit less conclusive and
a little bit more mysterious because you
can think well if I'm doing five percent
that I'm doing good but you might be
gifted genetically and have the world's
shittiest program and just be fuckin
carrying a bag of dicks around with you
for no goddamn reason on the other hand
you may have an exceptionally finding
tailored program and have just dogshit
genetics and be doing 3 percent and
searching the ends of Reddit for the
best program ever what am I doing wrong
she's sort of one of them or I don't
know about tragic tragic Sandover Steven
one of the more so like kind of things
is like folks it'll tender seminars very
sometimes questions in rp+
will have like clearly just don't have
good genetics and sometimes you need
them in real life like I can tell you
but they have this program that's about
as good as anything James and I would
ever write and they understand training
principles unbelievably well and they'll
show it to us they'll be like what am I
doing wrong here we're gonna be like
dude you're not doing anything wrong and
anything that we can fix is gonna be
like some fraction of a percent of extra
gains for you there's at least one study
out now and there's not a big fan of how
that study was conducted in northern
cleaning they concluded it's a bit meh
but there's a study on basically like
they're my new manipulated some small
training variables and saw how much that
had an effect versus the genetics
between the subjects and the genetics
between the subjects that's like 90% of
the effect of it like it wasn't it
wasn't any close to 90 I'm under I'm
understating that so that's the thing is
like when you have these numbers even if
we had these numbers to say you know the
average person gains this doesn't add
you wouldn't know how that's pegged here
genetics and you have no idea what your
genetics are so I think James and I are
pretty Ananas about this like understand
the principles understand how good make
good program design and just fuckin do
your best
and if you think you're not because
here's an interesting feel sort of
philosophical note let's say you find
out you're under performing what is your
recourse you cycle back to I need to
improve my program design why don't you
just do that anyway right like it you
just make your program as good as you
can and then every year make it as good
as you can you will by definition get
the best fucking possible gains you have
like that's it another kind of funny
scenario and Mike I know you've been
more vocal about this lately and I think
one thing that you can think about is
like let's say you're running a cut or
mass whatever you know we'll choose a
cut as it easier to understand example
you have a movement in there
you do three meadows of that movement
right you're thinking I haven't really
made any progress maybe you have
moderate genetics and maybe your program
is moderate meaning it's like not
particularly good we're not particularly
bad either you're still training through
your MRV maybe not always making the
best choices but for the most part
you're pretty much pretty much on point
what Mike has said which I largely agree
with is that for her part she metal
cycle
you should be adjusting your programming
so that you're probably not making any
performance gains at any given time
because the amount of training that
you're doing is masking how your
performance their fatigue within the
accumulation phase yeah then the
accumulation phase exactly so you might
run three messes of this particular
movement let's say squats and you might
not see any improvement in that movement
but that's just a preparedness issue
that's literally just a fatigue to
fitness thing by
the time you switched to a maintenance
phase and let's just say you kept that
movement for the maintenance phase by
the time that maintenance phase is over
now three or four weeks at the end of
the maintenance phase your strength has
recuperated to the point where you could
actually measure a difference in the
strength that you have now gained but at
that point you're moving on to the next
body composition phase that you're on
and you strategically used variation to
swap out that movement so now at the one
time that you could actually measure
performance increase that was being
masked by fatiguing this whole time
you'd use variation and now that
movements gone and you have no idea if
you've made progress on it that's a
perfectly reasonable scenario but what
do you do in that point you just assume
that that whole block was a huge fail no
you just keep doing the best that you
can like my party said keep making smart
choices yeah yes Benjamin K says hello
beloved friends wow that's fancy you
recommended training for strength in the
3-6 rep range if someone is training for
strength but has no plans to compete at
the moment and will be returning a
trained fighter per trophy after the
strike strength blocks should they
period eyes the rep ranges over the
length of a strength block for example
for mesos with a meso at each rep or
should they stick with one rep target 5s
or a mixture 306 for the whole block is
the periodization only intended for
those who are going to peak taper and
compete afterwards or does it have
another purpose so the position is
intended to get you limit strength which
is your one repetition max but what is
actually intended if you just talk about
a strength block and no peaking block
its intended to build general strength
which has the potential to become
peaking strength if you peak it out
right so that's what it's doing Lisi
basically the underlying general
strength potential to express yourself
in a one around if no interest in one
around which you really like five rms
you wouldn't do six five four three also
I do have an exactly correct answer for
you if you are interested in let's say
doing 4 meses cycles of strength I would
definitely not spend a mess on each rep
6 5 4 3 but that's where my average
would be I would do a mezzo average of 6
average of 5 average of 4 average of 3
something like that but we would do what
unfortunately I'll just call for
simplicity daily undulating
periodization during that time right so
every single
week of every single one of those
meadows you'll have some exercises and
sets you do with sixes some of five
summer for some of threes or some
combination or average between those two
and then you're going to slowly over
time do more volume at the heavier range
lower reps less volume at the lighter
range as mezzos to mezzos to mezzos go
and that way you get a real good mixture
of a little bit more capacity work in a
little bit more general strength on the
six to five range and a little bit more
limit strength and peaking strength on
the four to three that's a great way to
manage fatigue it's a great way to have
variation and what it ends up doing is
working better than just having
dedicated exclusive locks oh yes are
moving six five four three as an average
and you're incorporating all those
elements all the time and James correct
me if I'm wrong you might actually
incorporate some rep ranges entirely
outside of that as well like he might be
some exercises for eight to ten that are
just appropriate to do in that range for
the conservation of muscle so on and so
forth yeah especially for something like
triceps no you really think training
triceps for three reps like come on
right yeah absolutely and I think what
really mike is getting out there is you
wouldn't necessarily pick that number
over six five four three right you'd
still be operating within a range of
acceptable value so that you could work
with and so sometimes we use like four
to eight or you know three to six and
then maximal strength sometimes we say
one two three right we'd still be
operating kind of within a range of
scores for your heavy days and then you
might go outside of those on your
lighter days and then your average would
fall somewhere in there right but you
would still say like okay I don't want
to be using weights that are so light
that I can actually go above eight reps
right so that might be like you might
say I'm doing four to eight for a mezzo
I might be moving to a four to eight
again for another mezzo but I'm pushing
my average down and then I might switch
to three to six same idea right
basically taking an upper bound and a
lower bound and kind of shifting it down
across the mezzos to accommodate and
that average rep goal what you're trying
to hit but keep in mind if the goal is
to do a hypertrophy phase later and that
is more important to you you also want
to just be conscious of that because
when you were training for strength you
are training mev to MRV for strength
which is higher than envy for
hypertrophy in most cases yeah and also
just if you want to return back to
hypertrophy I wouldn't leave the 5 to 10
range for 2
wakening if you did like a month of six
a month of five a month of four and a
month of three yeah better believe the
first time you even tried to do eight
reps you are gonna be dying
you're gonna gasp out yeah oh my god
that's gonna be one of those lives one
or two set kind of days all right time
to juice leg press right you do like
eight reps yeah
I had that happen like last week it was
awful I threw up today during my squat
workout oh did you really yeah
there's funny because I like finished my
second-to-last side of the day which was
a set of eight within the squat and I
sat down next to Charlie and we chatted
for like a whole minute and then a half
with her conversation he asked me a
question over he's like well that was
fun I was like yeah anyway we were
saying yeah I just threw up just
literally one time and I was a god I
feel better I was it yeah like you get
used to it and then number two question
here by Benjamin is what are your
thoughts on including direct AB side
delt and back work if one is training
for strength and hypertrophy for the
power lifts two to three times a week
frequencies six to twenty cents for
volume so I would say it's like a power
lifting focus kind of program I think
it's kind of what he's getting at here
right or am I just reading too much into
that power lifting or power building
I mean it's its power building but it's
like he's doing the hypertrophy in the
context of the what would be considered
powers yeah so the kind of phase
potentiated plan where we have focuses
of strength and focuses of hypertrophy I
would basically recommend that you do
maintenance volume on all of those
direct things so it's very little direct
work and I would say it's probably in
you know mostly in the 5 to 10 range and
as far as the sets it's a 6 to 20 sets I
think it's six reps to 20 reps is what
he means when that games are doing mean
six reps he means success for me yeah
I'm not sure I mean maintenance volume
so I'd see closer to six than 220 for
all those because remember when you're
training for strength let's put it this
way if you're training for strength and
you really want to get strong you don't
want to have
you're above all you manned side delt
volume by being MeV dam RV takeaway from
strength there's a why trade for
strength anyway so when you trying to
restrain to put everything on Megan's
train for strength get super fucking
strong put that sword down pick up the
axe of hypertrophy and get to swinging
like yeah it's one of the other I think
you could I think you could basically
throw away direct app training in my
humble opinion if you're doing like pow
if you're doing like a strength mezzo or
hypertrophy mezzo with the power lifts
in mind
she's throw add training out I mean
you're you're good on that side delts I
would say maintenance has might
suggested back work I think you could
make a case for training some of your
back at MeV so long as it's not
something that's gonna take away from
your ability to do a deadlifts for
example like if you're really blasting
Kent over rows and then you can't
deadlift like that's obviously a
conflict of interest but like you could
make a case for doing some lat training
at MeV it's not terribly invasive and it
might help you yeah through stuff yeah
but I think the direct app stuff dude if
you just throw that out yeah there's no
there's no need that's the thing you're
getting so much raw stimulation from
doing the squatting and the dead lifting
for strength and for hypertrophy and
both of those rep ranges you're getting
a huge raw magnitude stimuli that's you
just don't need to do the director of
training at that point yeah unless
unless you knew when you are lean you
don't have a clean six pack and you have
made a case and said my abs need to
actually be bigger in the long term and
it's been a sticking point for me okay
take the case but other than that
[Music]
[Applause]
you're serious about your goals and the
RP diet app is here to help it creates a
diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your bowls
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
Wolcott
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today
all right Bassam Ahmadi says hello dr.
Crocker and dr. soccer how is life let's
wait which one is which one is which you
got to be dr. Crocker I guess dr.
Stockton
uh-huh thanks for answering my last
week's questions I am myself I myself am
all right even though no one asked it
I'm on my last micro of my last gaining
mezzo or then I will go over to
maintenance and then I cut feeling
excited because I currently feel like a
blob yeah that's that's the time of the
season
speaking of starving oneself there were
a few days where Mike didn't post
anything question worthy in his
Instagram my being Instagram comment
mulcher picking up on scrap questions
here and there I find it pretty boring
when I longer had things to do while
taking my bulky shits
by the way Instagram blocked me from
commenting in the sports scientists Q&A
post because I went on a spree answering
the sad unanswered questions
fun stuff anyway on to the question
hyoni's yeah there was a lot of sports
scientists questions we can't get to
number one if someone has a condition
where their palms are constantly sweaty
to the point of being a limiting factor
in group based exercises would you see
chalk is a viable permanent short-term
solution I like the term permanent
short-term solution yes what's traps
just you straps yeah straps are great
mr. Chavez great two tops great yeah
first the grips are the best so I just
dude buy those definitely and then he
said you guys asked me for a
clarification on my madness mayhem
deadline pull up client basically she
has uh she has set up a goal in schools
PE class where she should have to be
able to learn to do pull up before
Christmas the unfortunate part Jewish
many a promise experience as trainers is
that she may have come too late for her
goals to be realistic she did however
mention that her deadline isn't really
written in stone it's just something she
would like to have achieved by then but
then if she doesn't she'll just keep up
until she does in the mess and I would
talk to her about creating a properly
Paradise program for that instead of
trying to rushing some dumb shit James
yeah not to mention the holidays are
coming up here no.8
what are you gonna be hitting a pull-up
PDR after the holidays you feel me guys
gonna be heavy good good time to get
your back strong and then get yes and
then he says maybe I do actually have a
second question after all if I want to
make sure I got it right with teaching
or pull-ups I'm going to have her do
negatives if assistant pull-ups are not
liable in the 1 to 5 range from 2 to 6
that's per session and at least 3 or 4
times a week here's the kicker though
she can only come to the gym twice a
week but she's very dedicated and says
she finds ways to do it at home
basically I'll have her do the same
thing but at home then the last week
I'll do a peak protocol where I focus
mostly on singles or more with high
weights in perfect form yeah make sure
to give her some reductions for fatigue
so mm-hmm and the best thing about doing
your negatives is that you can actually
add quite a bit of resistance that's
kind of the funny thing so it that's
definitely a good fast-track way for
strength it's also a good fast-track way
for injury so just be careful yeah I'm
I'm glad she's female and hopefully
light because that'll reduce injury risk
if there's a heavy male doing this
accelerator pull a program like I would
be pretty concerned or bicep yeah
all right he says a Messam is back
actually he says he'll doc last week you
talked about the period after a cycle
and that was a youtube question which
we'll get to in just a bit and I've been
Bassem actually I don't know if I copy
and pasted the wrong sometimes I copy
and paste it might be somebody else
sorry if that is somebody already
somebody else
ah two things spar questions in my mind
number one of special sports supplements
lower mvs and any DS would this imply
that one would have to train at a higher
volume in the cessation period just to
maintain the acquired contractile tissue
yes that is correct
but would this not be counterproductive
in a period of heightened catabolism low
testosterone high after eating yes it
would you're fucked either way is the
answer there's just some muscle you
can't retain because every door is
narrowed and then that's it and then the
next question is what would be the new
mV to train it in this period
old natty MV or something like one or
two sets higher that perhaps natty I
mean yeah something like that I mean
also tell somebody how many drugs you
take like if you take 10 grams of gear
this
thing that's gonna be able to keep that
muscle on you if you take 500 milligrams
for ten weeks or something than just a
regular MeV or MB is probably gonna be
good enough so it really depends dose
duration it's not over I would say my
correct me if I'm wrong here but I would
say your performance like increase could
be a good proxy as to how how much those
things have shifted absolutely shift
absolutely if your performance like what
any acting you started using drugs right
then you might have to actually increase
your natty MeV by maybe two or three
sets whereas if you got a modest
increase in like zero change and no yeah
cuz measure them as a performance is
evidence of muscle gain and basically
tell you how much muscle you gained yeah
so that might be a good proxy to
estimate like how much you need to add
to your previous MeV zombies and James
on a related note I am NOT impressed to
hear performance what a great line
number two sorry go ahead
sorry I'll keep it short there was a
funny behind-the-scenes on that where
they interviewed him about that exact
moment and he's after we so like in the
interview he's like I was just in the
audience and Matt Hugh said just like
won his fight and I wasn't really paying
attention and then somebody said my name
and the ring and that everyone was like
yelling at me to come to the ring so
he's like I thought Matt Hughes had just
like talked a bunch of shit to me so
that's why I and so then you see like so
he says I'm not impressed by your
performance and you see Matt Hughes go
like he does like one of these like okay
guy of whatever and then he's like
afterwards here II watched the whole
thing and he was like oh I thought he
was talking shit he loved it
amazing that's funny that is funny
alright next question here last one for
the rp+ crew is number two you mentioned
that some people just stopped eating in
this period but what would be a good
approach to eating at such a time eating
at actual maintenance calories to
maintain body weight but loss of
intracellular water would mean that even
if the contractile tissue maintained is
maintained the difference would be fat
tissue so it would technically be a
surplus not exactly amazing to eat for
tissue maintenance you could still lose
weight but then it would all be water
weight what guys end up doing is they
eat so little that even they lose actual
tissue
wait so it's okay to lose weight after a
cycle if you lose like ten pounds or
whatever let's say you gained 15 pounds
during a cycle if you lose five pounds I
think you're fine if you lose twelve
you're not fine
right like that's that's kind of the
idea they says a benefit here might be
anti catabolic properties of high
insulin environment you would think but
you don't have the training to support
it and you probably have been pretty you
know so drugs make you more sensitive to
insulin now you're less sensitive
there's only so much mitigation you can
do so just do a good job and keep things
as stable as possible and he says eating
at a predictive maintenance may lead to
a loss of weight which could be the
intracellular water but could also be
attracted yeah you have to eat enough to
make sure you're maintaining for your
tissue it shouldn't be terribly
difficult to figure out it should be
your usual maintenance at that body
weight well here's the problem right so
you let's say back when you were 190
Maddie you were eating three 3,500
calories and then now you're 190 post
psycho Lina's fuck jacked and shredded
and you're so not hungry that you're
eating 3000 calories
stop doing that go back to 3500 you
won't want to but you'll have to do it
so that's where guys get fucked and I'd
also remember they they sometimes stop
training when you stop training a lot of
people um probably most I would think
they're actually experienced of
reduction appetite I just can't put the
food down like they used to so so and
then he says so I guess my question is
should should the diet be in a
predictive maintenance or slight surplus
actual calories need to maintain body
weight and the period after cycle no
they should be at predictive maintenance
your usual maintenance that you do not
and to maintain body weight but to
maintain body tissue after a cycle you
it's okay to lose body weight as long as
it's not tissue in just an intramuscular
water another good way of maintaining
this understanding is to do maintenance
periods recom periods with anabolics
where you take you know the usual
amounts but for two months or so you
don't actually try to eat at a surplus
and you try to figure out how much body
water you're gaining it's a little tough
to figure out but you can do it and then
Oh what's a stack or whatever alignment
of compounds gains you how much body
water so that you kind of know to offset
that during whatever other phase you may
have so but generally speaking remember
muscle gain regain is not a big deal as
long as you don't do super dumb shit to
fuck it up so what I would say is very
simply continue to train train at
maintenance volume just your usual natty
volumes fine and eat good food eat
plenty of protein don't do anything
stupid like quitting training or
starting endurance activity and then
when you run your next cycle all didn't
three weeks all that muscle will come
back and then more just it's the falling
off the wagon that we're really
advocating against because it's just
like you know you destroyed your health
and broke the law of a bunch of
substances and now you got dick to show
for it don't be don't be that guy don't
be the Real Housewives of New Jersey
version of taking drugs all the way to
the Real Housewives of New Jersey part
ya know cuz everyone knew exactly what
you meant by that
I hope yeah it's just like yes I know I
know that guy alright so let me see
we're gonna bring up YouTube and get
these three questions you ready James
I'm ready hit me
let me get going on the screen share
share those all right
let's a pick someone out of the crowd
and I just saw the name well let's do it
meet back I have a couple of questions
for James in regards to scheduling two
day training I have both lifting and
moderate or two hard running or swimming
on four of my days and Durin's
improvement is my primary focus first
what is the optimal way to separate
these sessions over the day I typically
hit endurance first and lifting three or
four hours later
that's pretty spot-on right off the bat
I mean like usually we say like the more
you can kind of space them out the
better there is some individualization
there I mean like you might find that
doing them on separate days and the same
day and some different instances might
be slightly better if
consolidating them all into the same day
like it's always a to add a situation
then yeah usually we say at least three
to four hours break do the endurance
first that's like totally spot-on but I
would also say like you might find that
sometimes you could just do a lifting
day and then an endurance only day on
some days and that just might fit your
schedule however your training is set up
slightly better who knows but the way
you're doing it now looks great yeah and
then meatbag says if I have a day where
I do them back-to-back which modality
should I start with mentally I prefer
lifting first then endurance after I
don't know endurance training mediately
after lifting in a perjury phase is
particularly detrimental for muscle
growth but doesn't have as much of a
negative impact on strength or power
development what I would say really
quick before James I can make sure I'm
correct is I think if you really value
endurance as your number one training
you should be doing that fresh so
lifting after James absolutely and so
does it have as much negative impact on
strength and power development so no in
the elect the and in the immediate set
and the in the longitudinal sense but in
the immediate sense it does if you
cannot generate really good overloads
for your weight training because your
endurance training was so hard like if
you get a really hard swim and then you
just you cannot even come close to
hitting an MeV for your back for example
that would have a long to keep an acute
and then later I want you to know effect
on your strength and power like in
certain muscles but I agree with Mike
look at that point it doesn't really
matter your swimming is the priority you
do that first yeah he says thank you for
bringing these webinars to us YouTube
plebeians jeans this period is asian
lecture series have been fantastic I've
been exposed to much employer is a shin
outside of the scope of bodybuilding or
peril if trim awesome think I'm glad you
enjoyed yeah all right let's see so okay
here's one as well purge was clearly
Israel name yeah is it unrealistic to
expect sufficient gains by only lifting
three times per week but doing
body I hit every muscle group three sets
of 20 reps so I think like for beginners
almost all beginners will gain with that
I think most intermediates will gain
some good muscle with that if you're
advanced this will almost certainly
result in zero - very few games so it's
one of those beginner - halfway through
intermediate has reliable gains and then
after that I wouldn't bet on it in the
late part of intermediate having close
to the best gains in any part of
advanced I would say it has no chance
for gains in most cases James yeah I
agree with that you know one thing is
like how do you how do you describe
what's efficient gains means does it
mean the best gains does it mean minimal
gains does it mean some games you know
it's kind of one of those little
ambiguous but I think we can all agree
on it's like if we want to make like
tangible gains three times per week is
maybe not the best choice on set of
beginners to early intermediate it's
usually once you hit the intermediate
stage we want to see that moving up to
probably closer to four six times per
week especially if you're more advanced
and then doing a blanket set in the rep
scheme for any given muscle group is
generally not best practice it excludes
individual muscle group needs it
excludes
you know MeV MRV consideration so purge
as a realm I would highly recommend you
check out our book on what should I
train or talk about the volume landmarks
and all that stuff might be really
useful for you yeah alright you want a
training question or a deep theoretical
training question uh dealer's choice
dealer's choice I'm not sure if I can
make a decision all right chicken
smoothie I think it's used with the
pound stone shake that's right uh
already training with chronic fatigue
hey Doc thanks for keeping these on
youtube very interesting informative
content sure I've constantly a trouble
with my systemic iMovie being very low
and as a result on volume mezzos I've
been diluting often three to four weeks
in depending on how much muscle was
being overloaded
even when I'm overloading slowly an
average of 0.75 sets per week
an average three Aria I can't seem to
push a block out past five weeks you and
me both by the way I don't think James
can't either so I don't think you have
anything to worry I did it I did it what
I finally did it
my dad and I did six weeks I did a five
in one it's like the first time it's
ever happened yeah the amount of gear I
would need to run to do a five and one
would kill me as the results I often
feel like I'm just pissing away time
being in a dealer too often so I'm gonna
pause this and say something really
interesting direct experimental research
has shown that you gain as much muscle
training two-thirds of the time that you
normally would train in the course of a
several month period so they had at
least one study that was really well
conducted where they had folks trained
for some number of weeks and then take
three weeks off and then some number of
weeks and then three weeks off and they
did that three times while a control
group trained the entire time they all
met at the same exact beings if you're
DLO ting accumulation 2d load paradigm
is three to one and for sure four to one
going better than four to one unless you
are beginner like if you have to alter
any weird variables to get better than
four to one it's almost certainly not
worth it if you just can't do much
better than four to one because the D
loading resent citize you in a really
big way drops a ton of fatigue and it
makes all the training you do super high
quality if you have training that's like
eight to one you got to wonder about the
beginning and end of that training like
we talked about in the volume landmarks
book you don't have stretched something
out that far for an average person like
yeah if you're making gains that whole
time great but most people if you said
hey I want you to run into one paradigm
they'd be like man the first couple
weeks have to be super fucking easy and
last couple weeks have to be digging my
grave out of my MRV both are fucking
stupid so with four week accumulation
teal appeared on you pretty much in the
golden zone like damn you the entire
time and that one week is just not it's
not costing you in any real sense that
we can differ by literature or even
theory so genes you need add to that
before keep going on this question
because if you know I'm reading ahead
and you nailed it but I have some things
for the last part okay
and given that I still feel awful even
after D learning even ten days that's
still a concern and even once 14 days
after he'd squat over each mic I'm going
about this the wrong way do you think
there are better approaches for low
MRV people for example low SMR v low
systemic Emory
for example should I be training
maintenance and just overloading one or
two muscle groups at a time that's
actually a real good idea
just like back and bios or quads and
traps any insight ye or you guys can
offer what helped me immensely Cheers
yeah so I think like the examples that
you gave about doing specialization
phases it's not a bad idea a couple of
really simple things that right off the
bat you might try to start minimizing
some of the exercises that have the
greatest systemic spillover it's a
classic example being like deadlifts and
squats you might start to use those less
and less maybe even exclude them from a
mesocycle or not again where you might
just do leg press instead of squatting
for a little while
perfectly fine right you might also and
this is gonna I know people are gonna
maybe raise the stink-eye add me for
this one but I'm gonna take it on the
chin usually when people have really
weak systemic and marquees they're also
cardiovascularly unfit right and so I've
seen that yep so that's one thing that I
would be suspect up and normally you
wouldn't hear me advocating for doing
more cardio for hypertrophy that's not
something I would normally say but if
you find that your systemic MRV is a
limiting factor but usually because you
don't have a really good strong
cardiovascular capacity that's probably
one thing that's holding you back now
you might be hearing me say that you're
like nope that's not the issue fun throw
it out the window
and then you can work on some of those
other things but if it's something that
you haven't thought about and you just
find yourself getting chronically
fatigued all the time I would actually
consider starting to add some low
intensity steady-state cardio start
small if you're not doing any want to
start by adding 10 to 15 minute sessions
maybe two times per week and then slowly
starting to kind of ramp it up over time
and increasing intensity and duration as
you really good advice yeah the
maximizing the SFR each exercise you do
there's a real big deal there mmm when I
would say actually chicken smoothie is
train a little bit more like a pro
bodybuilder in a little bit less like
everybody else you're not gonna be able
to survive the you know the sixth time a
week full body everyday kind of shit
like you're gonna die so I would say a
little bit lower frequency per muscle
group a little bit more maintenance
volume and specialization and a little
bit more isolation before compounds kind
of snuff don't get super aggressive with
our our increases and
really try to go for my muscle
connection hike high quality full range
of motion and get as much as you can out
of the exercises and don't do anything
that beats your ass too much like he
dives with a ton of MRV he can get away
with doing rack pulls and deadlifts and
Monroe's you might have to do some other
stuff for your back because that could
just be a bit much totally totally agree
that's all we got Gmail it's a short one
this time it's a short one all right
it's okay going forward for next week
when do you guys get back from India
comes the phone which he knows my life
yeah so I don't know what day you get
back but even even at you decide okay so
why don't we do this for now we're just
going to tentatively reschedule the
webinar which is normally at this time
so Tuesday's so I'll be on a flight to
Kuwait City from Mumbai and exactly this
time so I definitely can't do the
Tuesday webinar it's Thursday and I'm
James well what I was gonna say is let's
tentatively reschedule to either
Thursday or Friday and we can send an
email update because you're gonna be
pretty wrecked by them to them I'll be
okay though
yeah okay well if you're game let's just
say Thursday for now Thursday we're
gonna we're gonna reserve the right to
audible to Friday if dr. Mike has just
wrecked from travel which would be very
understandable given the long trip to
India so let's plan on Thursday normal
time and then possibly Friday if you're
not doing it for super cool okay folks
so keep that in mind if you are a
regular listener we're gonna try and
reschedule for Thursday we will not be
at the normal time of Tuesday because
dr. March travelling so we're gonna
reschedule to Thursday possibly Friday
up next week so until then thanks for
sending in the good questions making
that's some impressive YouTube questions
normally YouTube is just in cell
nonsense right for sure now we're gonna
have a good following of mostly Matt in
cells the good side of YouTube I
pleasantly surprised so far so all right
so eyes to our shit games yeah totally
all right folks
signing off talk to you next time peace