plenty of downsides unfortunately for
using one repetition max testing for
hypertrophy the testing doesn't cause
any gains by itself why the hell is that
relevant it's a test not supposed to
cause gains we'll get to later that the
best way to test hypertrophy actually
causes tons of gains itself be awesome
if we got both right it's like testing
the maximum air speed of an airplane
while it's actually going somewhere
useful versus just launching it going
really fast and coming back down like if
we can go somewhere useful too that's
really ideal on RMS they don't cause you
to increase any muscle size so there's
no gains in itself right and test causes
a lot of fatigue so you got to cause a
ton of fatigue and then wait for it to
come down and that entire time you're
not growing any muscle right you don't
just test your onm and the next day show
up and start doing your program probably
not certainly not if you want optimal
results