hey what's up guys so I just finished
with my second workout of progressive
Fitness's hypertrophy routine which I
actually decided to buy after Jared and
Ian released it a couple days ago and
the main reason for that is that I think
over the years
Ian especially has put out a ton of free
content that I know that I've benefited
from and I know that these days it's
becoming increasingly difficult to make
money online when everyone expects to
get everything for free so I think that
when people release programs or ebooks
or something like this and decide to
charge for them I think it's a good idea
to so to show your support for that
channel or that person so I wanted to
show my support in that way and also I
was curious about the exercise selection
mostly I know that Ian and Sunita Pass
of Sebastian Fitness solutions they both
put out a lot of videos about to do with
exercise selection and I figured that I
could stand to benefit myself and my
clients even if I just learned one
exercise variation that I wasn't
familiar with so I'm running through the
program for a week I recorded the first
push training session today so you guys
can go ahead and check that out yeah so
as I said guys I've been running the
progressive fitness hypertrophy routine
now this is my second workout I started
with the full workout yesterday and so I
kick it off here with incline dumbbell
press
I think that the main reason that these
are in the routine is because they give
a fuller range of motion than would a
barbell press simply because you're
limited to the range of motion that the
bar allows so this is my first working
set here this is a hundred pound
dumbbells and I think I did a set of
eight or nine there with these and I'd
say I took those to about an RPG of nine
or nine and a half probably had one more
rep left in the tank here then this is
my second working set and I have my
spotter on hand
these are 110 pound dumbbells and I
believe I did this
for six or seven reps again probably
about an RP of nine or nine and a half
and might have had one rep left but
these are pretty tough and I haven't
been doing a lot of incline pressing
since most of my focus up until recently
has been with bench pressing itself so
this is quite a bit of a new stimulus
for me
these are 120 pound dumbbells I only got
this for four reps if you include the
first rep in which I quite a bit yeah
spot you on those because the bench
isn't away like such a struggle with my
like two pointer fingers and I think I
only took about a minute of rest between
each of these sexes so the fatigue
accumulated I think typically I would be
able to get more than four reps with 120
pounds
and I still control the eccentric on
that last rep to get the most out of it
as I said so then after that I moved
right on to decline cable flop is now
after having done these I think I would
probably be better off if I just set the
cables up high and didn't use a bench at
all you just perform slides with the
cameras going slightly down and that
would sort of mimic the same motion
because here as you can see the cables
sort of hit off those attachments before
I reach the hole and range of motion so
I was sort of limited since there and I
started with the way a little bit too
heavy I was going for 12 to 15 reps with
these I think I my form started to break
down a little bit so I took the weight
back of it and finish that perhaps and
the reason that there's incline pressing
and incline flyes is to target the two
heads of the pecs
so the incline presses will target the
upper chest or the particular head and
then the decline flies will target the
so-called lower chest or more of this
sternal head and the reason that we're
using cables instead of dumbbells is
because the tension curve with the
cables
more apt than with the dumbbell where
you lose tension
completely at the top of the movement
whereas here and you can see my pecs as
they can track the whole way through the
movement at the top you still have a
large degree of tension on the muscle so
you would say that the tension curve is
more constant with cables because as the
cable moves the the weight is still at a
90 degree angle to your arm or your oars
that point is no until then from there I
moved on to do six sets of cable lateral
raises I did the first three with the
cable in front of my body and that's
what I'm doing here I found it I was
better able to keep the cable in the
frontal plane when I when I did it to
the back of my mom so you'll see in the
next step what I did I just moved the
table behind and I felt it more in my
side delt coming in that way one thing
that I do try to do the lateral raises
is keep my pinkies office and this
prevents me from flexing my shoulder it
allows me to fully adduct my shoulder
and really target the side delts people
do not have put it behind my back this
time yeah I know because I wanted to
experiment I wanted to experiment with
it in front
so I the resistance for these was too
much for me so like near the end of my
steps I start swinging quite a bit and
you can see that my elbow is bent and
that basically just to like shorten the
moment arm which makes it easier for me
to actually move the weight which is why
you see people doing side raises with
like completely bent arms obviously
that's not the best way to do it but I
just the wait block it was like the last
one so I couldn't go any lighter than
that it's just not a great cable mission
I guess so I'm really singing the weight
here and I don't normally like to do
lateral raises that way but hello so
yeah here I'm doing lateral raises with
the cable behind my back and after today
I think I've reached the consensus that
this is the this is my preferred way to
do
and again the good thing about cables
here is that and I owe this information
who can McCarthy is that the tension
curve or that is to say where the
tension is being applied throughout them
more athlete fits the strength curve so
with dumbbells the most difficult part
of the work is at the top and this is
also where the tension is the greatest
but you're the weakest there whereas
with cables the tension is pretty well
constant throughout maybe another way to
put that would be with the dumbbells you
have basically no tension at the bottom
with with the lateral raise whereas with
the cables would pretty much have
tension the whole way through the
movements
and so then after that we moved on to
cable upright rows and I added these in
there basically to hit the side delts
further through more shoulder adduction
and also to get some traps in there as
well which is something that I plan on
bringing up over the course of my next
full year of offseason I have really
poverty shoulder mobility so I have to
like externally rotate on the way up but
hello and so then we move down to
triceps so the first exercise for
triceps was rope press downs and I
believe I did something like 4 sets of
10 to 12 reps with these
chemicals vitamins and minerals and
vicodin within the tubes wrapped around
the arm see the vein like a chicken on
the bun
I really didn't want to do these triceps
hole downs but Jeff suggested I I do and
for me it was good because I benched
yesterday 5x5 with 80% so and then
another four sets of two after that
because I had to tack on my last bench
day onto this one because I didn't have
enough time to complete it on that day
and so there's a lot going on here but
basically I'm just doing one arm
overhead cable tricep extensions and I
think that the reason they're programmed
in here is simply to put the shoulder in
a flexed position so that the long head
of the tricep can be better targeted
essentially and without getting into any
more details about that I then moved on
to this tricep dip machine which is one
of my favorite missing machines at the
new gym that we train at and there's
really no other reason than that for why
I'm doing them I think I did three sets
of ten to twelve and Rp of nine or ten
and then I drop the weight all the way
back and I did one set of 30 and
sometimes I'll finish out workout like
this I'll either do Close Grip push ups
to failure or a machine like this to
failure and I'll just bang out a whole
bunch of reps and one of the three major
primary determinants of I purchase with
the according to Brad Schoenfeld is
metabolic stress and so the best way to
achieve this is basically by doing high
rep work or very slow tempo work so
that's what I'm doing
alright guys well that's it
thank you for watching and don't forget
to subscribe if you haven't already and
like the video enjoyed it thanks again
tell you when the coming
I prefer girls the rain all over the
world and I rain like rain and a rain
like rain dance rain like a slight
chance of rain when it's raining