I don't actually know what you've seen
this Rashad I don't know if you guys
have seen this so I did this poll on my
YouTube community here did you see this
yeah so 36,000 people voted which in
relation of my audience isn't like that
representatives like I don't consider
that to be like a big voting pool when I
asked people what they wanted to see
more up on the channel and over 50% of
people said science applied about 25%
said science explained and then 15% said
woggs
or training blogs now I was really
surprised by this because in person
whenever people who people meet me by
far the thing they request more of the
most is training vlogs so like I
expected that to the vlogs or training
blogs so I expected that to be way
higher but the more I thought about this
the more I think people were basically
forced to pick one thing so it's like
the videos I think most people think are
the best on my channel are the science
applied videos in the science explain
videos a lot of people in the comments
were like oh well we like to have a mix
of everything
so anyway I'm just gonna continue to do
a mix of everything but I've got so many
science apply videos coming when I start
my full body split which is going to be
thinking next month I'm still finishing
on my upper lower split right now but
anyway I want to do a blog for you guys
today because I think that training
vlogs are a really unique way to show
you guys exactly what I'm doing
sometimes in technique Tuesday videos or
the other videos or whatever there are
things that are optimized from a
scientific perspective or at least have
a scientific backing but they may not
necessarily be the things that I'm doing
exactly myself right now so that's part
of the reason why I like incorporating
training blogs so I'll try to make those
videos very generalizable but I also
like to show what it is that I'm up to
so anyway I do appreciate that feedback
if you did vote and if you guys have any
further commentary on that and let me
know down below I'm always trying to
figure out what direction to take the
channel with these videos also I really
want to show you guys with what I've
been up to so this was a super busy week
for me probably the busiest week I've
had in a while because I'm working on a
bunch of projects at the moment so the
first thing I want to show you guys is
this this is the raw document of my next
ebook which is a collaboration you book
with
Chris Barrett at tentatively we're going
to call it the ultimate guide to body
recomposition how to build muscle and
lose fat at the same time
that's something I've talked about a lot
on this channel I'm not going to show
you guys too much here you still have to
get it like designed by a designer but
you can see we've got 13 chapters
written as of now this thing is like a
beast of information it's just packed
with stuff and then if I'm gonna show
you I want to show you don't look so the
reference list so this is our reference
list now this doesn't include the
chapter on sleep and stress which is
also a big chapter in this over a
hundred and twelve scientific references
as of now and all of this stuff is to do
with body recomposition I think this is
going to be the best resource out there
for body recomposition which i think is
a lot of people's goals so I'm super
excited to launch this in a few weeks we
haven't nailed down the exact timing yet
but like I said we still need to
complete a couple more chapters and then
send it off to get it well designed put
together edited and all that kind of
stuff and then it'll be good to go next
thing this is also super exciting so
rise and I've talked about this a bit on
my Instagram page
but this is the first look I think I'm
gonna give really any one of some of the
concepts behind my signature line with
rise this is gonna be the basic color
scheme so I wanted to go with like more
muted tones some khaki tones with a pop
of red there's not too much red in there
but most of it is pretty minimal as far
as color schemes go this is just a look
at some of the tags yes so this you can
see here it's like rise this would be
that on the tag that you get when you
order something and then it'd be like
bracketed with these two panels so
there's a red option and then a gray out
or a black option I'm going to show you
guys one of these things this I think
that this is super sick so this is a
fruit a camo crewneck that we have done
so it's like an all-black crewneck and
then there's like a little zipper with a
pocket on the side there's some meaning
behind this that I won't go into in this
video but I think these are super dope
work
with a short so I love shorts that have
compression on the inside and then
they're kind of a shorter length and so
you can see a different signature line
here and we're coming out with those so
those are gonna be super sick as well
super super super excited about all that
so I'm gonna finish up my pre-workout
meal I've got some oatmeal and protein
over here and an apple I'm gonna have
some pre-workout and we're gonna crush
this leg workout look super excited to
get in I'll check in with you guys over
at the key
[Music]
as guys we just finished up five minutes
on the Stairmaster get everything nice
and loosened up elevated body
temperature now I'm gonna do my warmup
so I actually have a new warm on so I'm
gonna take you guys through this real
quick I started doing the Timberwolf
warm up so I don't know if you guys
watched my video with Kane but he had
some really unique exercises so I'll go
ahead and link that in the description
box below because he'll probably take me
ten minutes to go through this whole
thing one by one but a couple a couple
cool ones that I've been doing or some
of the hollow body holds so pull my arms
up overhead
with my legs and my arms up and I'm
thinking about driving my belly button
down into the ground as I hold
[Music]
okay and then another one that I'll do
well now don't go into some like side to
side
Kahn is really good for stretching out
the boots and the lower back
I'm gonna show you one more this one's
actually been my favorite episode of
sideways here so stretch one leg out
across the one side take both hands clap
your hands together stretch over this
way and then you're gonna come up and
you're gonna let the opposite hand
stretch out to the other side so what
about your leg stretch this way in your
hand stretch this way and you repeat
that like this so I find this gives a
really good stretch in the upper back
and in the blue here as well especially
when you come over with the hell so
they're ten that side and I'll switch
over stretch this food out hands up
now this side for me is so much tighter
it's crazy so I really try to work this
so we'll go through the full warm-up get
in the zone
get warmed up for squats hit the workout
and I'll check in with you guys back
when I'm home and we'll go back through
the workout together it's that new
flavor I don't think I ever showed this
on the channel but this is the new
cakepop flavor kind of to scoop it 50
grams of protein our protein is set a
little bit higher now which is something
I want to talk about in a future video
so I just fine double scoop and protein
powder is an easier way to get my daily
number up a little bit for whatever
reason a daily protein intake is such a
controversial topic I don't know if
you've noticed that bro but like if I
say I'm eating anything over one gram
per pound a lot of people get their
backs up about that and I'm like hey
it's not her it's not her t there's no
obvious downside unless other macros are
getting robbed from right like if you
don't if you have low carbs and you're
eating wheat excessively high protein
it's like okay let's allocate some of
those protein towards carbs right I mean
fine so higher protein to me is almost
just like an insurance policy you know
that's the way I think that video is
coming all right pull up the workout
here take you guys through I don't know
if I said this on the channel I'm
running back through the last three
weeks of the program so this is my
upper/lower program many of you guys are
running this or have already run through
it I'm currently on week eight day five
that was so almost done with this
program interestingly I get a lot of
emails from people who run my programs
and I'll get some people saying this
volume isn't enough for me or some
people say this following is too much
for me so I want to address this I would
say that this is a high-volume program
like this is a program that I'm running
this is a program samo canola is running
the best natural body builder in the
world
so this is an advanced program so if
people are emailing me and this is this
is not to discredit anyone right I get
the concern but if you were sending an
email saying that this this program is
too low or if you think the program is
too low on volume then that means you're
not pushing yourself hard enough on the
steps weight when you look at my squat
sets today they were they were hard like
I was really out of breath really tired
after those sets and I felt like I
needed three to five minutes rest before
I felt like I could go again if you're
not feeling that way then
not the volume that's the problem is the
intensity right so I just want to
address that up front for people who say
it's too much volume which is way less
infrequent people will complain more
about it not being enough volume which
is from my perspective completely
backwards but if it is too much volume
for you then you can usually easily just
slash one set from every exercise right
or you could get rid of some of the
accessory stuff altogether and just
focus on like the main compound stuff if
you're you know more of a beginner but
this is geared to be more of an advanced
intermediate to advanced program anyway
so anyway I would did want to say that
kicked off this workout with some squats
so for me that was three sets of eight
with 315 this actually felt good
challenging but yet quite doable
something like rp7 something in that
zone maybe 7 to 8 and still using 415
pounds as my input 1 rep max for this
and that's partially because I do feel
like my squat took a slight bit of hit
from all the travel like my circadian
rhythm could not have been more out of
sync I'm calling to Australia and then
Bali in California then Newfoundland and
then back to British Columbia so anyway
yeah it was that was actually quite a
bit of a challenge for me but I do feel
back more in a groove now in my next
training block I'm planning to switch to
low bar I think and I'm actually quite a
bit like at least 10 percent stronger
with a low bar squat position so I'm
really excited to see how that plays out
and another thing I'm thinking about
doing is adding top sets back into my
squat work so before I do my volume work
so for example today before I did my 3
sets of 8 I would have worked my way up
to a heavy single or a heavy double
something in the I'm gonna say 80 to 90
percent of my 1 rep max zone so I get
accustom to feeling that heavy weight on
my back again which i think is really
good for developing confidence and the
neural adaptations associated with
maximum strength so in my case when the
weight starts to get heavier I do start
to get a bit nervous just because I've
had injuries in the past and I'm just
not psychologically comfortable with
having that weight on my back so adding
tops
is an easy way to get accustomed to
heavy weight without having it interfere
a lot with your volume or your quote
unquote hypertrophy work I'm so that's
something I'm gonna add in I think in
the future and I'm gonna leave it at
that for the squat
after that moved on to walking lunges
three sets of 15 reps each leg so that's
30 total strides down and back I
actually think walking lunges are one of
the most underrated lower body exercises
a lot of people talk about squats a lot
of people talk about hip thrusts the
lunge is an incredible overall lower
body movement glutes quads and
hamstrings and even a little bit of
calves as well I would say my top two
most underrated lower body exercises
just for the record would probably be
the lunge into the hex bar deadlift
I think the hex of our deadlift doesn't
get nearly enough love people focus on
the barbell deadlift but the hex bar is
incredible for the quads anyway that's a
tangent for walking lunges one thing I'm
trying to focus on here is using my
forward or my leading leg to move the
weight so rather than just using the
forward walking momentum to kind of
carry the set you want to think about
using your forward leg to drive your
heel down through the floor and then use
that to carry you forward rather than
your back leg so if you're finding that
you're getting like a pump in your
calves a bit too much or you're kind of
pushing off with your back leg too much
that's a cue that I would use drive your
front heel down into the floor after
that we moved on to dumbbell step-ups
there's an exercise you may not have
seen me do too much but it is another
one that I love what you want to do here
is set up the bench or the step-up block
to the point where when you put your
leading leg up on it you make basically
a 90 degree angle with your femur and
your tibia so basically to the point
where your upper leg is gonna be
parallel to the floor what I like about
the step-up is that unlike the squat
you're initiating the concentric from a
dead position so you basically don't get
that recoil out of the bottom like you
would in a squat you're forced to train
out of that most difficult portion of
the lift which would be basically at
parallel so I think you can have some
quality carryover to the squat also it's
another unilateral exercise so it allows
you to folk
on each leg individually and what I like
to do is do all the reps on one leg
first I'll usually you do my weakest leg
or the leg that's least developed first
so that way I can kind of help sort out
any imbalances over time and then match
the reps with the stronger leg so over
time that should allow in theory the
weaker leg to start to catch up and then
similar to the walking lunge you want to
almost think about these like a pistol
squat or like a one-legged squat where
you're driving your heel through the
bench rather than pushing off with the
foot that's on the bottom if that makes
sense
you're gonna get so much more out of the
lift and it's almost like a different
movement if you do it that way it's
gonna be a lot more challenging and if
you're just allowing that bottom leg to
kind of like jump you up on to the bench
after that moving on to three sets of 15
on the reverse hyper now this gym didn't
have a reverse hyper normally I would
recommend replacing this with a
glute-ham raise which is another super
underrated exercise for the hamstrings
but there was also no glute-ham setup
here so I improvised this was I think my
first time trying it this way so
basically what I did was I set up a AB
ball or a big BOSU ball on a bench
position myself over top of the ball and
then I had rashon put a medicine ball in
between my legs for the loading and then
you just do reverse Hyper's as normal
and this was actually a really good feel
I really like this you could also load
this I think with ankle weights but I
didn't have access to ankle weights so
this actually kind of worked well I'm
still working out the kinks in this but
it was a nice movement the thing is is
you're not gonna be able to load it very
heavily so you're gonna have to do
higher reps so for me I did more of like
a slower cadence with a really strong
glute squeeze at the top for 20 reps so
3 sets of 20 total and this is a unique
thing so if you don't have access to a
reverse hyper machine definitely give
this a shot it looks like one of those
things you'd see like people snap their
stuff up on but honestly if you just
grab onto the bench it's actually quite
stable and it was a really good feel so
try it out
after that I moved on to three sets of
10 reps on the standing cable hip
abduction typically I'll do hip
abductions on the machine
but I think it is a good idea to switch
up the plane of motion switch up the
level of hip flexion so obviously when
you're sat down you're in 90 degrees of
hip flexion or standing up you're in hip
exfol hip extension it's gonna target
the glute medius and a slightly
different loading plane so this was
actually a really good burn so if you
you haven't done these or you know most
guys don't like to do these like cable
exercises but honestly they're pretty
effective and it can also be good for
not only developing the glute medius but
also for training the knees to stay out
on the squat so if you struggle with any
bit of me cave doing an exercise like
this might be preventative or even
possibly corrective so definitely give
that a shot and after that moved on to
some core stuff so I do usually do abs
on leg days for this workout it was
three sets of 30 second holds on the
plank
I only rested for thirty seconds in
between those even though in the program
it says one to two minutes I find 30
seconds is fine personally and for these
I did the cues that I explained in my
plank technique Tuesday video so rather
than go into these hell on that over
here I'll link you guys to the plank
technique Tuesday video down below if
you'd like to check it out totally
transforms the exercise you just do a
normal plank for 30 seconds it's super
easy if you do the cues that I talked
about in the titi video it will be way
way more challenging so definitely make
sure you check that out if you're
interested anyway that's a wrap for the
workout I'm gonna down the rest of the
shake and then I think we're Shawn and I
are gonna go poop for a bit is that
right so I've been playing basketball no
joke like four or five days a week just
because it's so nice here in the
summertime Steph is not around so to
keep me from getting lonely I go to the
freakin court and who all the time so I
think that I think that my game is
improved we'll see how it goes today
hopefully I don't cave under the
pressure of the camera and yeah so I'll
check in with you guys over at court
I will I will I will
I won't stop
those rims are not are not forgiving let
me say that much cuz either in is the
double rim right no cuts
what do you want are you wanna see you
see one day boom that's gonna wrap up
the vlog I'm so tired I feels like so
low blood sugar in you leave the video
thumbs up if you enjoyed it subscribe if
you haven't already and so guys all here
[Music]