can women actually gain as much muscle
as men well that's what this recently
pre-printed metanalysis by a following
colleague suggests let me
explain welcome back Dr my wolf here PG
and sports science breaking down the
latest research on differences between
the sexes in terms of how much muscle
and strength they can gain from lifting
weights what prompted me to make this
video was the publication of a recent
metanalysis by Rolling colleagues
looking at differences between men and
women and how they respond to a given
training program how much muscle do men
versus women really gain they looked at
all the studies comparing the effects of
the same training program in men versus
women first they try to see whether
there were any differences in how men
versus women responded to volume or
relative intensity AKA how heavy you go
both in terms of how many sets were
being performed and in terms of how much
weight was being lifted as a percentage
of your max there didn't really seem to
be a difference in how men versus women
responded so just on the basis of these
findings it doesn't seem as though women
should be training with higher or lower
volumes than men when it comes to
maximizing hypertrophy and the same goes
for how heavy you go or essentially how
many reps you do importantly when it
comes to how many reps are being
performed per set or how heavy you go
there are relatively few studies looking
at this so I wouldn't have a ton of
confidence in that specific finding yet
when it came to overall hypertrophy and
you just measured hypertrophy as an
absolute increase men did typically see
slightly larger increases than women
however when increases in muscle size
were scaled to the initial amount in
other words it was expressed as a
percentage increase the increase in men
versus women was actually very similar
so while women typically start out with
smaller muscles to begin with their rate
of progress in a relative sense is
similar to men and one interesting
finding from this meth analysis is that
while overall hypertrophy seems similar
between men and women in terms of how
much muscle they gain as a percentage
more of that hypertrophy May stem from
faster twitch muscle fibers in women
versus men and conversely more of the
hypertrophy observed may stem from
slower twitch muscle fibers in men
versus women essentially women
experience more fast twitch muscle fiber
hypertrophy proportionately and Men
experience more slow twitch muscle fiber
hypertrophy there's not a ton of data
there yet but that did seem to be one of
the findings of this metanalysis and
importantly these findings are
corroborated by another metanalysis by
Robinson colleagues from a couple of
years ago indeed in this met analysis of
10 studies Roberts and colleagues found
that hypertrophy was quite similar
between men and women when exposed to a
given training intervention however
interestingly when it came to strength
the effect sizes actually leaned in
favor of women gaining more strength
expressed as a percentage increase so if
a woman started out with a 100 lb Max
and a man with a 200 lb Max the man
might have gained 20 lb on her Max from
200 to 20 whereas the women might have
gained around 15 in her Max from 100 to
115 so while the men on average average
might have gained 10% of strength the
women on average might have gained 15%
of their strength and that's when
they're exposed to the same training
intervention importantly this effect
size was larger for upper body strength
in an untrained State on average men are
going to be stronger than women but that
difference in how much strength they
have is larger in the upper body
compared to the lower body so
potentially there might be somewhat of a
catch-up effect where that difference in
upper body strength reduces over time
between men and women as they trade and
women actually gain more upper body
strength relatively speaking than men
for lower body strength gains the effect
size also lead in favor of women gaining
more strength than men as the authors
point out the mechanisms as to why that
is aren't super clear yet if I had to
Hazard a guess just in terms of my
coaching experience it might be that
most men train their oper body pretty
readily like they're all about hey let
me do some arms let me do some chest Etc
whereas women tend to focus a bit more
on L Body and so when in these studies
they are actually exposed to an upper
body training program it might be that
they've dedicated a bit less attention
in the past to their upper body compared
to their male counterparts and so their
upper body is a bit less trained
compared to men and therefore they make
faster gains importantly this aspect I
just mentioned of catch-up strength
gains in women does seem to be
corroborated by other evidence too for
example a STW science article by Greg
Knuckles points out the following when
you compare the quote unquote worst
powerlifters there are men and women on
average women tend to have around 62% of
the strength of men however as you go up
and up in terms of how competitive the
women and men are the Gap shrinks and by
the time you get to the 99th percentile
women are about 70% the strong when
skill to body weight as men are and so
as they grow more trained potentially
that Gap shrinks once again displaying
the fact that there might be some effect
of catch up strength or maybe women just
experience slightly greater strength
gains from their untrained state to a
more trained State now I hate you saying
but what about testosterone men have so
much more testosterone and truly that
really impacts strength gains and
hypertrophy there's no way women can
gain as much muscle and strength
relatively speaking than men after all
they don't have as much testosterone
right while based on a review of
literature by James creger your
testosterone levels within the sort of
physiological range appear to mostly
impact your Baseline level of
muscularity and not so much how much
muscle and strength you gain when
training and so yes women have less
testosterone than men and that partly
explains why men when they're untrained
have more muscle on average than women
when they're untrained but testosterone
within the physiological range is isn't
going to explain too much of the
variance and how much muscle and
strength different people gain and so I
want to talk about how men and women
really differ and how that impacts how
they should train potentially because it
turns out women are not just smaller men
there are physiological differences H
and they do have training implications
but it's not as simple as just saying
women don't have as much testosterone
here are the main differences to be
aware of between men and women and how
that can impact your training and by the
way I get somewhat mad whenever never
see a training app or a template pitch a
program as a woman's program or a male's
program as if to say that the
programming needs to be totally
different first on average women will
have a greater proportion of slow twitch
muscle fibers slow twitch muscle fibers
compared to faster twitch muscle fibers
are better suited to longer efforts and
tend to recover more quickly
additionally women tend to recover a
little bit faster from the given
exercise or workout potentially because
they have higher levels of estrogen a
sex hormone that might be protective for
muscle damage because of the differences
in muscle fiber types and higher levels
of estrogen or just generally greater
recoverability for women versus men it
may be the case that women can benefit
from slightly higher training volumes
expressed as sets per muscle per week
and slightly higher training frequencies
compared to men with that being said at
least as far as volume goes the earlier
metanalysis by ra fallowing colleagues
didn't find this so I wouldn't say
there's for sure a huge effect here but
just based on physiology it probably
makes sense and the final obvious
difference between men and women is that
women have to deal with a menstrual
cycle and potentially also menopause now
if you're a woman and you've been on
social media fair amount I'm sure you've
seen influencers claiming that you need
to periodize your trading to match up
with different phases of your menstrual
cycle for example there are differences
in fatigability between the Lal phase of
your menstrual cycle and the follicular
phase however based on my understanding
of this area of research and the law of
the research from Lauren Kenzo SLE at
present there is no real evidence to
suggest that you need to be matching
certain training to certain phases of
your menstrual cycle in fact to S her
directly in our opinion it is premature
to conclude that short-term fluctuations
in reproductive hormones appreciably
influence acute exercise performance or
longer term strength or hypertrophic
adaptations to resistance exercise
notably though we are missing a lot of
evidence in a lot of factors it might be
the case that women respond better to
higher reps on average than men or what
have you but ultimately we are missing
evidence in women and that's a huge gap
within the sports science literature so
if you're in sports science or most
other fields in fact do more science
than women it is probably a good thing
to do let me give you a few takeaways
from this video in terms of differences
between men and women and how they
should train there are physiological
differences between men and women that
have implications or ramifications of
training specifically on average women
should probably train with slightly
higher volumes with slightly higher
frequency so training each muscle a
little bit more of than each week and
potentially with slightly shorter rest
times on average than men while men do
gain more muscle when expressed on an
absolute scale how many kilograms of
muscle are being gained when you
actually scale it as a percentage of
Baseline women tend to gain as much
muscle or potentially if you look at the
strength research a bit more than men
specifically when it comes to strength
women seem to gain at least as much
strength initially than men and
specifically the upper body that effect
seems to be more pronounced almost like
a catchup effect and in fact the Gap in
strength between men and women tends to
decrease as was evidenced in the
powerlifting data we looked at women may
experience a bit more fast twitch fiber
hypertrophy and a bit less slow twitch
fiber hypertrophy at least earlier in
training compared to men and finally you
probably don't need to periodize your
training to match up with your menstrual
cycle or at least from a sport Science
perspective there's no strong reason
currently to categorically recommend
periodizing your training in a certain
fashion in alignment with your menstrual
cycle that is the video broke down
differences in how men versus women
respond to training how differ they
might want to train and I looked at a
lot of studies on the topic if you
enjoyed the video please leave a like
comment subscribe let me know down below
whether or not you agree with these
differences between how men and women
should train or did I miss out on
anything if I did let me know down below
much of this research we actually did
when we were developing myapt a training
app that is designed to customize
program to you as an individual based on
your goals but also on your biological
sex we use the latest science to inform
how myap works for instance myap will
provide you with slightly higher
training volumes if you're a woman
versus if you're a man myap provides you
with a fully individualized program to
fit you as an individual based on your
goals so for example you want to
specialize on your arms or you want to
specialize on your glutes or what have
you or bring up certain muscle groups
but you only have two train days a week
it will take all of that into
consideration and deliver you with a
fully individualized program no longer
do you need to just rely on templates or
hire an expensive coach myap is designed
to be like a coach but in your pocket at
a fraction of the price of most coaches
and I'm confident in saying there is no
other training app as good as my app out
there currently so to be notified when
it does get released and to lock in at a
lower price check out myod app.com
register your email and you'll be
notified when it gets released if you
like the T-shirt t-shirt of athl
carrying the world I believe I'm not a
Greek mythology expert but that is what
I think it is check out rascal appar
they have a ton of cool designs just
like this one and it's super comfortable
clothing to train in use code wolf at
checkout for 10% off and you'll be
supporting your favorite professional
YouTuber Mr mil Wolf Dr my wolf in fact
and now that my wallet is just bursting
at the seams from all this money I'm
making with YouTube thank you for
watching the video have a fantastic day
and I'll see you guys next time peace