all right what is going on everyone
welcome to episode 2 of this mini series
in Columbus that I'm doing with the
mountain dog I hope you guys like that
arm workout from Sean was just editing
that one up over here now if you haven't
checked that one out make sure you go
watch it for today we're actually going
to be doing some kind of like athletic
workout I don't know exactly what John
has in mind for that but he used to
coach a lot of football and he used to
run track he's got a really extensive
background as a coach and as an athlete
he's gonna take me through something
crazy
I'm sure today but my athletic
background is mostly basketball and
volleyball oh and also Taekwondo but I
didn't play any football or anything but
anyway Jon's gonna take me through
everything he's got planned today we're
gonna go do that at 3 it's 2 o'clock
here now so I'm gonna grab a quick
pre-workout meal and then when we get on
the road so guys we're here at the
Airbnb now downtown Columbus shouted
John fell and his crash at his place
that was sweet but now we're in downtown
Columbus this is the Arab you can
quickly check it out stuff pick this out
it looks like cute little mints looks
straight at at Pinterest yeah it's
pretty cool it's a nice nice little spot
and it's in this like really historic
part of downtown Columbus if you look
outside there's a lot of lay brick
buildings apparently it's like an old
German district here I don't know too
much apparently it's very historic
including the blinds okay but yeah when
I woke up I had a vegan shake I've
actually I'm having this in the morning
I just find this protein is a lot easier
on my stomach
it doesn't quite below me the same as
the other one in some cases especially
when I'm having not an empty stomach I'm
talking going with two scoops of this
first thing in the morning and now I'm
gonna make myself some scrambled eggs
this has been like my go-to meal the
last like couple weeks
I never thought of this I usually get
like oatmeal you owe me you owe me Oh
din is that death coming through again
man
cinnamon roll better Oats oatmeal whoa
doesn't a lot of flavor yeah that's
really flavorful surprisingly because
you don't see much sugar in it it's
really flavorful mmm it's pretty good
usually you goat cheese but we don't
have any here at the Airbnb so just
sprinkle it with it oh man I feel like I
need a Kiwi right here to balance this
out perfectly but they didn't have any
the grocery store awesome there's a void
Hey I know that's what I thought it was
like I was expecting it to be really
subtle but it's really strong flavor I'm
trying to upload a video right now
struggles and then the storage district
we got historic Wi-Fi statute workout
with mountain dog so if you're a female
watching war guy cuz guys need a tree
blues too you can go check out check out
her video that'll be out by that time I
suppose that probably goes up a week
from today yeah yeah yeah yeah it's game
time
got my pre-workout here so I've got Kiwi
lime prolific and Kiwi lime high volume
I'm gonna stack these together today and
we do still have some of these available
so if you haven't checked it out yet
I'll have that linked in the description
box below feedback has been amazing so
many people say it's their new favorite
flavor so yeah if you haven't checked it
out check out the Geoff Nippert
signature Kiwi lime free work
oh sure I'm actually gonna go to the
engine - it's my favorite
that's gonna add one of these actually
you not we're not two of these I'm gonna
that's fine I'm gonna burn a lot of
calories today so those are the best
they're they're limited edition get them
all you can get them all hot yeah QB
line free workout apple pie Oreo mixed
with all right down this you're not
checking with you guys
[Music]
there's a new spider bar John just got
in this thing is actually massive I
would guess it's probably eighty to a
hundred pounds but yeah we're gonna be
trying some of this out today and yeah
like I said John has got something
planned today I don't know exactly what
but I've been calling it an athletic
training session maybe you can just tell
them briefly about like what the goal is
here people think I just worked with
bodybuilders and I do hypertrophy stuff
but I actually really really enjoy
training athletes the goals with this
country it's a little different so as an
athlete what you want to do is you want
to be able to produce a lot of force and
you want to be able to do it quickly and
I've always said rate of force the
bottom is very trainable yeah this is
not like something is for beginners yeah
I would say this is advanced this is
workout I would maybe put like a college
or a professional football player
through so and I will get in much more
into the details of exactly what it is
we're doing with each one of these
exercises college level football players
I can barely throw the damn thing so one
of the things I like to do to warm up
just to keep my coordination go on my
knees used to take a minor shock and
just do over the back and then will do
to drop their death drops and I meant to
be hard it's just a warm-up it's just
one foot outages the goal is to absorb
the force gently so don't don't land
flat-footed just try to be gentle don't
jump up OK just wanna just like that
we get into why that's so important to
that's his one of the very very
important things we're going to start we
put out just just fall
so what we're doing is called French
contrast training so the first two
exercises what we do one of them is
gonna be the spider bar squat and then
we're gonna follow that with a vertical
leap okay I don't want to throw in a
little tuck with two vertical leap tuck
job now the premise of that is the
phenomenon called post activation
potentiation and the theory that says
that depending on the type of muscular
contraction you have the subsequent
muscle contraction can be even better
right so if you picture like let's say
we have four boxes on the ground you and
your mind think that you know there's a
bunch of stuff in each box
so you struggle you pick up the first
one and then you're kind of ready for it
on the second one then the third one and
then let's say the box is empty on the
fourth will be here so you're pulling up
mentally like there's stuff in it from
the perspectives that you can just come
you go flying right now the tricky thing
what we're gonna do a little different
today is on a squat
we don't go real heavy we don't do a lot
of reps the goal is to produce force ok
so if we start getting fatigued and
tired and then all of a sudden this
turns into a hypertrophy workout right
yeah we want quality contractions so
we're only gonna do sets of four you
kind of squat and the weight we're gonna
use is only going to be maybe fifty
fifty-five percent of our max so this is
nowhere near maximal lifting at all yeah
what we want to do is we want to take
about 20 seconds don't want to take too
long or you lose the potentiation they
were gonna hit the Berkeley talking so
then if you think about athletes they
can't always be at rest and produce
maximum force they have to be able to
work to do this when they're a little
tired right so our third exercise we're
going to do is a squat jump with bands
okay so I'm gonna show you how we're
gonna put these bands on our shoulders
we're actually going to jump up in the
air okay the bands are want to pull you
down and you have to be able to absorb a
lot of force yeah so then we're gonna do
four jumps here okay now you're gonna be
a little exhausted so with fringe
contest training then you do another
even more accelerated type of exercise
and we're gonna do a banded kettlebell
swing so again this is lighter it's not
something heavy but I want you to really
really generate as much force as you can
yeah and what we want to do is we're
going to do 20 second breaks in between
each circuit and then we're done we want
like a good full five minutes so what we
start with is we say four rounds four
rounds look for most people all right
but there's a point in air where you're
gonna be like oh man
feel like the coordination the
explosiveness this is very very fun
stuff alright let's get into the world a
little bit more warming up and then
we're gonna get together okay
so vertical leaps I have specific form I
like to see with people
number one is your arms yeah I see a lot
of people do this okay I want this you
should be low right here right here
and your counterbalance swings back your
driving force into the ground and then
you're exploding with okay we're not
trained like a bodybuilder when's the
last time you saw a linebacker do this
linebackers might do this so there's no
reason for us to squat to a range of
motion that has nothing to do I'm air
when's the last time you saw a
quarterback to this maybe I might do it
today so there's no real application to
a full squat so we're using what an
athlete would probably use yeah yeah
good
so get on back miss who's nice yeah okay
let me say the rug demanded virgins put
one over this way each other one and put
it over this way now guess what you're
going to Berkeley okay crazy all right
these you can turn into a really
embodied mind exercise I can see that
freezing sensory eccentrically load
there you go there you go right there
what you want to think about is I'm
jumping out of a band
okay I'm gonna do a later one first just
you know feel for how this is oh man
that's interesting yeah there you go see
how that landing so important that
landing yes that's crazy yeah these are
very exhausted I can see enter exhaust
yeah we'll come over here stay them on
the BAM I like this you're just gonna do
swings okay explode explode that is why
like there
that's good yeah the band's at such a
dynamic component to it they teach you
they teach you to explode - yeah yeah no
and to follow through as well because it
gets more difficult towards the top end
right oh yeah you don't go up there his
axe yeah okay I'm gonna do four reps on
the squat I'm gonna do four vertical
leaps I'm gonna do four band of jumps
I'm gonna do four cowbells so we're
looking at a 16 rep set this should be
very exhausting because you should be
summoning up everything you got to
explode so if you do these you're like
not tired
you didn't put enough effort into okay
again don't rush yeah exercise exercise
we want 20 seconds kind of get your
composure
risa pulling our tempo on this just come
down control I'm not control to black
though set on the water ID I'm making a
comeback here we go
[Music]
here we go
[Music]
yeah all right 20 seconds Laurie was
released at least one please tell me
reset reset one more recent
excellent his four reps some before Rex
calms down
give it to ya that's it
oh I want any good job okay number two
[Music]
there's the thing you want to be careful
though if you are combining this with
your regular hypertrophy focus training
you'll want to make sure you've got
adequate rest because your training kind
of different systems yeah so and you
wanna do this and then go do our work
what do you like yeah you've got to have
adequate rest between you know usually
when I'm programming this M for an
athlete it'll be twice a week I'd say
Monday and Friday yeah I'll do this
until I have an upper body versatil I
would do okay
Tuesday and Saturday all right now move
on in here would say my vertical leave
should be seen everything better on this
set
we'll see maybe I'm full of crap here we
go
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
okay rest okay what I was gonna tell you
the fourth round gets me you'll start to
see some yeah stuff it's not so good
we're on my toes it's like almost like I
was getting pulled by the band's more
you lose you lose a little bit of
coordination yeah I definitely felt it
on that one
those were really good the first couple
felt great over there I feel like I
peaked on the first couple of the round
and then I started to fatigue just
started to get to me like even just like
the speed on the east centric it was
like my arms weren't moving the same
yeah you didn't everything that all
factors in man like with that people
woman I get fatigued and sometimes like
Mars women come up yeah I know jump and
I'm like well moon yeah like that's what
you got a train in that zone in that
zone of fatigue in order to have it
transferable like you said
this means arms back drop down as fast
as you can
this swing especially
hello so that was sixty-four reps tools
all we did there's like now it was also
needed this weighted 16 32 64 F solar
the dude feels like 200 yeah I was like
way more than that yeah thanks Johnny I
haven't done something like that forever
that was sweet house difficulty you
actually try that out if you think you
want to take your athletic prowess up a
notch
give that a shot I wonder if I'll be
sore from there you shouldn't be to
Solaria the only thing you swirl some
people sometimes are growing it's a
little sore sometimes your calves I can
see that ya know sometimes our calves
too from the landing but it's a very
natural motion in a way because you're
not used to it getting harder as you
accelerate so and just think you're
landing and you go stop yeah force plus
the bands of yeah you down yeah you've
got to stop it yes good little circuit
is cool it's been a pleasure yes as
always so guys we got a couple more
workouts left to do but my time in
Columbus is starting to run out so we're
gonna hit back and shoulders some other
to me and maybe you should come up to
Canada if you're up if you're up north
sometime we can get it in I can come up
in Toronto Toronto I can make my way out
east we're gonna make it happen I'm
gonna have a playlist of all the
mountain dog Nippert collab videos so
I'll link that in the description box
below so far we've done legs we've done
chest now arms this athletic workout so
we're gonna try to get through all the
body parts for you guys make sure you go
check out John's channel I'll have that
linked in the description box below he's
always putting out awesome content and I
really appreciate him taking me through
all this stuff I learned a lot so far so
thank you man yeah that was fun fun
already at next alright man it's gonna
wrap up the video thank you guys so much
for watching please leave me a like if
you enjoyed the video don't forget to
subscribe if you haven't already make
sure you check out my full series of
videos with Meadows so far and comment
below if there's something you'd like to
see us cover in a future video
hit up the button over here to subscribe
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next video