using bands in your training is likely
holding your growth back stick around
and find out why
back wolf coaching here soon to be Dr
Milo Wolfe and today we're talking about
Bandit training why would Bandit
training reduce your growth well Recent
research has demonstrated the importance
of length and training in other words
performing training that is difficult
and long muscle links like for example
the very bottom of the squat why should
you listen to me well I actually
conducted some of this research myself
and in brief we found that when
emphasizing the Lincoln position for
example by doing length impartials you
can increase your growth by up to five
to ten percent you might say well why
does a comparison of full range of
motion to lengthen partials and all this
long muscle length talk really matter
here how is this relevant to balance
here's why it's relevant when you use
bands in pretty much any exercise what
happens whether you use reverse banding
or just regular banding is that you make
the bottom position that stretched
position at low muscle lengths easier
and you make a shortened position that's
not as good for growth harder that's the
opposite of what we want for growth as I
just mentioned Recent research has
demonstrated importance of making that
length position hard and actually
reaching into that into position you can
definitely reach that length and
position with bands as well it just
won't be very hard and that's likely
taking away part of the benefit of that
lengthen position for hypertrophy there
is also a more practical argument
specifically using bands takes time you
have to set up the band if you're
reverse banding it that's potentially
even worse because then you have to stop
on more plates which takes more time
more warm-ups less generally just a
pretty poor use of your time four in the
end not any additional hypertrophy so
I'm not sure why you do it now
anecdotally some people say that using
bands can help them with modular pain
and if you had an injury and you find it
really beneficial in terms of not
getting as much pain during exercise by
all means I guess but just be aware that
it's likely holding your approach
feedback now that I've said that though
I want to note a couple things first you
might tell me hold up the reason I use
bands is because here's the science I
want to match the resistance curve of
the exercise namely how difficult is the
exercise eyes at different points
throughout its range of motion to how
strong they are and certain exercises
have a pretty big mismatch right you can
think of a dumbbell kickback for example
where at the very start of the range of
motion you have no resistance and then
as you need your lockout there's the
most resistance in reality most of your
muscles are strongest somewhere around
resting length and so you kind of want
to match that strength curve of yours
with the resistance curve and bands can
help you modify that resistance curve
during the exercise and that won't lie
to you if you told me this five years
ago before I knew about some of the data
around this I would probably buy your
 up so I would say oh that sounds
like a really good idea because we want
to make each part of that range of
motion as stimulating as possible
there's two issues with this first we
actually have data suggesting that
actually we don't really want a perfect
match between the strength curve of
muscle and the resistance curve of an
exercise rather we actually want to
disproportionately emphasize the length
and position as I mentioned earlier and
bands accomplish the office syllabus in
other words for most exercises for
hypertrophy you probably want to fail at
the most lengthened position or as close
to that length of position as you
possibly can as an extreme example cable
lateral raises may be better than
dumbbell ladder releases because with
the dumbbell latter release at the
bottom you essentially have no tension
you don't need to produce much force in
order to be able to lift the weight in
that length and position there's not a
lot of tension whereas with cable ladder
raises you're able to a get into a
deeper position and B have to produce
plenty of tension in that position and
bands generally make your exercises look
more like dumbbell ladder releases where
there's no tension at the bottom or not
much tension and here's the second issue
with it we don't have much direct data
on trying to match the strength curve to
the resistance curve of an exercise we
have one study and this is performed by
studying zaft skin colleagues back in
2020 where they compared a program that
didn't try to match strength curve and
resistance curve for the biceps to one
that try to match the resistance curve
of the cruel exercise to the strength
Club of of the biceps so if the argument
that you want to match the strength
curve and resistance curve for
hypertrophy was sound in this study you
would see greater hypertrophy when doing
so here's the issue in this study they
didn't find the difference in other
words the most direct data we have on
matching strength curves and resistance
curve doesn't actually support the use
of this technique for hypertrophy it's
not going to hurt your gains potentially
but it's not going to improve them and
in the case of banding exercises it may
very well hurt them because in this case
specifically you will be removing
tension from that length and position
that we pretty convincingly know at this
point is pretty important for our perch
tree and you might say well what about
the evidence on bands directly right
like some people just use bands because
it forces you to accelerate or what have
you or other rationales for using
balance for hypertrophy do we have any
direct data on using bands during high
pressure training unfortunately we don't
the best we have is one study actually
comparing unbounded versus banded
training for strength in this study
using bands didn't seem to result in
more strange improvements than not using
plans in other words unless you want to
get really good at squatting with fans
or benching with bands or what have you
using bands isn't going to help you
bench more without bands generally
specificity applies which means that if
you want to get better at benching
without bands you should probably just
bench Cloud bands bands aren't this
magical colorful thing that's going to
give you additional strength gains and
in all likelihood it's probably hurting
your hypertrophy as well as I said the
two reasons I could potentially see
someone using bands is one if you have
an injury and you find that it's a lot
less painful when you use them and two
if you just enjoy it you know it might
hurt your results a little bit as far as
hypertrophy is concerned but if you
enjoy it more power to you bro we should
all just do more of what we enjoy you
know I mean so on that note I'm gonna go
make some bad memes about evidence-based
Fitness and I will see you guys in that
next video in the meantime please
comment like subscribe pay my bills
donate to me on PayPal feed my cat and
I'll see you in the next one peace