went on everyone so we're here at el
cuarto beach california I'm gonna try
surfing out I tried it when I was a kid
once and failed horribly at it and
yesterday also I'm doing a photo shoot
with Pat Lee has a pretty impressive
portfolio so that should be pretty fun
I'm I really excited about that I just
hope that over the last week or so I
didn't overdo it
with the eating because it was kind of
spontaneous he sort of contacted me last
minute I don't know I feel like my
physique might even actually be a little
bit better now because I am more chilled
out but it'll just depends I guess on
exactly how it is he shoots me anyways
guys we're gonna go catch some waves so
wish me luck when you're doing Jason
when the wax is hot it melts on there so
you got a go on it without a shirt the
tail your stomach good okay
making sure you're in the right position
on the board up too far like this
paddle hands together big deep in the
water fast as you can and once you feel
the board moving that's how you start to
push up right away and it's about
yeah
okay perfect that's it keep paddling
okay yeah the wave is coming now you're
moving with glee okay paddles you gotta
move move give it a second now you're
moving good okay then you start to get
up there
it's like a wide stance you just want to
remember your center gravity no like a
45 degree
I show you right hand left I'm ready
ha
so guys I'm just having my stuff for the
photo shoot just a mixed result like
I've got that's what some shirts from
forever 21
Feb 21 another loo tank some forever 21
like leopard print cheese different
types of shorts so I've got some like
camo I don't know these are these are
Jack and Jones
this is forever 21 this is Sarah pants
those are this shorts just for some
different colors probably wear this
you're like human like even like forever
21 it's like a long sleeve scoop neck
wide scoop now's our boy this is like
that army green scoop necks are bolted
our army green dragon pants first
winning one jorts some jeans from these
are Jack and Jones I usually get teams
at Jack and Rosalie I fitted but are
usually kind of stretchy black
distressed boy bands from Zara rest are
like forever 21 sweats that's pretty
much it so obviously this hoodies these
are actually slightly more you should
that [ __ ] girls are smaller how you get
that it fits really tight yeah
the sign is like right up here hey you
realize how close we were in the Sun all
right
guess that's the end of the row for me
thanks man okay hey Pat sorry man it's a
little [ __ ] on you come on oh you had to
do names gotcha
aim it's tough to do because like a lot
of gyms don't want you funding so you
have to do it on the side this is like
really tough to get you out of that sort
of thing
carb up and I'm secretly Ricans like we
were searching for a couple hours
here's you step side out work with your
left foot forward never got that rocky
upper body yeah Taylor tailored this
direction
Oh makes you look swag all right oh yeah
he's doing it like you look good and
then he says and you know like all day
so I'll just say I'll say that's it and
I'll just add a couple okay yeah okay
and today I'm absolutely honored to be
shooting with the wonderful Pat we as I
want to say thank you to Pat for the
opportunity a little bit more about
myself I have a background in
biochemistry so what I try to do is
apply what I've learned through my
education in biochemistry to fitness and
to bodybuilding
OHS Oh
my YouTube is just Jeff Nippert so like
I said I try to put out informative
content so I have a science-based
approach to everything that I do I also
put out just lifestyle vlogs so we're
blogging this here today and then also I
have a employment of podcast where I
interview experts in the field so we
made the trip down here to California to
shoot with Pat it's been an absolute
pleasure so thank you very much Pat and
thank you guys for checking me out all
right so the photoshoot is done that's
all good
wasn't too awkward it's my first time
photoshoot kind of like that with like
modely type poses
I thought was really really good take me
through it all and once those photos
come live I'll make sure to guys anyway
this is the post shoot meal so this is a
medium pizza from some parties I think
it is in LA and half Hawaiian half
pepperoni and mushroom and actually
pound supposed to come with us but he's
at home doing work so I guess this piece
is all right yeah with this meal we're
going to try to catch some waves before
the Sun Goes Down
may not make it
it's like are you naked dude quit
everything [ __ ] go down close movie
lights son is like find it down so I
don't know if we're still going to go
out and surf for a thin so waters
actually feels warmer now Fillion yeah
like different
I also find like I really know how to do
with my face like I can smile and can
just like yeah like a person but I can't
do like like look like you're squinting
yet like half smile like yeah serious
not like death stare at least you can
open yours