here's a science-backed 30-minute leg
day that you can use on your busiest
days welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
today taking you through a quick lower
body session in just 30 minutes this
session takes advantage of both drop
sets and paired super sets two
scientific techniques that could save
you up to 50 to 70% of time taken while
maintaining the muscle growth stimulus
we'll also be minimizing the amount of
time spent warming up which in quick
30-minute session can actually work
really
well first we're starting with good
mornings now I use a barbell here just
because there was no Smith machine but
ideally you would use a Smith machine
just because you can typically use a
little bit less weight it's a little bit
more stable and it is more length and
partial friendly in that you're able to
react the weight at any point why the
good morning well by keeping your knees
back and pushing your hips back you're
able to get a good stretch on the glutes
hams and adors all at once so while most
movements like the leg press or squat
don't really get you a good hamstring
stretch the good morning does and here
you can see I'm going about halfway up
on each rep I'm doing a length and
partial there's been one study comparing
length and partials to 4 range of motion
in the glutes hamstrings and adductors
finding greater hypertrophy in the
hamstrings and glutes by and large with
Lincoln partials I would say the Smith
machine morning is perhaps the single
best hamstring compound there is and is
time efficient compared to the RL
because you don't need to set up a
deficit like you would for an RL to get
a full stretch often times and you also
use less weight next up the leg
press now why the leg press first of all
if you have a stack loaded machine
definitely use that as opposed to having
to load up plates however on the leg
press we can easily perform a drop set
to save time so on each subsequent drop
set will be dropping the weight by
around 20% or in my case taking about a
plate off length and partials probably
increase stimulus a little bit so you
can see here I'm doing length and
partials for all reps except for the
last one just because it wasn't safe to
do only length and partials here the leg
press allows you to train the quads
pretty effectively which the good
morning otherwise misses out on as I
mentioned earlier drop sets can get you
roughly the same stimulus but in about
50 to 70% less time and so in an
exercise like the leg press where you
can breathe in and out pretty freely
because the force is imposed upon your
spine or minimal you can safely do a
drop set not get too out of breath and
get a lot of stimulus and not much time
moving on to the next
exercise which is a superet of the
reverse Nordic curl and a seated leg
curl by using an antagonist paired suet
that is to say two exercises that are
opposite in motion we're able to save
time once again because the muscle
groups involved in both exercises are
quite different we can suet these two
exercises without impairing performance
and thus without impairing the muscle
growth stimulus you obtain the seated
light curl fully lengthens the
hamstrings the ones that insert the hip
as well because they're both hip
extensors and knee flexors and so they
provide a deep stretch on the hamstrings
especially if you lean forward as I'm
doing here the reverse nil on the other
hand allows you to train your rectus
femoris which is a knee extensor that
flexes the hip and thus gets more
lengthened when your hips remain
extended you don't get a good stimulus
for the short head of your hamstrings
which is only a knee flexor or for the
rectus femoris which also acts as a hip
flexor when you're doing compound
movements so doing the seated light curl
and the reverse ntic curl rounds out the
stimulus for your quads and hamstrings
respectively train close to failure on
all sets as seen here when you're doing
a time efficient session like this the
closer you take a set to failure the
more stimulus you'll obtain here on the
reverse n curl you'll see I'm focusing
on keeping my hips fully extended the
whole time leaning back to increase the
challenge even further and going as deep
as I can to maximize the stretch on my
rectus femoris this might be the single
best quad exercise in my opinion moving
on to the final exercise which
is
[Music]
the leg press CFR now ideally you would
use a stack load of leg press just to
minimize time and because it doesn't
load the spine but in this case all I
had was a standing CAF machine which is
stack loaded and allows you to save time
in the process once again we're using a
drop set here to save time ideally use a
stack loaded machine to make this easier
in this session otherwise the calves
don't really get trained all that well
by doing a good morning we got some good
hamstring gluten outra stimulus in by
doing a leg press we got some good quad
gluten outra stimulus in by super
setting reverse ntic curls and a c light
curls we rounded out the stimulus for
the quads and hamstrings and then
finally by doing calf raises we're
getting those calves involved which
otherwise don't get trained a drop set
here just allows us to save further time
and generally exercises that aren't
suitable for super sets in that they are
either overlapping in terms of the
muscle groups involved or they're too
systemically fatiguing for a superet can
generally be more suitable for drop sets
when you're in a time crunch so calf
razors fall into the category here where
you can e easily drop set them because
they aren't too systemically fatiguing
so that was the session you'll notice
that across the session using drop sets
for example is a means to do more reps
in a single set essentially we have used
a variety of rep ranges we went
relatively heavier on the good morning
doing sets of five to 10 and went
relatively lat on leg press doing a set
of 10 to 20 plus three weight drops
which amounts to a pretty high rep set
altogether we went a little bit higher
in reps on the seated light C and verse
nor c as well and finally on the calves
we did a set of about 15 reps in a
likelihood with the first set being 5 to
10 reps with three load drops all of
these rep ranges are effective for
hypertrophy but by combining them
there's a good chance we getting a
little bit of additional hypertrophy and
in general you want to make sure you use
a variety of rep ranges in your training
to maximize muscle building we got a
pretty complete lower body stimulus in
in just 30 minutes hitting the
hamstrings adors and glutes in the good
morning the quads adors and glutes in
the leg press the hamstrings and the
quads specifically in the seated leg
curl and reverse n curl specifically
hitting the rectus femoris and the short
head of the bicep femoris which don't
really get trained all that well during
compound exercises and finally with
those calf raises that no one ever wants
to do we hit the Caps as well using a
few scientific strategies like Drop sets
and tagonist Pa super sets and in
general just minimizing one more time
we're able to get a really solid amount
of volume in for a variety of muscle
groups in just 30 minutes whenever
possible try to pick exercises that are
more time efficient stack loaded
machines and dumbbells are your friend
the rest times are also kept pretty
short within the session with about 2
minutes between most sets and that's
because while there is a benefit to
longer rest times the compromise we have
to make with shorter sessions is that we
do want to keep rest times as low as we
can keep them without excessively
impairing performance in the research
while 2 minutes of rest is very likely
better than one there doesn't seem to be
a consistent benefit above 2 minutes of
rest so we're going to keep it to a bare
minimum with Just 2 minutes likewise
most of the performance benefits for
bodybuilding work of a warmup can be
achieved with relatively minimum warming
up with just one or two quick sets on
the target exercise before you get into
your main working sets all of the
exercises within this session are
exercises I think are highly effective
for muscle growth and I have a whole
series on best exercises for each muscle
group that you can check out on my
channel but all of them are highly
effective lengthen theic muscle group
underload effectively and even though
they are quick exercises and you can get
the session in just 30 minutes it is
going to be highly effective from a
muscle growth standpoint without further
Ado give this session a try and let me
know what you think in the comments
below if there are any other videos with
me training a muscle group in just half
an hour you want to see leave a comment
down below letting me know what you
suggest if you'd like me to coach you
consider applying for coaching using the
card above like the video subscribe if
you want to see more and I will see you
guys my subscribers in that next one
peace