hon is what I feel before and during a
hard set what does it feel like it feels
like everything and nothing at the same
time I feel rage worthlessness then
overwhelming pressure to make something
of myself for my own reasons to me hon
means a feeling of sorrow rage anger
resentment and a bunch of negative
emotions I can't really describe and a
feeling of no matter what I do I can't
overcome all the obstacles in my way
due to some universal force that I can't
control if I choose to do something
doing it well means everything to me in
that I feel like a person is made up of
their actions and what they say they're
gonna do so to me falling shorter that
is falling short of being the best
version of yourself
I feel like that feeling come from maybe
part of how I was raised a lot of
Koreans have a similar or very similar
upbringing in that they have their
mother who is usually a bit kinder and
then they have their father which is
usually the disciplinarian in that they
don't discipline you to discipline you
they do it to make you the best version
of yourself and growing up my dad that
disciplined me physically
psychologically emotionally but he
always made it a big point at the end
that this is to make you the best
version of you and at the time I didn't
believe it's obviously you're a kid and
you're scared but looking back on it I
would do the whole thing all over again
to myself if I had to because I feel
like it made me who I am and gives me
the drive
without thinking about it it's just it's
there I could tell you I trained harder
than everyone but that's not true my own
training partner Charlie trains harder
than me
he seems always to be a step ahead he
always pushes out one more rep he isn't
deterred by pain or fear of injury
he's like a moth to the life I'm just
left in his wake in awe watching him
like trunks watch Vegeta in the time
chamber trying to mirror that intensity
that purpose trying to channel some of
that power in the end
it helps me push my own limits but my
limits never seem to be as high as his I
tell you man the Koreans aren't regular
people they're better
[Music]