so in this video i'm gonna lay out the
five most common cardio mistakes that
people make when trying to lose fat now
let me start by saying that while this
video will focus on the biggest pitfalls
of cardio i am still a big fan of cardio
in the right context and when done the
right way so contrary to what some gym
bros might tell you cardio does have
some serious benefits cardiorespiratory
fitness which is basically your body's
ability to give your muscles oxygen when
they need it is a major predictor of
all-cause mortality so basically just
death from all causes and cardiovascular
disease just look at the results of this
2009 meta-analysis just about every
study favored high cardio fitness over
low cardio fitness when it came to both
all-cause mortality and coronary heart
disease and cardiovascular disease but
it isn't just about health having better
cardio can also help with your training
goals by improving overall work capacity
and recovery in between sets just think
about how much harder three sets of
eight on the squat feels when your
cardio is lacking you might need to rest
all day long between those sets if
you've been skipping cardio and you
might even struggle to get all the
volume in but when your cardio is on
point you can get all that work done
much more efficiently it's also worth
mentioning that physical activity is an
important factor for long-term weight
maintenance research shows that
individuals who are more active tend to
be more successful in keeping the weight
off after a period of dieting however
there is still a lot of misinformation
around cardio and fat loss so with these
upsides in mind let's dig into some of
the biggest mistakes that i see people
make and then lay out some practical
recommendations at the end okay so the
first mistake is simply thinking that
cardio is as effective for fat loss as
diet is which definitely isn't true even
though being physically active is
uncontroversially important for health
cardio isn't required for fat loss this
is because at the most fundamental level
fat loss ultimately comes down to the
difference between the number of
calories you consume and the number of
calories you expend and the number of
calories you expend in a typical cardio
session is pretty depressing for example
if you weigh 170 pounds or 77 kilos it
would take you roughly three hours of
brisk walking to burn a thousand
calories but you could eat a thousand
calories in less than a minute if you
really tried actually fitness model
steve cook showed this disparity well
and as a response to the 10 000 calorie
food challenge he tried to burn 10 000
calories the next day and despite being
one of the most physically fit guys in
our industry and despite his greatest
effort he still couldn't do it so
freaking frustrating i'm exhausted my
body's aching ah i got i'm like
over a third of the way there
a third of the way there i feel like all
i've done all day today is work out it
is not
not smart to try to out train a bad diet
see if we can get who he's going to try
to hit like 8 000.
and in the end he ended up getting to
just over 7000 calories burned so it
definitely is much easier to eat
calories than it is to burn calories but
it's actually worse than that because
new research shows that when you do it
the math weight loss from cardio still
only amounts to 20 to 50 percent of the
weight loss you'd expect to see from the
number of calories burned alone in other
words if you burned 2500 calories over
the course of a week through cardio so
something like five hour long walks on
the treadmill and did nothing with your
diet you'd expect to lose about 0.7
pounds based on the math but would only
actually lose 0.14 to 0.36 pounds so
about a quarter to a half of what you'd
expect now there are two possible
reasons for this the most likely is
compensatory overeating basically when
people are told to just do cardio but
don't do anything with their diet
they'll often subconsciously start
eating more the second reason is that
your body is smart and when it notices
that you're burning more calories
through cardio it tries to preserve more
energy by burning less calories through
the other metabolic components now it
isn't perfectly clear exactly which
component of metabolism is most
responsible for this but some evidence
points toward it being due to reductions
in meat or non-exercise activity
thermogenesis basically your regular
daily activities that aren't formal
cardio stuff like fidgeting moving
around at your desk bringing in the
groceries and so on and so it could be
that as you increase the number of
calories that you burn through exercise
your body subconsciously starts moving
around less resulting in fewer calories
burned through meat and less weight loss
than you'd expect now to be clear even
though you could theoretically
completely offset your cardio through
compensatory overeating that's not very
likely to happen if you're actually
making an honest effort to regulate your
diet as well you'll certainly never see
so much compensatory meat reduction that
you start gaining weight as a result of
cardio but my simple point is that the
more and more you rely on cardio for fat
loss the more and more diminishing its
returns become as your body compensates
and adapts and i'm putting this mistake
at the number one spot not because i
think cardio isn't any good but rather
so i can help prevent people from
setting unrealistic expectations about
what cardio can do on its own and from a
fat loss standpoint i think cardio
should be used like a supplemental tool
that assists your diet rather than the
engine of fat loss itself okay so the
second mistake is poorly timing cardio
around weight training one of the most
important things to consider with cardio
is whether or not it's likely to impair
your weight training performance
something referred to as the dreaded
interference effect in the literature
this interference effect is the reason
why there are so many memes that cardio
is killing your gains and while i do
think the idea has been overblown by
bodybuilders who just don't like doing
cardio there still is some truth to it
there is a well-established conflict
between the aerobic endurance pathway
and the muscle building pathway and
there clearly are smart things you can
do to help squash that interference
perhaps the simplest way is just by
doing your weight training first now i
will do a 5 to 10 minute warm-up on the
stairmaster or whatever machine you like
as this has been shown to improve
subsequent weight training performance
but doing a formal cardio session that
takes longer than 10 minutes or so
should be done either after weights or
at a separate time altogether this 2017
systematic review and meta-analysis on
concurrent training which pulled the
results of 13 studies found that placing
cardio immediately before weights
resulted in significantly worse
improvements in one rep max strength and
that strength training is compromised
for at least six to eight hours
following endurance training now
obviously the extent of that compromise
depends on how long and how intense the
endurance training is but still these
authors suggest that separating
endurance and resistance exercise by 24
hours when realistic could be a useful
strategy to optimize concurrent training
adaptations and avoid acute interference
i should also say that the interference
effect is more of a concern for advanced
trainees than it is for beginners this
brand new 2021 meta analysis found that
concurrent cardio and weight training
had no impact on strength for untrained
and moderately trained individuals but
did significantly impair strength in
more well-trained individuals so the
bottom line is that if you really want
to knock out your cardio and weights in
the same session for convenience you
should do your cardio last and the more
advanced you get it wouldn't be a bad
idea to create more separation between
your cardio and weight training whether
that means by doing them on separate
days or by doing one in the morning and
the other in the evening all right
mistake number three is falling into
what i'm going to call the high
intensity trap now just so we're all on
the same page coaches tend to break up
cardio into one of two categories
there's low intensity steady state
cardio often abbreviated as liss or miss
if it's moderate intensity and that's
when you do cardio at a steady pace like
walking on an incline treadmill or
stairmaster high-intensity interval
training or hiit is when you go all out
at a high exertion for 20-30 seconds or
so then go at a light pace for two to
three minutes and then repeat that for
usually five or six intervals now a lot
of people seem to think that hit is more
effective at burning fat because of the
so-called caloric afterburn effect while
the afterburn effect certainly is real
you will burn more calories after
high-intensity exercise and after low
intensity exercise i still think its
practical relevance for fat loss has
been overblown one study showed that
even after 80 minutes of high intensity
cardio at 80 percent max heart rate only
an additional 80 calories were burned
from the afterburn effect and a more
recent systematic review stated that the
afterburn effect is unlikely to account
for any apparent greater fat loss
potential but even if we put the
afterburn idea aside hit still has the
appeal of being more time efficient
since you can burn the same number of
calories in as much as 40 percent of the
time commitment another upside of hit is
that some people do find it to be less
boring and i do think that's a perfectly
sensible reason to use it however while
the time efficiency and enjoyability of
hit can count as upsides the biggest
downside is that it does tend to
interfere with weight training more and
takes longer to recover from you could
also argue that hit is more redundant
since weight training and hit are
actually quite similar physiologically
with typical moderate to high rep weight
training you go at a high exertion for
20 to 30 seconds rest for two or three
minutes go at a high exertion again for
another 20 to 30 seconds and repeat so
some experts have said that you already
get most of the benefits of hit through
weight training i'm not sure i
completely agree with that in my
experience hit does increase heart rate
more and present a greater
cardiovascular challenge than typical
weight training but it does still knock
the unique value of hit down a few
notches so if you are going to use hit
you should use it more sparingly and in
my decade of coaching experience because
of its higher recovery demand i rarely
prescribe hiit sessions more than once
or twice a week and often only if the
client prefers it okay so mistake number
four is doing too much cardio overall
even if we do everything else right in
terms of timing and intensity it is
still possible to do too much cardio to
give us some idea on this let's take a
look at the results of this nsca
meta-analysis on the interference effect
when it came to cardio frequency they
noticed a drop-off in hypertrophy around
the three to four day per week zone
although to be clear the correlation
wasn't that strong so while this is a
trend to be aware of it isn't like your
muscle is gonna melt away if you do
cardio more than three or four times a
week they also showed negative
correlations between hypertrophy
strength and power and the length of
endurance exercise per day with more
interference seen the higher you get
above 30 minutes per day still we
shouldn't look at this frequency and
volume data in a vacuum because taking
your dog for a walk isn't comparable to
running suicide sprints and so what i
recommend for cardio will be highly
individual and depend on the type of
cardio you're doing and i'll break all
that down here in a minute first let's
quickly cover mistake number five which
is banking on fasted cardio for extra
fat loss now the bottom line with fasted
cardio is that just because you will
burn more fat during the session itself
doesn't mean that you'll lose more fat
overall in fact this 2011 study found
that when you burn more fat during a
cardio session you burn less fat over
the next 24 hours and this systematic
review found that performing exercise in
a fasted state did not influence weight
loss or changes in lean and fat mass and
that a meaningful caloric deficit is
more important than exercising in fasted
or fed states however recently a review
paper from escalante and bearcat looked
at the research on fasted cardio in the
context of competitive physique athletes
so people trying to get to very low
levels of body fat and while they once
again acknowledge that there is no
conclusive evidence on the superiority
of fasted cardio they do point out that
research on physique competitors hasn't
been performed and leave the question of
whether or not it might be beneficial in
the final stages of fat loss open they
also suggest that protein-enhanced
cardio where you consume about 25 grams
of protein beforehand might have a
slight edge in some advanced cases still
i think that for the most part you
should simply do your cardio at a time
when you can stick to it the best
whether that means you're doing it
fasted or fed okay so what are my
practical recommendations well when it
comes to volume i suggest including
cardio as needed to keep up with your
desired pace of fat loss generally
losing about 0.5 to 1 of your body
weight per week is a good range if
you're able to do this with weight
training and diet alone then you don't
need to do any cardio still i almost
always include at least some because it
will allow you to keep calories slightly
higher improve weight training work
capacity as long as it's not excessive
and set up good activity habits for
weight maintenance after the diet is
over i suggest keeping hit between one
to two sessions per week lasting about
15 to 30 minutes per session and then
simply add in low intensity cardio as
needed this will depend largely on your
occupation and lifestyle outside the gym
folks who work a chair-bound desk job
might only burn 300 calories per day
while those working a more strenuous job
in agriculture could burn up to 2 300
calories per day through need alone so
depending on the client i may prescribe
anything from zero to five low-intensity
steady-state sessions per week lasting
20 to 40 minutes per session while
monitoring their strength and recovery
in the gym now for mode i generally
favor lower impact cardio like walking
cycling swimming and the elliptical over
higher impact cardio like running on
pavement because of lower interference
but if the client simply prefers the
higher impact options for example i just
enjoy playing basketball more that
certainly can be balanced by considering
the other interference variables that we
talked about and before we wrap it up i
want to give you guys a quick sneak peek
behind my video production process while
thanking skillshare for sponsoring this
video skillshare is a massive online
community that has thousands of
inspiring classes for creative people
looking to develop new skills like video
production photography and self-care i
get a lot of questions about how i make
my videos for my channel and i really
wish i had a resource like skillshare
when i first started making videos seven
or eight years ago i spent a solid two
or three years just spinning my wheels
without any real channel growth because
frankly i just didn't know how to make
good engaging videos and it wasn't until
i figured out how to brainstorm ideas
get engaging shots for b-roll set up
good lighting and edit using basic
software like final cut pro the things
actually started to take off on my
channel now the cool thing about
skillshare is that the classes are
taught by fellow creatives and it gives
you access to a knowledgeable community
of people who are also eager to learn
for example i strongly recommend this
youtube success course taught by marquez
brownlee and then there are thousands of
other courses for every skill level
where you can learn more specifics like
lighting and video editing and the first
1000 of my subscribers to click the
first link in the description box will
get a free one month trial of skillshare
so you can start exploring your
creativity today and it isn't just
creative stuff they also have a bunch of
classes on business finance lifestyle
and plenty more so make sure you're one
of the first thousand people to get a
head start on that skill that you're
looking to master so thanks again to
skillshare for sponsoring the video
thank you guys so much for watching
don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and i'll see you guys
all here in the next one