hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization and today's quick tip is
to not
avoid soreness why would you avoid
soreness well maybe you've heard some
things about how soreness is bad
or irrelevant to gains so people will
say shit like stimulate don't annihilate
they'll say well you know soreness is
just a symptom of novelty which is a fun
one i always like to laugh at and
they'll say you know as a personal
training contest it'd be like if i get
my clients sore they'll just bitch and
then they'll quit and i won't make any
money which is kind of valid but maybe
you could talk to your clients and tell
them that the reality of soreness may be
some upsides as well as downsides so
soreness can be useful
and here's how
if you never get sore
in a muscle let's say you train your
side adults and never get sore you might
actually be growing as fast as possible
however
if you don't ever get sore
and
your pumps of that muscle are meh your
local fatigue is met like you train your
side adults with five sets and someone's
like you're really fried they tired
you're like i don't know they just feel
normal they feel the same and if your
muscle growth in that muscle hasn't been
really progressing
you are probably under stimulating and a
part of that evidence for under
stimulation can be the fact that you
never or really or not much get sore
thus doing a bit more
is likely to help
now here's an interesting question
what makes you sore what makes people
sore from training
a couple of top contenders and these all
work in concert or independently
novelty you do an exercise you haven't
done before trained a muscle group you
haven't trained you're likely to get
sore
eccentric focus if you normally drop
your curls like this but you learn to
control the weight not super slow just
control it all you get more sore
higher volumes adding more volume
generally makes you more sore low rir
going closer to failure makes you
significantly more sore than stopping
very shy of failure
huge pumps maybe don't make you sore but
they sure as hell correlate like if you
train your chest and your chest just
like fucking pumped out of out of the
fucking world you're probably gonna get
sore the next day
deep stretch under tension is very
likely to make you more sore than not
and a greater range of motion now here's
the thing
that list is like a fucking list from
the scientific literature of what
actually makes you grow or highly
correlates to growth
so is more soreness better do we just
want as much soreness as possible uh
hold up a sec
if you're getting sore
and especially if you're just barely
recovering from the next session so you
train legs monday thursday quads
you get source fuck from the monday
session and you just barely recover
wednesday night thursday morning to
train them again and then you just
barely recover sunday night to train
them again stimulus is almost certainly
not the problem so if your quads aren't
growing as fast as you want them to
doing more shit is absolutely a terrible
way to solve the problem because you're
doing as much shit as you can recover
from
is not likely to help and now adding
growth to that equation is more a
function of eating better or eating more
getting better recovery getting better
sleep modulating frequency etc etc
exercise selection it's not how hard
your sessions are so if you're getting
fucking really sore from recessions you
got 99 problems but stimulus is not one
of them you probably need to work on
your diet your recovery your sleep uh
supplements etc
it's probably not like oh i need to
train harder no way and if you've got
all those things checked you're getting
sore regularly and you're still not
growing as fast as you'd like man you're
probably going about as fast as you're
going to be growing
what are the implications for this
if
you never get very sore in training a
certain muscle that you want to grow or
you don't get sore at all and that
muscle is not growing nearly as well as
the other muscles of your body
more is probably better but the question
is more of what
and the answer is more of what grows you
slash makes you sore which is really
kind of the same list so don't avoid the
following and try to do a bit more of
the following if you're not getting sore
at all or not getting very sore and if
you're not getting the kind of growth
you want which is to say more variation
try some exercises you haven't done
before maybe they can hit that muscle
group better
to have an eccentric focus don't just
drop the weight lower the weights under
control you'll probably get better
results try a higher volume marginally
higher use three four sets try five
don't go to ten some shit like that
lower rar grind a little closer to
failure maybe you're further failure
than you thought and that's causing uh
both poor soreness and poor growth go
for massive pumps if you haven't you
know you're like oh my biceps don't grow
and someone's like do you get pumps
you're like what the fuck is that uh you
need to work on whatever strategy a lot
of these other ones to get you more
pumped
and work on deep stretch under tension
so if your pecs don't grow but you've
never done a deep fly you do three sets
of that shit you're like holy fucking
crap you get sore you get growth it's
all good and just a generally greater
range of motion oftentimes does all
these things
lastly if you're getting back-to-back
sore consistently from training a muscle
more stimulus is almost certainly not
the answer for better growth so you're
either getting all the growth you're
going to get you just have to be patient
or you can work on your diet and on your
recovery and your sleep and your
supplementation in order to get that
equation up to standard and get you
growing really well folks give that some
thought comments questions below like
subscribe and uh i'll see you next time