[Music]
okay what is going on everyone Stephanie
and I are here at Neptune Beach in
Jacksonville Florida
what's that we've been in Jacksonville
for like a couple months well you mean
like you just got back from Canada yeah
so we've been in Jacksonville this time
for like a week but we've been living
here part time for like a couple months
this is our first time going to the
beach I feel like I spend a lot of my
time here like editing science
explaining videos honestly but yeah
we're gonna go check out this beach it
looks like there's a decent rapper I
actually haven't been
the tickle it I don't see anyone in the
water so thinking the waters gonna be
cold
have a meal
it's not what I expected I don't know
how loud the waves are so I'll just talk
a little bit louder is normal but I
didn't expect this beach to be this nice
for some reason just because North
Florida like Jacksonville Northeast
Florida it looks a lot different than
South Florida in terms of like the
foliage there's not quite as many palm
trees and stuff but once you get to the
beach there are a ton of palm trees here
and then the beach itself is just really
really nice the water is pretty cold
I think I'll still get in it though once
you get used to it it's not too bad
coming
a cold
the learners actually
we barely put my treatment
you go for a swim in Newfoundland Canada
that's cold water
it's very refreshing it's pretty hot out
for me anyway I mean for it being a
middle November you know what is that
for easy to be like November and kumuda
there's Snorri
[Music]
just finished we got a few shots a few
product shots from TV science I went for
a little dip did a little bit of
sunbathing but it's honestly like pretty
cloudy now so we're gonna pack it up and
head to get some food I don't know
there's there's some nice little area of
shops over there so we'll pick something
over there yeah oh yeah what do you
either you in the mood for anything
particulate anything I'm just hungry I
want something with protein reintroduce
the bro protein it's been 2 to 3 hours
yeah he was a fan favourite brojob
brojob
go watch he's gonna be a character I've
got to make them more bro somehow I need
to like get a fake test you're with your
nipples in yeah yeah we're gonna go get
some food catch up with you guys at the
restaurant look how beautiful this is
it's crazy
well this kind of reminds me of LA
see that they have fried skater too good
I don't want that I'm gonna pass on
those I'm gonna get the calamari for
sure my name I'll probably get like I
might get some crab cakes are you
getting bro yeah I'm gonna show you guys
this place in a very non cinematic way
my locker right now you're not a Holden
I can't even drink here 20 calamari and
a crab cakes with veggies got a beef
salad and then I also got this seared
ahi tuna chicken fingers and fries say
this like to the vlog yet but rashon is
here for like two weeks with us in
Jacksonville 3 3 it's a response here
for 3 weeks with us in Jacksonville so
he's gonna help us out with the vlogging
and I'm basically doing the training on
the science explain videos so like the
last one with intermittent fasting we
kind of went through it together so we
do like you know like one minute at a
time he'd take it over from it I'd do it
for a bit because we're Sean is used to
editing on premiere right so I use final
cut and so I find that just with this
style of the science explained videos
it's a little bit easier with final cut
so I'm kind of giving him the brief
tutorial on how I like to edit those but
he's a super fast learner so the
ultimate goal is to like have us
alternate science explained videos so
like I'll do one he'll do one that sort
of thing so I'll just be responsible for
like the content information voiceover
and then he'll do the filming and the
editing that's the plan but anyway yeah
it's been awesome having him here
because it takes a lot of like stress
off of us to have to film each other and
like we can be together in the vlogs and
stuff like that
and it's really nice to be in the vlog
together yeah it is cool so thank you
bro
I'll have it beer this is here till
Thanksgiving and then he's gonna leave
us yeah leave us to go to Atlanta hmm
say how did you choose for me let's try
it out so this is the calamari looks
delicious
fish cakes
ahi tuna those are really good
[Music]
forensics they're delicious now looks
really
a pre-workout meal probably
I could eat that in one bite okay why
you made me a food challenge that was a
delicious meal so we're gonna go back to
the place now get some free workout and
then we're gonna head to the gym and I'm
gonna destroy him you guys back at home
boom alright welcome back to the house
guys so we're just gonna grab some quick
pre-workout here now we're gonna head to
the gym it gets so dark here in Florida
right now I guess most places in North
America because of daylight savings for
my pre-workout I'm basically just going
to go with a non-stimulant high volume
product this one has caffeine the high
volume is just a pun product and I'm not
sure if I mentioned this on the channel
yet or not but PE science recently
dropped a new flavor so it's called
melon berry twist and to me it tastes
kind of like those tangy wild strawberry
candies so I don't think that they have
the tangy wild strawberries in the
states right yeah well anyway you can
definitely get them in Canada but yet to
me this tastes like it kind of tastes
like strawberry but if you haven't tried
it yet I and you know you are a fan of
the pink science products or maybe you
haven't tried
high volume or prolific yet I definitely
recommend starting with this one cuz
this is my current favorite I think I
did mention this on the channel but
planning to work on or I'm currently
working on a new flavor with PE science
you guys have any guesses as to what
that could be you can leave a comment
below but yeah we're working on a new
flavor so I've tried one sample of a mix
of two potential flavors it was actually
really really good so it'll probably be
exactly that but yeah it hasn't been
fully decided yet but new flavor will be
coming relatively soon
so basically Stefan I are gonna be
hitting a leg workout today so we're
gonna be borrowing some things from her
program she's running like a very glute
specific program right now and then I'm
gonna do a couple things that would be a
staple for my routine we're gonna kind
of mash it together probably hit four
exercises and we're gonna take you guys
through some of our training cues for
each exercise and Rochon is going to put
it together and kind of like an edit so
we will check in with you guys in the
gym
[Music]
when it kicked off the workout with some
light dynamic stretching I would just
did seven minutes on the treadmill just
to get a light sweat going at the heart
rate up and now we're gonna do some
dynamic stretches so for lower body I'll
usually do a little bit of upper body
and then a full lower body warm-up so
for me that's some dynamics hamstring
stretches just front to back leg swings
I'll do 20 per leg and then I also do
side to side this is more to stretch out
the glutes in the groin area I'm still
go side to side and I'll do another 20
each leg like that and then I'll get
down and I'll do step through one knee
up in line with my hand back the other
leg and then I'll switch and do these a
little faster and I'll do 15 to 20 like
that for girls if you want to if you
have any kind of resistance span you can
do a free activation drill and watches
glute science explained videos something
you can do is like a lateral band lock
so a cue for this is that you don't want
to push with your leading foot you
actually want to push on the back foot
and you push with the opposite foot that
you would think to
and it pushes you this way and then like
why is the other direction this is the
leg that's actually pushing you should
feel your booth can you stay fit so when
you do a glute exercise afterwards
you'll feel the glute isolation from
there so and then optionally sometimes I
will do a little bit of extra stuff just
to warm up my lower back so I'll
actually get on the floor do some
Superman's and then cat camels is
another exercise I'll do sometimes I
just don't like mobilize my my thoracic
spine a little bit more
and I'll get started with some light
weight on the first exercise pyramid my
way up and then start the working sets
so that's what we're gonna get into
right now
[Music]
so I was three sets of each of ten reps
and with these I do try to go pretty
close to failure but I won't actually
take it to failure so attend working at
around like an RP 8 to 9 and then on the
last set I'll take it a little bit more
close to like a nine maybe not have
something like that and this machine
right here so this is the Cybex SWAT
press machine and I love this machine
compared to the standard 45-degree leg
press because for me it just has so much
more of a natural clean of motion so
with the 45-degree press you're
basically on a linear plane and then
past a certain point it basically forces
your lower back to round in order to get
to a certain depth because with this one
I find I can get really deep without
having to worry about any kind of spinal
flexion so yeah I find I can go way
heavier on this machine for that reason
it just feels so much more natural I'm
not really thinking about my lower back
injury while I'm doing exercise so
anyway love this machine next
so for these I'm going to use dumbbells
because I actually find that if I use a
barbell it definitely takes a lot of
emphasis off your traps so if you don't
want to grow your traps I guess you
could use a barbell the reason I like to
use dumbbells is because it kind of has
like a slight carryover to like the yoke
or whatever so there's a little bit of a
isometric stretch on the trap so and
forums for sure - so walking lunges with
dumbbells is just a staple I think we
include it in anyone's like like
training program something that I do to
emphasize my glutes while I am doing our
lunge is that I will kind of lean
forward and make sure that I'm pressing
down and stepping with my heel as
opposed to emphasizing my quad so making
sure I feel it in my glute
so it's just a way to make sure and take
wider stride why does rise alright we're
gonna use this plane here and then we're
gonna do the walking
[Music]
so this one's one of my exercises that
I'm gonna make Jeff - this is a really
good glute isolation exercise it's
called the cable pull through basically
just targets your glute and glute ham
tie in but no quads so this is a just a
glute exercise it's a really good one
but there's a few cues that I think that
would make it a little easier on you if
you've never done it before one put your
shame away and two because it's a little
bit weird to raise the lever point a
little bit higher than the bottom I find
it a little bit easier before you
actually start the exercise take a few
steps forward and then you're gonna have
to go all the way in between your legs
as far as you can bending forward and
you're gonna thrust forward like this
but you're gonna keep your lower back
rounded not arched don't do this even
though it looks better it's like even
arch so a strong contraction at the top
and speed you lose
we're gonna try three cents there's no
slightly higher rep on these so 12 to 15
reps and let me get into that right now
[Music]
so my friend Josh vocal a lot of you
guys will remember him from my most
painful leg days ever
he just uploaded a video and it's called
how to f up your hamstrings and if you
did a technique on the line leg curl
that we're gonna try out you do eight
full range of motion reps pretty close
to failure but not quite maybe like RP
seven eight
then increase the weight by PI per se
yeah but then cut the range of motion in
half do another eight reps so you do an
eight path reps increase the weight by
20% again and then you do eight static
holds and half at about like a quarter
range of motion for two seconds each
holds yeah that's like eight eight eight
it goes full range of motion half range
of motion with static holds so if you
guys are looking to F your hamstrings up
Josh Scoville style
I'd recommend giving this shot even I
haven't tried it yet and Josh if you're
watching we need do another workout man
what's up where you been
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
I'm gonna do a lot more and increase the
weight on this this is what I'm going to
do this time so I forgot to increase the
weight loss huh I'm gonna do each set in
between this giant set I'm gonna
increase it by one plate just that one
that's like do you increase I'm gonna
put in my headphones let's go
that hurts watching it that's hard I
guess there's no way I can do really
damn you Josh house that was fun
you guys should try that Oh someday I
like to do at the end of every booth
session as I like to do a pump or
exercise just to get in that last bit of
increasing metabolic stress and my
glutes
before I finish it off so I'm gonna do a
quick stop for exercise while Jeff watch
with me laughs so as I'm gonna do one
more hamstring exercise I'm gonna do
seated hamstring curl and Steph's gonna
do her
who'd you burn thing over there so we're
gonna finish up this exercise that's
gonna finish up the workout and also
going to finish up vlog so thank you
guys so much for watching don't forget
to like the video if you liked it
subscribe if you happen to be new and
we'll see you guys next time bye