foreign
supports killing your Grandma can we say
that that's right we can we are at
CrossFit Games 2022 and I'm here to ask
people questions what kind of questions
Dr Mike
don't you want to find out
let's get it
[Music]
when I was younger I used to compete in
underground fighting rings yes Not only
was a bare knuckle but we're asked
actually fully naked is that what hats
look like on your head yeah
we last saw each other at a sex addicts
anonymous meeting how's that all going
for you
um I'm still waddling right now so like
it's falling off the wagon hair styling
tips yeah gotta get smooth baby it looks
good and you got to make the carpet
match the drapes it's real important
thank you
zombies they bite Grandma Grandma's a
zombie now well grandma's already dead
let's pretend I'm just kidding actually
that's really fucked up she's gonna
watch us and be like what the fuck is
wrong with you
what the hell she just buried her own
grandma on the show you forgot about
your grandma Scott let's go man we can't
be around these people guys I've hit
PR's on swamp ass that I never thought
were possible I am just dripping have
you ever been in a situation where you
have to rescue someone but they're fat
like me and you're just like fuck it
this guy's too fat
you do know CrossFit is a drug tested
smart right I'm well aware
I'm not an athlete
it beat me
when you were a kid what was one of your
hobbies
playing World of Warcraft oh
[Music]
quick follow-up question for both of you
why haven't you ever had sex with a
consenting woman before we're too busy
leveling up my parole officer says I'm
not allowed to take off my shirt in
public anymore it's been a giant
misunderstanding come out and I come out
kind of like a dog like
with the thing on and then the rest time
became history biggest regret in your
life that haunts you on a daily basis
I'll probably like knowing you have you
ever looked at a bear and thought I
could hit that well I mean you're kind
of hairy
you could be a bear would you rather
make out with a guy or suck on his feet
make out
[Music]
no I still said aliens come down to
earth they put like a phaser gun to the
Earth the whole world is gonna die you
have to kill somebody with your bare
hands and then they go away
who is it
um I mean you your animals were as smart
as humans oh as smart as humans which
animals would dominate crossfits well
you're assuming it takes smart people to
dominate CrossFit
[Applause]
biggest regret in your life that haunts
you on a daily basis meaning a guy named
Dr Mike Israel in the Michigan weight
room just getting to be a common answer
yeah wow wow you didn't tell me my hands
were going to hurt
favorite ice cream flavor oh the
camera's right there vegan chocolate
chip cookie dough are you vegan no why
is vegan your favorite ice cream flavor
because it hurts my belly the vegan
hurts your belly do you like that no
we're not on the interview Scott ladies
it's been it's been real you guys are
awesome thank you so much wow that's
hard can't you
oh
foreign