all right what is going on everyone so
some of you guys may know that I'm just
getting over a cold myself and so I
figured this would be a good opportunity
to address the question should you train
or not while sick and there's a lot of
different ways you can spin this right
out of the gate I should say that if you
are contagious it's probably good common
courtesy to just stay out of the gym for
the sake of the other members but let's
just assume that you know you have
access to a private gym or maybe you're
not contagious or something like that
then should you train while you're sick
and I think that first it really depends
on the severity of the sickness if you
have something like pneumonia and your
lungs are half filled with fluid it
probably wouldn't be a good idea to go
to the gym however if you just have
something like a common cold you'd be
probably in what I would consider the
gray area and this is where it's not
perfectly clear if you should train or
if you shouldn't and so I'm gonna try to
help you guys come to that decision in
the most science-based way in this video
for some reference on this fitness
expert Lila McDonald suggests that if
you're sick below the neck I'm so maybe
if you have some chest congestion or a
chest cough wheezing something like that
then it's best to just skip the gym
altogether / if you're sick above the
neck so you have say like a runny nose
maybe a headache
then you're in what I would call the
greater and you need to make a
cost-benefit analysis so a few things to
consider here first assuming you're not
just using your sickness as an excuse to
skip the gym which is something I'll get
back to it's important to keep in mind
that most studies show that it takes at
least 2 to 4 weeks to see any
significant losses in muscle size and
strength and a 2012 study from Ogas hora
and colleagues showed that when subjects
trained either continuously for 24 weeks
or trained for 6 weeks then took a three
week complete training break then
trained for six weeks again took another
three weeks off etc they both ended up
in basically the same spot when it comes
to muscle size now you may notice that
muscle size did drop a little bit in
those three week D training periods
however it's important to keep in mind
that these subjects were untrained so
they may have been a little bit more
susceptible to muscle loss and also it
seems likely to me that maybe those
losses and muscle mass that were
detected during those three week D
training periods may have been just
attributable to losses in glycogen
or losses in hydration status and not
through muscle loss per se um so the
bottom line here is that if you are a
dedicated gym goer and not just using
your sickness as an excuse it's unlikely
that even taking a week off of training
altogether will really seriously
negatively impact your gains over the
long term now admittedly some people may
have a tough time deciding if they're
using their sickness as an excuse or not
the one strategy that I use is to
actually just go to the gym and do a bit
of light moderate intensity cardio and
this is what I did yesterday I went to
the gym did 10 to 15 minutes of cardio
and then asked myself if I was in a good
position to train or not now as it turns
out doing that low intensity exercise is
likely to be a positive thing anyway
insofar as it's been shown in research
that doing the moderate intensity and
moderate volume cardio can improve
immune function and sort of expedite
your recovery in that way in my case
after doing 15 to 20 minutes of cardio I
decided that I was still a little bit
lightheaded still feeling a little bit
lethargic and still stuffed up and
wasn't really in a good position to hit
a good weight training session so I
decided to just leave it at cardio for
that day but what I do find is that
getting yourself to the gym but you in a
position to make a more proactive
decision about whether you're actually
too sick to train or if you're just kind
of being lazy and want to stay home and
there's really no risk here since the
cardio is only going to help anyway
again assuming you're in that sort of
gray area zone and I'm glad that I did
this and decided to take that bit of
extra time off because now today I feel
much more recovered and now I'm in a
much better spot to go hit a solid
workout tonight now if you do decide to
take some time off like me and you
notice that maybe your physique looks a
little smaller or maybe just a little
softer or flatter I would say that this
is most likely attributable to decreases
in glycogen and hydration status of the
muscle not real muscle loss per se and
glycogen levels and hydration levels
will return to normal very quickly as
soon as you begin refueling and
rehydrating again through your recovery
so to recap very quickly if you're sick
and contagious you should avoid public
gyms out of courtesy to others if you're
sick below the neck then you should rest
up if you're sick above the neck
in that gray area you'll have to make a
judgment call going into the gym and
doing light cardio is a more proactive
way to decide if you're too sick to
train with weights or not and light
exercise may actually improve immune
function and speed up recovery and if
you do decide to skip the weights up to
three weeks of D training is very
unlikely to negatively impact muscle
mass over the long term so you don't
have much to worry about anyway and any
apparent loss in size is likely due to
lowered glycogen which can refill very
quickly so that's going to conclude this
video guys I really hope that you liked
it if you did don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up and if you happen to be new to
the channel don't forget to hit the
subscribe button got another sit-down
science-based video over here you can
check it out and give that one a watch I
will see you guys again in a couple days
I've got another daily vlog coming and
you guys are really gonna like and then
after that I've got a back science
explained on the way so lots of content
coming stay tuned and I will see you
guys next time