you never Juiced were you able to get
that way on your own yeah absolutely I
started working out when I was 12 years
old okay dope so I'm going to cut you
guys the real deal on that whole juicing
thing when people ask you to admit to a
federal offense on live
television the moral thing to do becomes
to lie about it this is something that I
would call an Unbecoming question from
someone who just doesn't know the legal
and ethical landscape involved I mean or
a totally innocent mistake but uh you
generally just don't ask people that
sort of thing because they'd be
admitting to a crime yes John Cena's on
steroids everybody in the WWE is on
steroids but for maybe one person ever
or something when you get that big and
that strong and that jacked and that
lean at the same time almost certainly
anabolics are involved and John's going
to lie about it as well he should