seriously Google how to train a long
head one of the first results is always
an incline dumbbell curl and I tested it
I tested every single angle you could
use on the bench I tested the cable
variation I even had an overly muscular
woman come in and verify my
results and it sucks and this racked my
brain I it doesn't make sense enough I
am a minute and a half into this video
the people who have watched this the 1.5
million people have come away from it
with entirely the wrong idea now and
that's not good putting aside EMG being
a good tool for predicting hypertrophy
it is very unlikely that small
differences will completely negate any
hypertrophy could see are you performing
a function of the toip muscle is it
being trained pretty close to failure
yes that is going to be most of what
makes an exercise effective so no these
EMG readings do not just overrule
everything else and in fact based on the
paper I mentioned earlier they probably
shouldn't overrule anything something's
wrong because otherwise my entire
training
career has been a lie