how many grams of proteins carbs or fats
we need daily in order to see good
results protein intake something like a
gram per pound of body weight per day is
a good idea for most people looking for
sort of near Optimum results fat intake
anything below 0.3 grams per pound per
day is probably pushing that hormonal
and health metric a little bit
especially if not in the longer term and
we can't eat as many fats as we like but
we need some carbs in our diet to
produce energy and all that other good
stuff carbs do so we're going to cap our
fat intakes at 0.5 grams per pound per
day once you know your proteins than you
do from a first calculation and you know
your fats you do from the second one the
carbs are just whatever calories are
left over divided by four because carbs
have four calories per gram