so if anyone's like look this is the
only set and rep scheme that works you
gotta be like I don't know about
that hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and today's
topic is to ask and answer the question
of how heavy you should train for your
best muscle growth results what do you
think how heavy give some thought to it
take a
minute all right the correct answer is
seven reps that's it see you guys next
time thanks for tuning in
hold on on we can do better than that we
can do better than that let's actually
learn something two things is quick
reminders before we dig in first sfr is
King stimulus to fatigue ratio if the
weight that you're using be it heavy
light or somewhere in between gives you
awesome tension of the target muscle
awesome burn of the target muscle an
amazing pump just after a few sets makes
your muscle feel weak and wobbly after
and gets you nice and sore it can't be
that wrong of an answer that is really
really really something we're looking
for in addition to that if the weight
that you're using is relatively easy on
your joints and connective tissues
doesn't feel like it takes Infinity
willpower to actually get done and
doesn't leave you completely wrecked for
other exercises and other sets it's
probably on the right track in addition
to that anything between sets of five
reps person set in sets of 30 reps per
set is generally considered the
hypertrophy range where differences in
muscle growth are very very
small that being the
case the specifics of how heavy and
light to go still depend to some extent
to an interesting and meaningful extent
on at least a few other things like what
exercise you're doing the individual
that's doing them hopefully it's you and
not someone else in your own body doing
weight hey at least they took your body
and went to the gym fuck they could have
gone to the strip club or it's not a bad
place to the Opium Den that would be
terrible and of course training history
so there's lots to say on how heavy you
should go for your best gains get out
your shovels and let's dig in I think we
have seven things to talk about yes yes
I told you seven reps
first no wrong answers between sets of
five and sets of 30 just better
approximations
second the sfr point can be asked in a
different way and answered in a
different way between sets of five and
30 Reps for any given exercise where do
you feel your best stimulus to fatigue
ratios in because it it could be
something like with uh dumbbell curls if
you do sets of six it's sets of 5 to 30
like your pump's not that great you do
feel tension in your biceps but there's
no burn
and they you never really get tired and
you never get sore and your joints kind
of hurt because it's really heavy and
you're like and you just sit a 15 with
dumbbell curls you get crazy tension
especially in the last few reps your
burn is psychotic you're trying to get
all of the metabolites out of your
biceps between sets the pump is insane
your joints feel amazing all that stuff
down the line then whatever you get
wherever rep range that is for you for
the exercise that you're doing if you
know lighter or heavier or somewhere in
between seems to get the best
combination of stimulus and fatigue
that's really really close to the right
answer so a lot of your training is
going to be doing good training that
works but also noting what tends to work
better than not using those proxies of
the stimulus to fatigue ratio so if
someone says to you hey look research
shows that sets of you know six are a
perfect for dumbbell curls you're going
to be like well you know I wasn't in
that stuff I was not an experimental
subject and I can tell you like them
shits grind my elbows into a fucking
paste so I don't know if that's true for
me and that's 1,000% the case for almost
all of exercise and sports science is
the universals are principles but the
specific applications the exact numbers
are very very individual so follow your
heart in a sense but um don't marry for
love no wait that has nothing to do with
the topic follow the best stimulus to
fatigue ratio for you and that can
change on a few things so here's the
thing you don't want to go and say look
so for me sets of 5 to 10 in the squat
are amazing sets of 20 to 30 are stupid
you can say that but remember there is a
degree of complexity to it a bit of
nuance here's an
example it can depend on the exercise
order if you do squats first maybe sets
a five to 10 are perfect if you do
squats last the weight that you're using
and after uh you do leg presses and then
hack squats and then you do
squats the weight you're using on your
back might be so light that you can do
sets of 20 and your back doesn't give
out and your lungs don't give out
because it's just all quads at that
point so you can't necessarily say well
if squats for me are best in five to 10
rep range you can say that pretty
confidently but you also have to say
like especially if they're first
exercise and someone could say like well
we have squats third today what do you
think was the weight that we could use
and you could probably be a bit more
guarded with your language or a bit more
openminded say we you I usually do
squats first and I usually do them sets
of five to 10 I'm going to think that's
probably a good guess for even if
they're third exercise but I'm willing
to explore other rep range options
right that's a big deal exercise order
is a huge huge deal and it can really
really mess with your rep ranges as to
which one is best for
you point number number
three sfr
aside you can ask the question of what
repetition range gives you the best
long-term strength progression and by
strength we don't mean like sets of
three to six or one rep max we just mean
the ability to add 5 pounds here and
there over time or a reper two here and
there over time so for example if sets a
5 to 10 on dumbbell presses feel really
good for you sfr is great but a few week
into progression on those you tend to
stall out on your strength versus on
also dumbbell presses sets of 10 to 20
reps feel just as good stimulus to
fatigue ratio wise the burn is more
intense but the tension's smaller so
it's kind of a trade-off same same in
the end but if you do sets of you know
whatever 10 to 20 sets of 15 in the
dumbbell press and for some reason you
can just keep adding a little bit of
load and adding a little bit of weight
over time and it just keeps going for
weeks and weeks and weeks then that rep
range seems to be more conducive really
for Progress which is kind of the whole
point of lifting or to put it another
way if you're getting really good
continual progress the probability that
you are putting on significant amounts
of muscle is much higher than if you
don't get progress you can imagine a
chat with your Jim bro buddy like how's
training going man he's like fucking
great man doing sets of 5 to 10 you're
like yeah getting stronger like not
really bro oh okay able to do more reps
he's like no fuck that progress is lame
man I'm just in here to fucking grind
all right just I'll just be somewhere
else not talking to you so progress is
good some rep ranges man for some
exercises you will learn over time and
there's no shortcut to this you have to
try a bunch of things just keep an eye
out for the shit that really lets you
progress you might have some exercises
that have some repetition ranges that
just fucking click and every fucking few
weeks you're able to add a few pounds a
few reps a few pounds a few reps it just
keeps going I wouldn't move away from
that I would really dig into that number
four in a training block which is
typically about three mesocycles that
periods of four to eight weeks with a D
Lo at the end a training block lets you
organize your training in a more grand
scheme manner for one specific goal for
example on a muscle gain block you would
be eating a hypercaloric diet to gain
the entire time then you would have two
to three mesle cycles sequenced and the
goal for each mesle cycle is muscle
growth muscle growth muscle growth as an
example in a block and you can find many
more details about this in our Advanced
hypertrophy Concepts and tools
series which is super fucking nerdy and
of course our scientific um principles
of hypertrophy training ebook which is I
think also a physical book maybe it's
definitely an ebook that I know and it's
linked below we get real deep into
justifying this concept so I'll just
brush it over real quick but generally
speaking throughout the block if you're
adding new
exercises in order to increase the
volume me cycle to mcycle to M cycle
because often your body adapts to volume
and can do more over time at the same
time your joint connective tissue
integrity and the amount of joint
connective tissue fatigue you've imposed
on the system Also Rises such that when
you're adding new exercises month to
month to month or every two months or so
you probably want to add exercises that
are conducive to lighter rep ranges so
you can start the first musle cycle of
your muscle gain phase with mostly sets
of 5 to 10 the second Mesa cycle keep
the 5 to 10 exercises but maybe if you
add a few movements here and there you
can add in more sets of 10 to 20 type
movements and then in the end sets of 20
to 30 type movements for that third
mesocycle where you're really you can
crank because your volume resistance is
up you're in great shape to do more
volume you can recover but your joints
are like bro if you add any more sets of
five to 10 I'm taking a fucking I'm I'm
going on strike that's right picket line
union workers the mafia gets involved
you know want any of that especially for
new joints so in a block progression
typically we as we add we go from
heavier to lighter individual exercises
you have threaded in the whole time get
heavier over time like if you're
squatting in the first Mesa cycle and
you still have squats in the last one it
still sets a 5 to 10 and it goes up and
up and up as far as weight as you thread
a new exercises taking those with
lighter rep ranges is probably a good
idea so when someone asks you hey how
heavy should I go for muscle growth you
say well here's another way to put it
this is even better way someone sees you
in your first Messa cycle of training
for a mass gaining training block and
they're like I noticed you do a lot of
sets of five to 10 like is that the
ideal rep range for muscle growth and
you're like well it's one of the good
ones but TBH if you see me in three
months I'll be doing shitload of sets of
20 to 30 and still doing some sets of 5
to 10 and they're like is that the right
answer 20 to 30 then and you're like I
don't think you're understanding
anything I'm saying uh also please stop
talking to me also you have terrible
breath it's not cool to tell people they
have bad breath isn't Scott the video
guy no com what a dick does that mean I
have bad breath holy shit I tell you you
would tell me cuz because we're boys
like
that folks in the comments below please
let us know if you've ever straight up
just told somebody I know I was sitting
in front of this one kid in high school
and um I turned around talk to him one
point and he's straight up was like we
weren't friends and he was cool he was
like bro you have terrible breath and I
was like dude thank you and I fucking
chewed some gum I was like offended for
like a fraction of a second and then I
was like at least that motherfucker told
me and not some girls I was trying to
talk to later good news bad news I'd
never talked to girls in high school so
nobody lost nobody found anyway Point
number five mixing rep ranges within a
workout is totally fine it's totally
cool to have emphasis Mesa Cycles where
you do mostly sets of five to 10 in a
Mesa cycle then mostly sets of 10 to 20
then mostly sets of 20 to 30 in another
metacycle but mostly doesn't mean wholly
so you can do a situation where you do a
few sets of five to 10 and even with the
same exercise drop the weight
significantly and do sets of 10 to 20
there's nothing wrong in the world and
how do you know that's a good idea try
it and see if your drum roll stimulus to
fatigue ratio plays out and if it does
it's
money number six be wary of absolutism
because I think it's awesome for you
guys to go and many of you watch other
channels and I think that's great our
channel's the best but JK our Channel
probably kind of sucks I Blame You Scott
the video guy damn it hashtag do better
so you guys get your information from a
bunch of sources and that's awesome cuz
I'm wrong at at least half the time but
when you do get your information from
other sources have your skeptical hat on
and get you know what I'm saying get to
restaurant like sir it's polite to
remove your hat you're like nope
skeptical hat stays on all the time and
when people get really absolutist that's
a time for you to kind of regress away
and be like that doesn't seem like
that's likely to be true people will say
like you know sets of 5 to 10 are the
ultimate like they're the best or it's
all about sets of you know 25 to 30 that
searing burn it's best for everything
and you're like is it though cuz you
know a little secret you know that
humans are uh very individual and
there's all kinds of different responses
that was a a normal curve normal
distribution bell curve that I just drew
with my
hand seems like
I'm what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours now what am I doing now
SC the video guys see that
shit squeezing the normal distribution
damn baby saying shit looks like
normally distributed girl I wonder if
anyone's everever uh there's no chance
anyone's ever used that pickup line I'll
be the first on Scott the video guy in
any case people are different sets of 5
to3 have been shown by actual science to
be roughly equivalent on average so if
anyone's like look this is the only set
and rep scheme that works you got to be
like I don't know about that and I
absolutely hear them out as to their
argument they usually don't have one but
uh definitely be wary of anyone that
says like no this is the for sure the
answer and this the only one and
lastly know what feels best for you on
each exercise if you've been
training 3 to 5 years I should be able
to be like hack Squad and you go yep uh
sets of 8 to 12 is my preferred range
but sometimes I like down sets if
they're sets of 15 amazing know what
works for you even with regard to
exercise order but for sure generally
most exercises that you do you should
have a repetition range that you're like
this isn't that great this is really
good and this one is also not that great
now your answer could be like I love
them all great but most people don't
work like that know what works for you
best on each exercise but keep an open
mind and try a different rep range every
now and again because your body changes
your Technique changes your mind muscle
connection changes sometimes for example
on pull Downs people really need them to
be lighter when they're just starting
out in training or at least trained for
a few years because it's really hard to
connect with your lats and your back
sometimes if the weight is lighter you
can focus more on the squeeze and the
appropri reception and as your reps get
higher and higher and you get more
fatigued your lats start to tire out you
can really start to feel them so you say
oh look for me pull Downs are best in
the sets of 20 to 30 and if you try to
do them in sets of 5 to 10 you're like I
don't know man I'm just ripping the shit
up and down I have no idea what the
fuck's going on my sfr sucks
agreed after five or six or seven years
of training though and for you sance day
one you might be able to be like so
connected with your lats such good
technique such good mind muscle
connection that now with sets of eight
on pull Downs you're like oh yeah this
is fucking all day lats and wow holy
shit what I'm even saying that means I
used to say set a to 10 for lats for lat
pull Downs are just no good for me but
now I've come back to it I tried it
again and I realize I do have the tool
set now the my muscle connection and the
experience the technique to actually get
a lot out of sets of 5 to 10 that's a
great thing because you don't want to
get to the lap pull down machine and be
like well sets a 20 to 30 and someone's
like aren't you sick of that you're like
yes but nothing else works now you get
to l pull down machine in your program
and you're like hey I've got options I
can go heavier I can go lighter I didn't
even go in between what are crazy idea
try a different rep range out again for
that very purpose and you might be
pleasantly surprised worst case you're
unpleasantly not surprised and uh that's
just everyday life isn't it it's just
sitting in traffic it's traffic
again see you guys next
time