this is the perfect chest focused push
day that you can use as part of your
push pull legs routine first we'll start
with the incline dumbbell press for 3 to
5 sets of 5 to 10 repetitions this will
toet your upper chest then we'll move
into some deficit push-ups to train the
lower chest under plenty of stretch
perform 3 to five sets of 10 to 20
repetitions next we'll do an overhead
press variation specifically the
dumbbell seated overhead press perform
two to four sets of 10 to 20 repetitions
to finish off the chest we'll do some
dumbbell flies which are extremely
stretch focused perform two to four sets
of 20 to 30 repetitions next to Target
the triceps effectively we'll do a
dumbbell overhead extension performing 3
to five sets of 10 to 20 repetitions for
this Movement try the que Point your
elbows at the ceiling and finally we'll
finish off the session with some cable
lader raises for three to five sets of
10 to 20 repetitions across this session
we used a variety of rep ranges and we
selected exercises that focus on the
stretch more than more traditional
counter ports that's why