structure and flexibility the RP diet
app builds a structure of eating that
creates the results you're looking for
but has the flexibility to let you scan
your favorite foods and follow your
preferred diet philosophy the digital
diet coach in your pocket is more
powerful than ever so let's build a
better you with the RP diet app
you
and we are back thanks for joining us on
the weekly webinar we had the holidays
this last couple weeks so sorry we
didn't get one out to you a little bit
sooner but we are back baby Mike how we
doing
we are alive we don't have the Holy
Ghost I'm good
alive and ready to answer some some
silly ask questions
cool let's get to it Ryan agar Ryan agar
man with four names yeah I don't know
how that happened but whatever so he
says let's see what he says hey guys in
terms of making progress whilst lifting
a DJ is the best to do your training in
blocks focusing specifically on lifting
in one block and beat Eugene another
having the other maintenance following
us to make hypertrophy progress in the
bgj block could you put everything at
maintenance other than one or two body
parts and I mean these you can progress
and go in cycles what would be the most
optimal way to make as much evergreens
as possible whilst making bgg progress I
like both 50/50 that's a very important
detail that I was gonna ask that god we
got it actually and want to be pretty
damn good at both love your content guys
so I think that Ryan you should go watch
the YouTube video that I made a while
back called BJJ and lifting actually
don't know it's called but type in BJJ
lifting weights Mike as we tell and
they'll pop up it's very popular it's an
hour and 15 minutes I believe of super
super details about and everything about
how to design your periodization as well
as your weekly Mike recycle your even
daily timing of sessions all that stuff
so that is the guide but a real quick
just grand tour is so all training
should be in blocks period right and
your jiu-jitsu and bodybuilding training
furniture for sure being blocks what I
would say is for the most part you want
to find a pretty good balance of good
jiu-jitsu training and good bodybuilding
training and then most blocks should be
a little bit north or south of that
balance to emphasize one or another so
for example you might find that you can
do
or sessions a week of jiu-jitsu and four
sessions a week of hard lifting and
that's kind of your total MRV well we
might have you do is do when you're not
competing in jiu-jitsu or competitions
not coming up and or jujitsu progress is
going super well and you feel like the
training is really snappy you might want
to do is do five sessions a week of
lifting and of course prioritize however
you like we'll talk about the m80 body
part thing in a bit and maybe three
sessions of jiu-jitsu
so a little bit biased towards lifted
and then if you get a little bored of
lifting or for example a mass phase
fiber trophy ends a cutting phase begins
in which you actually don't have to
train as much or maintenance phase
begins but then you can flip the script
and go to three sessions a week of
lifting and go to five sessions a week
something like that whatever's in your
murphy of jiu-jitsu and you especially
want to do that last flip even more
extreme one in the month or two before
you have a jiu-jitsu competition at that
case you want to do two to three lifting
sessions a week as an example and and
you know four to six and jujitsu
sessions a week and then after that you
retool after an active rested go back
the other way but really a lot of that
alignment to which way you choose to go
is it more Jerusalem or lifting is so
long as you're getting enough to jutsu
technique and work to get better the
next question is are you doing what is
your phase like in bodybuilding
are you mass gaining it isn't the last
mesocycle of a mass game right so for
example if your mass gaining and it's
the first mass cycle you could do a lot
of jiu-jitsu pretty even 5050 and still
get great results but in your second and
third fourth Mezo of massing you need
more and more lifting and doing more
jiu-jitsu during massing is fucking ass
backwards because you get worse in
jiu-jitsu gasps wise and also you don't
put it enough volume by virtually
training unless you're massing that's
really just gaining weight while
shooting yourself in the foot so you
know as your massing progresses you do
more lifting and less bgj by a little
bit that's really cool during
maintenance
phases you know one to two months for
hypertrophy you could do much more
jiu-jitsu much less hypertrophy and
actually if you just is really important
to you during those times you might do
two or
three maintance phases and James well
when we loose the hounds for you correct
me if I'm wrong in that sort of thing
but maybe two or three Meza cycles
instead of one or two at maintenance and
just lifted Nathan's volume you know two
to three sessions a week and then much
more jiu-jitsu that really bumped your
gypsy game but of course look II just
make some pains and a little bit of
jiu-jitsu is gonna kind of get stale and
then once you start cutting you can sort
of figure out roughly even jiu-jitsu and
bodybuilding split and and maybe even
again as the cut gets deeper and deeper
you do a little bit less here so a
little bit more hypertrophy training
relatively speaking and that's how I
would set up the cycles barring of
course competition in jiu-jitsu which
changes everything to be uh you know a
little bit more chips a little bit less
lifting as the competition approaches
James yeah those are all really good so
I don't disagree with Mike on any of
those points but I'm just gonna go a
different direction than Mike did and
that's more of a simple one in that if
if you're kind of 50/50 like in terms of
your body composition goals and your
jujitsu goals I think that's a
reasonable assumption then is that you
are not trying to be the best that
either one of them so I think an
alternative idea might be pick as many
jujitsu sessions per week as you feel
really positive about and I say that
because unless you're doing private
lessons most jiu-jitsu is structured
around class schedule so I would say
pick the number of classes that you go
to where you feel like you're making
good progress and you're satisfied and
then adjust your lifting which is gonna
be much more flexible in terms of how
much you want to go to the gym basically
around that and just change the
frequency or and days per week of
training to something that's very
manageable and right there it's kind of
like your base sustainable pattern that
you can just always default default back
to throughout the year so if you find
that doing jiu-jitsu twice a week you
just don't make enough progress and you
feel kind of stagnant go up to three
right and if you feel like three is a
pretty good spot you might have to
adjust your weight training volume so if
you were doing like two days of
jiu-jitsu five days of lifting and you
up it to three you might have to go
lifting down to four but that might be a
very very sustainable spot for you right
and so if you start taking one or the
other more seriously then you can do all
those things that Mike already described
but since it sounds like you're just
doing it for fun and for recreation and
for feeling good I would say find the
class schedule where you feel like
you're making good progress and you feel
good about your jiu-jitsu sport a game
and then adjust your lifting around that
because it's much more malleable and
much easier in terms of schedule yep
lastly the one or two body parts and
maybe so you can progress and go in
cycles so this is a very common question
if we answered a bunch of rp+ but not
much on youtube so this is I think one
of the first YouTube cases question
being answered is you have a certain
total systemic sum of all M RVs and then
you have all the sums of the individual
local Emery's for muscles and for
intermediates the sum of the locals
start to get bigger than the systemic so
the answer is you have to trim as many
body parts to MeV or MV as needed to get
the some of the locals into the systemic
and how many of those is entirely up to
what the individual mr visas of your
local what your systemic of RB is and
how those two relate to each other so
for example someone who is a relatively
slow twitch individual and not
SuperDuper strong maybe hasn't been
training for a whole lot of time can do
everything every single body part from a
medium RV and never hit the systemic MRV
but unless they go to mr v4 local body
parts like week to week to week to week
and then you just get local degradation
to performance they might not even ever
get to systemic degradation but you know
for somebody more advanced they might be
like okay I can push you know like back
chest and quads hard in one mezzo but I
can't also do like shoulders and glutes
and hams hardbat mezzo too like I can do
like four or five hard body parts but
not eight right and then somebody else
could be like you know I can do two or
three body parts hard especially if
they're the big ones but not all eight
that would be crazy right
you basically just do as many as you can
and still hit local Emmer fees not
systemic iMovies for most of them in
every mezzo if you start getting in a
situation with that training than usual
number of muscle groups that you do and
of course the big ones count for more
than the little ones you can always fit
in or nearly always calves and forearms
and stuff like that but fitting in legs
is a bit of a tough call so put the big
body parts in there first and big muscle
groups the ones you want to Train how
many more of them you want to train on
top of that is is really watch your
performance if you start getting
systemic
reductions of performance towards the
end of your mesocycles when you're
trying to include a certain number of
muscle groups and then it's and you're
not hitting local em RVs then you you
getting into situation where you
probably need to reduce the amount of
muscle groups you're putting on the
front burner so to speak so put more
whom on maintenance one or two more and
keep the rest on MeV or MeV and MRV and
then you'll be good to go and how do how
do you tell if it's central limiting or
systemic limit versus local well a local
limit means you're probably gonna have a
lot of beginning to have a lot of
overlapping soreness and whether you
feel fundamentally okay but you're like
a local musculature it just feels like
it's total bullshit and a performance
really radically declines and you can
have some lifts that are going super
well some muscle groups and some other
groups that are going not so well at all
and that means the super well ones are
probably not armory and the ones they're
not going to twirl at all probably are
very close on the other hand systemic
limit is when you usually actively feel
very bad your desired train is gonna
fall off your sleep quality quantity
might fall off your appetite might fall
off your sex drive might do weird things
yeah psychologically you might feel sort
of like vulnerable or sort of unable to
cope with the realities of the world
like instead of coming into a leg
workout looking at the sheet you have to
do and be like yes fucking let's burn
the shit you can look at it be like like
you know you know how you get six weeks
into a leg method cycle we just look at
the volume you're like I'm gonna die
there's no way I'm gonna do this right
that stuff coupled with the fact that
none of your muscle groups are doing
well anymore like everything's in the
shitter at the same time because it's a
systemic effect if it's more of that and
and you're barely getting any pumps or
any soreness and your muscles because
you're too tired to train them like
imagine training biceps after ten sets
of deadlifts it doesn't matter how not
locally fatigued your biceps are you're
not gonna hit remotely close numbers
it's not gonna be like your muscles are
fried and something's fucked up it's
like you're gonna have trouble
activating them right to the fullest
ability so if that's the case you're
probably doing too much overall all you
need to take fewer muscle groups off of
the priority list but if all the muscle
groups are getting tortured and you're
performing super fine
in general and there's no systemic
effects then you don't need a prioritize
because you probably won't really
benefit from it James yeah so well I was
listening to you talk about that I kind
of was having this kind of Epiphany
where so if you are doing both of these
things
right you really don't have to be
playing around with the you know the
systemic versus local consideration so
much throughout most of the year because
the only time that's really gonna be a
big deal is when you're massing right
when you're cutting you're basically
gonna be trying to maintain everything
that you already have while doing BJJ
right so essentially you're gonna get a
little bit of everything it's gonna be
very symmetrical training for the most
part mostly the same answer with
maintenance the only time that differs
is when you are trying to do certain
body part emphasis during mass phase
right and so here's my kind of take on
that I don't disagree with Mike in any
way but I think for the average person
making a lot of these kind of
calculations in is needlessly tedious
right with what's the bottom line well
the bottom line is when you're on mass
phase you're judicious volume should
essentially go down to maintenance
volume so that you can actually mass
properly otherwise that Mike sort of
said this earlier you're just gonna be
spinning your wheels and getting fat
right so at that point if you're drew
Jitsu training is interfering with your
mass phase you have to be wondering like
what am I actually doing at this point I
should probably be considering taking my
jujitsu volume all the way down to
maintenance volume and just doing a
proper mass trying to do like a 50/50
mass is doable but I think is probably
just not a good use of your time and nor
is like trying to weigh out the systemic
versus local implications of the
training when you're trying to balance
the two different sports does that make
sense I feel like that's like for an
average person that's needlessly tedious
you know what I mean yeah I understand
and it's also gonna be like it's gonna
be pretty apparent so what I tell people
is like look just training your train
your whole body any video movie it'll be
pretty obvious when the ship doesn't
loosen that up anymore cuz you're gonna
be like look man I used to train much I
suppose 20 sets now I'm training with 10
and I'm super beat up at the end of week
4 everything's fucked up I feel a total
shit like man I just so sounds like
systemic why don't you try taking out a
couple muscle groups and seeing if you
can do it they take on a couple to put
them two at meanest volume in there oh
my god I just had the greatest cycle
ever like my sounds your systemic sounds
like you've got six average muscle
groups out of eight that you could train
that you can train just train six for
the next where however long you can at a
medium or V until that becomes a problem
if it ever does and then reassess yeah
something's pretty obvious if you know
what you're looking for yeah yeah
alright Aiden says hi Mike and James now
that I have nearly completed measure one
of my masts I am now needing to up the
frequency
in all upper body movements to four
times a week instead of three well still
keep in my lower body at three times a
week my split currently is three upper
lower sessions six days a week three up
and three lower D one chest focused 18
quad focus day three back focus D for
ham focused a five shoulder focus the
six crew focused dat tips on how to
organize my next mezzo with these new
frequencies should I arrange it to have
all to have full body six full body days
or should I keep the arrangement I
currently have but instead add on the
upper body movements to each of the new
lower body days so a couple things I
think if you want to go do some reading
sort of air columns has been writing a
lot about this recently splits are a
little bit they're cool to think about
but honestly the way you design
programming is to treat each muscle
relatively individually and dose it
accordingly and there's gonna be
interaction effects but those aren't
super terribly difficult to account for
and often can be accounted for by
exercise selection like if you have to
train back on the same day as legs and
leg work I really beats up your lower
back you can switch those back movements
on that day to movements like an or
cable machine etc or more vertical
pulling and less horizontal rowing and
stuff so with the adjustments like that
can basically pepper in everything you
need and it sort of falls into a
structure that is we're gonna be
effective and a part of the structures
you know getting the frequencies you
need another part is making sure to
space out to the frequencies
you know the actual sessions per muscle
group relatively well so you don't have
like chest Monday Tuesday Thursday
Thursday and then the rest of week snow
chest you might want to move it around
so that it's you know Monday Tuesday
Thursday Saturday or something like that
right and then how that falls out can be
pretty wonky and then the last thing
I'll say and I think James might have
more to say in this is you know you
might not need to up the frequency at
all upper body yeah yeah if you have
like a really good program that's really
suiting you well you you might not need
to radically change everything what you
might want to do is just you know pepper
in a little bit more upper body volume
on each one of the three days and it'll
largely accomplishes the same thing
so I think you know the three times a
week thing if you have an elegant plan
to move from three times to four times a
week I think it's good and if you have
the bandwidth it's great but sometimes
it'll fuck your shit up so much that
their program you're right is either
gonna be technically valid but it looks
weird which is cool that's
recommendation number one or you might
not even have to fuck with it and you
might not have to go to four days a week
and and that's that's kind of yeah so I
think what Mike was spot-on on that so
if you have a three times frequency
that's that's largely working for you
the goal is not necessarily to increase
it to four times frequency right the
goal is to like have some frequency
periodization throughout the year and
find things that work well the problem
that you run into now is going from
three to four on virtually everything
there's gonna have such amount there's
gonna be so much entropy from adding so
much frequency that it's gonna be very
hard to tell if what you're doing is
working because there could be problems
from a variety of different muscle
groups on a variety of different days
right so I think what's probably a
really good idea and Mike was kind of
already hinting at this is you have a
good three times program now maybe only
increase up to four times on a couple
maybe one or two muscles and just see
how it goes right I think that is gonna
be very very sustainable and if anything
goes wrong you'll be able to look back
and say like okay here's kind of where I
made a change and here's where things
started get fucked up right when you
have every muscle that goes up to four
times a week you're gonna have so much
overlap and so much systemic spillover
on a lot of different days it's gonna be
hard to figure out where those problems
are for you so I think a good idea would
be pick maybe one or two muscle groups
especially the easy ones like arms or
shoulders or something like that and go
up to four times and just see how that
worked and then you can make a note like
okay this work totally fine last last
time I did this I can actually build on
this the next time I go up to this
frequency periodization scheme right
instead of just trying to go like
all-or-nothing so that's that's what I
would do and I think like what Mike said
before also about treating each muscle
group kind of as its own thing is really
really important when you're making
these super super crazy
individualization type changes right so
there's not like a template that we can
give you for four times frequency
program just because everybody's going
to be so different it's hard to just
kind of call
but in two easy-to-follow templates so I
would say just try a couple see how it
goes and then keep doing that over the
course of the next several blocks years
etc and just keep making improvements as
you go boom mental Paul says hey Doc's
hope you're both good just a single
question
on the best way forward this time you
know I looked down and there's not a
single questions he I think he posted
last week in them this week also yeah
yeah ever since a strength block I got a
nagging shoulder I think it's sort of e
O'Hara pressing but not sure from
playing around with exercise selection
I've been able to train around on my
last three my fat loss blocks all good
so far I mean my dealer now is planning
and doing a three groupers sensitization
block for total four weeks on
maintenance and then to kick some ass an
extender mask block however the shoulder
is still nagging quite a bit less than
before but still there I was wondering
if doing a one or even two week active
wrestling better in the situation or
even one or two weeks off totally off
training thanks Paul well I don't think
that's necessary because your shoulder
is only involved in certain things and
if you literally pick movements which do
not involve it at all which might mean
that for several weeks you don't train
any pushing in your upper body or
something like that that's okay general
need to take the rest of your league
you're doing squats or whatever as long
as it doesn't shoulder leg process or
calf raises or hamstring curls that's
they can't do anything to your shoulder
and not doing them is barely gonna
increase the recovery rate of your
shoulder so I would say is peak
movements literally just don't hurt it
at all
forget overhead pressing exists and then
six months later after the memory of
pain is gone go back to it you'll
probably I've done that to dozens of
muscle groups and joints over the years
it works really well where I fuck myself
is like as soon as it starts to feel a
little better I get back into it or I
try to change my whole program to
accommodate there's bullshit it's shit
it's gonna happen to you it's gonna
happen to you me it's gonna happen to
your hip it's gonna happen your whole
career
use whatever exercises that still work
the area do not hurt it at all and if
none exist then it's time for you to
stop training that area at all right for
a while and then as soon as that runs
its course then you're back and slowly
easing to more more and more and it's
like it's never happened I've recovered
from God dozens of injuries
doing exactly that and not recovered
from dozens of other
doing not exactly that James yeah so
just to reiterate what Mike was saying
you're not real there's no incentive to
do active rest or off training in this
case if the goal is just to kind of make
sure your shoulder is still healing
really the issue is just doing things
that don't irritate it at this point and
whether you do you know a tree
sensitization style training or you take
active rests like as long as that is
being accommodated like you're just not
doing things that are you're doing
things that don't irritate your shoulder
that's the bigger issue here so there's
no incentive for you to do those things
one of two weeks off of training might
be good in the sense that you're not
gonna have any indirect work that's
affecting your shoulder even if it's
minimal but I would say there's no
strong case for for somebody to say like
you just take off for two weeks at this
point just keep doing what you know kind
of maintenance volume style training and
hopefully it'll get back and just take
overhead pressing and throw in the
garbage for now I don't I don't want to
say that it was definitely overhead
pressing but what I will tell you is
that in my experience overhead pressing
tends to either give people issues or
exacerbate previous issues with the
shoulders so all right and I've actually
had a couple clients recently email me
saying why don't we do any overhead
pressing work it seems so odd and I give
them that exact reasons just it's not a
good fatigue fitness payout in terms of
hypertrophy training
yeah the overhead press is fucking
stupid for expert retraining and this is
coming from you're fooling with what
I've been told is one of the greatest
overhead presses on earth I think I know
a certain strongman who might disagree
with that for sure I guess we're
relative to my weight I did do something
an overhead pressing this kind of
nonsense but but it you know it's a fun
exercise for me and I rely kit because
I'm really good at it that I gotta be
honest though boy did I learn a lot
about systemic fatigue and axial fatigue
my overhead processing especially
standing holy fuck it's a whole
different world and then I started doing
seeded and I was like this is so much
better for everything just as good for
the shoulders and triceps except doesn't
fuck me up nearly as much and then
recently I've just not doing it at all
and I've had the best development of my
triceps chest I've had ever so there you
go front delts are never a problem for
all right next question from metal Paul
is I've been uh I've got some questions
are MBT not a setup on a block this time
I've been tampering with a standard male
physique template based on the answers
in the webinar and it all worked out
awesome great number one first I was
wondering what the major differences
between the novice intermediate and the
advanced templates what about the MPT I
was suggested by the emini one my
current numbers it would be the advanced
one is it just the message here a bit
shorter instead of six to one then a
year to five to one shorter than Vance I
think so
one of the things also is the advanced
ones have a bit more volatility of the
muscle groups that is basically have a
slightly lower training frequency per
muscle group and there's more distinct
times of rest because advanced athletes
tend to mess themselves up a lot and
they need a little bit more rest between
training whereas the intermediates and
beginners generally speaking and can
train legs like back-to-back or every
other day and be totally fine whereas
advanced because they're stronger
because the bigger because they're joins
taking more of a toll because they have
a better in mind muscle connection of
the technique is better they could just
provide more overload straight forward
more stimulus and also that brings more
fatigue so it's got to have a bit more
of a judicious more of an attention to
the SRA principle in other words not a
huge difference but something that you
would notice on your train and and to be
honest Paul I think if you're if you're
thinking about like oh should I be
getting the advance template the fact
that you're individualizing the template
for yourself and it's already working
well means like you don't even need to
bother doing that like you have you have
one you've already applied like advanced
individualization strategies don't even
don't even think about the events
template ah number two do in advanced
folks due to an unexpected family outing
I'll be way in the fifth week of my
upcoming six to one reso I was thinking
of solving this by doing a five-to-one
meza depending on your answer to the
previous question and by cutting my
current reset civilization as a weak
shirt which will land the family out a
great deal week I'm just in doubt about
cutting the recessive ization short will
one week of dealer for my previous three
mouth fat loss block one week of the
volume
but our training there were week of
another dealer be enough to send me off
reproductive long term ass block maybe
not I would say what I would do is not
to cut your recessive ization weeks
short or phase short keep at the scene
and then just do a four to one paradigm
and then after four to one you'll be
back from that family outing like a
fucking bat out of hell and you could do
like a six to one or something like that
what I have found is that when my
accumulation 2d load ratio was a little
bit less than I thought it was gonna be
I just have excellent training when it's
a little more than I thought it would be
I have dogshit training so there express
right yeah that's the thing that there's
no bonus points for going seven eight
nine weeks you know like what if I told
you you could train that many weeks
without dealing I would take it and I
would leave it you know like if a genie
came out of a bottle said you could
train for nine weeks without needing a
dealer I'd be like you know that last
week's are fuckin garbage anyway so I
would say that just do a fucking awesome
gnarly four to one that last week in the
four to one fry yourself and you'll be
fucking golden man he'll make excellent
beans
I think that's a really good answer and
I also think to like there's not a huge
it just on that last note that you have
I thought that was an interesting point
I think there's kind of this like idea
that you should try and strive to make
your mezzos as long as humanly possible
right for no reason other than more
length is better right I think that
what's kind of just worth noting is it's
definitely worth seeking out strategies
if you are kind of stuck in a 2 2 1 2 3
days
ok perfect we're on the same wavelength
but once you get to like the 4 2 1 5 2 1
6 2 1 like it's probably mostly a wash
really what we just don't want to see is
like you spending 25% of the year doing
fatigue management right after that
you're pretty much good to go with
however whichever one you find yep
direct research after that says that
anything you basically don't lose any
muscle when you're dealing for a week
and any muscle you do lose comes back
instantly and the reap rhyming the
recess it ization effect which Cody Han
actually had a podcast was Steve Hall on
which was excellent the evidence for
that is mounting and has already been
around for a while
but the recent ization effect is so big
that it act the very least makes
up completely for the D load in a
charitably a321 and possibly even worse
paradigm so if you're doing for two ones
there's you're like I gotta get to five
two one
you're literally climbing a rope that's
going nowhere if you are doing two two
ones yeah you got some shit to think
about if you're doing three two ones you
probably could do a little tiny bit
better with four to one but I wouldn't
even put my professional reputation on
that statement I would say it's a decent
guess so four to one anything from 3 to
1 to 5 to 1 is golden honestly think
unless you're a beginner if you could
pull off a six to one or more regularly
you might not be training hard enough
than any one of those especially in the
Wrights that's the mistake I think
people make was they think that longer
is inherently better so they start so
conservatively that their end up what
they're doing is essentially like active
rest for a couple weeks and then they're
hitting you know at week three they're
hitting their actual accumulation phase
right that's the problem
it's a lot of downtime all right number
three the updating guides I personally
hip hop are great but the way to set up
your muscles got me a bit confused I'm
currently doing all the rep ranges into
each mezzo but emphasizing the 5 to 10
range of mezzo one 10 to 20,000 to 2013
mazda3 however I'm doing that differs
from the guide I've been changing
exercises so the number of exercises
stays the same across all mezzos I just
changed different ranges for the
exercises in hyper has where that volume
is an example back focus they in mezzo
one would consist of two exercise in the
5 to 10 range on one the 10 or 20 range
mezzo - it would be one of the 5 to 10
and 2 in the 10 to 20 the new guides and
I approached a few however and exercises
making the measures increase in the
number of exercises you do for each
muscle group in that system you not only
add volume by number of sets with a
mezzo but also add volume across muscles
by adding exercises themselves yes
that's because they're they add
frequency so that's the missing piece
there Jay I changed my m PT even more to
incorporate the system - huh good luck I
don't think that Microsoft Excel is I
mean you can manually re-engineer it
every single mezzo this so what we do in
our hypertrophic guides is to give you
the optimal and a lot of times optimal
training is needlessly complexity'
something like myself Charlie and Cara
do because we have no day job
if a pro bodybuilder asked how to train
it was exactly like this if you're not a
pro bodybuilder you could get 99 percent
95 percent of the benefit by not doing
any crazy shit like that I think the way
you're doing it is fucking totally great
just make sure that you're doing enough
volume to hit everything you need
between MeV MRV how you get to that
volume whether it's introducing new
exercises which has its advantages and
disadvantages or just doing more sets of
older exercises is a bit much more of a
nuance than individual point the big
thing we'll see what James thinks about
this the big reason that we introduced
so this is coming up in the book that
we're going to be publishing this year
and it's in the guides already with the
big reason we introduce new exercises as
the nozzles progress is it the question
of if you want to add more volume how
can you do it best in an increasingly
more fatigued constrained environment
like as you go block measure them as a
measurement of lock the fatigue goes up
the joint fatigue especially goes up
connective tissue so when someone says I
got an I do an average of 5 sets of
squats in measure 1 or started five sets
of quads we could say look you could a
low bar squat for five sets and be fine
in mezzo - maybe she switched the high
bar in a bit of front squat but look we
added two exercises right took one away
and then in the last measure maybe you
have to do a shown some total of 25 sets
of quads and I'm probably gonna throw in
some leg extensions and leg presses in
that mug because holy fuck 25 sets of
high bar squats and front squats will
kill you so it's one of those like what
is sustainable to add there's no magic
in the addition it's not even much for
variation variation occurs on a
completely different time scale entirely
like it that's multiple mezzos and then
you delete replace based on responses
the addition of new exercises as the
block progresses most of us a mezzo is
really just a way of adding volume by
choosing exercises that are not as
systemically and connective tissue
fatigue doesn't even mean they're the
best ones like I don't want to add pull
downs I want to add pull-ups but if I
add any more pull-ups my shoulder is
gonna dislocate for my fucking body so I
go for the next worst thing and add pull
downs because it's sustainable to keep
you plugging along in case you're
getting good gains and then I have to
recycle at the end anyway go back to
basics James yeah Oh excellent
and one thing Paul just to keep in mind
the reason why the hypertrophy guides
are different from the templates is
simply because of time and one of the
things that has happened
recently we've changed some of our
opinions based on the evidence about
like how much volume per muscle group
per session we're gonna use and what
just some evidence but more anecdote I
think on how many like sets per muscle
group are sex for exercise for any given
muscle group is reasonable and that's
why you see some of those exercises and
frequency related changes in the
hypertrophy guides that are not always
manifested in some of the templates so
we have changed some of our thoughts on
that based on more recent evidence and
that's just a factor of time that's all
nothing crazy yeah all right you're done
Sonya just fucking sweet name I would
bet he's like from Bulgaria or some shit
like that
you're allowed you let us know he says
hey guys two questions for you
what annoying and one fun JK both are
annoying number one how worried should
be very worried this is I'll answer this
the Jewish answer is very worried if you
have to ask you're not worried about be
afraid of everything be afraid of things
how worried should I be about
performance drop off as I progressed
through sets in an exercise and how
should I correct for it the way I
understand it is a performance scale
applies to all sets and I rate it on
average when trying to figure out if I
should add sense to the next session
cool right well so actually the
performance metric does apply to all
sets but if you're asking yourself the
question of okay in this week did I
perform at or above what I did last week
you only compare relevant sets so like
the first four sets last week I only did
four this week I did five you don't
compare the fifth set for this week to
last week because you got dicked to
compare to so you get the first four
sets for both weeks and in the next week
after you might have six sets to compare
but if you want to compare all three
weeks you have to just do four for four
that's one way of doing it another way
is just top top set the first set first
that if your first set fundamentally at
the reps you need it or above you're
performing right otherwise there's no
way to hit that now that happens a
little bit more over randomness some
people don't get their best reps on top
sets sometimes you have one great top
set and then you piss you know you piss
your pants so much on that one that all
the other ones go down like crazy and it
turns out that top set was really just
an emotional fluke and you really are
above your market right so we do
recommend comparing multiple sets to
multiple sets but only the relevant ones
here's the cool kicker as you go through
and do more and more more and more sets
the performance drops off more and more
but if you only compare relevant sets
you get roughly the same amount of
program roughly the same amount of
accumulated fatigue within each program
as you compare the sets another cool
thing is you could say okay what if I
have two exercises for a muscle group
like let's say I have squats and then
leg presses right if I do like three
sets of squats in this day and three
sets of light process on this day the
next session let's say two sessions down
I'm doing five and five it doesn't
fucking matter how well my squats go on
the five session one or in the five set
session that's two weeks away after five
total sets of squats my leg presses are
gonna have to take a hit like there's no
way I'm gonna be performing as well so
what you can do is for each muscle group
maybe the best way to measure MRV or
performance is taking the first exercise
of each session for that muscle group
because all the other ones are gonna be
a bit sort of soaked with fatigue and
it's kind of tough to tell
what is intra session fatigue and what
is cumulative fatigue which is really
what we want to know right but as long
as you're resting according to a
reasonable rubric like we present in the
muscle hypertrophy guides or assess time
rest as long as not resting like
one-minute some days and five minutes
other days set to set comparisons on a
first muscle group our first exercise
train for every muscle every week do a
really really good job James yeah and so
I was just gonna kind of comment on that
- it is good to use all the comparable
sets and it is good to also look at the
averages but one of the things that you
can run into if you're looking at
performance averages is there are some
like subtle nuances that could kind of
fall through the cracks the easiest
example being might have like four sets
and you're looking at you're comparing
the comparable sets from week to week
and you notice that the average is
pretty close on those but one of the
sets on week the second time you did it
you know is like in the toilet and that
would be something that would be easy to
overlook where you did the first time
you did it it was okay and in the second
week you did it you actually starting to
see performance drops towards the ends
which might be
kind of hinting like should probably cap
off that particular session at three
sets maybe see how that goes something
like that but for the most part yeah I
had another point but I also forgot it
as I was rambling there let me hit this
other point real quick and maybe you can
remember he's the second part of the
question is is one way to auto regulate
during the session better than the other
do I keep the same weight at lower reps
as performance drops off or doing lower
the weight and keep the reps the same
does it matter much it does it does
matter much a real simple way to look at
it is you have your loading targets like
what percent if your one arm acts a
certain exercises supposed to be as long
as it you keep the weight the same it
still hits the loading target the reps
take care themselves but the rule and
matters if something goes below five
reps per set but it's just not enough
hypertrophy for you to bother doing a
set so you should probably lower the
weight but in those cases if you start
something at like fifteen reps or ten
reps it's not going to drop below five
unless you didn't like eight sets of it
why don't you do that for a single
exercise so usually it's a self solving
problem if you do the cap work as long
as it's not below five reps you're good
to go
then let those sets drop as they will
but if you do have a set rep range which
could have for a variety of reasons then
you just have to say if I'm gonna let
the reps drop until they drop out of my
rep range that I want and then I'm glad
swear I was it alone yeah that's where I
was going to shit it doesn't matter much
so just say doesn't matter much it
doesn't it's not where you're getting
high-quality training which means you're
getting lots of great stimulus to
fatigue ratio reps per set any getting
good nine muscle connection like good
good technique if you're at a point
where like I'm doing sets of to invent
rows you're not getting any of that but
shit that's a total awful awful bullshit
and on the other hand if you're like
okay I did sets of eight I'm a bent row
instead of like I did nine before and
Maui doing doing eight like what does
that need like set to set and someone's
like are you still getting a great set
with eight wraps you're like oh my god
totally I could get a great set of six
and be like look I don't worry about it
just do a do seven months totally fine
you only have to change it when it drops
below a certain relatively objective
cutoff which we think five reps is
pretty close to that sort of answer yeah
and going back to the rep ranges Mike
and I have been advocates for it you
know just having gold rep ranges not
necessarily as a hard cutoff but as a
soft cut off almost always and that is
also a really good indicator of maybe
it's time to start using more exercises
in your session right so you might be
like okay
I have like ten sets of chests or
whatever that had to get through today
and around six sets of benchpress like
the fifth and sixth sets really start to
drop off in performance should I be
concerned about that or how should I
correct that well maybe you just don't
need to be doing more than four sets of
benchpress maybe it might be time to
consider using another chest movement in
that same session yeah that would be a
way that you could fix something like
that in the important part of that isn't
that your performance is down because as
long as it's about five reps you're
still fundamentally good on the
performance the question you have to ask
yourself is am I still getting quality
stimulus out of these sets like if
nothing short of eight reps gets you a
pump and you can't even feel the muscle
if you're so tired that it just feels
like you're accomplishing work man you
know probably don't drop below eight
reps but if you're dropping all the way
to six or upside incline barbell press
in each one of those reps is fucking you
in the ass fucking gold and let it drop
no big deal it's just when the technique
isn't right that - the connection
doesn't right the pump isn't what you're
looking for and so on and so forth
sometimes you even have trouble
targeting there kind of muscles James
you ever notice like if you have a
sufficiently light weight on flies you
can really feel your chest but if you go
too heavy you start just they were less
feeling your shoulder joint you're like
oh I'm doing here like that that's
totally a thing so pay attention to that
kind of stuff and make sure the quantity
is above a certain threshold like five
reps or whatever your rep range is and
the quality is there and use the quality
to adjust the quantity if needed but if
the quality's golden don't you don't
need to adjust shit just keep doing more
sets as needed and so just to kind of
reiterate so like we usually have that
like six reps is kind of like the hard
cutoff for anything but you can still
benefit from using the soft cutoff where
you say like okay I'm using this
particular movement in this session and
it's meant to be in the 10 to 20 range
right and once my sets really start
going below 10 that might be a soft
cutoff for yourself where you see like
either I need to do something else or
maybe you're just about done on this
particular thing for today and then I
just drop the drop the weight on it
right before you can these down sets or
something like that and that actually
tends to work really well just just you
know anecdotally so you don't have to
use like if you say like okay 10 to 20
or whatever you don't have to say like
10 is a hard cutoff but it's probably a
good soft cutoff where you should
consider doing something else
alright number two somebody asked Luke
Thomas on his live chat how does Kamara
Koosman a power athlete have such
tremendous cardio Luke Thomas said to
ask you guys huh
so basically how does someone train to
be jacked enough great cardio at the
same time oh you can think or curse look
for that one so you do a really quick
overview and then James will pick up the
pieces because this is really a
specialty area so the number one
requirement to be tomorrow's men is to
be Nigerian and the Nigerians are very
very special people everything you think
you're good at there's a Nigerian better
and probably better at everything that
you do including shit you can't do like
you know there's got to be like a
Nigerian world weightlifting champion
rocket scientists somewhere and by that
I mean there's like a hundred thousand
he's five and so who is also a GQ model
yeah it's just like nonsense right so
first of all don't compare yourself to
Nigerians that's a bad start to begin
with and you actually have a point other
than a rate racial supremacy theory in
favoring Nigerians there is a point
which is Nigerian or not some people
just have fucking unbelievable genetics
and you look at Camaros - a man he must
be training it Jack I'm anything for
sure he does that I don't know if he
doesn't have her training I'm suspect he
doesn't they're folks at my gym a
balance Studios who are incredibly
talented not offense level but but up
there and they're Pro fighters and they
straight-up don't lift weights until
it's camp and then they lift weights two
or three times a week during camp which
is for like eight weeks out of the
fucking year it's insane and they're a
fucking giant super strong and they give
me all kinds of problems in jujitsu so
like how the fuck I'm spending all these
goddamn years of every year training
with weights and these guys are almost
as strong as me if it's the same
genetics go really a long ways so what
you must have in order to be an
unbelievable power athlete will leave
Jack alone because cactus genetics and
have great cardio is you have to have
awesome more biased towards fast twitch
and the kind of connective tissue
arrangements and limb structures that
allow high velocity high for smoothness
to be produced right basically the big
one there is fiber type if you have
awesome fiber type you're well on your
way then you can ask how was an optimal
to train for good car deal with that
fiber type and a big realization is this
you
train the system well without fucking
the local musculature over which means
not a ton of long slow distance stuff
but a lot of full system work
sparring full body weight lifting type
movements calisthenics in which like
frog jumps and so on and so forth right
full body movements and athletic
movements which are done with quality
but relatively short time intervals are
back to back to back to get the systemic
cardio up really really high so you have
excellent blood volume very well
functioning lungs properly hypertrophied
heart so on and so forth your muscles
are not you're not getting on a cycle
ergometer and going for five hours to
convert yourself to completely type one
slow-twitch muscles you are still
training in a relatively explosive way
relatively is the big thing but you're
doing it with high volumes and
relatively short rests so that what ends
up resulting is you conserve more I
don't want to say most you conserve more
of your fast-twitch abilities than you
would otherwise but you're going through
so much systemic stimulus to cardio that
your systemic cardio isn't limiting you
and then the rest comes down to
intelligence and how you move your body
for example tomorrow someone's very
talented but if you like did a bunch of
jiu-jitsu was someone on the ground and
just wrenched everything all the time he
would gas and cramp like he wouldn't
fucking believe Nigerians are
unbelievable but they also cramp like
who was that guy he's also Nigerian
James who's the head super heavyweight
in the UFC who knocks everyone out were
like wow Francis and Conor
Nagato Medano is you know same stout
same stock right like unbelievable
genetics but the thing is like I'm
pretty sure he can run like half a mile
and then his quads just seize up on him
and he dies like that's how fast which
he is that's how cramping he is how do
you get around that is you really really
work on a systemic ability you don't
want to fuck with the local too much
because it'll make them slower and less
explosive you don't want to kill the
goose that lays the golden egg so
fundamentally that's kind of my answers
half great genetics train with
relatively high volumes and challenge
the athletes in ways that they are
genetically if the for more explosive
more fast which more specific but do
plenty of them and last one is lean
state lean and if you're lean you can be
unbelievably endurance without really
doing a whole lot of cardio or nearly as
much as you thought whereas if you have
a lot of excess fat
it man it's it always really impressed
me in a weird way how fat people can
have amazing cardio because they're
working as so much ROI
what the fuck is his name James right
Nelson right Nelson is some kind of gods
I don't know what this is he's terrible
for sure but like James consider like
how many five rounders he's had with
that body who else in the world could
take that body and I guarantee if Jon
Jones had that body he would quit after
round one I'm just kidding but like
seriously if that is unbelievable and so
don't be that don't don't have to jump
over those hurdles be as lean as you can
be and that's well on your way James
[Applause]
[Music]
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
yes so you know the obvious answer at
Mike already mentioned is that he has
fantastic genetics and another thing
that I think is worth noting that Mike
already pointed out is that he probably
doesn't train for hypertrophy at all I
would say maybe a little bit indirectly
but he doesn't go to the gym with the
explicit intent of training for making
himself more muscular let's just put it
that way most of these guys don't right
so here's the idea with with guys like
that in MMA training specifically it
tends to be kind of a one directional
relationship with the strength and the
cardio type stuff in that you can't take
someone who has weight let me rephrase
if you have somebody who has an
incredible baseline of cardio typically
they don't get really strong and checked
and you can still get them stronger
still make them more powerful but it's
just gonna be an uphill painful struggle
whereas the other direction if you have
somebody who is already just genetically
jacked or they've trained for a long
time in they're jacked you can make them
significantly more conditioned that is
the one sided relationship so you can
take somebody who already has a really
really big base of muscle mass and maybe
is more type 2 X characteristic in
nature and you can put him through the
ringer around the cardio they'll lose a
little bit of pep in their step but
they'll still be way above anyone else
at that point right that's the kind of
the idea with the kymaro huisman even if
he's doing dumb shit in training maybe
if he's even over emphasizing his
cardiovascular characteristics he has
such a nice cushion in his genetics that
even if he starts taking little
performance decrements in his power and
velocity he's still going to have more
than enough and now he's taking that
powerful muscle and just making it more
endurance through training and that is
something that you can do reasonably
right the reverse however is not true
you can't take someone who's essentially
like a marathon runner build and make
them hit as hard as a coma or Huisman it
just doesn't go that and he doesn't have
to be him but just hit as hard as
somebody who is just naturally big and
strong
not gonna work that way with training
genetics plays such a big role so the
idea here is you have somebody with a
lot of natural talent or maybe they've
worked really hard for to write you can
make that muscle more endurance it's
much harder to make the endurance muscle
bigger and more powerful it just doesn't
work as well so it's definitely doable a
combination of like high intensity
intermittent stuff and developing a lot
of work capacity so like I know their
mistake people will make with like MMA
or something like that and so they'll
say like oh I've got to just stick with
like only explosive stuff right well it
turns out you have to hold your hands up
for 25 minutes in a championship fight
and you also have to be punching that
whole time right so to say that like you
only do it intermittent hit style cardio
would also be a mistake because I would
argue that actually just holding your
guard position
grappling pummeling throwing strikes is
essentially continuous exercise whether
it's for 15 minutes or for 25 minutes
right so there is some component of kind
of what we would kind of call more
continuous type training whether it's
it's always intermittent because you're
moving around like this but I think only
doing intermittent hit style training
for the sake of conserving your type 2
characteristics could potentially be a
mistake and you see it a lot with guys
who get gasps their arms come down right
and then they start taking more hits to
the head because they just can't hold
their fucking arms up anymore because
they haven't trained the muscles to be
that endurance so that's really kind of
the gist of it it's a very one-sided
relationship in that regard if you have
somebody who's powerful you can make
them more endurance right and they'll
maintain and the thing is like even if
you see it usually I'm rambling I'm
sorry but even if you have somebody who
has a significant like turnover of the
intermediate fibers into a more type one
characteristic if you have them do a
proper taper right they're actually
going to actually revert a lot of that
back to their kind of baseline state
they might lose a little bit from the
training and along sturm sense but in
the short-term sense do a taper a lot of
that goes back and your cardio stays up
for a little while so it's a pretty good
trade-off if you have someone who's
powerful you have them do some good
cardio training don't maintain a lot of
that power and for the good tapering
program they won't have a whole lot of
loss and pep in their step and they'll
just as endurance so the baseline thing
here though is you're not come out lose
men don't worry about being Kumari
yeah all right Sean or a caller Ruben
actually uh these are relatively
straightforward cuz Sean's already got
the right idea so these will be super
quick hey guys hope you both have
amazing holidays here's to a great new
year
number one research says that sets of
five to ten likely producing low growth
systems of 2030 but in our three plus
approaching stimuli video Mike mentioned
that due to fatigue the fast twitch
fibers might not be as fully activated
during the last five reps of a 30 rep
set as they might be fresh during a set
of five if total overall muscle growth
is similar between the high and low rep
ranges and if the fast twitch fibers
aren't necessarily getting full growth
from a set of 30 like they might in a
set of five what's making up slash
filling up for all the equated growth in
a set of 30 is injustice lower
intermediate reach fibers growing a
national amount uh I would say growing a
massive amount we're growing much more
right thus lower intermediate fibers
almost almost certainly need more volume
total more reps pure more mechanical
work to have the same relative increase
in learning the same relative increases
true the same relative has an perceived
percent of their total ability to make
gains they just need more work right and
concomitant ly faster fibers and the
very fast fibers need to very little
work and overreach it very very quickly
and you can see this working with very
gifted athletes they're Mr V's suck but
you can't there's no point in making
them any higher because if you make them
higher they just convert to slow or
intermediate which and then they have
higher movies but nothing gets
accomplished or about the same gets
accomplished it's good it road to
nowhere so is it just the slower Tamiya
fibers growing a massive amount not
necessarily but it isn't growing more to
make up for it yes absolutely but
imagine how much you're slower fibers
get stimulated in a set of five I mean
it's literally like for like in our own
10 seconds or however long that takes
what about in a set of 30 oh my god it's
like six times that amount right that
fuckin adds up then you throw in sets of
20 and sets of 15 and so on and so forth
it turns out that you know there's a
very likely a spectrum of how much
fibers grow from how many how much how
much the forces are alliterations of
contraction and they yes the high rep
ranges very likely benefit the fibers
that are not slow and intermediate but
slower
than the fastest fibers and that
probably roughly evens out that idea for
which there is quite a lot of support
nowadays is a huge problem for the
effective raps concept which is a great
concept but should really be rephrased
like the proximity to failure concept or
the hard SATs concept the effective reps
are just counting them big problem there
is that unfortunately you know the
mechanisms are not similar the way this
controversy started is people said you
know you're fast twitch fibers are used
just as much in the last five reps of a
set of thirty as they are the last five
reps of a set of five and then a bunch
of research some of that order that
people just found in some new research
says that when lactate and other
metabolite levels increase in the muscle
as a whole the faster fibers are the
first to turn off they suck their
ability to clear metabolites blows do
you think it's ease up a new new fucking
hardly shit so when you're saying like
MN the last set no you know rep
twenty-five to thirty and my higher up
sets all fast which that's bullshit it's
just not great those fibers are fucking
gone by then and actually you're
essentially prioritizing low slower
intermedia fiber training in two ways by
training for higher ups one is you give
them enough volume finally for them to
be a real robust growth because the rep
number is higher and two you're
essentially like switching off the fast
twitch fibers at the end and the PI
fibers they have to pick all the slack
all the slower fibers into media fibers
so the answer is your suspicion is
exactly correct yeah yeah I got that
much tan on that one well this one he
definitely just answered his own
question I'm here super easy answer
regarding there are people plus directed
annotation video or Mike said it's
probably best for hypertrophy to stick
to one exercise variant for a while and
to not constantly switch exercises how
strict or lack thereof would technique
on a given exercise have to be before it
would be classified as too much
variation for example I love elevated
push-ups with handlebars I bring in my
gym bag at my own that's actually a
really great exercise I really like it's
you know if my old gym there were lines
on the floor and I'd literally line them
up based on the lines over time so it's
performing the exact same motor pattern
but at my encouraged gym there's no line
so I kind of just guess and I can even
tell based off a feel every time the
push ups feel different both with a
notation wise would this be too much
variation regards to rotation no
or does the motor pattern have to be
much more different for to cross the
novelty threshold right so it's or it's
a it's not really much of a threshold
there it's more or less just to spectrum
but I'll tell you this like it should
feel roughly the same week to week to
week roughly the same whether you're
good to go
another thing you do is like remember
how you put them uh like an easy one us
to reach your hand straight out in front
of you and point them straight and be
like okay this is straight I do this or
this is straight I move out thumb length
right or three inches or something so
don't just forget what you did last time
and randomly put them down but try to
have roughly the same every time and
you're totally fine another thing is set
to set even rep the rep on push ups you
can make many adjustments like if you do
two reps and years ago this is weight
you lied just bring them in a little bit
and keep doing your apps or after a
single set be like I was a little wide
that was a little narrow make the
adjustments and then your average pushup
over the average number sets is gonna be
exactly we need to be so I absolutely
wouldn't sweat this whatsoever just
don't be completely fucking insane and
do some wacky shit your Gold's still a
push-up yeah I totally agree I think
like just some common examples of when
you might consider it to be like enough
variation so taking your standard like
kind of 45-degree technique push-up with
the elbows and deliberately doing like a
90 degree pushup right that's like
distinctly different it's very similar
but different enough where the muscle
activation is gonna be different doing
sets of like deficit push-ups like with
the handlebars for like 10 to 20 versus
doing like a standard no deficit push-up
with the weighted vest for like six to
ten reps that's a big difference right
you've actually changed the range of
motion in the load characteristics
enough to jump it whole different rep
range that's enough change right those
are the things we're looking for like
not necessarily like it's my hand like
an inch this way or this you know today
or that's mostly kind of a wash over
time yeah I would say that like folks if
you're looking for a real practical
advice just a super real world no
bullshit a variation James correct me if
I'm wrong is a foot width or a hand
width at least yeah but if you're doing
two fingers here and two fingers that is
it different show maybe is it different
we're gonna check mark it different no
yeah so if you're off by finger width
here there it doesn't matter but if
you're like used to bench press like
this and not a bunch of us like that
yeah it's gonna be a difference so hand
position and foot position if it's a
width
with their hand with the part I think
you're in a meaningful for sure
meaningful variation and you can always
use your like the ghetto mev indicators
like if you're doing something that's
like a you're doing a push a different
push up variation and you're like I
don't know if I should treat this the
same as the other one I was doing using
the ghetto ma V indicators and say like
okay how many sets did it actually take
me to get like a little bit of a pump
right if it only took you three sets and
normally had to do six sets like that
was plenty of variation you did a great
job on that that's which doesn't feel
much different does it feel any
different those are good if you're like
man this feels the same is the same it's
not it's not in this case it's not
rocket science right all right thank you
too as always well you're welcome right
back James
Mendenhall says Happy Holidays would you
ever period as cardio from easy
steady-state easier state to higher
intensity intervals I've been dabbling
with some CrossFit and other activities
that require some fitness and mine is
definitely lacking so for hypertrophy I
would say no but for a variety of other
sports fuck yeah
absolutely yeah he says I'm thinking
that dr. James rugby days a relatively
jacked and fit is there is there a sweet
spot to making gains on multiple fronts
unfortunately the answer that's
absolutely not my definition there is no
sweet spot it's a spectrum and they said
also would there be benefitting using a
heart rate monitor and doing some zone
training James hit it yeah so it depends
on what your what you're going for right
so in rugby like rugby is in here like I
only bring up front because you brought
it up but like rugby is an inherently
intermittent cardio type sport riders
like sprint stop sprint stop spray so
it's an evil necessity yet to do that
it's not gonna there's no sweet spot
like Mike said there's if there's only
trade-offs right but usually what we
would do is we would period eyes like
you already alluded to where you might
have somebody doing more steady-state
cardio kind of in their off seasons or
in their general preparatory periods and
eventually transitioning into more long
intervals and then eventually high
intensity intervals that are similar to
whatever activity it is that you're
doing so for CrossFit it might be might
be a little bit more variable but you
could use kind of general as interval
training to enhance fitness for CrossFit
as well one of the times that we usually
recommend doing that is kind of in your
specific preparatory phases and so what
that would translate into this world is
like whenever you kind of make a switch
to more strength or into training or
more power and oriented training that's
a good time to start switching
over to interval training because it's
going to be a lot more similar to
whatever sport you're doing but also
similar to the lifting that you're doing
where you're doing more high force high
power output type stuff whereas like the
lower intensity stuff you can kind of do
it all the time if you want to but
probably the best time to do that is far
away from competitions just because it
tends to bring you into that more slow
twitch type state in terms of using
heart rate monitor stuff you can I think
that they're really the big peak the
people who benefit from a heart rate
monitor stuff the most are endurance
athletes right I think for intermittent
athletes using my velocity zones power
zones things like that are probably a
better bang for your buck because it's
more indicative of what you're going to
be doing on your competition for
CrossFit I'm not entirely sure I don't
know if I have a strong opinion on that
I don't think a heart rate monitor is
necessary I think using the relative
effort of whatever you're doing is
probably just fine but you could do it
you could do it I don't I would say like
a side benefit but not necessary kind of
thing yeah especially because like the
intermittent stuff but it's hard to use
the heart rate because it tends to like
waver so much and then you kind of have
to look at like averages and stuff like
that and you have to chop the data to
exclude like the warm-up periods and the
first kind of few intervals cuz it's
still climbing up eventually it'll get
to like a steady-state interval state
where your heart rates not really going
much higher or lower than a certain spot
and you can kind of look at that but it
gets more tedious next question also if
over a few months some cardio gains do
take place can they be maintained with
less volumes in similar fashion how you
put on muscle groups I mean it's
absolutely mmm getting the shape is way
harder than being in shape so let me
just like reiterate something that Chad
always talks about strength as being a
skill right in terms of like your
ability to express your force in certain
movements like in powerlifting the same
applies here so like your general
cardiovascular fitness will remain
intact as long as you hit like a pretty
rudimentary maintenance volume but that
doesn't mean that you will be able to
perform like hit training necessarily
right because you have to kind of be in
that zone of training to really maintain
something that's that specific so what
that means is is you could if you did
like some hit a couple blocks of hit
training you get really good at and
that's that's awesome
if you transitioned out of that and then
we're basically just hitting some
maintenance volume runs
your intrinsic cardio would probably
remain largely the same but your ability
to immediately switch back after taking
a month or two off of doing hit and
going back into hit you're gonna run
into a first rough couple weeks because
a lot of the local factors have adjusted
at that time so just keep in mind like
if you haven't low bar squat it for a
long time the first time you get back to
low bar squatting fucking sucks you need
a few weeks to get kind of back into
your groove same idea the intrinsic
ability of the muscle in this case like
your central systems remains intact but
you have to be able to express it
contextually and that sometimes takes a
little bit of time yep yep yep yep yep
yep all right hold on a sec boom
actually still same person still James
Mendenhall with a question on protein
intake if - and grams approaching days
the goal can 150 grams of it be from
meat and assume the rest that covered by
the miscellaneous amounts of fruits
veggies potato pasta etc I have recently
found a chickpea based pasta that was
actually oh my god I was I was at the
store today and I saw the chickpea pasta
and I looked at Melos like Jesus this
pastas like all protein and fiber yeah
30 guys approaching 40 ounces and bagels
in general tend to have 8 to 10 so like
depends on our technic where you want to
get for most people yes that's
absolutely fine if you want to get real
fine-tuned then I would only count that
protein as roughly half of its protein
count the rest of us carbs essentially
because it doesn't convert to anything
meaningful protein wise your body and
just gets burned off for energy so yeah
and it's hard to argue against like
eating like fruits grains and veggies
and you know it's like those are things
you should be eating and for I think for
the average Joe like you could probably
just count that and just call it a day
and not worry about it too much but if
you're like your serious athlete then
maybe think about a little more yeah all
right Adam says I'm doing my first deal
at week at the moment and I noticed
there's a drop in volume in relative
intensity which is pretty standard for a
dealer but there's also a massive drop
in absolute intensity too so I'm
dropping all three is not unusual in a
deal owed and depends on how the person
programming wants to interpret or use
the tools in the dealer but for example
last weekend - della cisterna kilograms
for 10 reps a 3r er this week it's 90
kilograms for five reps that's like 35%
of
for five reps personally in a deal and I
find if I reduce the absolute or too
much it effects strength in the
following week I'm wondering what the
reasoning is behind this most of the
weights are equal or less than the
initial warm-up sets so that in the
first part of the week your weights are
getting pretty heavy in the last part of
the week they're gonna be much lighter
I'll say that and I says probably makes
even makes even less sense with a
smaller muscle group since fatigue is
pretty low like a 50% rep and low drop
and curls is that necessary so actually
it's not even necessary to deal it you
can take an entire week off and get most
of the benefits the primary benefits you
get from continuing to Train is that
very very light very low intensity
training tends to run blood through the
muscle will make you move around a
little bit more and probably enhance its
healing and its adaptation so that it
actually drops even more fatigue than if
you took time off also it keeps some of
the motor patterns in check so that
you're not like new as a bird to lifting
when you come back that being said the
heaviness of the weight with one week
absolutely does not affect the
preparedness of the lifter in most cases
so if you took an entire week off of
lifting you almost always come back
stronger not weaker sometimes
individuals who don't have very well
established technique especially with
the heavy lifts experienced a strength
drop because they get out of the mode of
being able to do heavy heavy technique
and they sort of just get unused to
lifting heavy weights that is not the
same thing as losing an inherent
capacity to be very strong also in week
one of your next lesson coming back it's
okay to be a little weaker because you
should catch us up super super fast if
you continue to lift very heavy during
the D load especially the connective
tissue degradation and prevention of
healing is so massive that it's going to
be a strategy that lets you feel your
swag a little bit more every mezzo and
never really drop at all but remember
you catch up everything every one of
that drop catches up a problem
and it's gonna slowly but surely degrade
your ability to recover connective
tissue eyes and eventually you're just
gonna be hurt so we need absolutely
stand behind making D loads very very
very very easy and we become so easy
that we even have trouble defending why
not just take a week off someone says
why not just take a week off we have
very good but reminder reasons for it
I'll put you this way much more simply
if someone said to us listen your D load
reduces things by 35% on average or to
35% would have a better off at do any 5%
I'm not gonna be favorite rappers not 5%
dealer which means almost nothing or
what I'd be better off doing 85% I would
say James and I given that gun to the
head choice of 5% there's 85 all volume
intensity so on so forth and D load we
choose 5 every single time because 85 is
just gonna not be a D load it's just
like oh here's shittier training that
still keeps you fatigued so James yeah
and not to mention that like 35% will
conserve more Fitness than 5% but only
by a you know a margin at that point you
know I'm just looking at this question
and I find it interesting that he used
this example and I think you'll see
where I'm going with this mic but he
didn't mention any other lifts except
for the deadlift and I'm looking at this
and deadlift 200 kilograms times 10 reps
at 3 iri are uh call me that might just
take two weeks to recover from right you
might be just like in your first week
back after the deed load you're still
not quite right yet so that is a very
not noticing that exact same trend on
your other lifts I would say first off
like that that's that's that's a hearty
lift right 10 reps to 200 kg at that
level of relative intensity that might
be a 2 week recovery timeline on that
one and that might just be something you
have to work out a little bit in your
programming a little bit if you saw
everything going like if you felt weak
on everything and the weeks after your D
load and the week after your D load I
would be a little more suspicious but
since you used that example specifically
I'm kind of leaning towards like you
just might need a little more recovery
time on the deadlift at that point yeah
and Adam some people need a higher
intensity conserve adaptations but those
people are our number by people who need
less 9 to 1
so before you suspect you need to do a
heavier D load you can absolutely make
it a little bit heavier play with
lighter and see if a couple of medals
and you don't like it better
absolutely Magnus says asks rather in a
structure of doing three men cycles of
massing followed by a mile cycle of
cutting followed by three mile
psychosomatic etc where rayna's faces
fit best are they needed after every
phase ends or just after one of them and
what are the range of weeks and Weena's
faces should ideally last and think at
summer in their 35 weeks you have three
to five weeks sounds really good
it really even 2:00 to 4:00 and as far
as where the maintenance phases fit in
best well you know you probably need
like no maintenance after the first one
of these things and now for the second
one you've accumulated quite a bit of
fatigue you might need two to four weeks
of maintenance and then after the third
one of these things you might need you
know three to five weeks and maintenance
with the last two of those being active
rest and you could restart the cycle if
you want much more detail on that our
mini cut manual book actually gives
explicitly into what these ratios can be
and it outlines the theoretical basis of
why they should be like that so it's
something good to pick up and then if
you don't have enough justification on
the the physiological side of things you
can always look at the psychological
side of things and just say like when do
I need this break I've been massing for
fucking three mezzos and I feel like dog
shit am I gonna go into a cut after this
probably not I'm gonna take a man's meso
and just relax for a little bit that's a
perfectly fine justification and it
doesn't interfere with anything that
you're doing yeah that's great
Connor Gans says hey dots I just joined
RP thanks to your YouTube webinars
awesome erm welcome
I love the content you guys have truly
transforming where you think you know
fitness and bodybuilding I love learning
some lectures on gear are great fun gear
just goes right into that one anyway I
had a few questions do we have lectures
on that or maybe we're just maybe you
just know that word is just throwing us
off maybe man oh yeah anyway I had a few
questions about my current IT situation
I'm currently doing a mini cut and I'm
James Minicon kind of an inside joke
here at our people asses James when we
first published the mini cut manual
before we probably make a manual had a
trillion mini cut questions after we
made a free article about mini cuts and
made a YouTube video people like matter
guard said there's everyone questions
will be how many cuts then we published
the mini cut manual and I essentially
answered 99 of all questions but for
like two weeks after we published it we
just got more questions about minutes so
James was like are you serious but then
they really taper it off and there's
nothing wrong with make up question was
just really funny just uh good inside
joke at this point I'm currently doing
mini cut and I've had a great success of
them down about 2% per week and still
feel great and hitting the weights I'm
supposed to hit upon five weeks total my
volume is at my usual estimated MeV for
massing maybe slightly above
right and I'm using the same movements I
use fire for mass prior so if anyone if
so if anyone sees issues please let me
know should I begin massing again
immediately after the mini cut ends or
take a small maintenance to avoid any
excess fat game I wouldn't worry about
excess packing after this mini cut so
you can't go right into massing but if
you feel like really really fatigued and
really beat up you can take a week of
extra week up deal interactive rest and
then start amassing a so good fine and
he says I also should I go through are
all the way to 1 to 0 no mini cut or
stay towards to I are we're thinking is
there's no point to over each animal
cycle since calories are really low in
injury risk is high I once and risk is
very high I think that your re are just
by attempting to match your performance
you will get to 1 to 0 are yeah it's
just it's like MRV comes to you instead
of the other way around so I think it's
totally fine to get a 1 0 R as long as
it's a good technique no big deal but if
your mini cut comes to an end
chronologically like the five weeks are
up but you still haven't hit 1 or 0
you're still a two-hour fuck it stop and
you're good to go
so I think going to 1 as your arse
probably still have a fine idea for mini
cutting because if you don't go to 2 if
you go to IR the entire time you might
have to start taking weights off the bar
cutting off reps which you know it's an
interesting pathway to go on because it
essentially makes your MRV calculations
obsolete and then you don't really know
how much training is good training so I
would still go all the way up to 1 or 0
all right on that case yeah I agree and
I'm just kind of clinging on to this one
sentence that he'd mentioned i'm and i'm
using the same movements they used for
my four-month mass prior I think for the
mini cut that's fine but you know 4
months of this you know going on five
months of the same movements when you
whatever you end up doing next I think
will be a definite time to for some
strategic variation and maybe you're
still getting a lot out of some of the
movements that you're using but I would
say around that time is when I would
maybe proactively start using some
variation in those movements especially
during your when you if you end up
switching to mass then you can also reap
the benefit of using the variation
switch and then having a slightly lower
MeV at the start you know some some good
reasons to do that but other than that
seems seems good to me you
good catch James Stephanie Mills comes
to us with a fucking massive problem hi
guys
I recently used an FF mi fat free mass
index calculator with this 31 year old
female 5 foot 6 158 pounds 23 percent
body fat and came for the gender
adjusted value of 24 point two which
seems exceedingly high from an actual
reality okay I would say if you get
aired anywhere it's on the percent body
fat estimate but that's where most
people hear so if it seems exceedingly
high for actual reality that might be
where to look I don't think you missed
your age and height
[Laughter]
I've been training seriously for only
about 4 years 3 plus years prior years
non serious less shitty training gained
20 pounds total during this time but I
don't have a particularly great physique
subjective judgement irrelevant to FF a
mine have you note and I don't put up
impressive numbers also irrelevant
improvement is quite slow but not but
non non zero oh sorry
improvement is quite slow but nonzero I
feel like I should have plenty of gains
ahead of me but if I knew for sure that
I didn't I probably switch to a more
flexible and recreational style if he
can spend more time on other sports and
physical hobbies how much time should I
put in this calculator the first answer
is not much and you can look up Greg
knuckles as a great article about the
FFM I just type in Greg knuckles fmi and
he takes about half a book-length to
shit all over that and then I would
strain for another year and try a really
best to put on more muscle it get your
sleep right your training right you diet
right and and look back after the year
and be like how's it going you might
look back after another year be like
goddamn like I've been fucking kicking
ass like I'm Way more Jack this is great
and then you'll still do it after if
after a year really good trying now that
you're you know gonna be five years into
training if if there was also really
underwhelming as long as getting
everything pretty well let me assure
it's it's quite optional for you to go
and switch other sports or physical
hobbies but I would definitely say the
ffs am I you know
the 24.2 is that hi char is that knows
could you naturally achieve FM eyes up
higher than 25 absolutely you might just
be a genetic freak right and also if you
say you don't have a particularly great
physique the FFM eye is telling you
something that's literally the opposite
right so it's tough to square those two
but you might not think you ever
impressive physique what other people
might think you have an impressive
physique and another thing you might be
able to do is try to get leaner and see
how you look and then then mass back up
and see if you get much bigger and
stronger um you might not be impressed
with what you look like now you might be
losing a passion for getting more jacked
a little bit but at 23 percent fat like
look you're female right go down to 12
to 15 and you might feel like oh my fuck
I have abs I'm ripped to shreds look at
my quads oh but I want the grid's and
you'll have another two years of massing
and you're causing a that much bigger
and they'll be fucking about the whole
process so I think sometimes it's tough
to I think one of the reasons people do
mini cuts and real cuts isn't even
sometimes to put on more muscle feel
that is a small side benefit I think a
lot of times for the sole James you know
what I'm talking about like oh you've
been not lean for so long you don't even
know I'm hypothetically adding muscle
but like I don't know where the fuck
that I don't see any of it and then you
do a cotton you're like ooh I'm fucking
massive underneath all the shit and it
really I grew a new vein in my shoulder
where did that come from yeah totally
you know I think um Mike and I when
people say like I've been training hard
and not getting great results I think we
tend to steal man people maybe just
because we came from strength
conditioning background where people are
used to working really hard but
unfortunately and I'm gonna sound like
an asshole but I think Mike knows where
I'm going with this it tends to be the
kind of the opposite where people will
say like I'm training really hard but
the reality is is that they're not
training really hard they just don't
realize it yet so what I would say is
what you might be you might be having
underwhelming results because you're
training under whelmingly and don't take
that as an insult it just might be the
reality so I think what Mike's that's
really good train harder than you
thought you could have ever trained for
like a year and see what happens like if
you don't see massive changes like you
know tangible changes either in terms of
like how you subjectively look at
yourself or even you could do like body
circumference measures and stuff like
that or you could use the
my my again if you want if you don't see
a tangible thing to hang on to
then I love your so you answered the
question yourself should I pursue other
sports or physical hobbies yes
absolutely there's no shame in that
especially if those things are fun and
life enriching for you and spending you
know six days in the gym for two hours
at a time is not and you fucking hate it
right like who cares do what you love at
that point I just have fun with it
there's no point in slaving away yeah
great stuff alright that's it for our
our pre-canned questions yep and should
I share the screen yes please let's see
what funny things show up on your your
YouTube suggestions oh good looking good
Hey look it's a Greg cassette yeah and
wim HOF oh sweet where oh that's right
and dude there was a period of like a
six months where everyone in jiu-jitsu
asked me about wim HOF and I'm gonna
fuck out of my face I didn't make that
they're also like don't you know Jim HOF
like a damn in yo the real half yeah
let's see what else we got we got looks
like GSP own Joe Rogan I saw Layne
Norman on their banks algorithm for
Rasta hobby yeah we got some good stuff
skinniest I've been in 20 years the RPO
app that was a good one where is this
let's scroll down a little bit there you
go oh damn that's what's up I don't even
fucking off Brandon Campbell down and
who the fuck is that that's great she's
got a check mark he's legit it's awesome
that's fucking awesome I don't know
fucking check work alright so let's get
some of these going I saw a couple
earlier
this is a funny one I looked up what any
Hall looked like during a strongman days
body goals tbh well look at look at his
uh his profile pic there yeah not on the
obstruct yeah you gotta be fatter
definitely strongman looking guy yep
alright let is and go to this when I put
this one up is very interesting
hey doctors I have been so this is by
slower weaker and more stupid excellent
training boy looks like a cat and sadly
no tube or something
dear doctors I have been physically
inactive since I finished high school
starting strength training at the age of
thirty that was two years ago December
2017 to be exact uh once I got in the
habit of working out again I was afraid
to fall out of it habit and go back to
my sedentary self so I never took any
days off ever was stupid mmm not great
that was following Jeff difference
pushing for legs routine doing heavy
comp on six days a week I'm doing trap
smack and abs on the weekend whoo well
I'm one of the base because six days a
week does fill into the weekend I
recently went on a diet in which I went
from 176 pounds to 164 pounds in a span
of two months I have a five eleven man
okay don't gender yourself I'm just
givin yeah unfortunately during the
dieting phase I started racking up all
kinds of minor injuries welcome to
dieting I'm to training every day
without yes now I can't bench press or
even do push-ups any okay let me assist
I can't budge for us and do push-ups
anymore without my ACK hurting I also
developed nagging pain at my elbow
tingling sensation shooting down my
lumbar spine all the way down to my left
heel that is to go see doctor time I
will say that right now and it's like
also immediate active rest time you need
to you need to chill out a minute it
hurts what I want for too long recently
had some x-rays done to my spine which
revealed to have relatively near l5 s1
disk space in straightened lumbar curve
with subtle lumbar scoliosis convex to
the right I have no idea what that means
it means that I just didn't find
anything actually wrong with you so you
might be there's potential that you
could recover just by training or
intelligently not needing anything crazy
like total time off or surgery or
something like that real quick before we
get to the meat potatoes of his question
I would like to illustrate something as
I am
you guys know James and I fell long
enough were obsessed with intellectual
examples of major themes that really
stand out here's one this individual
could have been commenting on YouTube
about how he's training for two fucking
years with no days off and you don't
fucking need days off and he's never
been hurt two months ago and he would
have been completely correct about
himself and then one tiny eight-week
fucking diet breaks him into 50 fucking
pieces so before you ever take someone's
you know advice my advice James advice
as just well this is what I do and it
works you could be one fucking second
away from total disaster because of what
you were doing so I'm body butters say
well I do this and it works for me like
all right and then tomorrow you're
fucking glenohumeral joint pops off in
it somebody tells you it's because of
the way you've been doing stuff you guys
feel what I'm saying so oh yeah respect
the process respect the process and
don't put too much stock into it well if
it ain't what does that determine if it
ain't broke don't don't fix it if it
ain't broke you might be able to make it
better so that never fucking breaks that
would be awesome right yeah all right
but on to this nothing I was just I mean
like there are there is some credence to
that notion and in some cases but this
is definitely not not to that case yes
there's definitely credence to if it's
been working it's good but don't think
it's perfect and don't take yourself too
fucking seriously because you could be
doing everything wrong in spite of
herself and have no idea right so I
think that his next comment here kind of
should shed some light on why this is
happening he says continues on I do have
a history of addiction of my family and
have been an addict myself in the past
and I think I might be addicted to
working out if that's even a thing it
sure as a thing it's it's even listed in
the DSM 4 it's an exercise dependency
yeah have you ever dealt with something
similar workout addiction I'm not even
sure what kind of advice I'm looking for
but I just thought I would write it out
as Heath you guys have anything to say
in regards yeah um so it can you can
definitely fall into addictive behavior
tendencies with exercise and I think I
actually found myself in a similar spot
a long time ago with that and then
luckily I was able to set my mind right
but I think the reason what this these
kind of things just came full circle
right where you are worried about
falling into old habits you are getting
like a very positive sensation with
exercise
and it's enriching your life in many
ways so you don't want to let it go but
now you're running into the problem of
I'm doing so much that I'm starting to
rack up all these injuries and I don't
not really sure what to do right well
the immediate answer to what to do is to
see a doctor of course that's their
blanket statement but you need to take a
little bit of time off right probably at
least a D load I would say probably some
active rest so that you can heal up some
of these injuries and then get back to
normal training to say that like you
haven't taken a day off in so many years
really is an indicator that your fatigue
management strategies are very very poor
right so if you who or my client or
somebody if you were to ask me I would
say knock that off first of all take at
least one day off start thinking about
how you can structure some fatigue
management stuff like D loads REE
sensitization faces into your training
and that will go a long way in
mitigating a lot of these little uh I
can't think of the word these little
injuries that you're getting over time
and this these are just overuse injuries
right that just come up as soon as like
one thing goes wrong as soon as you
started that diet you're a little more
catabolic than normal boom all these
injuries pop up so that would be the
first thing and it's gonna be difficult
to step away right and so it might be
good to seek out a specialist or a
therapist that can help you do that
because when you back off of training
you're going to feel like oh man I'm
gonna fall back into the spiral I feel
shitty about it right so I would say
it's gonna be tough maybe seek out a
therapist or somebody who can help you
but it's got to happen one way or
another yeah yeah and interesting sort
of like a way to get a little bit around
some of that is you can have
intentionally easier days so just still
get to go to the gym and still get to
check mark the fact that you're training
you don't spill your guts and use really
easy exercises and use really submaximal
training so that you end up programming
some easier training even Doody loads
like that to look you couldn't literally
go to the gym every day of addi load but
do such easy training that your body's
like that we're healed and then you want
to run into a super problems so a lot of
times with Jared feather
used to be way more addictive than
exercising he is now anybody's trained
so hard for so long he's not addicted
that he used to just not be able to take
a day off and he came to me once but I
was still his professor and he was like
dude I'm a fucking problem I can't take
days off and I was a galley you should
not up and try it but also if you can't
you just go
and do real real easy shit and the check
mark the fact that she went to the gym
and for him just going to gym and
getting some kind of movement going was
a huge psychological benefit that for a
while he really did rely on that and
it's saved I guarantee you maybe saved
his career yeah and at that point too
you might you might pick up another
hobby right you might pick up like rec
league soccer or something like that
where you can do something else right um
it doesn't have to always be going to
the gym and spilling your guts yep
alright alright alright next person up
is this guy one n v4l one dear fucking
in cell in cell wakes it's like in valid
invalid name oh yeah your honor I'm the
in cell I speak that internet that you
do man that's like 4chan Pepe the Frog
language alright thanks for the great
content I was wondering fuck really
quick kid lead an explained to me is he
had a portal into these things he's been
on the dark side of the inter for sure
he tried to explain to me what the
pro-trump Magga anime memes were
remember the anime girls with like tanks
and they were like pro-trump
he really just tried his best to explain
it to me and I was just like what ever
loving fuck are you talking about it was
like sort of Nazi ish like Japanese
girls and tanks like oh my god we love
trumpet I was like what the fuck does
have to do with anything people opposed
these as replies like intellectual
arguments for or against trumpet I was
just like back off more stop looking at
girls and tanks jackoff to them you get
over them and you get on a policy ah
virtually all of the alt-right memes
just going right over my head I don't
get I'd like I didn't I didn't get Pepe
the Frog I don't get the tank girls
ready for this one all left memes do
don't go anywhere because they don't
make any because they're not funny
people because they're lifeless assholes
yeah - no sense of humor makes jokes
Harvard too busy with their call out
bullshit Potter percent alright anyway
sorry invalid username
let's get your excellent question going
thanks for therein content you bet I was
wondering during back training is it
worth use wrist straps on movements such
as pull-ups bent rows lat pull-downs etc
I've never used them before my theory is
that it might improve the my muscle
connection a bit maybe
besides the point of back when was the
start at the backs of forearms grips are
limiting factor AHA hindering me from
getting one to two reps or more back
training would have improved by using
wrist straps thoughts of the matter if
any of you strip the wrist wraps do
accurate recommendations look like first
grips Cobra is popular so yes fuck yeah
dude yeah yes James and I have tons of
clients I don't train clients anymore
much game still does we don't recommend
straps unless they need them so if they
say look I think my grip is giving out
before any the stuff happens for sure
straps but wait for a lot of folks
especially um you know like older women
and stuff their grip strength is
actually stronger than the compound
strength a lot of time so it's really
not an issue right but for a lot of
people especially as you're back in and
various other muscle groups get really
strong then your grip starts to be a
limiting factor and then straps are huge
huge huge I use I'm so fucking lame are
you straps on pull downs but I can get
dude I could get more reps on fucking
pull downs man like it's not even good
like whatever are I are I think I have
enough straps just doesn't exist not
it's not to mention like on the
subsequent sets that's where like the
the big benefit is right it's like you
can get more on the first set for sure
but it's not usually the second and
third sets and now that arms are like
fuck that yeah so straps are great and
you know when you need them when your
forms start to give out before your back
does and first the grips are the
god-king of wrist straps they're the
best of the fucking world
if you buy a pair of looser grips I
would just go pro if you 35 bucks more
versatile grips Pro get the right size
you're gonna feel connected to the bar
in a way you never thought was possible
folks I'm not paid my first scripts to
say this I actually approached them I
was like I have a big Instagram
following you guys wanna me it's like I
won't take any money I just want to
blast you guys and they're like we don't
do sponsors and I was like well okay I
feel sad but I walk you office dr. Mike
try our new product verse a cock wrap it
around your ear and see what happens
yeah exactly one guy was like what you'd
really love is to go fuck yourself and
get out of here now what Jesus Christ
- shit but I was still fangirling cuz
damn Bursa grips are the shit trial oh
and one other thing on the Strand this
is what we're saying the same thing at
this point but one thing you can that
with the back training in particular I
think it does improve my muscle
connection and especially like I've
noticed this came up either last time we
did a webinar maybe the time before when
they like Chin's - - chest came up for
me that's something that just doesn't
happen without straps right that just
will not happen so it allows me to
execute a technique which is slightly
harder which is generally better for the
training so I think it's a really good
move yeah dude I don't know why I'm
getting recommendations from these
fucking weird YouTube channels of like I
ate everything I wanted for a week and
then we try the carnivore diet for 30
days and then like other you fucking
other videos of like we did we tried
vegan for 30 days I get fucked yeah
sorry I'm sure buff dudes is a fine
channel but I some shit for it's the
same as like with your um you know like
on your your like your newsfeed on your
phone like it'll be like you're like I'm
kind of interested in Fitness but I
don't want Fitness spam and it'll be
like these three things improve your
bench press you know I I don't want to
see these things yeah but like I am
interested in fitness hey look this guy
made a video in his kitchen about Greg
Doucet and Mike dr. Mike debate and his
his topic there is quit being so damn
sensitive but the reason he made it was
cuz he thought I'd I bullied old Greg on
there and made him look stupid so I just
think that's really funny chase irons
yeah he said a lot of things that also
made no sense but that's neither here
nor there mr. irons but thank you for
the video all right where was he I saw
okay Chris Bickley says once again I
love to contact you guys and gals in our
p provide how do you feel about our know
gals at Rp how do you feel about slow
centuries three or four seconds if
that's the trainer's preferred method of
training I have recently started doing
three to four second eccentrics with a
one second con centric there's really
helped dial in for me get a mind muscle
connection so it's actually really good
for those two speeds
I love this way and it's also good for
one more thing just variation but we'll
get to that a sec I love this way of
training what was wondering if I should
uh if I should in time speed up these
Centrex to get the full benefits
obviously not three times much weight
but feeling the muscle working a lot
more or less waiting slowing down thanks
so assuming you're going for hypertrophy
not strength for strength for sure you
should speed up your Centrex for
hypertrophy up to three ish maybe even
longer eccentrics is totally fine and
roughly is same hypertrophy and if it
helps you get a better mind muscle
connection and if an OPS really dial in
your technique that means you might
experience less chronic injury and wear
and tear with the same I per trip so
it's really really good it's not
mandatory because not everyone is some
exercises you just don't get the same
thing out of a slow eccentric like you
know like pull downs like we can do a
fast eccentric and feel everything just
fine pull downs are mostly about the
concept Rick anyway right but like
squats you might have a really benefit
like pressing on so forth what I would
say is don't take it much beyond
four-second eccentric because then
you're taking so much weight off the bar
and you're tiring out some of the other
structures just staying erect for that
long
got it correct that it ends up being
that other things are limiting one thing
you might have noticed it for example
like if you really really slowly centric
for like biceps or something like six
second eccentric you start getting
cardiovascularly tired after a while uh
and you're supporting musculature just
has to stand there for so goddamn long
yes is that it might be like that's not
even what's going on your biceps where
you find your grip might start to go or
your lower back it's a just overall
fatigue just goes up systemically until
you're like fuck am I still curling but
but if you do relatively more rapid
curls you get through get hit the muscle
hard without everything else fatiguing
so that's a little stuff you should you
live them perfect is ever laterally
fucked or squats and James imagine doing
sets of fifteen with five second
eccentric in the squad like I don't even
know like that trains the quads sure but
it just trains your your back opacity
attire
exactly yeah so I would say don't push
it much further than three or four but
within the range of you know are two one
to two second to a three to four seconds
metric it's all good and if not again
you want to just vary things by slowing
the or speeding the eccentric up that's
totally fine but I think if you train
for the three-second eccentric for the
rest of your career
almost certainly would cost you
I'm gonna sound like an asshole again
but um and this isn't meant to be
accusatory either but I think some
people will often do stuff like that to
avoid lifting heavy right and I think if
you're doing it for that reason that's
probably not great I think if you're
doing it for the purposes of improving
your technique improving your my muscle
connection that's all gravy I still
think that it's probably not a bad idea
to lift heavy at least some time
throughout the year and so if you are
deliberately avoiding that by saying
wait I'm gonna do bench press today but
I'm gonna do like my slow eccentric so I
don't have to put you know if I so I can
stay at 185 instead of going to 245 I'd
say you might consider not doing that
all the time and making sure you're
still getting some heavy yeah and that's
really another one of those finer you
know looking for quality instead of
arbitrary quantity is if you're slower
eccentrics will really fuck up your
muscle target awesome yeah if you're
like man I know I should be doing more
weight but but I don't want to because
I'm feeling lazy right like then that's
not a good news and I we've all been
there I've been there for sure
absolutely absolute you would how many
how many times we do you go load up like
five plates on the leg press and you're
like I am so fucking stoked to do this
right now right you're like no I would
much rather do three and take the
slowest Centrex and finish without being
like totally crippled absolutely but
sometimes you got to get crippled that's
just how close not that in the literal
sense but you gotta just put in some
hard work and it's gonna suck yep yeah
some things are it's interesting like we
always talk about the stimulus to
fatigue ratio or a perception of like
how much tension you experience in the
muscle versus connective tissues and
other structures I think that stuff can
be taken too far where you get away from
the exercises that just worley fuck you
up for great benefit like some of you
like oh I never feel my quads on squats
I just do only extensions you're like
man I feel like your squats just suck
and if you did them properly you'd feel
your muscles and the rest of you it's
okay to feel the rest of you as long as
your muscles are getting a really good
hit too so don't take that stuff off
like well if I can't feel the muscle
properly I just it's useless
don't take it too far there's got to be
a balance of that and a relatively
hardcore compound movement so what you
might not feel a whole lot of anything
but they do help
sorry I'm that note I was just thinking
of like stiff legged deadlifts is a
great example of one where you might not
want to do that right it's gonna fuck
you up really bad and the reality is you
might actually get more out of it if you
were using some heavier weight right so
you now you're getting fucked up just
from needlessly extending out the rep
duration like now you can't sit for two
weeks on end whereas if you just went up
like 20 pounds we've got a great
stimulus because your hamstrings are
really tight a fast which type muscle
group and they benefit from lifting
either really explosively or really
heavy weights they might so that's kind
of the idea there yep all right boom
that's it man
all right well guys sorry we were gone
for a little bit but I hope you can
appreciate that we had a holiday
downtime I hope you guys all had a
wonderful holiday season and a real
quick let's just do a quick housekeeping
I think what Mike and I have been
talking for a little bit and I think
we're going to do a slight format change
in that we're gonna do a weekly webinar
from now on but where I think we're
going to get away from doing the the
actual dedicated lifetime because
basically only one person usually at
most will come and do the live timing
and Mike and I have just had a really
crazy travel schedule for the last well
fuck for like the last three years but
this last year in particular was kind of
crazy so I think the goal we're gonna
shoot for is just to do at least one
weekly webinar per week maybe not at the
federal time but we'll put it out just
like we always do and hopefully just get
one per week so I think that's the
change we're gonna make going forward
yeah ah real quick sorry um last
commentator hey I'm not gonna screen
share it because it would just take too
long Jaxon J a xon from last week
jackson jackson Flaxman wax yep that
says damn dr. Mike dissed me lol I'm
half black with a polish last name I
never had a chance with a good normal
welcome to my club of never having a
chance to have normal name all good we
love you and any time we make fun of you
is cuz we got a number love or yeah if
anything we love the hilarious names
that's why we make fun of people with
regular name soccer Matt Johnson or some
yeah James Mendenhall yeah I'm calling
you out please
I again Jiu Jitsu when you slap hands
introduce yourself to new people at the
gym and a half the time when I'm like
Mike they're like okay Matt and I'm like
yeah sure you know like whatever white I
mean there's
my Paul Ryan bill Beall all right we're
gonna wrap this one up for this week
thanks for all of you who follow us on
our p+ if you are watching on youtube
and you want to get your questions
answered please feel free to subscribe
to our p + and we will cover you my man
we got you peace