I wasn't always the sports scientist and
bro scientist that you know today there
was a time where I was just a bro
scientist let's react to some of my own
worst training
fails you had
that
so let's talk about
that that was me back in my wannabe
power days and I was running a version
of the Bulgarian approach where I was
squatting a heavy single like maybe
supposedly RP 7 to9 most days of the
training week and this happened now a
few uh a few broad takeaways one if
you're going to lowbar squat heavy get
some spoilers or squat in Iraq it's
always a good idea two I wouldn't
recommend dumping about 460 lb or
whatever it was behind you especially L
Bar it uh I'd be
sliding the slide was smooth as hell
three my favorite part of that
experience was one of my training
partners of the time saying you had that
as I was sitting at the very bottom of
that Squat and just contemplating how
did I get here what mistakes did I make
and my guy was really like bro you had
that and I was like bro I I clearly
didn't that's that's why I'm down here
you feel me but regardless uh how to
avoid this one if you can squat in a
power rack two if you don't have power
rock or you prefer not use one get
spotters three if you don't have either
be very very sensible with your load
selection admittedly this would have
been fine had I squaded high war in a
likelihood but I did experience some of
the most numbing Shin pain after this
accident I have no idea why but Shin
pain it was a thing for like a few days
this was a different time in my life too
though I was
about 200ish pounds 205 maybe so a solid
like 20 to 40 pounds lighter than I am
now um I was around 19 years old at this
time I was starting to get into my
Advanced lifter stages right and you
know everyone does some dumb [ __ ] at
some point or another
[Music]
I used to be big into hip thrusts
specifically in this case I was doing
them because I had some knee pain going
on and some lower back pain so doing a
lot of squatting and that lifting work
was kind of off the table for me hip
thrusting not the best exercise I think
it's not the worst either if I was just
going for overall hypertrophy I would
pick a more lengthen biased exercise
nowadays but specifically for glute
hypertrophy although that wasn't the
intent at the time I just wasn't aware
of the research as I am now it's a good
movement and specifically if you want to
emphasize the glutes and not a whole lot
else it's a great movement the issue
with me in Hip thrusting specifically is
that I got relatively strong at them
relatively early in my training career
to the point that the stimulus to time R
are go pretty poor I would just need to
load up a ton of plates to get any
appreciable stimulus in even with a
pretty controlled tempo as you can see
here I was using around 500 lb and that
just takes a while to load up right but
yeah not the worst thing I've ever seen
and this was around age 20 I believe so
not bad go go go
that video was from about 6 years ago so
I must have been around 18th time I
wanted to leave no doubts on the table
that I locked that weight out and uh
what I was mentioning that I hip
thrusted quite a bit quite early into my
training career this is what I meant
past this stage I think Hip thrusting
wasn't very time efficient anymore also
showing a lot of skin in that video
godamn I guess when you're 18 you do all
sorts of [ __ ] but hey ho
[Music]
woo
that was me squatting 160 kg or quick
math
calculator uh around
355 I
think no yeah yeah around 355 for 10
reps High bar technique wise it's okay
could it be better absolutely control
the Ecentric more get rid of the sleeves
I think the sleeves kind of make the set
worse because ultimately one they make
it harder for most people to go as deep
so you're restricting the stretch on the
quads which is not a good thing two if
they help out the most specifically
these SBD sleeves or good pting sleeves
will help out the most as they get
stretched out kind of like a rubber band
so they're helping out the most at the
very bottom when it's supposed to help
out at least for appro Fe cuz I want to
produce force in that very stretched
lengthen position so control the weight
more get rid of the sleeves pause it the
bottom and it would become a lot better
but I will say I was getting kind of
strong off the time which was cool my
best best Squad ever I think is
somewhere in the neighborhood of like
200 kg for 5 to 10 reps or 440 lb High
bar um that's with more depth in here
slightly more controlled Tempo and what
have you but yeah I got reasonably
strong this was the phase of my training
where I was still into the idea of let's
do a lot of big compound lifts for hypy
work so a lot of high bar squats a lot
of deadlifts a lot of benching a lot of
pull-ups and stuff like that it was
before I started getting more into the
research on range of motion for example
also this was all all of this stuff here
was during my undergraduate degree at
lur University um I was doing my BSC and
Sport and exercise science at the time
and this was an excellent gy atmosphere
wise and everything else excellent gy
old man Milo wolf p stre and sports
science reminiscing about a few years
ago now incredible
[Music]
so there was a reason I wanted to review
that movement on camera is my technique
great no is it a great movement for
hypertrophy no but it's not terrible but
more importantly very fun movement if
ever you want to have fun in your
training and if you train for hypy you
better not godamn have fun I will
[ __ ] lose it with you you're not
allowed to have fun in the gym bro trust
me but if you ever do want to have fun
your absolute delinquent try this
movement it's pretty
fun that was me squatting 20 kg or 440
lb for first time ever um I think I was
around 18 years old at the time a lot of
strength gains and size gains were made
at the time turns out that most of your
gains in terms of hypertrophy are going
to be made when you train consistently
you're relatively untrained and you're
in a surplus shocking I know but that is
also when I made most of my gains in the
first few years of lifting so with that
being said though we're about to go even
further back in time to when I had a
very small YouTube channel when I was
about 14 or 15 years old and started
Lifting for my first few years of
lifting I didn't really make much
progress I think my programming was piss
poor my nutrition was piss poor so that
was mostly what was causing it I
remember following people like Mike chag
from sixpack shortcuts and when I
started lifting running tricep days AB
days and going past failure on like 30
sets for my triceps when I first started
lifting so need to say for the first
couple years of my lifting Journey my
programming was very poor I also thought
that I need to cut down for context I
was 6'2 or nearly 190 cm um and like 140
lb and my idea was hm I'm fat let me let
me make sure I cut down cuz right now
the real thing to do is to cut down from
already being skinny fat to being just
skinny I guess the logic eludes me but
regardless that is what I did and so for
the first couple years of my lifting
Journey I wasn't really making many
gains and so for the sake of having a
fun video let me go back in time and
show you some of those videos all right
which gem do I want to store with her
I'm sensing a bit of a first video ever
I'm going to mute this Josh cuz
uh yeah my acent was powerful at the
time I was 14 give me a break when you
put this in the video do not put the
a you have no power here wolf
man what's up guys wolf here today I'm
showing you a upper body workout of
overhead press oh God I'm turning the
audio down I can my voice then I'm
moving on to 4x6 at 28 kg
ofat then I'm moving on to two 12
pullups
into three sets of 12 or two sets of 12
actually uh inclin the bench press and
three sets of dips three sets of 12 then
three sets of 12 Barr Bell kills and one
set of 12 cable
flies now this is the third week of my
program meaning that there is less
volume on my main lift and my accessory
lift in this case that will be the
overhead press where I'm doing 8x2 as
opposed to last week when I was doing
6x2 all right that was me over pressing
99 lb or 100 PB basically um for a few
sets of two I was about 15 years old at
the time I think here and uh yeah I was
not very strong but one thing you can
see and shout out to all the new lifters
out there I was taking myself very
seriously I was putting in the the Reps
as far as technique went you can see me
very intentionally having the elbows
slightly underneath or in front of the
bar breathing bracing in a very
exaggerated fashion locking out each rep
as forcefully as possible you know like
my technique say all you will about how
much of a rick stick I was here one
thing I was taking myself seriously and
I was learning and that's important you
know I think we can talk about how to
best progress as a new lifter in the gym
all the time and that's very important
but a lot of it is also just make the
journey enjoyable and find ways to stick
to it and try and learn stuff that is a
big part of first getting into the gym
and sticking to it for long enough for
you to even see substantial gains in the
long term as soon as possible as so I
can stabilize the weight over my traps
and my upper back and have everything as
a nice platform of sorts to stabilize
the weights now I'm moving on to some
flat dumbbell press now in this case
what is interesting is uh I actually
failed the second set the second set was
supposed to be again 6 by 28 and I
actually five reps out of six and what's
good and useful with my program is that
every single time I fail a accessory
lift I pretty much just switch it out
for another one generally speaking it'll
be in function of my weaknesses in the
main lift so if my triceps are the weak
part of my bench press I'll be replacing
them with say close grip bench press or
dips all right a few things about that
one hey I was training close to failure
that that set looked kind of dangerous
two absolute stick figurine like I was
very skinny when I first started lifting
I thought I was fthe by the way which
just goes to show that if you have
slight dysmorphia as a new lifter you
can make a lot of mistakes three you
might have noticed that my arms were
very skinny and I was not very strong
lifting about 65s I guess here 60 lb DS
but the one thing you might have noticed
is my legs were a bit more developed
than my upper body and that's kind of
still the case to this day the reason
for that is when I first started lifting
I kind of didn't like upper body
training I was like look I'm in the gym
I uh I like the idea of working hard
let's mostly focus on the things that
are difficult and guess what upper body
training it's just not that hard so when
I was in the gym I was doubling up on
the leg volume you know like I remember
running a St science program at the time
actually shout out St by science they
have free programs just like my programs
shout out my own programs check them out
in the description below but at the time
I was following one of their programs
and one of the things that Greg had
prescribed was I think a super set on
quad training and so I was doing six
Super sets of leg extension with
dumbbell lunges and that was like the
fourth accessory for low body on that
day so I was hammering my legs and they
grew so you know but equally about a
year returns to lifting I realized that
most people didn't know I lifted until I
wore shorts and then I was like ah let's
uh let's start upper body training
potentially but yeah I was the anti bro
just so you know we are out there we
exist and we see you always doing those
curls and those chest flies and never
training your legs we are judging you
silently just as you judge us for not
having any upper body all I'm seeing is
in a fight I could have Run Away really
easily for context at the time I was
about 62 and 140 lb or 135 lb I'm now 62
and about depending on when you catch me
between 220 and 245 so I have gained an
appreciable amount of muscle mass don't
get me wrong some of it is fat some of
his puberty but we did grow is what I'm
saying all you see here is the pencil
like in this double XL sweater but we
have grown muscle I know shocking not
train them in fact and expect to have
big arms the thing is with arms They
Don't Really Work all that much in rows
bench press overhead press and big
compound movements since there a small
muscles uh your body will tend to
favored using bigger muscles such as
your back rows your chest for bench
press Etc so if you really want to have
big arms you should probably just do
some isolation work every week and let
that stack up for a few
years then I finished up some cable
flies and one set of 12 putting inside
the half NY lighting and the fact that
I'm a bit of a stick here the one thing
I'll mention about this is um I remember
enjoying training like just being like
[ __ ] yeah I get to train and that was
beautiful you know like when you first
start lifting that is part of the beauty
of lifting obviously don't get me wrong
I still enjoy lifting but it's taken all
a different role as a grown up and I'm
literally working in the industry I
think that if you're a big lifter and
you're enjoying lifting savor it all
right to round out this video and to
counteract the fact that I look like a
pencil neck in the sweater let me show
you a few of my PRS that I'm most proud
of or whatever first we have this 100 kg
or 220 lb overhead press
yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
push
o I've been wanting to hit a 220 over
press quite a while my body weight here
was like 225 230 or something like that
and yeah it just felt good to hit it I
have in fact since hit a bit more on the
overhead press show you video that now
so that was me hitting 225 so like 102
or whatever in kilograms um at Omar's
gym or xgym um which is called Metro
Fitness Metro Fitness Jesus Christ I'm
exposing myself right now shout out to
Omar and whatever this was called I
don't remember exactly um but hit that
at his gym I thought I had a second one
so I tried to go for it didn't happen
but hey ho and finally to close off this
video and prove to you that I do
sometimes occasionally lift here's me
deadlifting around 572 lb or 260 kg for
a few sets of five with hopefully a few
reps in the tank Sumo though so it
doesn't
count mil
the young feels challenged by the second
but he's sure
five five is there rp8 as well let's go
[Music]
beast so yeah that was a relatively easy
set I probably had a few more reps in
the tank again Sumo so it doesn't count
go to town I have also deadlifted 500 lb
for 11 reps I believe so that's another
uh strength lift that I've hit but
regardless that was me reacting to my
old training if I had to give it an
honest rating I would say um priceless
priceless memories out of 10 because
ultimately lifting is a journey you know
it's a hobby and if you enjoy it all the
better for you from a pure progress
perspective honestly everything reviewed
was fine when it came to the strength
lifting it looked fine when it came to
hypertrophy it was fine was it optimized
no is that fine yes so from a pure
Effectiveness perspective given what I
know now I'd give it like a seven
there's definitely room for improvement
like controlling the Ecentric more
pausing at the bottom not being quite so
potentially powerlifting Centric but
equally many of the lifts you saw me
performing throughout this video were
just for fun they weren't under the
pretense of like this is really going to
slap on some muscle baby those two rep
over press I've got a little secret for
you we've actually been working now for
a few years on a training app called my
adapt it is essentially my brainchild as
a lifter and as a sports scientist
specifically my adapt is an app that
tries to take everything a really solid
evidence-based coach does and condense
it into a training app that you can pay
a fraction of the price for compared to
a coach and that will give you a solid
individualized program based on your
goals so for example you want to
specialize on your chest and arms and
really grow those it can do that for you
and if the app picks up that hey you're
not recovering very while it will adjust
training for you week to week to make
sure the training program is
individualized and tailored to you to
maximize your progress because
ultimately we shouldn't all be training
exactly the same way and we've been
working on this app for about 2 to 3
years now and it's coming out soon and
I'm super excited so if you want to be
notified when it comes out to check it
out check out my.com and sign up to a
newsletter to be notified via email when
it comes out it's a coach in your pocket
and it's unlike anything out there
currently I can say that with confidence
if you do decide to sign up when it
comes out you'll be able to lock in at
the lowest possible price if you enjoyed
the video please comment like subscribe
let me know who else you want to see me
react to have a great day and I'll see
you guys my subscribers in that next one
peace