Point number nine enough sleep every
night I know too many people that are
doing all the right stuff except they
don't get enough sleep sleep is when you
do a huge fraction of your growth it's
when you do a huge fraction of your deep
systemic recovery that allows you to
train hard and benefit from nutrients if
you're chronically underslept even for a
few nights in a row
every time you eat more food much more
of it turns to fat and much less of it
is poured it into muscle than you would
expect if you were well slept sleep is
critical I know it sounds lame but it's
true how many hours a night do you need
that is a question for you to answer
what keeps you well rested throughout
the day could be seven hours could be
nine hours could be anything in between
usually it's about eight a lot of
individual differences there so make
sure you're well rested
lastly
all of the points I gave are nothing
without consistency