everyone online is getting something
wrong about triceps training I see so
many people dogpiling against the
triceps Kickback but in my opinion they
couldn't be more mistaken I think it's
an absolute staple because it's one of
the only exercises where your shoulder
is positioned back behind your torso
because the long head of the triceps
that beefy part on the back of your arm
crosses the shoulder joint when you lift
your arm up the long head stretches and
when you move your arm Down The Long
Head contracts you can test this out for
yourself and feel the difference so
overhead extensions offer a great
stretch but never reach Peak contraction
same goes for triceps press Downs
because the arm is always in front of
the Torso the kickback is one of the
only options where you get maximum
contraction of the Long Head this is why
EMG data shows higher activation of the
long head when you kick the shoulder
back look at the reading Spike when
Chris hyper extends there are two ways
to do these you can bend forward and
kick the cable back or you can stand
more upright still making sure that your
arm is back behind your torso cables are
better than dumbbells because you get
more continuous resistance but dumbbells
can still get the job done if you don't
have cable access