and then with the theory behind damaging
muscle fibers is you got to damage them
to build them back up damage doesn't
literally cause growth damage may help
to activate the growth signals but even
for that maybe damage is not required
it's the tension you're exposed to the
metabolites your muscles secrete that
probably causes growth the damage
probably mostly comes along for the ride
um it might have a causitive component
but it's certainly not the whole thing
so the story that we damage and then the
body responds to that by growing is
maybe at last halfway true and probably
only like a quarter true going to line
up like that and when they Zach what you
doing with your hands big pimp what was
the last time you've been to biology
class is that they squeeze them they go
like that so when you damage them some
of these get broken and pull away but
instead of just coming back together
they actually get thicker and fatter
that's all wrong that's total nonsense
yeah they get thicker and fatter without
being pulled physically apart that would
be a macro injury