okay it is Friday October the 19th and
we have made it to Hong Kong some you
guys might remember that I said that
when we come to Hong Kong I want to get
a place that feels representative of the
area so this is our Airbnb I'm gonna
give you guys a quick little tour of it
we'll say this is a pretty sweet view
over here we're actually on Hong Kong
Island and then this is the harbor over
here and then this is actually downtown
of Hong Kong on the other side called
Kowloon and we're gonna get a sweet view
of that in a little bit Steph and I are
actually going for a hike up Victoria
Peak which is I think the highest peak
on Hong Kong Island the first one you
guys super quick tour of the place so
it's pretty small so this is gonna be
quick here over here we have the little
kitchen area this is all that there is
to it actually you know what first I'm
going to show you outside so when you
come in we're actually on the 17th floor
you get off the elevator and there's
just one little unit on this floor and
then this is it and then out here you
have this little tiny deck and I'm gonna
go out there I'm a little bit scared of
heights oh I haven't actually been here
yet I don't know if you can appreciate
it on the camera but this goes way down
it feels like we're really high up and
we are right on the edge that's
basically our view yeah over here so we
basically have like a microwave little
tiny sink little tiny stovetop a little
mini fridge with some goods in here we
got some sushi from last night the fruit
here is absolutely amazing
we've got some pineapple watermelon and
then a bunch of Kiwis some gold Kiwis
here enormous for some reason but anyway
the fruit here has been seriously
obviously a highlight so then you come
over here and this leads to the upstairs
area
this is me and then there's a little
desk here
with basically the same view over here
slightly better view actually from the
desk and then we've got a little tiny
bathroom in here it's actually a little
wet now I just got a shower but yeah
there's a little tub there tiny little
toilet space in here
then this is our bedroom so their stuff
say hi so the bed here I don't know if
you can see this but it's actually just
on the floor but it's honestly super
comfortable yeah this place is like
perfectly sound lorded I was saying this
stuff I need to do like a science
explained voice over in this room just
to get here yeah that's real human
crashing and then there's another little
tiny deck out here so yeah that's the
place I think actually suck what's the
plan are we gonna go get some food first
yeah that's right so we're gonna eat and
then we're gonna go burn it off super
huge Zespri simple cuties so even though
the peel is edible on these it's not
hairy I still like just about the inside
mmm that's so good
fruit is amazing here seriously I think
this is the best TV I've ever had in my
life
really mm-hmm when I was eating it last
night I was like are my taste buds
getting stronger here that's so good
or is the fruit just good good it's like
the perfect know that it's fine not seen
it yeah there you go
look at that well as kiwi point I would
make you very enormous let it be known
Hong Kong is the best Kiwis even though
these are imported from using almonds
but checking with you guys over at
berries
guys there's this huge escalator system
here apparently is the biggest one in
the world and it goes up and down all
the hills in Central Hong Kong so you
can see it's this arrow here is pointing
up right now and apparently they switch
during the day to account for whether
people are going down towards the
harbour or up here for Network the
mainland it's actually super convenient
even though we had said that we were
gonna use the stairs yeah because we're
planning to eat as much as humanly
possible or as much as you want and so
we're gonna try to offset that by having
a rule where we're only gonna use that
escalator if we have groceries in our
hands that's the things we're holding
any
so we're gonna go back down and then
walk back so over here to my right are
the Hong Kong Botanical Gardens
we're actually not gonna check that out
today we're gonna do that another day
but we're just on our way to Victoria
Peak right now and I feel like now would
be as good a time as any to let you guys
know that
rashon isn't with us here on this trip
but that probably will be noticeable I'm
just logging on the little canon g7x I
wanted to keep it simple enjoy the trip
and just be able to whip out the camera
whenever I felt like it so don't expect
anything too cinematic from me in this
vlog hope you guys still like it though
so another really cool thing about Hong
Kong is that there are all these
double-decker buses around everywhere
and there's a lot of just like British
inspired culture here in general um so
they actually drive on the left side of
the road here and a lot of people do
speak English around here and I think
technically right now they're in
transition between a British rule and a
rule under China so that explains a lot
of that but yeah we need to go for a
ride on one of these at some point it's
actually pretty difficult to navigate
around Hong Kong because I think that
where the buildings are so high like
it's really hard for the GPS to register
exactly where you are
look
[Music]
so we landed on random all I don't know
if this random it could be massive but
one thing I notice about Hong Kong is
that like there are all sorts of crazy
luxury brands here that have huge
storefronts absolutely nuts like I've
never seen as much expensive high-end
shopping anywhere in my whole life so
anyway we're gonna try to find a
restaurant in here show you guys let me
get stuff can never figure this out she
always goes to the right escalator but
it's to the left every single time
alright guys so we had a slight change
of plans at the mall there was actually
fine dining options available we didn't
really want that so now we're here at
the monogamist Chinese restaurant and
they have a pretty huge menu over here
all kinds of delicious sounding stuff
we're actually like back right next to
her place we did like a full loop around
Central Hong Kong we're gonna get some
meat I'll show you guys what we get and
after that we're going to go to okay
guys so for an appetizer here I've got
some deep fried egg Queens looks
delicious I've never actually tried this
before that Stephanie guidance on how I
should cover it again
[Music]
yeah
it's good I know
all right so here's my main dish I got
chicken with some walnuts and some
vegetables and steamed rice
the working on the chopstick game
I'm so all right guys I'm not gonna lie
I've wanted that to be a little bit
better that tasted kind of like just
like Chinese food that you would get at
like takeout it could have been the dish
that I got but now we're gonna go find
something a little bit more a little
more special and also it was kind of
like a little bit difficult to vlog in
there because one it was a little bit
dark and - it's really customary in Hong
Kong for people to sit you at a table
that's you're literally sat right next
to other people so trying to like not be
disruptive but anyway we're gonna get
something good
got three bakery items over here so
first thing is the egg tart this is
apparently a classic here in Hong Kong I
don't know if it's original to Hong Kong
but they definitely love them over here
I've tried one of these yesterday now my
Instagram I gave it a 9 out of 10 so it
was actually from a different place
then I love that the stoker
and doesn't know let me know where the
egg cart is original to I don't think
this Hong Kong British
oh yeah this is amazing I'm gonna have
another baby something else
holiday coconut to tart it was my first
time trying this
I love these things so that time got
like a buttery flaky taste but then
is almost like a really moist cake oh so
you're gonna love this stuff
I'm excited for that I got like the egg
carrot slightly better it's a little bit
less dry so I give this an 8 into 10
all right nice high rating yeah the
stuff is good wonder why I'm on it you
guys know
I'm strike all right
this is called a pineapple bun another
Hong Kong delights so I'm just gonna
like break it open here see what it so
it's kind of it looks just kind of like
a normal bread bun I guess so here we go
first taste test pineapple bun
this planet just tastes like regular
bread I think it needs to be heated with
butter like heated up like it's wrapped
as if you're supposed to take it home
you know it's like I was expecting to
get it like a taste of pineapple from
this but it's only called that because
it's not because there's any pineapple
flavoring in it but honestly kneaded
with butter this would be amazing
yeah I didn't want to knock it I was
just expecting it to be totally
differently I was expecting okay it's
like a really fresh that's not bad okay
so according to stem
nice try there's this called a chicken
chicken turn yep
it's quite any
a lot going on in here
isn't it good pretty good
really rich them yeah that's the only
thing no subtlety to that flavor feel
like I can like feel it in my stomach
oh yeah I like it also I'd you try this
for lunch every month sugar pop sugar
sugar pop okay so it kind of looks like
a sugary
really nothin
I got some food in now we're finally on
our way to Victoria Peak we're gonna get
a cab there at this time I'm already so
it's 1:30 p.m. and I'm already at almost
8000 steps so we've done a lot of
walking I think we earned this crazy cab
ride over here so we'll see you guys
over there
are you
feels like we're on like a rollercoaster
is that gonna be ride
should give some context for how I like
these buildings are coming down here
hey look it's my favorite thing yeah I
mean bracelet oh these are dope
it's actually sick if I could get on the
way back so I feel like it for Sean was
here he would do something like really
sick but first I didn't look like there
it is transition did I click I miss you
man there it is what do you think look
at foggy I wonder if it would have been
a nicer to come here at night you're
like yeah I feel like night would be
actually be really sad it's a beautiful
skyline though that's really amazing
yeah yeah it's crazy I do feel like the
nighttime view may actually be cooler
you guys are coming to Hong Kong the day
to the debut was really amazing but I
feel like it might be even more
jaw-dropping at night but it's worth of
at night
I feel like the tram would be scary true
really Carrie
that's a consideration
now we're here at Mimi's desserts I'm
just going to show you what it looks
like there so the surroundings
Mimi's desserts Stephanie these are two
fish balls spicy fish balls is that
right - spicy fish balls and then I've
got some mixed Dow Fuuka or how do you
say da fukken so it's kind of like mochi
but I think maybe slightly different so
let me give this a try well this would
try first in this spicy fish ball
gotta try stuff
Oh No I don't know if I want to try it
that's not that's fine don't you go
I think this is honeydew should be Kiwi
yeah
this is like a marshmallow flavor
so real quick this is another look out
here it's called the Lions peak lookout
but it's pretty much the same of you
just you get to do it inside of this so
rather than take the train back down
Steph and I decided we'd be crazy and
walk back down like 45-minute walk back
down but I can only imagine how this say
it's just non-stop incline it's pretty
easy so anyway I've actually been
finding it a little bit on my knees and
lower back going down so I mented this
special little trip go over back like
the grapevine that's all the cardio for
the day okay so on the way back to our
place we decided we take a quick detour
and check out these Botanical Gardens
just on the way so check out they've got
some lemurs in here see those a llama
zoom in for us
look at him go look at him and this was
totally free like with the doors so bad
yeah
well look at the Yuko eucalyptus robusta
to eucalyptus robusta yeah I think
you're right it's supposed to cure any
kind of malady you might ever have to
eucalyptus right supposed to be a say
Kiwi hello
Kiwi
okay guys so as it turns out last night
when we got home we were totally dead we
got in bed by like 6:30 7:00 something
like that didn't end up going to the gym
it was like lights out by 7:30 8:00
quick downs from YouTube went to sleep
but we just got out of the gym this
morning so it's the next day right now
and I think what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna make that workout and everything
we're gonna do today a separate video so
that'll all be in the next vlog you guys
can look back forward to that one you
enjoyed this video please give me a
thumbs up let me know if there's
anything else you think we should try
while it we're in Hong Kong if this is
out while we're still here
that's comment below your favorite foods
things to see etc that was just really
our first day exploring don't forget to
subscribe I usually do fitness videos
but we do travel a lot so stay tuned for
that
and I'll see you guys in the next video