Dr pack here here with fellow real
doctor academic not a medical doctor
whatever that means don't push your big
farmer meds on me fake doctors yes thank
you so much uh and we're here in the
lair the RP room what are you calling
this room we call it
Studio because Phil Collins had a song
called studio and it wasn't Studio it
was just Studio
which is a nonsense word no I think he
did it was like a practical joke and uh
it's called CIO okay amazing in the
studio then the RP Studio first guest to
officially baptize this place yes it was
dunked in yes it is partly Christian
Orthodox now no offense to all other
religions Greek Greek Christian Orthodox
let's be be clear here and I'm going to
hit you with some gym Trends and I want
to hear your opinion in my opinion these
are among the worst Jim Tren but I want
to hear what fellow real doctor not a
medical doctor real doctor doctor Mike
PhD doctor degree holder has to say
right we're going to start with high
intensity training meaning low volume
high intensity Dorian Yates Mike mener
allout training to maximize muscle
growth yeah was like you maximum muscle
growth occurs at at a certain given
volume and that volume is unlikely to be
under five or six sets per week done
hard for
muscle sometimes really big really
strong people can't recover systemically
for more than that for whole body so
that's the best thing that works for
them and then people just do a monkey
see monkey do and they just copy them
for most people something like 10 to 15
to 20 to 25 to 30 sets per muscle per
week is going to be a much closer to
even the a sweet spot of game so for
most people high-intensity
training uh with very low volumes is not
the best answer for some people it's a
good thing they're doing it because they
were overdoing volume before L up their
recovery and uh they weren't focusing on
technique and relative effort as much so
it was all a bunch of like sending the
sets to God knows where 10 R and then it
can have an advantage uh but for many
people it's just going to be uh really
really tough psychologically but not so
much inducing as much hypertrophy as
possible so I just think of it as a
coming of age thing I did high-intensity
training when I was younger I'm glad in
a sense the trend is back so kids can
learn first person that it's not a good
idea in most cases you mean to tell me
that Dorian Yates and that other one
bodybuilder are not enough evidence to
base our whole training to maximize
muscle World home yeah well actually um
based on who said the thing
understanding its claims to be true or
not it's called the genetic fallacy
where the Genesis of the claim came from
I would also say that anyone who wants
to take the Dorian thing a little too
seriously Ronnie Coleman did everything
twice a week with high volumes and he
was bigger so I just canceled out Dorian
I think one Ronnie cancels out of Doran
and now we're back to square one so good
luck with that I never got that type of
thinking and I never got the idea that
there's a volume conspiracy as if
anybody is benefiting from selling you
hey spend more time and work harder in
the gym here's the worst thing you're
really try to sell that there's no
conspiracy a bit too hard I'll say
imaginary video guy cut this off all
right the next one and I'm curious to
hear your thought is Peak contraction
and people really focusing on the peak
contraction in their workouts yeah what
do we feel about that so the peak
contraction when you squeeze packs it
can be cool from a promoting the Mind
muscle connection sometimes you have
trouble feeling out your muscles and the
peak attraction could be a good way to
feel them so like some of the curls like
actually called the Jerry curl Jared
father invented it and it's it's out
here and you really try to squeeze at
the top here and then you come back and
the squeeze is more to like cuz your
biceps to cramp a little bit and then
once you have that little cramp
awareness then you slowly open them up
and it can really guide you to how to
really [ __ ] well it also has a
lengthened component which is why it
works mostly it's just context for it
but outside of appropriate SE effect
exercise the bottom third middle third
and top third of a few exercises now
have been examined for hypertrophic
yield and the bottom third wins pretty
much every time and the top third does
very very poorly so with a peak
contraction you spend an enor amount of
focus and effort on something that is
probably the thing you should be
spending the least focus and effort the
sooner you can figure out it doesn't do
[ __ ] the
better next up on the list you've
debated this person and their training
philosophy Joel seedman and all his um
90° angle stuff I to be to Joel and
markwell's power project podcast s Joel
was involved more in trying
to disseminate an air of General
cordiality and agreement versus engaging
in the topics uh remotely
confrontationally
adversarially he just kind of like went
along with [ __ ] and didn't want to say
XYZ I caught him in a few things which
made no sense but also don't like to be
super rude and mean I think Joel seedman
is a person that did some wacky
exercises and he noticed that two things
happened one group of athletes believed
him that these were the exercises they
wanted to do mostly because they're they
look really exotic and they're not very
difficult to do and athletes like [ __ ]
that's exotic and not difficult because
it does make them tired for practice and
it makes them really feel like they're
doing something in addition to I think
drct drill seedman he has a PHD in
exercise science which shows you how far
that goes uh real doctor though I think
you realize that when he makes these
kinds of workouts and training videos
they get a crazy amount of attention on
social media bad or good it doesn't
matter because it expands his funnel so
you can go download his book and all
this other stuff and he'll make money
off you which is nice the stuff he's
doing every now and again he has an
exercise that's nice works
but almost always the setup is
exceedingly complex for what you're
getting out of it and a lot of times it
sacrifices so much transfer of training
specificity and Overload at the same
time that it ends up being just a shitty
exercise I would just generally put him
under the umbrella of like person that
may know almost nothing of value with
regard to exercise that he's shared with
anyone and person whose insights into
how you should do exercises are more
wrong than
right and that's not great as a human
being I hope he's doing well as I hope
all humans are doing well um but uh I
hope he believes his own
stuff but if he doesn't believe it and
he's doing it in a Makia valian way to
just try to grift as much money as
possible sucks that sucks uh would take
athlete endorsements alone with a grain
of salt unless with their endorsing
makes sense it's got science behind it
they can rationalize why cuz if they
just say do this cuz I do it I'm awesome
but remember when they were in the
senior in high school they could already
have if the rules allowed it walked on
to the National Football League they're
special they were always more jacked and
ripped than you and none of that Joel
seedman [ __ ] arguably got them any more
jacked and ripped and if they had a
proper program that you know was
something that like the way they train
at um the San Francisco 49ers have
a strength and conditioning coach is
ultra evidence Bas modern priorization
if you train with that guy you'd one
much more much better at your job as a
football player than with Joel
F what are your thoughts on the
carnivore diet I eat it I eat the tiger
diet okay and I want people to
understand what I mean when I say that I
don't eat like a tiger I eat only Tigers
you ever had a tiger steak yes it's not
good Predators tend to taste quite
poorly but because I'm a man I eat what
men must you are what you eat
right I don't eat [ __ ] I don't e cows
are weak they're soft they only weigh
1,500 lb or 10% body fat I have higher
standard do I eat
pork hell no do I eat chicken are you
[ __ ] crazy do I want to weigh 3
lb pack we got to wake up here this is
real science people the adult tiger is
500 [ __ ] PB like 10 ft long he wakes
up pissed he walks around pissed he goes
to sleep Ultra
pissed is that he's a killing machine
and he occasionally takes a break from
killing to do one of two things
three eat nope just kidding that is in
that's in the killing cuz he kills to
eat that one's gone drink fine
you know what the other word is now cuz
I'm saying female tigers is on that [ __ ]
like all skied up on club and [ __ ] you
turn the black light in the jungle tiger
jizz
everywhere you are what you eat I eat
only tiger I know they're getting
extinct or whatever leftist
nonsense but uh I don't choose to
believe in that because I don't like how
it makes me feel I'm on the tiger diet I
only tigers and so I look out on
Carnivore diet people cuz they eat
things like beef and chicken and absurd
animals that are as cool as Tigers
that's probably the best EG on the the
best steak P not intended the best hey
on the carnivore diet I've uh I've heard
yeah do you want a real take sure
carnivore di is not as bad as people
think cuz you actually do get a lot of D
value from high fat and organ meat but
uh you would be in every way healthier
and better at everything you do if you
eat a carnivore diet base and it's some
godamn fresh fruits and veggies along
with that cuz veggies are so good for
you in every respect so are fruits and
you're just not going to get fat from
fruits and veggies it's not going to
happen and so carnivore diets kind of
like a third of the puzzle and you add
fruits and veggies and maybe some
healthy fats like nuts and seeds and
[ __ ] like that then you're [ __ ]
really
rocking can you skip like the white rice
and the processed carbs sure you can
also eat them and they're totally fine
but I get it if you want to like [ __ ]
get down to your core and be all
ancestral and like I don't know like
lead a Roman Le or whatever the [ __ ] but
like you don't have to just eat meat for
that man meat some [ __ ] veggies some
fruits at least start with that you'll
feel way better by yourself and you
might even start eating tigers on a kit
groundbreaking it's crazy with the
carnival diet cuz it's like if you were
to do like the super strict carnivore
diet where you're not eating you know
processed Meats only and you're eating
lean meats and it's not bad but the idea
that oh this is the healthiest best
muscle growth building yes and the fact
that other diets are bad for you I'm
talk about like well you know
technically like fiber is an
antinutrient cuz it like prevents you
from absorbing vitamins and minerals
like oh yeah new vitamin and mineral
deficient they're like no why the you
care also broccoli has like 800 trillion
times more vitamins and minerals than it
has antinutrients so the net effect is
insanely insanely good look up the
benefits of fruits veggies and whole
grains it's just like infinite you could
read Pub Med reviews for [ __ ] about that
stuff and it's all basically unanimous
too and so if my biggest problem the
carnivore diet folks is they'll be like
so don't eat veggies oh God damn it you
it's like walking out of a armor
Personnel carry War just going right on
the first land mine at least don't go
there at least just go that way and say
hey look oh you can eat a lot of meat
red meat and mostly red meat and still
be healthy and well and that's true but
just shut quit while you're ahead
exactly exactly the point I made we can
all enjoy animal products but also have
our veggies and the thing is like civer
um Zealot will rely on like there was
one study where they asked people that
follow carnivore and they specifically
recruited people from Facebook and
Reddit groups that do carnivore they
said oh since I follow the carnivore
died health is better diseases are
gone you I found
three same similar design studies for
vegans exactly the same yeah uh one
thing I get a lot of hate for with the
garor people is I'll point out the fact
that vegans that eat well non- junk food
vegans we had a lot of them in the '90s
cuz they didn't make junk food for
vegans back then some of the health
people you'll ever find and inevitably
someone is going to reply I don't know
man the girl that works vegan and she's
bat slob piece of [ __ ] and [ __ ] her and
like yeah I feel that but look at what
she eats like well I guess Lucky Charms
are vegan now she eats mostly just Lucky
Charms all day like it's the lucky charm
is of a problem nice real signs real
advice real doctors don't forget to like
subscribe buy stuff buy the hypertrophy
app code do pack for Dem Rascal damn
your chest is huge big chest they gains
we'll see you guys next time peace
[Music]