it can actually benefit you by
indirectly affecting insulin levels guys
the direct effect on insulin levels of a
cold tub is Dick the indirect effects on
insulin levels are going to be two
things very very tenuous not guaranteed
and also even if delivered they're going
to be of such a small magnitude that
merely taking a walk for several minutes
will no doubt have better effects on
your insulin levels than the cold plunge
but I'll tell you what affects your
insulin levels even better by a long
shot resistance training to make your
muscles bigger so that they consume more
of your blood glucose and that's really
amazing for your whole total body health
and your insulin Dynamics and also
having a higher level of physical
activity by a little bit than you're
normally used to 10 to 12,000 steps a
day is a good recommendation and eating
healthier foods but especially less food
than you burn every day losing body fat
and weight while gaining muscle mass and
having a high level of physical activity
that Trifecta will do all the heavy
lifting for improving your insulin
Dynamics by a mile