hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today my tip for you
is it's so nice it's going to be so nice
to hear I want you today tomorrow and
pretty much every day thereafter to
relax for an hour every day at least
relax for an hour every day that sounds
like the huberman podcast wake up
stare at the Sun for 15 minutes unabated
and then relax for an hour
CEO tips you're an entrepreneur success
tips that's what this channel is going
to become how to make millions of
dollars by staring at the sun in any
case
fatigue
is a concept in training that many
people have an intuitive understanding
of but I was lucky enough bragging time
to get a formal education in sports
science PhD and all that stuff so we
studied fatigue for a very long time and
here's something that we learned that
some people don't know
and it is this
there is something called physiological
fatigue where it's just like your cells
are getting beat up your bones micro
fracture when you lift really hard your
blood vessels sometimes bursts a little
bit your muscles get torn tendons
connective tissues all that stuff and
that's kind of obvious like after you do
a few sets of 10 of the squat you don't
have to be a rocket scientist to be like
something is broken inside me and
hopefully will get fixed at some point
try to walk up the stairs or down the
stairs you're like my body my body has
sustained damage that makes sense and
that's definitely a thing
but there's another fatigue that stacks
on top of that which is psychological
fatigue
your brain is a machine it's a thinking
machine and during its thinking
processes if you force it to think
really hard or Focus psychologically and
create a lot of psychological stress it
also accumulates both physical wear and
tear for example some of your
neurotransmitter pools can get heavily
reduced such that the transmission
through various neurons are from one to
another isn't as reliable as it always
is it's kind of when you feel spent you
know like at the end of a three hour
long squat workout your brain is tired
someone's like try hard at anything
you're like uh I can't right that
psychological fatigue is also a separate
layer to the physical fatigue here's the
trippy part psychological fatigue there
are two more things to say about it one
is you can sum up psychological fatigue
from other sources that are not training
you can get physiological fatigue from
training or from like spending all day
on your feet like that absolutely
physiologically fatigued as well even
though it's not training so you know
that when you're going hard on the gym
you have to make sure to manage your
physical activity not do any kind of
super stressful work if you're really
serious about training you got to try to
work around minimize Etc so that you can
pour everything you have into training
psychological fatigue
absolutely comes from other sources
in May in fact much of it may come from
other sources if you have a really
stressful day at work you come home and
you yell at your partner for a little
bit I can't believe I'm saying partner
2023 shows this your wife man like God
intended
do that that may sum up more
psychological fatigue than a three-hour
long psychotic squat workout ever could
that's the first point about
psychological fatigue is it comes from a
bunch of different sources mostly your
daily life
and then secondly
psychological and physiological fatigue
mix and affect each other into total
fatigue so here's the big point there
if you have physiological fatigue that
you have accumulated
as you rest and recover physically like
you move less
over time that physiological fatigue
starts to drop off perfect your body's
healing itself
however
if during that time you're stacking a
lot of psychological fatigue on top
and that psychological fatigue is high
and continuing like as you go Monday
through Thursday through the week from
your first leg workout on Monday
everyone knows Monday's leg workout to
your second leg workout Thursday
physiologically under the hood you're
healing
but if that entire week is finals week
at school you're breaking up with your
girlfriend who had a misunderstanding
and killed your dog so you're grieving
for Wolfie
and at the same time your boss is like
one millimeter away from your face while
you're working and he's like you better
do these goddamn spreadsheets right or
God damn it you're gonna God damn it
you're like do I have a drill sergeant
boss how the hell does that work I
thought I worked for a software company
and all of that psychological fatigue is
high and not reducing because it's just
continuously being presented Monday
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
your degree of healing physiologically
your tissues in your legs
the healing will slow down a ton so that
by the time you get to Thursday you may
still be under recovered where normally
you would be totally fine and it wasn't
because you were more active it wasn't
because your nutrition was off you may
even have gotten just as much sleep as
usual
it is because your psychological fatigue
infects it bleeds into it affects your
physiological fatigue and importantly
your ability to bring down that
physiological fatigue and in training if
you give a shit your ability to train
hard
to provide adequate nutrients
and to bring that fatigue of hard
training down as fast as completely as
possible between sessions is kind of the
trifecta of getting really good results
and of course sleep is the biggest part
of bringing down that fatigue and also
not continuously running around the
block and something more fatigue so
sleep and non or lower physical or
non-physical activity but a big
modulator of that ability to recover is
the degree of psychological fatigue that
you have
so the title of this video I don't know
I don't make the titles or the
thumbnails by the way blame Scott the
video guy and technically speaking we
Outsource some of the thumbnails so
blame the thumbnail people who I've
never met sight unseen but God knows
what they're coming up with next
whatever this video ends up being titled
the topic of the video is to try to
relax for an hour every day
it's not just one of these shits I'm
telling you guys that's like some like
you know like one of those like Health
podcasts where it's like everything's
about mind body and soul and you've got
to like take care of yourself
spiritually because like No One's Gonna
do that for you and like training has a
place and it's good that you have
muscles but you've really gotta just
like nurture the soul fuck that fuck the
soul quote me
JK
here's the real talk though
only your concern is to treat yourself
like a machine
to become the best athlete that you can
be to become the best hypertrophied
person that you can be using our
hypertrophy app
Shameless plug
Lincoln bio a link in description
if that's your only goal and you're
mentally strong you don't need mental
health advice from Gwyneth Paltrow or
whatever no disrespect
the relaxing for an hour every day is
one of the ingredients of that purely
athlete-centered physiological approach
when they ran training camps in Bulgaria
and a whole crapload of the rest of the
Soviet Union when they made weight
lifters as good as possible for the
glory of Communism turns out not to be
so glorious
these were communist people in charge
of a weightlifting team
their care about human rights was
negative they think disdained for human
rights
when they had their lifters out in
training camps
the lifters trained hard twice a day
the rest of the day was spent in as much
physical and psychological relaxation as
possible
why they should have just had them lift
weights and then do like clerical work
or do a Work Camp or some shit like that
communism while farming together they
didn't
because they realize the physical
element was going to interfere with
training but they also quickly realized
the psychological element is going to
interfere
if you can relax Truly Deeply
I think there's a term for it non-sleep
deep rest
which I think stands ASMR or something
I'm kidding don't get at me in the
comments
if you can do an hour of that at least
an hour every day
it takes all the psychological fatigue
and you're gonna have some no matter how
easy your life is and zaps it so far
down that it creates the environment for
you where now your physiological healing
mechanisms
crapload of breathing room to really
work as well as they could
so this isn't just some Hokey Pokey
earthy fucking gaia's love get a gem and
hang it on your fucking neck to ward off
bad spirits type of bullshit this is
real
Soviet Sport Science shift that works
so
how do you relax
what are some tips on how to do that
fuck if I know I'm kidding
I got a couple things to say about that
one is the hour a day is a make-believe
number but what I have found many people
have found is if you can dedicate an
hour every day to truly deep relaxation
where you like fling off all your cares
of the world
that can do a lot
can two hours do more yeah shit yeah it
can but two hours risks another thing
one it risks me alienating the fuck out
of you guys because you're like I have
kids in a day job motherfucker what the
hell am I supposed two hours of what are
you crazy so it's just like advice you
can't take and also some people
including myself like two hours every
day of relaxation God she's that's a lot
like after an hour and a half I'm like
could be doing more work like I can't
relax for that long sometimes sometimes
I can sometimes I can many of you it's
like an hour a day is realistic for
almost everyone
and it's it's a Whopper dose it's enough
to make a difference because like I've
seen stuff on the internet we're like
make sure to take at least 15 minutes a
day for just for you like 15 minutes
that's as long as it takes me to um to
pre-load the the tabs and PornHub
I don't even get to touching myself yet
I'm kidding oh Scott what's the new
thing pornography is evil and
masturbation's terrible
somehow it was unclear
so an hour seems like a good thing and
here's the first tip for how to do it I
would recommend in most cases not all if
you can take that hour as the last thing
you do before you begin your bedtime
routine
that's for a few reasons one it is a
very much easier to psychologically
relax if you know you have nothing ahead
of you
because if you know you have stuff to do
later like who the hell takes an hour at
3 P.M and then gets back to work at 4 pm
I don't know anyone that can do that
some kind of robot maybe it's Buddhist
monk but if I'm trying to relax between
work sessions
like one of the craziest things to me
and if you can do this this is awesome
but like
people who go out to lunch and take like
a two-hour lunch at work and then come
back and go to work like to flan and
they order a bunch of food and they
relax some people have drinks in the
middle of the day at lunch but oh my God
how can you just switch off like I'm at
work I take my lunch at my fucking desk
and I have a desk in an office in this
very home in which we're recording this
that I will eat my food and do video
review stuff and or I'll just sit at a
kitchen table and eat my food while
doing social media work and then just
get right back into it I can't relax in
the middle of it and many people can't
so if you take your relaxation at the
end of the day it it greatly enhances
the potential for you to be able to
relax because you don't have anything to
worry about because you go to sleep
after
the second huge benefit of that
is that you are able to get into a
relaxed state
and that potentiates your sleep ability
because if you work work work work work
work and then you're like oh it's 11 pm
I gotta go to sleep you do your bedtime
routine you go to sleep
you're trying to sleep and you're laying
there like
spreadsheets charts data streams data
streams you forgot to turn on your brain
machine interface or turn it off rather
it's tough to fall asleep and you could
be wired and then also if you fall
asleep you dream about work and all this
crazy shit it doesn't feel restful but
if you take your hours the last thing
you do before you go to sleep then the
probability of you just being like
woosah shit after that hour and then you
go to sleep you're like oh this is the
easiest thing I've ever done this makes
sense see it's two birds with one stone
now you're taking an hour day of
relaxation or at least an hour and then
you're also getting you're potentiating
really high quality sleep that one-two
punch is something my wife and I do
every single fucking other if work gets
crazy sometimes we don't just work till
11 pm and go to sleep that's pretty rare
almost always we section off a little
bit of time
at the end of the evening we'll watch
like one or two episodes of some stupid
reality show or the Mandalorian which is
Soak I love that show
and that is our relaxation time so that
brings me to the sort of second part of
this discussion is what should you do
for relaxation time
what doesn't does not count
and the thing here is
arousal now I know what you're thinking
you're already getting in the comments
and seeing LOL Dr Mike or arousal
that's gr
dot dot dot send
oh
not talking about that kind of arousal
the strict psychological term of the
degree of
psychological excitement that you have
the psychological uh profundity of your
emotions so you can have a high degree
of arousal in the negative sense if
you're really fucking angry
or you can have high degree of uh
arousal in the positive sense we're like
this is amazing let's party or you can
have a high degree of arousal in the
other sense and I won't make those
impressions
because they're disturbing for me to
make it's the sexual arousal you don't
want to see my sexual arousal face I
assure you my psychiatrist is still
recovering with his own psychiatrist
after I showed him that face he never
asked me to show it
my parole officer says that's one of the
many things I do to keep myself in the
system he says in any case what you want
to do is take that arousal and decrease
it
so
things that you can and should do let me
tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy
app with over 28 preset programs already
in the app you can choose to make your
own you can modify an existing program
or you can just run the programs exactly
as they were written by be personal this
app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
first compassionate touch which means if
you have someone to touch you physically
that's not repulsed by your body
my wife signed a few contracts saying
she's legally not but in reality she she
hates this whole thing
back rubs
head rubs whatever hug just cuddle on
the couch with somebody anybody a dog a
cat that actually does count by the way
unless you make it sexual and then you
need to go to jail
compassion it touches a big deal because
humans are wired to need some touching
every now and again
I don't mean necessarily sexual I mean
literally compassionate like another
human holds you and rubs you or
something like that and if it turns
sexual sweet but don't turn that into a
marathon Rockstar cocaine all night sex
session do your business keep it light
and Airy and then not or not not
whatever
um get back to relaxing you could
probably do all that in 30 seconds I'm
kidding of course it only takes 15.
so compassionate touch totally works
and or compassionate touch while doing
other relaxing activities like for
example sitting on your porch and
watching the sunset the birds the blades
early birds uh listening to birds and
shit and watching the trees wave in the
wind shit like that just sitting on on
your porch your neighborhood and
watching people go by like you know
having a drink in hand or something just
just relax
watching TV but the kind of TV matters
don't watch Thrillers or crazy serial
killer documentaries watch something
light and and and and just something
that you can just switch the brain to
low mode like my wife and I watch uh a
lot of uh love Island and shit like that
like single shows they're hilarious
there's no thought required as a matter
of fact the more thought I give to the
show the more it hurts me uh to actually
watch the show so something that is
relaxing something you enjoy maybe uh
reruns of Seinfeld or something that
you've seen a trillion times it's got
the video guys that is that you that
does that oh yeah it works every time
so something nice and easy you can read
a book that is like a fantasy book
that's relaxing it's engaging but in a
low-key way
you can try chatting on the phones or
friends and family in a way that does is
uh doesn't arouse you friends and family
arousing in the psychological way of
that doesn't get you heated
anything that relaxes you as the tldr
and the reason I'm saying that is
because there are other ways to engage
in a Leisure activity people think okay
relax for an hour but they usually think
relax means Leisure activity and in that
box of leisure activity there are things
that are relaxing and things that are
not relaxing and some Leisure activity
is curious because you end up not
feeling like you're at Lees at all
here's one if you get on social media
some people will spend like just social
media scrolling for an hour
and um I think a lot of people just
scroll as a matter of habit and they get
little dopamine hits out of it that
doesn't really truly relax them it's
some it's a really cool thing to pass
the time if you're like you're on an
airplane and it's boarding and you have
another 15 minutes and you're not going
to start any work or anything like that
and pull up your laptop so you're just
on your phone it's like going through
Tick Tock you're like
JK I'm on Tick Tock I post on there I do
not watch Tick Tock anymore it's like
five minutes of tech doc government
that's all I saw
if you
read articles
on social media or on your favorite blog
you read the comments and it pisses you
off and you get in there and start
debating people which is what I used to
do
that's not relaxing
so nothing to piss you off a lot of
people watch the news the news is
designed to piss you off it is designed
to arouse you because arousing news is
something you're going to continue to
tune into
so make sure that you're picking truly
relaxing activities there's a trillion
of them to pick that are both
physiologically and psychologically
relaxed do that for at least an hour
potentially even more
every night of the week at least
weekends whatever fuck it up do whatever
you want plus plenty of leisure time of
the week
but every work night school night my
wife and I do that for an hour ish
it pays enormous enormous dividends
you may find that any more than 45
minutes drives you crazy you may find
that you really benefit the most from
two hours and here's the final thing
I'll say
if you're super diligent about work
school Child Care everything and all
your responsibilities you organize your
daily and weekly structure with to-do
lists and deadlines
and you're very very on task when you're
on task
you can Crush out all of your
responsibilities during the work day
and save an hour or two for the evening
to relax every evening I've had a little
bit of success in my life at various
things and I've talked and been around
lots and lots of successful people
very few of them are grinding every
single day all day long
potentially none in the long term and
almost all of them have a really good
balance of work life the thing is a
work-life balance it doesn't mean you
work for three hours a day and you golf
for 16 hours it means that you work as
hard as you can up until your work is no
longer productive in a long sustainable
term and then you schedule in as much
relaxing time as it takes to bring down
a ton of fatigue
and if you're training really hard and
you care about your results and you
really care in the sense that you're
willing to shift life priorities a
little bit for it then you have to take
all the stuff that you do per day squish
it down a tiny little bit that doesn't
mean do it faster that probably means
take out some unimportant shit you
shouldn't be doing and now the time is
less spend a little bit more time in the
evening relaxing and that will refresh
you and recharge your battery so well
that by the end of the week you're not
going to feel devastated and just
completely out of it and your training
sucks and everything sucks and your
sleep sucks you're going to feel a
little bit tired but pleasantly and
you're gonna be like that was a really
great week and I don't feel totally
devastated then after the weekend you're
going to feel totally recharged and
almost totally and you're gonna Crush
another amazing week of work and another
amazing week of training and things will
be really good give some thought to what
I said and uh let me know if you have
any questions or comments I'll try to
get to a few folks like subscribe we
have a member section in which I give
usually much more detailed nerdy talks
we have a team Forum Forum come join us
for that all those advice videos and
technique analysis and of course the RP
hypertrophy app is a thing and you can
use it to train with and I built it
myself with these own two hands in the
team of developers and it's awesome and
I use in my training every day and uh I
think it's the best training app in the
world so give it a shot Link in
description see you guys next time