you might be eating more protein than
you need to for a long time the simple
heuristic of 1 g of protein per pound of
body weight was thrown around everywhere
however have we gained simplicity at the
expense of nuance well a Metro
regression by Morton and colleagues says
probably when looking at a total of 49
studies that examined protein intake
when also lifting weights they found
that a protein intake of 1.6 GS per
kilogram per day optimized improvements
in fat free Mass AKA muscle hyper you
can certainly eat more protein than this
and it may be wise to in certain
circumstances but for the average person
eating much more than about 1.6 g of
protein per kilogram of body weight per
day is likely a waste so for the average
person 1.6 is a great number to start
that