if you think you need to train with free
weights grow muscle please watch this
video
welcome back to Wolf coaching today I'm
here with you soon to be Dr Milo wolf
let me myth bust right off the bat no
barbells and free weights do not grow
more muscle than machines do says who
says a 2022 method analysis looking at
all the studies comparing free weights
to machines for hypertrophy strength
power outcomes and functional outcomes
even for muscle hypertrophy no
differences so if you want to have
machines you can trade with machines if
you want to have free weights you can
train free weights both will lead to
substantial hypertrophy that being said
strength adaptations are specific so if
you want to get better at free weight
movements like the bench the squat the
deadlift you probably should do most of
your lifting with free weights on the
other hand if you have goals to max out
that nasty overhead press machine you
should probably do most of your training
using machines now the absolute barbell
lovers will say well I think Barnard
training is more functional what I say
is probably not indeed when you looked
at measures of strengths that were
neutral in other words used neither a
machine nor free weights in this
meta-analysis there were no differences
in strength improvements whether people
used machines or whether they used free
weights so you can get good functional
or overall strength improvements whether
you're using machines or free weights
they will both do a good job and in fact
as a random anecdote never have I met
someone who can comfortably max out most
machines who can live life pretty well
who can move around lift things in daily
life walk around I just never met
someone like that and in fact let's go
one step further a solid half or more of
my training has been Machine Heavy for
the past few years and I've grown muscle
stayed just as functional I'm Still
Loving Life walking around jumping and
doing whatever healthy people do now
that we know that you can use either
machines or barbells and still grow
muscle just fine gain overall functional
strength just fine and even get power
outcomes just fine let's discuss some of
the pros and cons of barbell training
versus say machine training let's start
with the benefits of barbell training
for one most barbell lifts generally
train a lot of muscle groups pretty well
at once if you take for example the
squat exercise you're training your
quads pretty well you're training your
glutes pretty well your training your
adductors pretty well you're training
even your lower back to an extent you're
even training other muscle groups the
exact same thing goes for the deadlift
and the deadlift you're training your
hamstrings you're training your glutes
to train your adductors you're even
training your quads you're training your
lower back you're training your upper
traps you're training your forearms
there's a lot of muscle groups being
trained at least reasonably well so if
you're someone who doesn't have a ton of
time during the week to train barbell
compounds can be a really nice way to
get a lot of stimulus and not much time
second benefit progression on barbell
lifts is usually pretty achievable
adding two and a half kilograms or five
pounds to the bar is pretty achievable
for a lot of trainees every week or
every few weeks on the other hand if you
were to use dumbbells or even cables or
some machines the increments of weight
you have to jump week to week or every
few weeks are a bit larger sometimes so
if you're dead lifting say three 400
pounds adding five pounds each week
pretty achievable going to that next
increment on the plate loaded leg press
on the plate lower leg extension that
can be a lot harder you could absolutely
circumvent this issue by using something
like a double progression where you add
reps week to week before eventually
adding weight and repeating that process
but that is a bit more complicated and
it is a slight benefit to barbell Based
training benefit number three depending
on who you are if you're around 18 years
old and male this could be a pretty big
benefit or drawback depending on how you
see it barbells have pretty Universal
strength standards there's a lot of
people out there doing the barbell lifts
so if you want to have standards to
shoot for or goals to shoot for that can
be pretty easy to set however if you're
doing the Cybex leg press there's not
that many people that have used the
Civics like pressing golden straw on it
so you don't quite know what is a
reasonable expectation for a goal to
shoot for so for motivation's sake
sometimes for some people barbells can
be nice the next benefit is that
barbells can be easily tracked across
different gyms yes different plates are
not perfectly accurate not every 45
pound plate out there weighs exactly 45
pounds but equally most gyms out there
have a bar they have plates and so when
you're traveling a lot and going from
one gym to the next the machine that
you're using in one gym may not even be
available in another and the amount of
resistance on one machine doesn't always
translate super well to another whereas
with barbells you are for the most part
dealing with the exact amount of weight
every single time that you lift and so
if you're traveling a lot and you want
to still progress and keep track of your
numbers barbells and plates can be a
really nice way of keeping track of your
progression and making sure you're
pushing yourself sufficiently hard every
single week finally and this is for all
you sad Schmucks who train in Home Gyms
barbells are incredibly versatile there
is a a lot of exercises you can do with
barbells if there was one piece of
equipment that I think pretty much every
home gym should have it would probably
be a barbell and some plates with that
you can train pretty much every muscle
group in your body at least reasonably
well so while barbells and free weights
may not be always the answer in the
context of a commercial gym if your home
gym lifter was kind of broke or who
doesn't have much space available
barbells and plates are awesome
now that I've said way too many nice
things about barbells and freeway
training for a video that's all about
denying the benefits of barbell training
and denying science at large let me talk
about the downsides of barbell training
and maybe even the upsides of machine
training let's go back to benefit number
one barbells do a good job of training a
lot of muscle groups at once but only
reasonably well oftentimes you get some
stimulus for hypertrophy for a lot of
muscle groups but the stimulus can be
kind of lackluster for example if you're
doing a wide grip bench with a barbell
especially
you don't get a ton of hypertrophy or
stretch in your chest triceps and front
delts typically as opposed to for
example a mice machine that allows you
to go way past your chest you know you
don't have the barbell touching you
limiting your range of motion you can
get way deeper and by going deeper on
certain machines you can actually get
more growth in certain areas so while
barbells serve as a good coverall tool
for hypertrophy and stimulus across a
variety of muscle groups they're rarely
the best option for a given muscle group
yeah just change the outfits for the
culture you feel me what's that there's
a plan in the background where there
used to be none don't worry about it
second downside to border training
barbell lifts are very fatiguing for a
variety of stabilizer Moss groups let's
say you're a barbell purist Mark ripito
is your uncle all you think is fives and
hip drives here's the issue with that if
all you do or barbell lifts like squats
like deadlifts like bent over rows turns
out all of those involve stabilizer
muscle groups like the lower back and
they can very well be the case when you
mostly or exclusively stick to barbell
training that your lower back struggles
to recover long before your quads
hamstrings chest back get a proper
training stimulus to optimize
hypertrophy so just by sticking to
barbell lifts when you shouldn't you may
actually be limiting the growth of
bigger muscle groups that are more
important than just your lower back now
for the third downside to moral lifts
barbell lift are actually pretty poor in
terms of time efficiency picture this
you can squat 500 pounds you can deal
with 600 pounds you know how long it's
going to take you to warm up to do some
working sets of those lifts quite a
while it may take you on average 15 to
30 minutes if you're being pretty time
efficient now those are 15 to 30 minutes
you could be spending actually training
instead especially with Alternatives
like machines especially pin loaded
machines with pinboarded machines all
you need to do is select the weight do
maybe two to four warm-up sets which
could take you about 10 minutes and you
could have an additional 10 or 20
minutes to do more working sets get more
effective training in and actually grow
more muscle so if you're someone who
doesn't have much time barbell lifts in
some cases can be a pretty poor choice
in terms of time efficiency finally
training to failure or close to failure
on barbell lifts can be somewhere
between somewhat unsafe and quite risky
in light of recent research and as you
may see if you've seen this video right
here if you haven't seen it already I
recommend you go watch it training close
to failure is pretty important for apple
tree if you can't drink quite as close
to failure when trading with barbell
lifts because you don't have a spotter
safe and you're benching failing on the
bench without a spotter and without
safeties
it's pretty risky I wouldn't advise
doing it and so if by doing barbell
lifts you're also training further from
failure that may very well be limiting
your hypertrophy whereas with the
machine oftentimes you can go to failure
and there's essentially no risk involved
as far as crushing yourself or anything
like that goes so if a machine allows
you to train closer to failure than a
barbell liftwood that's another big
downside for hypertrophy of barbell
lifts anyways that's the video the video
was so good I had to change outfits move
the plant in the background just because
of how long it would take and bring to
you so if you enjoy the video reward all
of my hard work with a good old like a
good old comment and create seven
accounts and subscribe with all of them
to get that subscriber count up hey my
cat's food it's not going to pay for
itself I'm going to start running some
ads before the video after the video
during the video just joking I'm not
going to do that but if you could
subscribe that'll be very nice anyways
hope you will enjoy the video If you
enjoyed the video please come back next
time as we discuss more science-based
information that's it that's the video
peace
that's where the microphone previously
cut off so now it's uh
where the is that at where are we
what am I doing here that's not it that
is also not it there we go