another clue to if you're stimulating
the muscle properly is the burn and
that's seen in a medical context when
people don't wear proper protection I
know that resonates with you personally
because the conversation we had right
before this I don't mean to expose you
but Chris you could just be making
better choices is what I'm trying to say
all theoretical I've never been with a
woman as everyone who watches our
YouTube knows but on a serious note the
burn is in especially higher rep sets
when you start feeling the accumulation
of metabolic byproducts in the Target
muscle so the chest fly analogy if
you're doing High rep Peck flies and at
the end of that set your pecs are
burning hey that's probably good you're
probably getting a good stimulus there
on the other hand if it's just your
biceps that are burning but your pecs
don't really feel much are you getting a
stimulus in that exercise yeah sure is
it guaranteed to be a really robust
really good stimulus probably not cuz
you should be feeling some combination
of tension and burn and then also
there's pump again none of these are
mandatory but together they're kind of
like puzzle pieces that take what could
be a C+ exercise for you and make it an
A+ exercise if you're getting all the
feelings right on this