foreign
to the house of hypertrophy 2022 is
nearly over and I thought it would be a
nice idea to overview some great muscle
and strength papers published this year
let's waste no time and dive in
the last few years
the research has provided great insight
into how training muscles at stretched
positions is great for hypertrophy 2022
is no different with further papers
comparing range of motions different
exercises and exploring stretching in
between sets let's overview them a
Brazilian study published very recently
demonstrates how a partial range of
motion Ash strikes the links could be
superior for muscle hypertrophy these
researchers had untrained women train
their cars with this exercise for three
sets of 15 to 20 reps to failure three
times per week for eight weeks one group
trained with a full range of motion
another group with a partial range of
motion with the calves at a stretched
position and a third group with a
partial range of motion with the calves
at a shortened position
medial and lateral gastrocnemius growth
tended to be superior for the partial
range of motion as stretched positions
versus the two other conditions there
was a previous study last year that
comparably found with leg extensions
using a partial range of motion that
stretched positions was overall Superior
for Quad hypertrophy to a full range of
motion or a partial range of motion that
shortened positions so partials at
stretched positions may be superior for
hypertrophy however it's worth
considering these two studies were done
on untrained women and that two studies
itself isn't an abundance of evidence so
I'm looking forward to further future
research on stretched partials but I do
think a person could experiment with
stretched partials if they wish and see
if they notice any enhanced gains
another Japanese paper this year
compared triceps hypertrophy between
overhead extensions and pushdowns due to
the long triceps head Anatomy this
muscle would be stretched with overhead
extensions and the researchers found the
long hair triceps growth was greater
with overhead extensions fascinatingly
the overhead extensions also grew the
combined medial and lateral heads more
in theory these muscles wouldn't be
stretched anymore with overhead
extensions versus push Downs so it's not
mechanistically clear why this occurred
in any event this Japanese study was
overall really awesome moving forward
thus stretching in between sets help
builds more muscle a recent review study
out of the USA examined the literature
they initially detail an array of
potential Ways by which stretch could
signal muscle growth we've actually
detailed how stretch forces signals
hypertrophy in a previous in-depth video
however they also know how static
stretching in humans doesn't seem to be
great for hypertrophy although extreme
static stretching could be for example
this 2022 German study found that
performing this calf stretch for one
hour daily produced significant
gastrocnemius growth when stretching
between sets as the researchers notes
ideally you'd want to get into the
stretch immediately after the lowering
phase of an exercise and loaded
stretching could be ideally used here
this is because during the lowering
phase elements in your muscles that
produce stretching forces are in a
stiffer State something that could be
beneficial for signaling muscle growth
more so getting into the stretch
straight after the lowering phase would
theoretically leverage these stiffer
stretching forces to Signal more
hypertrophy indeed a study by Silva and
colleagues found getting straight into a
calf stretch for 30 seconds between calf
press sets produce significantly greater
gastrocnemius growth however this paper
wasn't actually ever published it was
only presented at some conference
but another very recent study also found
that getting straight into a calf
stretch for 20 seconds between calf
presses produce greater Soleus growth
but it did not produce greater
gastrocnemius growth with studies that
do not have subjects get into a stretch
straight after the lowering phase of an
exercise they largely failed to find
stretching between sets to be better but
it does not seem to compromise growth
either a USA study found in between
bench press sets moving over to
cable-fly machines to stretch the chest
produce similar gains to just resting
passively between sets a Japanese paper
found that in between flywheel squats
moving over to a table to stretch the
quadriceps produce similar gains to just
resting passively
having said this another USA study did
actually find that in between sets of a
range of exercises moving to a 30 second
stretch did enhance hypertrophy in
previously untrained individuals as the
researchers of this year's review
describe in summary emerging evidence
suggests that intercept stretch May
enhance muscular adaptations its
Effectiveness appears to be predicated
on performing the stretch immediately
after the final repetition of a set
which conceivably takes advantage of the
residual effects of previous eccentric
actions I want to add my own limitations
here they're still far from a ton of
research on stretching between sets
moreover the paper that found calf
stretching enhanced Soleus growth only
indicates slightly more Soleus growth
not a ton in any case you could
experiment with stretching between sets
if you wish I'm looking forward to more
data in this area
foreign
as you progress across your training
career the amount of hypertrophy and
strength you experience drops off
however emerging data indicates training
breaks could reset your responsiveness
to training there's a protein called
p70sxk involved in a signaling pathway
that promotes muscle hypertrophy a great
study from Germany this year found seven
consecutive training sessions were
enough to significantly reduce the
activation of p70 s6k after training in
other words it was less responsive
however a 10-day training break was able
to restore p70sxk's responsiveness to
training in other words training bricks
might reset the responsibility of your
anabolic Pathways and perhaps this
results in more muscle hypertrophy long
term the research on training bricks is
very much in its infancy and I have a
video detailing some other research on
training brakes at the very least I'd
use this data to show individuals
absolutely should not be worried
whatsoever about training brakes
the debate about how much muscle growth
contributes to strength is always
ongoing and a recent study examined
correlations between bench press one
right max strength and the range of
measurements various measures of muscle
hypertrophy did strongly correlate with
bench press 1 right max strength the
subjects of this study bench pressed in
average 91 kilograms but even in more
Elite power lifters lean mass strongly
correlates with bench press squats and
deadlift strength in fact a study last
year found muscle hypertrophy
measurements were the best predictors of
bench press strength in power lifters
more so than elbow or shoulder flexion
strength and Technical factors now these
studies are all correlations but I'd
argue these findings make sense one main
way hypertrophy occurs is by increasing
the number of force generating units it
has in parallel this directly increases
the force that muscle can produce and
presumably benefit strength
if you've made it here I have a free
ebook you might like The Ultimate Guide
to bench pressing for strength and
hypertrophy with more than 100
scientific references from technique to
training variables to comparisons and
other fascinating science we cover it
all grab it through the link in the
description or comments
[Music]