hey folks Dr Mike here with Renaissance
periodization for Renaissance
periodization and even by Renaissance
presentation why not simple tips for
increasing your bench you want them I
think because you're watching this video
and boy do we have them as a matter of
fact I think we have seven of them so
what are they these are super simple
there are more advanced questions that
you can ask which is why you'll
hopefully be tuning in next week for our
Advanced periodization bench press
Improvement video but nonetheless I will
say this
if you haven't checked the boxes on all
these seven simple tips I wouldn't even
move into the advanced stuff you could
watch that video to get our algorithm
going get me more Lambos but at the end
of the day the simple stuff is something
you just have to work through before you
get to the advanced stuff because first
of all simpler it's easier to do and
also it has a huge ability to move your
bench a ton whereas the advanced stuff
moves it by a smaller margin but the
advanced stuff only works best if you're
already advanced and you really need it
otherwise the simple stuff works much
better
like like if you have a standing army
and they need to be able to fight
getting like each guy a gun is probably
more important than like how advanced
your best bomber is guess that you know
so kind of a simple situation there so
bench Improvement tips on the simple and
here we go number one
is to standardize your good technique
there's two problems potentially there
one you don't know good technique you
don't know how to retract your shoulder
blades and arch your back if you need
help on that YouTube has like an
Infinity videos on bench press technique
literally just find any two or three of
them
all the points that these videos agree
on
just write down on a fucking napkin and
just do and almost all of them are gonna
agree lat talking and elbow flare and
all this other stuff fine at least learn
how to retract your shoulder blades get
your chest up arch your back and get
proper position
so first learn the right technique and
second of all practice that good
technique and make yourself technically
mindful so that every repetition looks
pretty much the same every set looks the
same every week looks the same and then
after a while you're just really good at
executing that movement pattern because
a lot of people Miss benches as
beginners
because every rep and every lift looked
different and sometimes they push their
chest up sometimes they're collapsed and
their shoulders are forward and they're
like why'd I miss that bench well
motherfucker you can't even diagnose the
problem because your Technique is
different every time right if you drove
to my house five different ways
and each one of them was on average 40
minutes long but like some of them were
an hour and a half and some of them you
got in at 20 minutes you'd be like what
am I doing wrong my first response would
be like you're taking a whole bunch of
ways that are clearly not optimal at
least start taking one way and we can
move that way to where it's better or
worse and get you going right so same
thing with bench establishing good
technique I'll tell you guys this before
if I if I watch your bench in real life
if I spot you or something I'm at some
gym Across America the world you're like
Dr Mike can you spot me on the bench
like if my Butlers don't push you away
from me and blow smoke in your face then
yes the answer is yes I spot you
if I watch you be inconsistent rep to
represent to set on your Technique and
you ask me like dude like I'm trying to
get my bench up what can I do best this
is legit the shit I'll tell you it's
like real talk 101 like before your
Technique is not good and standardized I
have nothing else to tell you except for
practice or technique so it's good and
then standardize but just to say it's
good and you can consistently replicate
that good technique
next
simple tip is spend a lot of time in the
306 rep range a bunch of people who want
a bigger bench press do lots of one rep
max tests with a bench dog because
that's fun High School 101 and then they
also do a lot of like flies and
Crossovers and bodybuilding work and
high rep dumbbell presses and they'll
think well yeah like this one gets my
muscles bigger but the max tests to find
big muscles or making my bed stronger
sure that's the case the problem is
there's not much training of the nervous
system going on training in the heavy
rep ranges with enough volume so that it
really gets the message of learning how
to push really hard because if you Max
test it's more like showing off it's not
enough volume it's not enough practice
for you to train on in your brain and
spinal cord and all the peripheral
nerves they don't get so good at
recruiting your muscles to do the high
Force for low reps thing the way to get
them to do that is lots of sets of three
to six repetitions like sets of five and
shit like that that's one of the reasons
why starting strength for beginners work
so fucking well motherfucker you need
lots of sets of fives and shit like that
in order to practice lifting heavy
weights for low enough reps to where you
can still really practice your strength
that's how your strength goes up it's
not rocket science
could you do lots of doubles and singles
yeah but then you'd have to do a
crapload of them to get enough volume to
really increase your strength and if
that volume lots of singles and injury
risk is a little high your shoulders and
elbows and stuff might start to give you
trouble sets of three to six is that
awesome way to build what's called basic
strength in sports science and a lot of
people just don't spend a lot of time in
that range because it's neither the fun
part of showing off your bench nor the
fun part of getting big pumps
it's right in the middle it's kind of
boring it's kind of painful it kind of
grinds you holy fucking shit will make
you strong
so if you're wondering Max hasn't moved
up in a while regress back no more Run
Run Access and for a while no more High
Reps so that's a 20 on flies just lots
of sets of three to six in the compound
Basics especially bench press holy
fucking shit you're gonna get strong
and to that point number three
recommendation is to press more often
all right remember Dan Green had an
article uh That Shook the sort of
powerlifting world back like maybe oh
eight or ten years ago and it was called
bench more to bench more and it's a play
on words but it was like bench press
more often to be able to bench press
more weight
a bench mortar Benchmark if it was both
on weight it's kind of uh not really a
point of itself right so
phenomenal article on phenomenal core
concept there that many people have
rediscovered since then for all the
other lifts the reason that was
forgotten at the time was because
equipped lifting was their dominant
modality people did you know squat suits
and bench shirts in an adventure you you
can't do competition matching all the
time because it'll beat you straight to
shit it'll rip your shirt into pieces
you'll need a new shirt every three
weeks because it'll just fuck it up this
is not something you do
but people came from the equipped side
and started to train raw and they did
all this assistance work and all this
other stuff and think their bench was
going to go up and it didn't go up much
but it turned out specificity is King
and for raw benching you can actually
bench press That's a five and that's a
whatever that you need and you can do it
multiple times a week without your
shoulders and your elbows killing you
equipped too heavy too insane can't do
raw can do and so instead of pressing
one time a week try pressing maybe twice
a week if you're already pressing twice
a week try pressing whether it be
benching itself uh or just any kind of
compound process on machines dumbbells
bench incline Etc
more compound heavy pressing makes you a
better compound heavy presser and if
lots of that is bench press itself in
many cases you're just going to get
better at benching you practice what you
uh want to get good at and you get good
at it there's shocker right specificity
principle what I don't want you guys to
do is like bench one time a week and
then be confused as to why your bench
isn't going up typically if you do
anything once a week in sports science
we consider you maintaining that there's
some maintenance program so don't do
that bench two or three times a week and
your bench will probably go up now of
course you don't just take your one time
a week workout and multiply it you have
to reduce the volumes to account for the
fact that you should be recovered for
every one of these workouts
so if you get utterly sore from eight
sets of pressing but you need to be
healed in a day and a half do like four
sets of pressing you'll get a great high
quality heavy workout and the next time
you go you do another four sets of
pressing amazing high quality workout a
little stronger a little stronger a
little stronger
next is doing the right accessories
you can do wobble board shit you can do
lockout work shit but that's all stuff
from equipped lifting that either was
stupid back then and shouldn't be done
back then or is good for equipped
lifting not great for all lifting
so the best kinds of accessories tend to
be deep dumbbell flies wide grip presses
close grip presses Jam presses Skull
Crushers things that break down the
various components of the bench press
movement
being the high pack involvement down
here and the high tricep involvement
here and train those in their own way
with their own limiting factors if you
manage to get Ultra strong triceps from
doing Skull Crushers or ultra big
triceps doing Skull Crushers get them
Ultra strong doing these heavy Jam
presses and heavy close grip benches if
your triceps are limiting factor once
you go back to your competition bench
press where it's off the chest your
lockouts are going to be like they never
were and you're going to bench more
plain and simple and the opposite is the
case for chest which brings me to my
next point point number five strengthen
your chest yes strengthening your
triceps will make you bench more
but TBH In The Raw bench press
the chest tends to be the biggest
limiting factor in my experience as a
coach as a person who watches power
lifting meets from the corner
usually in a trench coat not always am I
wearing an anything under that trench
coat no it would be too hot
of course I'm not wearing anything in
any case the hell was I talking about
chest
for the bench press Raw
is in many ways like quads are to Raw
squatting in equipment it's different
but in raw squatting quads are it
they're like 70 percent of the
relationship between how much you squat
and what size and strength your various
muscles are if you have big strong
fucking quads bro with some simple fixes
and just getting a decent posterior
chain you're a big squatter
whereas on the other hand if you have a
gnarly strong posterior chain but the
little tiny quads raw squatting is gonna
be fucking hard
in the same way you can have amazing
super strong triceps you will be able to
bench a lot
but nothing drives big benches like big
pecs and if you guys have ever seen the
top raw bench pressers physiques
they're like fucking insane like uh
Daniels I'm on I think is his name he's
from Iran he's benched over 700 700 a
few times raw I don't understand how he
like walks around or sleeps because his
pec's like right here
R.I.P Nick Winters from back in the day
benched over 700 raw I didn't I saw him
in real life I didn't think he was a
real person it didn't make sense to me
how someone's upper Peck could like come
out like six inches this way and then
drop down it was nonsense
right you'll see lots of Articles
triceps are the key to benching they're
all outdated they're all old they're all
from the equipped days the way to get a
bigger Rob bench on average for the
average person is to prioritize both
chest and triceps put a lot of chest
work so
deep dumbbell flies right there was I
forget who his name was his name is Mike
McDonald from back in the day he was uh
pressing uh I think was a really stupid
shirt that didn't do anything so more or
less Raw
I think he weighed like just over 200
pounds and he was pressing over 600 raw
Okay so
sweetly insane shit and allegedly
he could do the 100 pound dumbbells for
deep strict flies for sets of ten you
guys ever see someone do shit like that
what the fuck I would walk into the gym
and see that and be like that that's my
cue to leave I'm never coming back to
the gym this is clearly a place for
people not like me it is a place for
Gods right and I'm just a little league
sports scientist
on my best days
try B like that be like Mike
you just like get big ass packs and then
benching kind of takes care of itself
right so that's a huge recommendation
deep dumbbell flies wide grip bench fork
with a pause if you can get your hands
on a camber bar oh fucking beautiful
all right all these things work or
didn't let's say they worked but you can
be in a position and this is point
number six where your body is just stale
on benching you've been benching three
times a week for months and months and
months your body's just can't handle any
much overreached specifically on the
bench press as a lift that happens right
your stimulus to fatigue ratio for
benches down here but you're doing it
all the time
get away from benching
make two or three muscle cycles for
yourself which say I'm gonna gain muscle
for the bench but it's going to be
through everything about the bench press
do some incline dumbbell stuff just some
machine presses do some Skull Crushers
do some flies Etc still hitting those
muscles chest triceps front delts Etc
but no benching
when you come back to benching a few
months later it's going to feel alien
and fucking weird but it's going to be
refreshed like crazy and then when you
re-assert your Technique you might be
able to actually improve your Technique
because you learn old shitty habits to
stay with you and if you do something
all the time you just keep doing it
shitty but if you get away from it you
sort of forget a little bit when you
come back you can start doing it right
again
for the first time again for the first
time
um a music CD by Dr Mike do you guys
think I should release a musical album
Scott's a sound engineer by training so
we could get it pop it could be rap r b
country I do a little country so in any
case that aside let me know in the
comments if you want
to go rap rock slash uh what's that
guy's name uh Bubba Sparks
I'm the new Bubba sparse I didn't want
to just throw that to you guys but it's
true so we'll get some some of that all
mixed together for you
if
you come back to benching after having
been away for a while your bench max
will be down don't fucking test your ax
don't do it go back to sets of five to
ten and then your Technique will feel
better and all of a sudden after a few
weeks you'll be hitting the biggest sets
of five to ten you've ever hit because
you have new big muscles and your bench
is so refreshed it's just grooving
then you go to sets of three to six
crushing all-time PR's Tire testing your
max after that voila bigger Max right so
sometimes getting away from the thing
actually helps you with the thing
last one is gain weight
okay Daniel's I'm on or whatever from
Iran there's not like a real big mystery
it's the Holly bench 700 I mean it's
really impressive but he weighs like
fucking 700 if he doesn't really but
he's like 300 something it's fucking
enormous
and if you ultimately want a bigger
bench gain weight and while you gain
weight train the shit out of your chest
shoulders and triceps specific to
benching is even better
right lots of sets of five to ten
compound presses and tricep moves and
flies as you gain weight once you get to
whatever weight you want to be or after
you burn the fat off start doing lots of
sets of three to six and then Peak with
sets of one to one to three and then
voila you have a bigger bench because
your pecs shoulders and triceps are
bigger if you want to stay in a certain
way class or if you don't want to get
any bigger that's not an option for you
but most of the other ones are but if
you just want a bigger bench and
someone's like hey like you'll have to
be more muscular you're like well shit
that's like two good things
give it a shot let me know what you
think comments below like subscribe buy
stuff
and uh
yeah the last thing I'll say is if
you're really having trouble some of
your lifts come and join us on team full
ROM just go on Instagram or just go on
the internet type team full ROM and by
link will show up and we have a Facebook
group in which you can post as many
videos as you like and people critique
your Technique
and you can post your programs and
people critique those too and get you
better programs and you get a bunch of
free stuff it's all included and weekly
lives with myself and Charlie and Jared
that's all good stuff but if you're
really struggling to lift or a bunch of
lifts come to teamful ROM help us out
and um or we'll help you out rather and
you can help us out with the Lamborghini
money but uh outside of that folks best
of luck and we'll see you next week for
the advanced version of this which
doesn't mean it's the better version
it's just for people that have already
done all these So within the next week
we're starting the timer now go do all
these Basics come back in a week you'll
be Advanced see you next time