now when we talk about form from Mark a
lot of what we deal with is that upper
cross syndrome upper cross syndrome not
a real syndrome by the way this is make
belief PT a lot of that little
slouch that all of us are developing all
of us are not developing a slouch from
the sedentary lifestyle or the texting
right texting does not promote folks
posture is the single biggest Cesspool
of ever posture is mostly
genetic it has almost nothing to do with
muscle strength it's just how you
usually sit nobody has bad posture
because their pecs are too strong and
their back is too weak you'll notice
something about your muscles they're not
just on all theing time if your pecs are
really big and strong my pecs are rather
big and strong if I say so myself what
are they doing right now not diddly dick
I'm not sitting with my packs activated
where the do these people come from wait
a minute
Hollywood