[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth busting a this week we're gonna
be looking at the recommendation that
you need to drink at least eight glasses
of water per day so first where did this
common suggestion come from well in 1974
Frederick J stair and dr. Margaret
McWilliams wrote in their book nutrition
for good health how much water each day
for the average adult somewhere around
six to eight glasses per 24 hours and
this can be in the form of coffee tea
milk etc however that recommendation
probably got exaggerated over the years
as now I think most people would
consider the eight glasses suggestion to
be exclusive to water so things like
coffee beer etc wouldn't count toward
your daily totals so I think the
question is is there any actual
scientific evidence to support this idea
well the short answer is not really
and this is mainly due to the fact that
individual water requirements will vary
greatly from person to person based on
their size and level of physical
activity and it'll also vary based on
the time of the year and even location
because differences in temperature or
climate can determine how much water you
need um so as highlighted in an
Institute of Medicine panel on Dietary
Reference Intakes
there is no single daily total water
requirement for a given person and in
fact when it comes to determining the
total amount of water that you should
drink pretty much every academic paper
I've looked at it just gives a simple
recommendation that most healthy people
can adequately meet their daily water
intake by simply using thirst as a guide
now there are some exceptions to this
advice such as for the elderly where
thirst feedback can be sort of
dysregulated so they may need to drink
more water prophylactically or monitor
it more closely and although many people
wouldn't count caffeinated drinks toward
their total daily water intake since
caffeine is a mild diuretic one 2007
review on hydration needs throughout the
lifespan notes that coffee tea and other
caffeine containing beverages do not
increase your an output or negatively
affect indicators of hydration status
and those who are accustomed to
consuming caffeine and alcohol is
another source of water often described
as having a net diuretic effect but in
fact while it appears to be true for the
first three hours post consumption that
actually increases water retention by
six to twelve hours post consumption and
this is an idea supported by the
Institute of medicines conclusion that
alcohol would not result in appreciable
fluid losses over a 24-hour period but
with all that said I think that using
thirst as a guide may be suitable for
regular everyday activities but may not
fully cover the hydration needs during
exercise especially when you consider
just how much dehydration can negatively
impact gym performance 1 2015
meta-analysis from civilian colleagues
found at three percent dehydration which
is common to see and hard training
athletes resulted in significantly
decreased muscular strength power and
endurance and across all 28 studies
there was an average performance drop of
about five percent and this fact can be
especially problematic given that thirst
often has a delayed onset meaning that
you're probably already about two
percent dehydrated by the time you start
to feel thirsty so what are some actual
practical recommendations well according
to a 2016 issue of Alan Aragon's
research review athletes should consume
6 to 10 ounces of water prior to
activity and then another 7 ounces of
fluid every 15 to 20 minutes of exercise
and adding electrolytes carbs and amino
acids or protein to the mixture can help
draw more water in and in terms of daily
intake I like an old recommendation from
Lila MacDonald it states that your pee
should be clear or slightly yellow
throughout the whole day and if you're
peeing five times throughout the day and
twice after a workout and you're doing
pretty well and as one final note on
this the idea that water especially cold
water can aid in fat loss by boosting
metabolism is not supported by the
scientific literature one 2015 study
showed that the vast majority of studies
found little or no increase in resting
energy expenditure from water
consumption of it with that said
swapping out calorie containing drinks
like alcohol and sugary sodas with water
certainly can help reduce total daily
caloric intake and since water can help
make you feel fuller especially when
consumed with a meal that makes sense
why many studies do in fact
the increased water consumption is
usually associated with increased weight
loss so it's straightforward calorie
reduction and satiety not a unique
metabolism boosting a property of water
which would be just totally negligible
in the grand scheme so to wrap this one
up I would say the idea that you need to
drink eight glasses of water a day is
pretty much busted there's simply too
many variables at play to make one
strict recommendation that's broadly
applicable and the scientific community
at large agrees that healthy individuals
should be able to simply use thirst as a
guide for hydration and in the case of
rigorous exercise I would add the goal
of drinking extra water and that tries
to approximate the level of sweat that
you've lost and aim for at least five to
seven clear urinations throughout the
day as a rough guide um so that's it for
this one guys before we go I have to
thank audible for sponsoring this video
one question I'll get asked all the time
is what books I read and since it's not
always easy to get reading in on the go
in print form I've been relying on
audible as my source of audiobooks for
the last three or four years at least
and that's because it's just so
convenient when you're on the move I'm
actually currently reading the new
Stephen King book at the outsider and
I'm a pretty big Stephen King fan myself
and this one's really great so far I'm
so if you guys would like to get started
with an exclusive free 30-day trial and
your free audiobook of choice and go to
audible.com forward slash Jeff Nippert
or text Jeff nipper to five hundred five
hundred and I'll have that as the first
link in the description other service
comes highly recommended
so I recommend you go check it out and
thank you audible so much for your
support on the channel thank you guys so
much for watching and I'll see you all
here next Monday