stop crying about the 52 set study
please enough enough enough enough with
a coping and seeing about that study I
have personally have had it now allow me
to throw some
disclaimers one amazing job by the
researchers on carrying out that study
it was a really well done study and
study that um contributed greatly to the
current literature two I have no uh
official affiliation with the authors of
the study nor have I collaborated on the
b in any sort of weight three my
personal bias is if anything that you
know I would love for lower volumes to
be better than higher volumes and for us
to be able to maximize her birre with
just you know sub 10 sets ideally and
for for those of you that don't know in
the evidence-based lifting Community aka
the top successful that is that
community I literally spat while saying
it PR slip maybe I don't know we've been
having this in unnecessarily intense
sort of discussion discussion debates
not not really much debating going on
there's been this overreaction about a
study that recently came out for those
of you that don't know that study by Nal
you can find the link in the bio
essentially looked at three different
groups of trained individuals who
performed the squad leg person and leg
exended for their quots and over their
period of 12 weeks one group stayed at
22 sets for their quots per week split
in two sessions two training sessions
the other two groups essentially added
sets added four or six sets and
progressed and essentially increased
their volume by quite a bit and the
highest volume group at the end of the
study reached for two weeks they did 52
sets of quad
training now that was the study what the
study found was that all groups made
substantial muscle hypertrophy gains and
there was no statistical significance
between the group that performed the 52
sets in the other groups but if you look
closely at the results you can see that
the group that did more also gain more
and did not lose muscle or overtrain or
whatever if we look at dropouts in the
study the lowest dropouts were in the
highest volume group not that that gives
us a definitive answer to anything but
still worth noting if we look at
strength results the group that did more
volume gained substantially more
strength uh something that everybody has
chosen to ignore or complet this sleep
on site for some
reason a lot of people lost their minds
over that study even being conducted as
if it's a bad thing to look at extremes
now keep in mind that these individuals
just trained their quads with 52 sets
for the last two weeks on average they
did about 37 sets of quad training per
week if you care about a pro deep dive
in the literature around training volume
uh We've released 7 hours worth of
podcasting with multiple citations and a
lot of uh Insight in the history of
training willing research go ahead and
check out the strong Stronger by science
podcast um and specifically the episodes
extreme volumes extreme gains question
mark part one and part two for an
absolute deep de now what has annoyed me
the most aside from people questioning
whether the study was legit cuz that's a
big accusation made and also acting as
if having that study is a Bad Thing
acting as if those researchers
contributing to the current literature
with an extreme study is a bad thing as
if we don't have multiple studies in
many other fields that are proof of
concept studies or whatever that look at
extreme things nobody lost their minds
over that study that took people and had
them stress their calves uh what what
was it like 7 hours a week at a 9 out of
10 intensity um so daily but aside from
that what has annoyed me personally the
most is that people have literally
argued and have made videos and reaction
over something nobody has said on the
back of that study there was nobody that
said okay there's this study now we're
going to take the results of the study
and we're going to prescribe 52 sets for
every everybody out there or 37 sets
without considering their previous
training volume their preferences their
recovery capabilities or whatever nobody
nobody came out and said okay this study
is now has now changed my volume
recommendations and I'm going to shift
to much more extreme training Vols for
everybody no matter their circumstances
there's no greater conspiracy the here
even if you were to listen to podcast
with myself Milo and Dr Brad sheld going
over the that study of the results the
Practical takeaways from that study are
at best hey if you want to do more for a
certain muscle group the current
literature shows that you're not going
to lose muscle and you're not going to
randomly overt trrain and in some cases
you may actually be able to make more
Gams so if you're working with an
individual or with yourself and you have
that one muscle group that it does not
seem to grow no matter what and you've
been doing you know 10 to 20 sets per
muscle group for that muscle group per
week you may be able to do 20 to 30 sets
or maybe even a bit more and potentially
make that educated bet and potentially
make some more gains not that we all
need to be doing more and more and more
or that there's a new volume range that
everybody should be following for each
muscle group
simultaneously phone out because the
extreme reaction that this study
received I think thing somewhat came off
the back of meme file and I made and
collaborated with on Instagram with Dr
Brad sheld where we're essentially I'll
show it on the screen on on as a title
we have the chn B is a myth question
mark exclamation mark on the side on the
side we have a bunch of soy jaacks
saying no you're doing too many sets a
picture of Mike mener you're actually
going to lose muscle and an article that
says junk volume is hurting your gaze
and on the right side you have a chat
telling you really even 30 plus sets
increases muscle growth which is a fact
30 plus sets does increase muscle growth
now whether that's more than 20 sets
whether that's okay for everybody that
is a different question but the point of
that Meme was that hey you're not going
to suddenly overtrain or lose muscle
even if you push has 30 sets for a
muscle grp per week obviously while not
ignoring your body telling you hey I am
clearly overreaching here you're
extremely short or you're losing sleep
and you're in pain every day still doing
30 plus sets per week obviously that's
not
implied let's read the caption that
spurred a lot of this controversy Now
new study doing 37 weekly sets leads to
more muscle growth than 20 weekly sets
question mark based on this study proba
it's worth noting that the best strength
gains occurred in the high volume 37
weekly sit group additionally while
hypertrophy outcomes were most favorable
in the high volume group differences
were not significant that said the
magnitude of difference was not worthy
and likely of practical significance as
you can see on the screen a few notes to
contextualize these findings
participants were training males with an
average sad of 1 RM of about 140 kg they
took at least 2 minutes of rest between
sets and since we're taking to two or
zero R now the text says approximately 2
rir which may be a limitation
additionally Ving was split across two
weekly sessions meaning per session
volume for the 12 was on average 11
versus 16 versus 19 sets now you could
ignore that finding say well the
difference in h wearing statistically
significant while it can be argued
whether that's a good view is a
statistically a significant P value of
0.051 really all that different from a
significant P value of
0.049 we must view these findings in
light uh of other research on very high
volumes when you zoom out you see that
this finding is not isolated most of the
other studies we were able to find found
generally better hyper when performing
over 25 to 30 sets versus less than with
20 week sets per muscle group and three
studies with pure and all findings
usually with smaller volume differences
between groups but here are some
implications first the wor months of jun
volume the upper limit of productive PR
session and weekly volume is likely
higher than we thought you may see more
girls doing over 30 sets uh per week for
muscle group that do 10 to 20 likewise
you can likely get up to 15 or more sets
in the session and continue to see
additional growth versus limiting it to
10 finally this may LED uh cre creat
anization phases with higher volumes
training all muscle groups with this
month volume may be challenging in terms
of both time invest and overall recovery
now that was the meme that essentially
started a bunch of controversy and
people were arguing against the idea
that you have to suddenly perform so
much more training volume and that you
should start at these extreme
volum this is another piece of the
volume puzzle
as it stands there seems to be a dose
response relationship between training
volume and hypertrophy without that
meaning it should be starting at 30 sets
per muscle grp per week everybody
including those accused of a high volume
bias are still recommending 10 plus sets
per week 10 to 20 sets per muscle group
if you want to make every educated there
that you can on maximizing hypertrophy
that doesn't mean that four sets for
musle for week one get you gazed it
doesn't mean that everybody will be able
to respond the same to 30 plus sets but
on average and factoring in the all the
assumptions that I have mentioned if you
can tolerate more volume and you want to
tell yourself that okay I'm doing
everything in my capability to
absolutely maximize High perch fee then
there are some cases where you could go
and do 30 sets for a given muscle group
per week what it be the most is that
people were and are still arguing
against something nobody really said
nobody said that hey this is the new
standard this is the new volume
recommendation our reaction was like oh
now people are going to start
recommending 52 sets for a week that's
way too much ha then the study came out
we read it thought oh cool actually that
oper threshold may be higher than we
thought cool another piece of the puzzle
recommendations don't change but for
that one client who really wants their
CS to be bigger and they'd be doing 20
sets per week for their cops now maybe
they can do 35 sets and a worst case
scenario they want lose gains and
they're going to make the same gains as
they would with 25 sets but there's a
chance they may make some additional
gains keep in mind that just because
there are certain studies that do show
that extreme training volumes may
actually lead to more growth you
shouldn't take that and just run with
that as your default approach to train V
I would even recommend people start a
bit lower start at the you know six to
10 sets per mus per week build from
there obviously judging whether you're
making progress or not is very difficult
after a specific point in your lifting
career if you're 10 years deep you won't
really know if something is really
working unless you're that one guy that
is you know getting an ultrasound
measurement every few weeks and you're
controlling for liter me every variable
in your life but even then you won't
know if what you're doing works better
or worse than something else that you
could be doing all that to
say don't lose your mind over what
people are saying about the study and
how it's presented there's no high
volume conspiracy nobody's telling you
that you're not going to be making
amazing gains with a few sets per week
even those that are accused of being
biased towards High BS will'll tell you
even in the papers that are usually
criticized that a few sets per week are
going to lead to significant gains and
that if you want more going up with 10
sets per muzzle group per week is
probably a good idea and it's likely to
get you more gains that said enough with
the crying about that study enough with
a random accusations Assan also pointed
towards the authors of the study or the
exercise science field stop coping stop
sing it's another small piece of the
puzzle let it rest let's please move on
and for those of you watching that we're
caught in the crossfire nothing has
really changed as far as Walling
recommendations go exerise side is not
lost things are not they're not worse
than they were back in the day it's not
like they're doing these crazy studies
now whoever says that does not really
understand science thank you so much for
watching don't forget to like subscribe
hit the notification Bell and the next
time you hear somebody cried about the
study and complain about the state of
exercise science slap them and then deal
with the consequences yourself this is
not a channel that advises you to be
actually physically causing harm to
people it was all just a joke here's
your disclaimer you thought you could
sue me you're not going to sue me this
is not medical advice this is not legal
advice this is not by any means any
actual serious advice for entertainment
purposes only as they see in front of
every rap video clip where they actively
talk about actual cases of people dying
so thank you for watching night's try
Matrix we're still out here
[Music]
peace