okay what is going on everyone um so I'm
just out here for a walk in Dallas Texas
right now I'm actually just vlogging on
the cell phone I got the little lapel
mic on here but yeah Steph and I decided
to come here kind of randomly on our way
back to Florida
we actually had tickets to see Travis
Scott in concert last night as we
checked that out that was absolutely
amazing as usual and I figured now would
be as good a time as any to fill you
guys in on a few of my travel tips so
how it is that I managed to stay on
track with my training and my name
Christian while I'm on the road or on
vacation or what have you I should say
right now I kind of have the worst of
both worlds because not only on the road
I'm also feeling it's not kind of sick
so I'm not gonna cover the sick part in
this video I did a video last year
almost exactly the same time where I
covered that so if you'd like to check
it out I'll have that linked in the
description box below I also put it up
here in the cards but basically what
I've been forced to do because of the
sickness is take a few days off from the
gym and now that I've done that I've
been running an upper lower split just
for the last week and that's something
I'm going to talk about but I'm just
going to overlay a few clips from my
last lower body workout yesterday and
after this I'm going to go for an upper
body workout so I'll overlay clips of
those up here on the screen while I go
through my tips all right so my first
tip for training is to build trust in
yourself and your ability to follow
through with your program I'm so if you
have a training program I think you
should stick to it or at least to the
best of your ability while on vacation
and I'm gonna use my friend Pat has a
perfect example of this so there's a
time when we were all in Florida on
vacation and we had just spent like 10
or 12 hours at Universal Studios and
then we had a three or four-hour drive
back home we ended up getting back home
at like 2:00 in the morning or something
like that
and rashon Steph and myself we're all
like okay no training today we're going
to bed obviously my friend Pat he got
all this stuff together and went
straight to the gym without a word and I
feel like it's that level of dedication
that has really allowed him to be as
successful as he has been and this was
while he was at like six or seven
percent body fat or something like that
another good example of this would be
Dwayne Johnson I'm so the rock I
remember reading in a magazine years ago
that he kind of has this rule for
himself that whenever he lands in a
place the first thing he does is bring
his luggage back to the hotel I guess
and then he
straight to the gym regardless of the
time or what else he has going on you
may not still do that but I thought that
again that's really a testament to his
level of dedication not everybody is
gonna be able to do that I feel like
some of you might be like okay but what
do we actually do in the real world I'm
not going to go to the gym at 2:00 a.m.
it's not even always a 24-hour gym
available so in that case what I would
say to do is to modify your training
split which is what I've had to do on
this trip so if you have a program
hopefully it has you in the gym two
times a week if you're not able to get
all your training sessions in like let's
say you're running a push/pull leg split
you might still be able to maintain your
weekly frequency by adjusting the split
a little bit and so what I'd recommend
doing is running an upper lower split or
a full-body split so that even if you're
not able to get all the sessions in you
can still hit every body part at least
twice a week so if you have four days
that you can spend in the gym throughout
the week then an upper lower would be
good if you only have two days then you
could do a full body split and still hit
all of your muscle groups twice a week
while only being in the gym twice a week
so if you can only get in the gym twice
through your whole vacation full body
split is definitely the way to go and
the potential problem that you could run
into on this is that you might not be
able to get the same amount of weekly
volume in in those two sessions so what
I'd recommend doing is if you know your
workouts are gonna be a little bit
shorter is because you're not going to
be able to get as much volume in you
want to prioritize intensity which means
you're gonna want to be training closer
to failure and you're probably gonna
want to be taking more sets to failure
so if you're not able to get the volume
in make sure you at least have that
intense level of effort there to create
that same hypertrophic stimulus or at
least as close to it as you can be so a
third thing that I find to be super
helpful when it comes to training is the
use of autoregulation so if you have a
training program that calls for a
certain weight or a percentage of your
one rep max I would try to tie that to
some kind of corresponding RPE or rate
of perceived exertion usually you'll
want to be somewhere in the 7 to 8 zone
and exactly what is an RPE of 7 or 8 on
a day when you're training in your home
gym might be totally different than what
gives you an RP of 7 or 8 when you're on
road sometimes the travel can make your
legs feel a little heavier you might not
have had the best sleep or what have you
so you don't really want to beat
yourself up about that and allow
yourself to complete the exercise with
poor form or anything like that what you
want to do is Auto regulate the weight
and just go according to how strong or
how good your feeling on that specific
day and you'll still get very similar if
not exactly the same results because
your level of effort will be more or
less the same okay so my first tip when
it comes to diet nutrition is to just in
general give yourself more dietary
flexibility than you would otherwise
have so let's say you're currently on a
meal plan then you might want to figure
out what the macros are in that meal
plan and just go off the meal plan while
on your trip but still hit the macros if
you're already tracking macros you'll
want to increase the flexibility of
those macros by considering setting them
up with ranges so let's say you'd
normally hit 200 grams of carbs per day
you might want to give yourself a range
of like 175 up to 225 or something like
that so you have a little more wiggle
room now if you already have those
ranges set up than what you might want
to do is just consider hitting a calorie
target and just tracking protein so I
have a minimum protein goal and then on
the other hand you could just do
intuitive eating which is what I've been
doing for the last few years honestly
and just rely on your own appetite and
internal hunger signals to determine
when and how much to eat and you can
kind of use the scale as a metric for
figuring out if you're in the right
ballpark so my second tip is going to be
to always pre plan so whenever I go on a
trip I always make sure that I've got
some protein powder and some protein bar
is packed with me so I'm not going to be
running short on protein or getting
super hungry overeating on a bunch of
calorie dense foods or something like
that another kind of cool mini tip is to
have a scoop of protein powder before
you're going out for a big meal and this
will help suppress your appetite and
it'll also help you make sure that
you're hitting your protein goals for
the day and because you do not over eat
too much while you're out but just in
general packing snacks when Steph and I
get to the Airbnb
we always go get some groceries first so
we have meals that we can make so we
don't rely too much on eating
and that sort of thing that's a
pre-planning tip number two tip number
three is going to be to not sweat it too
much if you do get off-track
so if you're on vacation for say three
four days or if it's a week or
what-have-you if you do happen to get
off-track don't let that be an excuse
for you to then stay off-track after you
get back home it's often the case that
you'll gain weight from water retention
or just the different foods that you're
eating your digestion might be a little
bit different whatever the case may be
don't let that spike in weight really
discourage you as soon as you get back
home flip the switch back on and get
right back on track chances are it was a
good deal of water to get weight that
you gained and if you did gain a bit of
fat because you were eating even caloric
surplus chances are that energy balance
will just take over again once you get
back home so if you go back to eating in
your usual caloric deficit then that fat
will come right back off if it does take
a week or two
just be patient don't give up on it I
had to quickly and throw the towel in
that what's really going to make the
difference is your habits that you set
in place when you're home over the long
term and not that one or two weeks that
you spent on vacation and so try to keep
all that stuff in mind or pick and
choose from it what you feel like fits
your circumstance the best I'm gonna get
ready go grab some barbecue with Steph
right now and I'm gonna hit an upper
body workout I hope you guys enjoyed the
video please leave me a thumbs up if you
found it to be helpful comment below if
you have any travel tips of your own
that I may have missed in them so other
people who are reading can learn as well
now don't forget to subscribe if you
happen to be any with the channel and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
video
I gave Rex you ebay peg on my back I put
the city on my back I put the city