alright guys game day is finally here
today rashon and I are gonna be playing
for $1,000 yesterday we talked about the
rules and we agreed we're gonna do a
game to 7 no do-overs and we're gonna
play winners ball so if you make the
shot
keep the ball we're on our way over to
the court right now so I'm gonna check
in with you guys over there
[Music]
so I think the only way I'm gonna be
able to beat him is if I can get my shot
going if I can get my shot going from
outside he's gonna be forced to have
addy up on me guard me up close and then
I'm gonna be too quick I'm just gonna go
past him he might say that it doesn't
matter cuz he's gonna get his hand in
there but he doesn't realize how quick I
can be on the court either I think I'm
just not really sure how he could beat
me if there was a possibility I'm like
can't really figure it out but my
strategy is it's not to let him get like
any good shots off so my hands in his
face the entire game he wants to get the
shot off it has to go over this arm and
that's a pretty high arm we'll see how
it goes
oh-ho let's get it vishal referee over
here they've got the beautiful stuff you
better more official yeah I'm very
scoured the basketball literature
oh all right you got to make a shot
for two
that's you ready
Wow
what I want the file
let's see what you got
[Music]
alright guys so we just finished up with
the game I think that was a pretty good
game I was a little bit nervous that I
wasn't gonna get a possession once I did
get that first possession I think it was
actually in my second possession that I
started heating up but anyway that was a
good game so shut it for Shaun I'm gonna
go actually get a push workout in now so
I've got some bench press some shoulder
work tricep stuff on the menu so we're
gonna go get a quick meal and then hit
that workout and checking with you guys
back at the police so I just got a DM
from this guy he said how tall is he
that's you how tall you want on you bro
success accepted okay we're gonna
inflate and deflate or heights a little
bit I think it's cuz you got like long
limbs too like in I have short limbs so
then like the length of your limbs can
affect how tall you are
yeah alright guys so here we got the
pre-workout meal we've got some ground
turkey some cheese some yellow rice just
my favorite at the moment sour cream and
some salsa and then I'm also gonna have
a scoop this vegan protein powder may
seem random stacking that with the
ground turkey but I found it to be
pretty easy on the stomach condemn this
and I was checking with you guys over at
the gym so today on the menu we've got
starting with barbell bench press two
sets of eight with 80% of my one rat Mac
so there's gonna be some heavy weight
I'm gonna plug it in here so we got
eighty percent I'm putting in my max is
3:40 so 275
two seventy-five two sets of eight
what
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
so guys just finished up with the bench
felt really good today didn't feel like
80% it felt a lot easier so in the next
walk I think I'm gonna Jack my one rep
max bench up to like 350 or maybe even
more I might even do a test maybe I'll
put that on the channel now but anyway
it was really moving really nicely today
so for the rest of the workout we've got
overhead press Close Grip Smith machine
press a little more and then we're gonna
do some isolation stuff for the
shoulders some tricep work and get into
that right now
[Music]
so guys what Shawn and I talked about
this and we basically decided that
rather than me just transfer him the
trusty bucks for him beating me which I
offered to do this right yeah but we've
all decided probably be better if we
donated it to a charity instead so
basically I just put it out on my
Instagram asking people for suggestions
and this one was requested or
recommended a bit so it's called right
to play and it looks like they basically
give kids in areas who may not have
access to like the equipment or the
coaching to play sports an ability to do
so so I'm gonna go here make the
thousand dollar donation and that will
be that
boom thousand bucks there we go that's a
wrap I hope you guys enjoyed it as usual
I'll have what Ron's channel linked down
below he always does the editing on
these vlogs and his content is really
good as well leave me a like if you
enjoyed the video don't forget to
subscribe if you happen to be new and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
video