people complain like man fucking arms
are small bro I got to get them fucking
bigger I like well you know train your
arms more and they say man I have been
bro I fucking put a couple extra sets of
bicep curls at the end of my back and
bicep workout I'm like uhuh uhuh so tell
me your workout they're like all right
bent Rose uhuh dumbbell Rose uhhuh pull
Downs uhhuh lateral race got to hit the
fucking delts uhhuh bicep curls uhuh so
you train your biceps when they're the
most fucking tired and you're basically
psychologically check the fuck out of
the gym anyway like right and then you
add it a set or two to the end of that
dumbass fucking workout they barely
train your arms at all and they're
like right you just sunk down past
Albert Einstein he's like whoa shit to
below Forest Gump doing dumb shit like
that