I'm not sure I agree with Dr Mike's
training principles and in today's video
I'll be reacting to his 10 muscle growth
mistakes welcome back Dr Mila wolf
secretly Dr Mike's lover but on the
YouTube scene Fierce enemies by and
large Mike and I agree on stuff but we
do have our differences on certain
topics and so I want to react to one of
his videos and see whether we have beef
fan yeah this beef buson for real for
real right now you know f frr s tier uh
Pepe the Frog
energies am I young yet since I last
hung out with Mike is Rell I've tried to
pick up on the cool kids lingo but
without further Ado let's get into it 10
reasons let's get to them number one
first couple are nutritional because a
lot of people ask like what do I need to
be doing in the gym to grow more and I
look him up and down I'm like
[ __ ] you built like Harry Potter
how much you eating there's no amount of
training that's going to get you from
120 lb to 150 lb because it's not a
training it's a [ __ ] eating problem
and unless you become the most jacked
120 pounder in the world you got to eat
so the first thing is getting enough
protein roughly a gram per pound per day
really really swell idea because if you
eat a lot of food but it's not a lot of
protein you're just going to get fatter
and you be like Dr Mike [ __ ] me over I'm
just a fat piece of [ __ ] now and Kelsey
the Android girl from school still won't
interface with me that's what she calls
it strange gr per pound per day broadly
agree nutrition is important if you cly
weigh 20 lb you're not going to become
super jacked as a 120b male but when it
comes to protein a gr per pound might be
slightly Overkill the recent met
regression by Morton and colleagues
found Optimum hypertrophy at 1.6 gram of
protein per kilogram of body weight per
day so 1 G per pound is 2.2 between 1.6
and 2.2 there is a relatively big
difference I think 1 G per pound is
totally fun as a use fistic and it
covers you in case there's any
additional benefit but the research
doesn't suggest right now there's any
additional benefit to be had by going
above 1.6 on top of that it's worth
noting that if you're just getting into
training there's a decent chance you're
overweight and if you're overweight you
don't quite need 1 G per pound the 1 G
per pound rule or for that matter even
the 1.6 G per kilogram rule would
overestimate your protein needs as it's
based off body weight and if you're
somewhat higher in body fat it's
probably not accurate there's a whole
discussion to be had about whether or
not protein requirements should be based
on fat free mass or muscle mass in
general that is complicated because most
people don't have a good way of
estimating their fat Mass to begin with
so all I'm going to say is if you're
somewhat higher in body fat you can go
even lower than this next a sufficient
number of calories what is a sufficient
number of calories don't don't even
bother Googling don't stop typing to
chat GPT don't even ask if you are
gaining something like half a pound to a
pound of weight on average every week to
few weeks consistently you're eating
enough calories to supply all the raw
materials that you need to get jacked
but if you've been training for the last
6 months let's say and you started you
were 132 PBS and now you're
131.5 how the [ __ ] are you supposed to
be getting bigger if you're not gaining
weight steadily slowly on average then
it just doesn't matter how much you're
eating because a lot of times people ask
me this and when they do interact with
me in real life which is almost never
they'll say like you know I'm trying to
like trying to get jacked I'm trying to
work on my eating but it's tough I'm
like no I got you it's tough for all of
us and they're like yeah like I'm eating
like and they say whatever number
doesn't [ __ ] matter 150 PB kids I'm
eating 4,000 calories like oh dope are
you gaining weight you're like no I'm
like ah I got you you got to eat more
and they're like but it's but it's 4,000
calories what the [ __ ] am I supposed to
say back to you bro what do you expect
I'm like oh oh it's 4,000 Oh I thought
he at 2,000 4,000 let me write you let
me write you a hall pass excuse
doctors's note I a [ __ ] doctor right
uh uh here's an excuse for not being
jacked because reasons because
thermodynamics what if it's 4,000 is not
gaining you weight up more food more
calories enough to gain weight slowly on
the other hand if you eat a crap ton
more and you just gain like two pounds
per week which I have done you just get
really fat now you do get Jack too but
really Ultra Fat getting into a surplus
does likely increase your hypertrophy
but the magnitude of difference is
relatively small now let me synthesize
if you're currently quite lean say as a
male around 10% body fat or lower you
almost certainly need to be in a surplus
to see your best hypertrophy if you're
somewhat more overweight especially as a
beginner you can see great gains in
muscle size by just maintaining you will
see a small Improvement in your
hypertrophy by bulking but the research
on bulking versus maintaining
consistently shows that even by just
maintaining you can gain muscle you will
maximize muscle building by being a
slight Surplus but gaining half a pound
to a pound might even be on the higher
end of things for most people half a
pound per week will likely be a better
estimate but an even better way to
approach it is to gain around half a
perent to 1% of your body weight per
month cuz for some people half a pound
is nothing for some people it's a whole
lot so yeah just to round it out you can
definitely gain muscle while maintaining
or even while cutting especially if
you're a beginner you won't gain that
much more muscle if you're bulking
compared to maintaining unless you're
very lead in which case yeah there's
only so Jack someone weighing 110 pounds
can be what is your Technique like
because people will say oh I'm like my
chest won't grow and I'll watch him
bench press and do flies and I'm like
[ __ ] Christ and they're like what I'm
like yeah on paper you're training a
chest but in reality like you're
training mostly triceps and front delts
cuz you're like you're benching like
this the [ __ ] is going on like Archer
goddamn
get your elbows back really stretch the
PEC so on and so forth really really
good technique control the weight at all
times especially slowly on Ecentric get
a deep stretch for every lift that it's
possible to get a deep stretch with and
make sure most reps look very similar if
someone plays an Instagram video of you
lifting it better sh [ __ ] look like
[ __ ] replay except it's just 15 reps
and then you stop and walk off and holy
[ __ ] I thought that was just one rep on
replay that's what you want yep I agree
and in fact I was an author on the
recent narrative review on what is good
Tech technique based on the evidence and
the few things we identified are one
focus on the stretch get a full range of
motion in or maybe even just a partial
rep in that stretch position two a good
tempo of say between 2 and 8 seconds
maybe a decent amount of control on the
Ecentric and a relatively more explosive
concentric and finally minimizing
cheating or involvement of non-target
muscle groups is likely a good thing as
conceptually we want to take the target
muscle as close to failure as possible
without risking anything else failing
first so if you're rowing but you mostly
feel it in your glutes and hamst and
your back isn't actually being trained
like close to failure anymore you're
limiting muscle growth in all likelihood
we do need studies actually looking at
this concept we don't have any yet but
it is worth noting that it's probably a
good idea to minimize cheating okay
you've got great technique in any given
set but how hard are you going unless
you get roughly around three reps in
reserve three reps shy of muscular
failure to where you can't move it
anymore you can go harder and get better
gains a real good way to tell that
you're at least in the conversation for
training hard enough is that most of
your sets in most cases either
distinctly slow down so you're curling
curling curling and you stop and walk
off people are going to be like how many
reps did you have but if you're curling
curling curling and then at some point
one of the Reps is like a little slow
boom you're in the money how far into
that how many reps Beyond when it starts
to get slow you go is actually a minor
Point there's a very nuanced discussion
there about how close to failure is good
but somewhere near failure is already so
much better than far away from failure
that at least get there from a TR a
troubleshooting perspective and the
second thing even if your reps don't
externally slow down at least internally
you should be feeling a huge asymmetric
buildup of resistance towards the end of
your sets so like when you're curling it
easy easy easy even if it looks easy to
the external observer in the last couple
of reps internally you got to be like
holy [ __ ] I had oh I got to really push
like the weight it feels like gravity
just multiplied for no reason if at the
end of your sets regularly experienced
that you got 99 problems but how hard
you go in the sets probably not one yep
I agree mostly with this there's one
caveat I'd give the research we have
does suggest that how fast you can lift
the load concentrically or on the way up
is a very good predictor of how close to
failure you are in other words as the
lift slows down despite your best
attempt to get it up as fast as possible
that is a good sign that you're close to
failure the closer to failure you are
the slower your lifting phase will
become and sometimes how it feels versus
how fast it moves moves are two very
distinct things especially for higher
upsets by the time you get to rep 10 15
20 the set can feel extremely hard and
it can feel really difficult but if the
rep isn't slowing down then you're
probably not that close to failure and
certainly with higher rep sets your last
rep will be faster than if you went
really heavy there is some research to
that effect as well so I'm not saying
your last rep needs to take 6 seconds
when you're doing sub 20 but if it's not
slowing down you're likely not as close
to failure as you think you are so I
disagree on the fact that internal
sensation of the muscle or how difficult
it feels is a really solid predictor of
how close to failure you are I think
velocity during the lifting phase is
always going to be a better predictor
and as I mentioned earlier in the tempo
section your aim should be to lift the
weight as explosively or as fast as
possible during the lifting phas not
enough sets generally speaking per any
session in which you try to hit a muscle
my take is that something between five
and eight working sets for that muscle
sets taken close to failure with
anywhere between your five rep Max and
your 30 rep max weight kind of no wrong
answers there that is at least a really
good guess to make sure you're doing
enough work if you're doing like this is
a really common thing people will
complain that the rear adults aren't
growing and I'm like okay how much do
you train your rear adults and they they
say well I got a shoulder day like okay
dope what does that look like they I
could do overhead press I do seated
dumball press I do side laterals I do
Cable One Arm side laterals and then I
go on the um rear delt machine and I do
three sets of 10 and I [ __ ] off I got it
how many shoulder days do you per week
like well one it's called shoulder day
not shoulder days okay okay okay so you
train a muscle that's like this big that
recovers in like a day once a week with
three [ __ ] sets and you expect it to
grow what are you nuts that's actually
below what you would expect to be even
maintenance volume so if you want a
muscle to grow you got to put in some
[ __ ] work now five to eight sets per
session isn't 20 sets per session but it
sure [ __ ] isn't two or three either so
make sure it's somewhere in that 5 to
eight range something you could recover
from so you're not sore tired session to
session when you have to train it again
but definitely like a solid amount of
train I think it's just about to mention
this but I'm not too worried about your
per session volume I think that as long
as your weekly volume is 10 to 20 sets
or more there's a lot of evidence
suggesting that 10 to 20 sets for
trained lifters is quite effective for
hypertrophy but there's some newer
evidence around nine studies not aware
of five showing better hypertrophy going
Beyond 20 sets per week per muscle and
for showing no real differences so there
is even potentially a benefit to be had
by going Beyond 20 sets per muscle so
I'm personally not concerned about how
many sets you're doing per session per
muscle I'm a lot more concerned with how
many sets per week you're doing but you
know if you're training most muscles
twice or Thrice a week 5 to 8 sets per
session per muscle adds up to 15 to 24
sets per week per muscle that's a solid
range so by and large I agree it's just
not the first place that look as far as
10 muscle growth mistakes would go solid
amount of training in one session is
dope but you need multiple weekly
workouts to get your best results and
time and time again all the literature
reviews come in and they show us one
thing that on average and there are some
Nuance here you get better results
training twice a week for the same
muscle than you do just once a week and
in some cases you even get a better
result training that muscle three times
a week than twice a week but twice a
week is what I would consider consider
as a serious attempt at muscle gain so
if you tell me like yeah man my [ __ ]
biceps won't grow and I'm like how often
do you train biceps like well [ __ ]
bicep day like okay once a week yeah
come on man twice a week frequency is
probably not your limiting factor but
you got to hit every muscle you want to
grow especially the praries you really
care about at least twice a week that
doesn't mean three times is better
there's a very nuanced conversation
about two versus three but the
conversation about one versus two is not
very nuanced yes gigantic Pro
bodybuilders can train a muscle once a
week because it takes that long for the
[ __ ] to recover but last I checked your
biceps don't look like [ __ ] big
rammy's biceps and maybe you can recover
quite quickly and train them well at
least twice a week and as far as total
number of training days per week for
whole body the everything that you train
my idea of what like a decent effort
looks like a serious attempt is four
times a week training or more and that
means four times five times or six times
a week training total not per muscle but
just for the whole body what does that
mean that means that if you're like yeah
man I'm [ __ ] trying to get jacked I'm
like oh cool you go into the gym I do
ask that sometimes and be like yeah
absolutely I go to the gym twice a week
you're like twice a week as a beginner
that works but if you are more of an
intermediate you've been training for a
few years and you're really struggling
to get to that next level of size you
got to show up to the [ __ ] gym I
agree wholeheartedly for muscle growth
you do probably want to be training each
muscle at least twice a week whether
much higher than twice a week is going
to be better I don't know I think if
there is a benefit to be had on balance
of probabilities it is likely that an
effect is in favor of slightly higher
frequencies so if you came to me and
you're like look I want to maximize
hypertrophy how do I do so based on the
most up-to-date evidence in 2024 I would
say train each muscle two to four times
a week we don't even know for sure that
three times a week or four times a week
is better than twice a week it's
relatively uncertain as of right now but
if there is a benefit in either
direction it is in favor of two to four
times a week not in favor of once a week
that is how the evidence is leaning at
this point point number seven not enough
week- to week consistency is the [ __ ]
killer of games now here's the thing if
you have ball or genetics you can train
like every other week and still be the
[ __ ] the the [ __ ] Big Man on
Campus sweet but first of all you're
probably not watching this video because
too many science words confuses you it
hurts your tiny soft brain but all I'm
I'm just kidding Meatheads stay calm
they're also not struggling so they
could watch a video about people
struggling kind of be like oh yeah I
remember never having that experience if
you are struggling that means you can't
afford to be inconsistent so if you tell
me hey I'm having trouble growing and
I'm like well how was your last month of
training kind of stable everything's
kind of clicking or you got some problem
a like well like mean like I had finals
and like family went on a trip so like
last month was just kind of bad for me
you know I'm like well I solved your
[ __ ] problem bro mystery solved you
don't actually train now when you
consistently start to apply any of these
recommendations or even just your own
program then we can say we can analyze
and say okay this is the thing that
isn't working but if there is no thing
to analyze that isn't working because
you're not sufficiently consistent
enough to actually do the thing it's
like telling someone like oh man like I
really suck at math okay like so you
study math and it just doesn't sort of
the concepts don't click like I I don't
really study what the [ __ ] how the [ __ ]
you supposed to say you know you're not
even studying if you study this [ __ ] and
then it's hard okay great you're not
good at math fine but if you start
studying math you may realize you're
quite good at math same idea with
training same [ __ ] honestly this point
probably should have been first it's by
far the most important if you're
training consistently one week every 12
weeks and then you go off track again
and forget about training and then
you're like wait a minute I amongst all
my other responsibilities was supposed
to be training you got a big problem
there forget about technique forget
about everything else just get your ass
in the gym there is a probability that
all of these points are in the very
wrong direction for you the opposite of
the truth because you could be doing too
much how do you know you're doing too
much people say overtraining
overreaching it's a thing I'll say this
you know you're doing too much when
you're grinding in the gym and you're
just dog tired all the [ __ ] time and
you might not even be getting excellent
pumps anymore not a ton of Mind muscle
connection you just feel like the gym is
literally a [ __ ] grind and if you
also are kind of losing Steam and
motivation cuz you're like I'm not
getting bigger I'm not getting stronger
I'm just pounding away at it at what
point is the pounding going to get some
results quote of myself to my
wife we're getting carried away if you
are really grinding and really tired and
you're not getting results you could be
training too much but if you're not
grinding and not tired and you don't
feel totally spent for days and weeks on
end you're probably not overdoing it if
you don't have consistency you almost
certainly don't have an overtraining
problem if you have [ __ ] gnarly
consistency and you're kind of burning
the candle at both ends and it seems
like the harder you work the more ground
you lose then backing off taking all of
your so first of all Point number eight
Del load every few months take an easy
week of training or no training at all
when you get really tired do that right
now if you think you're overdoing it
real quick the vast vast majority people
aren't really struggling to recover
overtraining is really infrequent within
resistance training it can certainly
occur but you have to take things to an
extreme for most people most of the time
especially the relatively general
population watching this video in
likelihood I think that you're much more
likely to be constrained by consistency
as Mike's pointing out slice everything
in half cut all of your volumes in half
you typically do 10 sets of of legs now
you do five do that low volume for a few
weeks you might actually start getting
better gains right away and if you think
okay this is really way too low increase
a set here and there just to get it just
right so that you get really tired and
really sore and then when your next work
comes up you're completely healed and
ready to go again like yesterday my
chest was sore and now it is not sore at
all triceps are not sore at all and
guess what in a couple hours here I do
my [ __ ] chest and tricep workout
perfect so I know I'm healing on time
but for me it's a surprisingly small
number of sets that uh ends up checking
the Box in many instances if for you
could be more fewer sets just make sure
that whatever it is you're training with
start on the low end and work your way
up don't start with psychotic high and
work your way down because if you start
alone to work your way up you actually
get really good strength gains at least
with lower volumes and potentially some
size gains and as you increase you could
be like oh holy [ __ ] I'm growing more
but if you start with too much you
actually just get overreached um and you
start to not accumulate muscle you start
to accumulate potential for injuries and
wear and tear and damage you demotivate
yourself it's just all kind of bad stuff
right this might be where I disagree
with Mike the most I have a whole video
debating him on soreness as it relates
to training that'll be linked in the
description with straw by signs soreness
is a relatively poorly understood
phenomenon just because you're sore does
doesn't mean you're still fatigued from
a session and in fact soreness only
correlates very weakly if at all to any
markers of muscle damage and that's
evident in a study by nosaka and
colleagues for example so I wouldn't use
soreness as a means to gauge whether or
not you're ready for another hard
session additionally I think he and I
disagree on two other things one the
idea that you're accumulating fatigue
week upon week at the very least this
isn't really something we've looked at
in the evidence and really detected most
of the time from lifting weights fatigue
might last 3 or 4 days at the most and
that's when you're doing a really hard
that you're not accustomed to yet where
the repeated bout effect hasn't really
kicked in yet the idea that the recovery
timelines are somehow adding up an
accumulating week upon week in most
situations I don't think it's going to
happen instead what's more likely
occurring is you train you mostly are
entirely recover and you train again in
other words your recovery happens almost
entirely from one session to the next
the timeline of recovery isn't
sufficiently long to allow for the idea
of cumulative fatigue at this stage to
really be concerned now if on the other
hand recovery took 4 to 7 days or 14
days sometimes then that could become a
concern but with a timeline of recovery
for performance especially to sessions
you've been doing for a while being like
a day or two typically you don't need to
worry about cumulative fatigue so much
and likewise the idea of De loads while
we only currently have one study on the
idea of doing a D Lo where participants
either trained hard for 9 weeks straight
or trained hard for four weeks took one
week entirely off training and then
trained for four weeks again and that's
study by Coleman and colleagues while we
only have one study on that right now
the evidence broadly speaking doesn't
support that de loads are something you
need to include every few months in fact
after de loading participants reported
being more sore and a bit less motivated
to train if anything and as far as
muscle growth and strength gains went if
anything there was either no difference
between the two groups or the results
lean slightly in favor of the group that
didn't Deo so at least in the context of
this study across only 9 weeks an only
trained of L Body it didn't seem like
the loads were that good of an idea
similarly a couple of studies by OAS
saara and colleagues on the ideaa of
training cessation where essentially
take a few weeks off training after
training hard for say 5 to 6 weeks found
that in general hypertrophy is similar
when you take time off or don't take
time off but if anything yet again
results lean in favor of the group that
just stayed training consistently and
combined with the fact that most people
just don't struggle to recover anyways
because they're not consistent enough
Etc I don't think D loads is something
that most people really need to think
about as a top priority certainly not
one of the 10 reasons why you're out
growing muscle and by the way instead of
soreness the best indicator of whether
or not you're doing too much and your
recovery or not is going to be your
performance if your performance is
consistent week to week on the same
lifts or it's even improving week to
week you're not struggling to recover
let me give you an example you train
chest on Monday and Thursday on Monday
you come into the gym and you're able to
bench 225 for 10 reps then you train on
Thursday again you train your chest then
next Monday you come back in and you
only get 225 for8 on Monday by by
definition that would mean that you
haven't recovered from Thursday's
session because your performance hasn't
returned to baseline or essentially the
level it was at on last Monday if on the
other hand you bench to 25 or 10 or 11
or what have you by definition recovery
has occurred and because how well you
perform is a result of so many different
things on the physiological and
psychological level like for example how
motivated you feel how much muscle
damage you might have Etc if your
performance is consistent or improving
week upon week your recovery is likely
not an issue no matter how sore you
might feel if whatever types of rep
ranges and exercises you've been doing
just aren't hitting your muscles where
you think they should be hit underhand
pull Downs just like I don't feel [ __ ]
in my lats or in my back it's just
mostly my biceps and my forearms then
don't just perseverate on those don't
just be like oh it's [ __ ] Basics man
it works for everyone try some different
[ __ ] so if sets of five to eight on leg
presses just kind of hurt your knees and
don't really do much to your quads even
though all your body seem to think it's
a great way to train try sets of 15 to
20 on L presses with some with some
myette pauses you might do one set like
that and you [ __ ] cook your quads
you're the most pumped you've been in
your life you get sore for three days
and you're like oh oh that's the [ __ ]
that works you make that switch your
entire training career is a lifetime of
guess and check it's a lifetime of
experimentation because all the studies
and all the science all the [ __ ] I
talk about on this channel is dope as a
good first guess but your body is yours
and yours alone your journey is going to
be yours and there's going to be some
exercises and some repetition ranges
that work better for you than they work
for the average and others that work
worse for you than they work for the
average so definitely take all the
recommendations I've said hopefully with
a little bit of oh go that could work
and then guess and check guess and check
try some different exercises for about a
month at a time to really see if they
work try your best with them really try
to get the technique going so if you try
barbell curls and they just don't work
try them for a few more weeks be
consistent and if after a few weeks
you're okay this definitely [ __ ]
blows even though I've really tried to
get as much exercise as I could go to
dumbbells go to machines go to cables
and as your body evolves over time some
of the answers that used to be incorrect
may become correct some of the answers
that used to be like this is man this
rep range and this exercise is really my
[ __ ] might become less your [ __ ] and
that's where variation comes in is
you're always doing some new exercises
every now and again and you're always
trying some new rep ranges over time
you're going to learn a lot about what
probably doesn't work well for you a lot
about what really works well for you and
then you're no longer plateauing I
haven't plateaued in [ __ ] knows how long
I don't know 15 years because I learned
how to do this guess and check method
and once I learned that that even if I
make small gains I make gains all the
time I kind of agree I think that some
degree of exercise variation in your
program makes sense we have evidence on
Regional hypertrophy or essentially how
different parts of your muscle grow in
response to different exercises
suggesting that to maximize hypertrophy
of the whole muscle AK of all regions
including different exercises that are
better at hitting certain regions is
going to be better than just including
one right so some degree of consistent
exercise variation within your program
is good like you don't just want to be
doing one exercise for your back every
given week ideally for more complex
muscle groups like your back have two to
four exercises for example or for
simpler muscle groups like your biceps
triceps Etc maybe around two exercises
is better with that being said I don't
see a huge need to change exercises over
time just for the sake of changing them
essentially if you already have a
complete routine that works every part
of your muscle very well why would you
need to change it to my knowledge
there's just no evidence that effect yet
similarly it can be very difficult to
actually troubleshoot a program
effectively now there is one exception
to this if your performance is
consistently going down week upon week
you're either overtraining or you're
just not training enough to even
stimulate any growth or strength gains
or in other words you'd be above your
maximum recoverable volume or below your
minimum effective volume beyond that it
is very difficult to diagnose what is
wrong with your program and it's also
very difficult to successfully
individualize your training for better
results for you as an individual because
ultimately we can say things like oh I
get more of a pump doing this many sets
on this exercise versus this one and
therefore this is more effective the
truth is we don't have the evidence
right now to say that if you get more
pump from a given exercise than another
or you get more soreness from one
exercise than the other or any of these
perceptual variables that that really
predicts which exercise or which
approach is better for building muscle I
have a whole video on the pump and
soreness that I'll link below but the
truth is these perceptual variables I
don't think we have the evidence for
right now instead try to make sure your
program hits the fundamental big rocks
that we've empirically observed to be
effective for a large portion of the
population and then from there you can
certainly make small tweaks based on how
you feel you're responding but just keep
in mind that you probably don't want to
stray away from the big rocks because in
all likelihood you're similar to the
average person and this exact issue is
where Mike and I diverge on our opinions
I tend to be a bit more of an empiricist
who's relying on studies on actual
muscle growth and trying to see whether
one approach leads to more muscle growth
than the other whereas from what I've
seen Mike might be a little bit more of
a rationalist he absolutely looks at the
results of studies but he also tends to
rationalize into certain training
approaches I don't think there's a huge
harm in that unless it's taking you away
from what we've empirically tested and
seen to be generally more effective and
especially with things like the pump or
soreness where we don't have evidence
for them really predicting hypertrophy
very well I think that rationalizing
your way with those in mind might be a
mistake but to be honest this
intellectual jargon it wasn't really
what I was paying attention to the whole
time I was just looking at Mike's big
old cleavage I was uh I was distracted
this [ __ ] busted you know honestly now
that I've wrapped up the video I would
give this video of miks like an8 or 9
out of 10 very solid I have my nitpicks
cuz that's what scientists do I guess
but broadly speaking very solid very
good advice certain things like de loads
I think might have been a bit
overemphasized likewise with the use of
soreness or the pump as a means to
predict hypertrophy or recovery or what
have you but by large really solid if
you enjoyed this video please leave a
like comment subscribe let me know who
else you want to see me react to If
you'd like the best training out there
consider checking out myod adapt.com
myapt is based on the most Cutting Edge
scientific research it takes all of the
latest exi signs and puts it into an app
it is a coach in your pocket it adapts
your training program to you your
schedule your preferences your history
how long you've been lifting your
preferred routine and much more it ranks
exercises for you based on how effective
they are based on the available
scientific evidence if you'd like to be
notified when it comes out so you can
jump on the ship check out my.com and
sign up to be notified when it does get
released and if you do sign up you'll be
able to lock in at a lower price than
anyone else in the meantime if you'd
like me to coach you check out the link
above and I can become your coach now
you might be saying Dr my wolf I see
your T-shirt I like the color and I too
would like to look like a crayon well
you can do just that check out Rascal
apparel if you like any of their
clothing and you want to use my code use
code wolf at checkout for 10% off and
now that I've successfully sold my soul
have a phenomenal day pay me your money
and I'll see you next time peace