[Applause]
[Music]
I'm Pamela yeah none I am 45 years old I
might take pride in my age because I
think it's really cool to just show
people that age really is just a number
and if you continue to eat healthy and
stay fit you can really live a really
great energetic life
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
I'm in sport a CrossFit but I thankfully
have a gymnastics background and did
gymnastics since I was six years old all
the way through the collegiate level and
that has helped me tremendously in
CrossFit competing coaching and just
honestly recovery just being flexible
and bendy has been super helpful right
around the age of six I was in our long
like living room dining room and I was
just kind of playing around and I did a
split and I was called my mom and I was
like mom come look at this and she's
like that's interesting that's that
takes some talent so she brought me to
this gymnastics class and after the
first day the coach called my mom over
and was like I think your daughter has
some real talent in this sport you
should probably find a real gymnastics
club yeah literally out the first day I
actually my first meet in gymnastics I
refused to take off my warmup pants I
think I was like six and a half years
old and the my coach was like you you
can't compete with the pants on and I
just like broke out into tears and I was
like I was probably so nervous I was
definitely you know not always confident
my breakthrough moment in gymnastics
really didn't come until probably middle
school when I started doing really well
at state meets my senior year I was
voted Massachusetts senior gymnast of
the year and so that was more about not
only are you a great gymnast but it was
just like you know your your coaches and
peers vote for you on leadership and
just being a good sport and to me
it's like the legacy you're leaving
behind like are you walking away and
being like deem that that person was an
amazing competitor kept her head high
and I think I approach everything in
life like that that's to me the most
important thing whether its first place
or 20th place it's you know did I shake
my teammates hand or give them a
high-five and did I walk away just
knowing I really did my best I got into
CrossFit because my sister had tried
this athletic room we called it the room
at the JCC the JCC stands for the Jewish
Community Center it had been probably
about 12 years since I had stopped
gymnastics at that point so I was really
struggling to like find something that
you know made me feel like you know
gymnastics did it just like fueled me
competitively and athletically and I was
like holy like I can I can be a
gymnast again like as an adult this is
amazing and I was hooked immediately
they were like yeah there's this
competition in California you can
compete in this sport of CrossFit and I
was like dude sign me up teach me
everything but I didn't really have
anybody to get me there the you know the
coaches really you know didn't really
know much about it was so new still back
then and when I moved to CrossFit
Charlotte with Andy handle he knew a lot
more about that competition I drove
around in Charlotte looking for CrossFit
gym and I tried like two three gyms and
I found CrossFit Charlotte the owners
Andy handle who's like oh gee and in
CrossFit he was the first affiliate in
CrossFit you know that was here but Andy
really mentored me six months into me
switching to CrossFit Charlotte the
CrossFit opened the first open began and
it wasn't even a choice Andy and I was
like let's go let's do this and I was
like okay I didn't even know what I was
getting myself into honestly
though my first year at the CrossFit
Games wall those were somehow just a
really difficult skill for me it smoked
me and the workout had a hundred wall
bowls in it and now the sun's shining on
my eyes and I'm exhausted and it was in
the middle of the workout it was like
horrible and it was actually the first
time in CrossFit that I actually cried
and I was so mad at myself because I
didn't try my hardest I let my you know
I let myself get caught up in the like
oh this isn't working for me and I'm
just tired and the sun's in my face and
this sucks and I don't want to be doing
this and that's what was devastating it
wasn't that I didn't do well in the
workout I honestly have no idea how I
did in that workout what I remember is
my disappointment of my effort so this
was the first time I like really how to
get past that mental block of like all
right it hurts but I can keep going you
know
I just couldn't believe I've won two
events you know throughout my CrossFit
Games career and those were really
special because man those athletes are
just top-notch
you know and I never think of myself as
this top-notch athlete I'm just like
home just me and I'm trying my hardest
so that was really a few cool moments I
think Sports is an amazing way to teach
a lot of life lessons failure how to
handle success how to be driven you know
it taught me run my race but still be
fuelled by the people in front of you
and I think it helped me become
confident as just a person in general it
brings you some confidence that you need
in the workplace and from running
seminars just talking to people and so I
think sports are an important part not
just to live a fit life but also teaches
you a lot of things outside of that
sport itself if you're interested in
becoming a competitive athlete in
whatever it is I think for me the most
important thing was to understand why I
wanted to do it it wasn't for you know
Instagram clicks and likes it wasn't for
anybody to know how I finished or how I
did it's from my my goals and just my
drive I guess you could say so first
make sure you're doing things for the
right reason second prioritize your life
you know on the mom of two boys I'm a
wife I'm running businesses I had to
make sure I trained where it wouldn't
take time away from my family because I
didn't want to look back and regret and
third if it's not fun some of the time
at least
then maybe it's a gun for the wrong
reasons it's hard work
I cried in gymnastics I came home with
bloody hands everywhere my feet ached I
remember trying to sleep my ankles hurt
so bad from the pounding but all in all
every day I couldn't wait to get there
I trained because I loved it
like there is nothing more exciting than
like ripping a heavy Bell or Bell off
the floor and then going to do ten bar
muscle-ups you know I also trained as I
saw my mom get sick with brain cancer
that hey if something god forbid happens
you know I want to be able to take care
of myself
you know if I get sick I want to be
strong going into a surgery or anything
so I trained for life
really