morning guys so it is January 9th 2016 I
decided today that I would start
training apps every every other day so
abs or something that kind of tended to
neglect in the past Thursday little GM
here in our apartment building I'm gonna
head over there and probably just do
some crunches and flings and then also
today I'm planning on doing a full day
of hitting my micros so throughout the
day I'm gonna record everything I eat
and I'm gonna tabulate it into the
people and then I'll see just how close
I am to I say that are used
I'm fairly limited here in terms of
equipment so I've decided to kick it off
with some diagonal woodchoppers don't
have the ideal D handle so I've got a
compromise with the regular bar whatever
it is so the less than ideal that's a
start but it actually feel quite good on
the obliques and TVA so
I'm going to put two whole eggs product
I've got 250 grams of egg whites with
one whole egg Robin has the other half
and on top is 20 grams of grated marbled
cheese I've got two hash browns with a
bit of sugar-free ketchup I've got a
fruit salad over here it's like two
Kiwis a Clementine 100 grams of apple
100 grams of banana and some drop 50
orange juice that's thrown over top I've
got 40 grams of raw almonds and two fish
oils of this type and 3,000 IU's of
vitamin D and some coffee with almond
milk into Splenda so that is meal one so
guys I'm about to have my second meal of
the day
turkey with some of this sliced turkey
breast here this is actually like real
meat doesn't taste like prepackaged meat
at all I've got some mashed potatoes
from Walmart they're the simply mashed
potatoes
I'm gonna put on some of this here
clubhouse 25% less salt gravy and I mean
barely DeGeneres and it comes to gravy
so I'm probably just gonna track this as
half of a packet and I'm gonna put a
little bit of this I can't believe it's
not butter spray on to the Brussels
sprouts to give them a little bit of
flavor there we go
this is milk number two I have been
inputting values into this micro counter
that I made so I've had to do that
essentially by using this nutrition
database and they provide all of the
micronutrient values for most foods
however not all foods so I've been
plugging in all of these numbers
manually so the breakfast alone took me
around a half an hour and so I plan on
doing that for my next meals this isn't
something that I would do regularly or
plan on doing regularly but I think
maybe once a month or every couple of
months to kind of micro analyze my diet
is something I'm probably going to
continue doing because even as I've just
you know entered my breakfast alone
there are a few things that I've picked
up on are months go by I can kind of try
to fine-tune my diet a little bit be
cognizant of the foods that are rich in
the in the vitamins and minerals that I
tend to be a little bit shy on and try
to eat more of those to put in my lunch
macros and micros I'm just going to
snack on this 100 gram serving of baby
carrots I know baby carrots are high in
vitamin A I've kind of been noticing
that I have been getting a whole lot of
vitamin A I also don't have milk in the
in the fridge today and I normally drink
a lot of milk milk is a great source of
vitamin A and vitamin D and of course
calcium will be missing from my diet
today so I might go ahead and factor
that in at the end to see how that would
change things
little chocolate chip cookies so don't
tell Robin but I'm gonna steal some of
her Christmas gift that I got for her
it's because I'm sick of sick of the
vanilla whey protein brand meal number
three just protein and water I'm about
to do a posing session with one of my
athletes passing over here and so yeah
you brought me over key to success
so yeah eat these plug these in probably
how about a mike rosmann my favorite
kind of red green juice so we making a
turkey breast sandwich
like little cutie just got home and look
what she brought me guys just check it
so I've got some looks like spicy tuna
maybe spicy salmon maybe and California
rolls so that is a nice surprise I'm
going to smash those and do the best
that I can do alright so guys is now
1:00 in the morning I'm about to have my
last meal of the day which is just going
to be another I select shake before I go
to bed I just spent the last probably a
couple of hours inputting all of the
data into this spreadsheet all the basic
macros I've got all of the vitamins just
as a quick crash course vitamins
basically derives from vital amines so
their nutrients that are vital for our
survival so we have to get those in the
diet
we can't synthesize those so I've got
those there in blue and then there in
red I've got the macro minerals so these
are the minerals or the elements that we
require in greater amounts so typically
on more like a milligram scale here in
purple I've got the micro minerals so
these are elements that we require in
smaller amounts so say on the the micro
gram scale in terms of learning from
this experiment I think I did learn
quite a few things Kiwis are super
nutritious more than I would have
expected the ratio of potassium
to sodium in vegetables is just crazy
ensuring that you're you know eating
enough fruits and vegetables to sort of
balance out that ratio also monsters I
know they get hated on a lot but it was
because of the monsters that I think I
was able to hit some of my vitamin
targets the monster energy drinks are
supplemented with niacin vitamin b6
vitamin b12 and pantothenic acid which
is another me vitamin of course it is
another question whether or not those
vitamins are being optimally absorbed
and a soft drink always think it's a
better idea to get your nutrients from
food sources I always think food is
better than supplements certainly not
going to hurt given that they're water
soluble vitamins that 10 grams of
spinach that I put on my sandwich was
enough to provide 938 by use of vitamin
A which is 19 percent of my daily value
in 48 micrograms of vitamin K which is
60 percent of your daily value so even
just by putting a couple of Leafs of
spinach like that on a sandwich or even
just eating them cleaning or grinding
them up in a smoothie or whatever
another thing that I noticed is that
bread especially the ancient grains
bread a wide variety of nutrients pretty
much all of the minerals vitamins are in
there bread has been shown in societies
to be more effective when it comes to
weight loss and I think it should be
included in the diet the nutritious
value of kale so in the hundred grams of
kale that I got a pretty wide spectrum
of a variety of different nutrients you
know 100 grams of Brussels sprouts you
get more potassium than you do in a
hundred grams of bananas so I will show
you guys the results here my daily
totals so protein we've got 218 carbs
for 40 fats 130 for total calories of
around 3,800 yeah this is kind of a joke
the RDA for protein
here in Canada according to Health
Canada's 56 grams so I obviously
exceeded that as far as fiber goes I hit
40 grams as far as the vitamins go I've
pretty much exceeded everything I'm in a
slightly low everything else is pretty
much in there
potassium despite all of the fruits and
vegetables I ate today was still a
little bit low I guess right now if I
review this again then focusing on
getting some even further or even more
potassium rich foods would be a good
idea then zinc I think that this is
probably because I didn't have any red
meat and then fluoride is his way low
but best source of my fluoride given
that the the water supply here in
Halifax is fluoridated is the tap water
so take a clean for four liters or five
minutes we would even after my first two
meals I was pretty much set when it came
to my micro nutrient targets according
to Health Canada so the RDA what they
think would be a good enough intake for
a 97 or 90 percent of the population
there that data isn't available that use
what they call the adequate intake which
is a similar measure but essentially
it's saying this would be enough for a
human to be healthy borish percent daily
value to take the amount of any given
nutrient that's in a certain food you
divide that by the RDA foods that have
greater than 15% as a daily value would
be considered to be high I think that
just eating a varied diet with a variety
of different types of foods trying to
get two or three servings of different
colored free two or three servings of
vegetables and eating some dairy eating
some grains is a
good place to start anything that you
can eat a very nutritious diet just by
following those simple guidelines so
guys this was a little bit of a
different full day of eating from me I'm
pretty tired because I would say it took
me about three or four hours to compile
off of that data but I'm glad that I did
it like I said I did learn a lot and I
hope that it was helpful and informative
for you guys and I think that I'm going
to use this to sort of guide my eating
behaviors a little bit better into 2016
and hopefully maybe you guys can do the
same well thank you guys so much again
for watching I hope that you enjoyed the
video if you did like it please do me a
favor and hit the like button if you
haven't subscribed to the channel and
would like to see more informative
content like this in the future then do
me a favor and subscribe and once again
thank you so much for watching I'll see
you in the next one