training closer to failure might be
making you weaker a recent study by
Robinson colleagues showed better
strength gains in the squat and bench
press when they trained with rpes of 4
to 6 or 7 to9 versus rpes of 7 to 10 and
10 and this is confirmed by a
metanalysis by Robinson and colleagues
where they found no relationship between
rp/ how close to failure you train and
strength gains and in fact if you look
closely you might see slightly W
strength gains when you go all the way
to failure however when are some times
where you might actually want to train
closer to failure first when you're very
close to competition and you want to
practice the skill of grinding out a
heavy lift secondly when you're very far
out from a competition and you want to
gain muscle size in those Prime movers
the same met analysis I just mentioned
found a positive relationship between
how close to failure a given set was
taken and how beneficial it was for
muscle growth so keep most of your
training between rpes of say 2 to8 but
don't be afraid of going a little bit
higher when it makes sense to