welcome to the house of hypertrophy as
described by Mike Mensa the arms of all
body parts seem to be the most
universally admired whenever a
bodybuilder is asked by the public to
show them his muscle it is usually the
biceps they're referring to even if I
type in muscle icon into Google
virtually all images show the biceps in
fact the house of hypertri icon itself
depicts the biceps in this video we're
diving deep into the scientific
literature behind building the biceps
covering virtually everything you need
to know about biceps are perch for you
all for free from underappreciated facts
about the biceps Anatomy its fiber type
composition and function what exercises
May best develop this muscle whether the
biceps experiences Regional hypertrophy
if you can truly bias the long or short
head of the biceps with certain
exercises and the effectiveness of only
compound exercises for biceps
hypertrophy
in recent times some people across the
internet have you surface electrodes
strapped up to the biceps to compare
different exercises with the belief this
may tell us about what the best biceps
exercises could be so we'll examine
whether this surface electrode data is
actually useful too the timestamps to
the parts of the video can be found in
the comments and description let's first
explore the biceps Anatomy since as
mentioned there are some
underappreciated facts
[Music]
anatomical textbooks tell us the biceps
consist of a long and short head the
biceps like every single muscle in the
body create movement thanks to it being
attached to bones when a muscle produces
movement the attachments on the bone
that do not move are termed origin
whereas the attachments that move are
called the insertion
the shorts head originates from an area
called the coracoid process whereas the
long head originates from an area called
the supraglinoid tubercle the long and
short head merge together to form a
single muscle mass and inserts on the
radius
having said this a truly
underappreciated fact is biceps Anatomy
can substantially differ between people
as described in this paper the biceps
appears to be one of the most
morphologically variable muscles in the
Upper Limb not everyone has the exact
same Origins and insertions of the
biceps heads for example this paper
established some people aligned with
what we just described having a single
tendon insertion on the radius yet some
had two tendon insertions on the radius
and others had three tendon insertions
on the radius even more interestingly
some people have more than just a long
and short biceps head there are people
with a third fourth and even fifth
biceps head text dating back as early as
the 1800s seems have noted the existence
of these supernumerary heads however one
of the best analyzes of the
supernumerally biceps heads come from a
2022 study from Poland 101 upper limbs
were analyzed and the researchers
figured they could classify the
morphology of the biceps into four
different types
64 of the upper limbs fell into type 1
which was the traditional view of the
biceps consisting of a long and short
head however there were two subtypes
differing in how the long and short
biceps heads fuse together
26 of the upper limbs fell into type 2
which was categorized by having three
biceps heads there were four subtypes
differing in the origin of that third
head fascinatingly one of the subtypes
was categorized by having the third head
originate from the pectoralis major
six percent of the upper limbs fell into
type 3 which was categorized by having
four biceps heads there were two
subtypes differing in the origin of the
third and fourth heads
four percent of the upper limbs fell
into Type 4 which was categorized by
having five biceps heads no subtypes for
this were established but the fifth head
in these four percent of upper limbs
originated from the pectoralis major
based on this analysis we can speculate
that quite a few watching this will have
more than two biceps heads the type you
fall under seems to influence the length
width and thickness of your biceps heads
in various ways
we'll detail the function of the biceps
shortly but most of you know one main
function is elbow flexion but the biceps
are just one of three muscles
contributing to Elbow flexion the two
others being the brachialis which is
found beneath the biceps and the
brachioradialis found mainly across the
forearm we won't be properly exploring
the research and training the brachialis
and break your radialis in this video
this will be done thoroughly in a video
soon to be released but an interesting
question is how do the sizes of these
elbow flexor muscles compare to one
another most people just look at the
sizes of a muscle from the outside but
remember muscles are three-dimensional
and take up space within the body
therefore exploring research that has
measured the volume of these muscles
with special equipment such as MRI
provides a more accurate insight into
the sizes of these muscles I came across
Six studies that have done this and the
results from each are shown on screen if
we average out all Six studies we find
the biceps makes up 46 of the elbow
flexors the brachialis 37 and the
brachial radial is 17 percent
focusing on the biceps there have been
two studies comparing how much the lung
and short head contribute to its size
these two studies did not measure volume
rather they compared the physiological
cross-sectional area and both studies
found the Longhead had a greater
physiological cross-sectional area of
course we mentioned moments ago there
are people with more than two biceps
heads but unfortunately no research to
my knowledge provides an insight into
how the volumes of these supernumerary
heads may compare
as a fun fact before progressing onto
the next section we know that muscles
contain muscle fibers and there is
likely wide variation between people in
the number of muscle fibers they have
this study estimates for the biceps the
number of muscle fibers within it may
vary between 172 000 to 419 000. now not
all muscle fibers are the same and we
can very generally categorize muscle
fibers as either slow twitch or fast
twitch slow twitch fibers are generally
low Force producing highly fatigue
resistant and smaller in size fast
fibers are generally High Force
producing very fatigable and larger in
size when averaging out of the research
it appears the biceps contain slightly
more fast switch muscle fibers than slow
switch muscle fibers bear in mind this
is the average the percentage of fast
switch fibers and slow twitch fibers and
muscle contains can vary between people
we know that elbow flexion is carried
out by the biceps but the other
predominant function is supination of
the forearm expectedly supinating the
forearm while simultaneously performing
elbow flexion powerfully activates the
biceps a 1998 paper from Japan nicely
illustrates this these researchers had
subjects hold a contraction at 30 60 and
90 degrees of elbow flexion in each
position they had subjects transition
their grip from a pronator to a
supinated one all while fine wire
electrodes recorded activity of the
biceps lung and short heads as well as
the brachialis and brachioradiolis we
can see that all three elbow flexion
angles biceps long and short head
activity were greatest when in
supination and lowest in pronation while
the opposite was true for the brachiolis
and brachial radiolis they had the
highest activity in pronation compared
to supination these findings are
supported by other analyzes
an interesting fact is the
brachioradialis appears to have nerve
cells that essentially link it to the
biceps and a few papers found that
during elbow flexion with a pronated
grip the brachioradiolis sends signals
to the biceps to reduce its activity
from this we can infer that to optimize
the development of the biceps we're
going to want to train an exercise that
involves elbow flexion with supination
of the forearm
[Music]
there are an endless number of curling
exercises that involve both elbow
flexion and supination and the
scientific literature tends to show that
numerous curling exercises are great for
building the biceps a 2020 study out of
Canada recruited 36 trained individuals
and assigned them into a free weight or
machine group focusing on the exercises
used to train the biceps directly the
machine group trained machine curls and
machine preacher curls while the free
weight group trained easy barcodes and
preacher curls after eight weeks of
training growth of the elbow flexors
measured at around 65 of the upper arm
length increased comparably between both
groups
now I say elbow flexor here and not
biceps since this measurement actually
includes both the biceps and brachiolis
as we progress through this video you'll
see many studies measured elbow flexor
growth at regions of the upper arm so
just be mindful although it certainly
includes the biceps some of it also
reflects the brachiolis
another 2020 study from Brazil compared
cable to barbell preacher curls and
found after 10 weeks of training growth
of the elbow flexors at around 50 of the
upper arm length increased comparably
between both exercises
some of you might be tempted to compare
the percentage increases between the
studies but bear in mind the subjects
regions measured and training variables
used were different also in some of the
upcoming studies slightly different
hypertrophy measurements were taken
further meaning we can't really compare
the precise percentage increases between
different studies nevertheless a few
other studies which haven't directly
compared different biceps exercises
still demonstrate a range of curling
exercises are great for building the
biceps this 2013 study from Japan had
subjects trained only the dumbbell curl
with these variables and found a 13.3
increase in elbow Flex or
cross-sectional area this 2016 stereato
Brazil had subjects shown only a cable
preacher curl and found a 16 to 20
percent increase in elbow Flex or
cross-sectional area across an upper
middle and lower region finally a 2011
study from Brazil had subjects trained
with a whole program but the barbell
biceps core was the only only direct
biceps exercise and the elbow flexes at
three regions grew well
it's very logical that all these curling
exercises are going to be powerful for
biceps hypertrophy because at the end of
the day they all load elbow flexion with
supination so for those who prefer a
really simplified recommendation you can
absolutely develop your biceps well with
whichever curling exercises you like
the house of hypertrophy is partnered up
with an alpha progression app this app
has a database of over 550 exercises and
if we filter it to show only the biceps
exercises we can see there are 71 of
them with each of them there are great
simple video and text tutorials on their
form and execution so I'm hoping this
can be helpful for individuals wondering
about exercise execution this app has a
free and premium version and I'm happy
to say this exercise database is in the
completely free version the link in the
comments and description can take you to
the app or you can just search up Alpha
progression in the place you download
apps I will say that if you're willing
to support the house of hypertrophy and
help sustain these in-depth three videos
consider checking out the premium
features of the app such as their great
custom workout generator and aesthetic
graph that visually display your
long-term progression the link in the
comments and description gives you two
weeks free of the app's premium features
we don't just partner up with anybody at
the house of hypertrophy so you can rest
assured the app is sincerely high
quality let's get back to the video
so numerous curling exercises can be
great for building the biceps for the
simple fact they can all involve elbow
flexion and supination but let's say you
wanted to push me could a certain type
of coal be slightly more effective than
the wrist maybe I'm wondering if a
curling exercise while the shoulders are
extended such as drawing an incline curl
or face away cable curl might be the
single most favorable biceps exercise
why am I wondering this due to the
origins of the biceps placing the
shoulder into extension stretches the
biceps particularly the long head since
this passes directly over the shoulder
joints in recent years the power of
achieving a stretch of a muscle during
an exercise is becoming apparent though
it's worth knowing that the scientific
origins of stretch playing a role in
hypertrophy stretches back to the 1970s
a range of studies conducted on animals
found that when having them stretch
various muscles with extreme intensity
for a long duration muscle hypertrophy
occurred even Elite bodybuilders
seemingly recognized the importance of
stretch Arnold mentions in his book that
Inca and Dumbo curse are a great
exercise alluding to the stretch of
being an important factor today we have
three areas of the scientific literature
in humans showing the power of achieving
a stretch during an exercise the
isometric training research is the first
for those unaware isometric training is
where you hold a muscle in a static
position and we have three studies that
demonstrate isometric training as a
stretch to muscle position produces more
hypertrophy than isometric training at a
shortened muscle position
an important consideration with the
state is all three of the studies looked
at the quadriceps muscle so we can't be
certain the same applies to the biceps
however the second area of the
scientific research comparing different
range of motions potentially indicates
the biceps do respond to stretch two
studies one by Sato and the other by
Pedrosa have compared performing a
preacher code with a partial range of
motion at the initial position to a
partial range of motion at the final
position you can lift heavier loads with
a partial range of motion in the final
position and this was adjusted for in
both studies now preacher curls don't
optimally stretch the biceps since this
exercise is performed in shoulder
flexion even so the subjects in both
studies that trained with a partial
range of motion at the initial position
would have been stretching the biceps
more than the subjects training with a
partial range of motion at the final
position if the biceps do not benefit
from being exposed to a stretch we'd
expect similar hypertrophy between both
groups but the Salto study found elbow
flexor growth across three regions
tended to be superior for the partial
range of motion at the initial position
when we average growth across the three
regions it's evident elbow flexor growth
was Superior with the partial at the
initial position
as for the Pedrosa study elbow flexor
growth was measured at the 50 and 70
upper arm regions and at the 50 region
thickness gains were actually similar
between both groups but at the 70 region
gains were Superior for the partial at
the initial position if we add both
regions we can see growth favored the
partial at the initial position
an interesting consideration is that
both studies found considerably more
gains at the 70 region for the partial
at the initial position this phenomenon
of stretched exercises growing this
region of a muscle substantially have
also been found with the quadriceps
muscle group
we do actually have another study
comparing different range of motions
with a biceps exercise that further
suggests that biceps May grow more when
exposed to stretch this is a 2011 study
by Pinto which also had subjects train a
preacher coal one group of subjects
trained with a full range of motion
while another group of subjects trained
with a partial range of motion in the
middle position increases in elbow
flexor growth at around the 60 upper arm
length favored the full range of motion
group considering the findings of the
Sato and Pedrosa studies I think these
results are probably in large part since
the full range of motion group achieved
greatest stretch of the biceps
an important consideration with all this
range of motion data is although it
indicates the stretch the part of a
preacher curl is great for building
muscle it of course cannot prove an even
greater stretch achieved for the curls
and shoulder extension would be even
better for biceps hypertrophy
nonetheless the third area of scientific
literature comes from data on the
triceps the triceps generally consist of
the long medial and lateral heads all
three heads pass over their elbow joints
but the long head specifically passes
over the shoulder joint as well and when
you place the shoulder into flexion the
long head of the triceps is going to be
stretched this is quite similar to the
biceps Long Head we know this passes
over the shoulder joint too and will be
stretched during shoulder extension
an overhead extension is a triceps
exercise that will train the long head
of the triceps in a stretched position
since this exercise is performed with
the shoulders flexed and here's the key
point a great Study last year by Mao
compared overhead extensions to push
downs and found that overhead extensions
produced greater long triceps head
volume increases fascinatingly the
overhead extensions also produced
greater combined medial and lateral head
volume increases as well a finding that
was unexpected but nicely demonstrates a
point many people tend to forget that
there are likely still things we do not
fully know about muscle hypertrophy of
course will dissect this study by Mal
plus other relevant research in our
Ultimate Guide to developing the triceps
that should be released in the upcoming
weeks
in total these three areas of the
scientific literature collectively
aren't Crystal Clear proofs curls would
show the extension are the single most
hypertrophic exercise but I think
they're sufficient for us to hypothesize
it could be
despite these three areas of the
scientific literature there's a chance
you may have come across people
suggesting the biceps should not grow
more when exposed to stretch their
belief seems to stem from research
looking at the length tension
relationship of the biceps sarcomas I
don't believe this research is strong
enough to Warrant a full explanation of
it in this video so for those interested
in the full dissection of it my views
can be found at the link on screen
essentially I simply do not believe we
can look at one area of the scientific
literature that has an array of
potential limitations and make
definitive conclusions about whether the
biceps grow more in response to stretch
or not especially considering when other
areas of the scientific literature as we
analyzed provide solid grounds to
speculate the biceps May indeed grow
more in response to stretch I will point
out for the same reasons people
speculated the triceps should not grow
more in response to stretch that is they
believe the length tension relationship
studies on the triceps sarcomas meant
the triceps shouldn't grow more when
exposed to stretch but as we saw with a
mouse study released last year the
triceps Longhead grew more in response
to stretch nevertheless you can be sure
that if any future research emerges
about how the biceps May respond to
stretching based exercises we'll have a
video on the house of hypertrophy to
update you all
as an additional part to this section we
know incline curls and cable face away
curves are two ways you could train the
biceps in a great stretched position but
are there any differences between either
of them that makes one better than the
other some suggest cable faceware costs
are better as they provide more
consistent biceps Force production
throughout the range of motion versus
incline curls however I'm skeptical this
matters that much for hypertrophy if
training a muscle with consistent Force
production throughout a range of motion
was crucial for muscle hypertrophy
variable resistance should build more
muscle for those unaware variable
resistance is typically achieved with
machines that vary the resistance
throughout the range of motion resulting
in the muscle being challenged in there
equally throughout it four Studies have
examined the effectiveness of training
with variable resistance compared to
using normal resistance and all of them
find similar muscle hypertrophy between
the two two of these involved biceps
training one of them was this 2018 paper
which compared variable to normal
resistance Gene preacher curse and found
similar arm circumference gains between
the two the second one was this 1995
study which again compared variable to
normal resistance Preacher machine curls
and observe similar biceps
cross-sectional area gains between the
two
since these two studies only use the
preacher curl it's not a guarantee that
these findings apply to curling with a
shoulder extended but I do think it
could be the case that regardless of the
resistance profile of an exercise taking
your repetitions to or at least near
failure sufficiently stimulates the
biceps therefore I'm currently not sold
on the idea that cable face away curls
would truly be superior to inclined
dumbbell curls so for now I'd say an
individual should select whichever they
prefer
now I just mentioned about taking your
repetitions to or narrative failure to
sufficiently stimulate the biceps and I
believe this is a point worth expanding
on
to understand what I consider to be one
of the most important biceps training
tips we first need a brief understanding
of how muscle hypertrophy occurs that is
when you lift weights what happens
inside of the muscle that ultimately
causes it to get bigger one of the most
frequent explanations is that the muscle
experiences microtest when lifting and
the body repairs these while growing the
muscle others might suggest that the
Burning Sensations and the pump are what
Drive the muscle to grow however most
people are unfortunately unaware that
the overall scientific literature fails
to support these as strong drivers of
muscle hypertrophy we've thoroughly
dissected this scientific literature in
a previous video so feel free to check
out that video afterwards if you're
interested as we detailed in that video
the scientific literature in instead
indicates that mechanical tension is
likely the primary stimulus behind
muscle hypertrophy what on Earth is
mechanical tension
your muscles produce tension in other
words Force there are two kinds of
tension your muscles can produce passive
tension and active tension it turns out
that throughout your muscles our
mechanosensors that can detect these two
kinds of tension and convert this
tension into a signal that produces
hypertrophy
but what precisely are passive and
active tension passive tension is
produced when the muscle is stretched a
rubber band may help you understand
passive tension when you stretch a
rubber band it produces passive tension
to try and resist the stretch when you
let go of the rubber band that passive
tension will snap it back into its
original position various structures
throughout the muscle such as a
particular protein within muscle fibers
as well as the connective tissue
surrounding muscle fibers a what
generate passive tension as for active
tension this is the contractile Force
generated by the muscles fibers
interestingly your muscles can generate
greater passive tension while the muscle
is also generating active tension
perhaps this is why passive tension
alone such as done during static
stretching isn't the most effective for
building muscle but passive tension with
active tension such as during an
exercise that achieves a stretch is
powerful for building muscle so this
might be one of the reasons is behind
why achieving a stretch during an
exercise is great for building muscle
but there certainly could be other
reasons stretched during an exercise is
beneficial remember we still don't know
everything about muscle hypertrophy
nevertheless focusing on active tension
it is clear to see that during an
exercise we're going to want to ensure
we recruit as many muscle fibers as
possible and have those fibers Produce
High respective active tension this
should enable the mechanosensors within
and around the muscle fibers to detect
the active tension leading to a
hypertrophy signal that makes many of
these various fibers increase in size
leading to a more developed muscle
overall taking your repositions to or at
least near failure is one of the most
critical things for ensuring you achieve
High muscle fiber Recruitment and
respective tension from the fibers this
is simply because as you net failure
your central nervous system tends to
recruit additional muscle fibers in
attempt to sustain your repetition
performance various fibers may also
technically increase their tension
production throughout this as well
therefore regardless of whatever biceps
curling exercise you're performing
taking your repetitions to or at least
near failure should not be
underestimated for creating a powerful
biceps hypertrophy stimulus a 2017 paper
by martorelli nicely demonstrates this
point 89 previously untrained women were
recruited and assigned into one or three
groups a failure non-failure equal sets
and non-failure plus one group all three
group trained the barbell biceps curl
twice a week for 10 weeks the failure
group e-session performed three sets of
repetitions to failure with a 70 One
Rate Max load the non-failure equal set
group each session performed three sets
of seven reps with a 70 One Rate Max low
now with a 70 One Rate Max load on the
barbell biceps curl the data in this
study suggests subjects could perform a
maximum of 12 to 13 repetitions
therefore this non-failure group will
stop five to six reps from failure on
the first set and in their second and
third set due to cumulative fatigue they
probably got slightly closer to failure
the non-failure plus one group performed
four sets of seven reps with a 70 One
Rate Max load so they would have had a
similar proximity to failure to the
other non-failure group the only
difference being this group performs an
extra set all groups rested two minutes
between their sets in a session and one
rep max was retested on the fifth week
to readjust the seventy percent of one
right Max training loads by the end of
the study elbow flexor growth measured
at around 60 of the upper arm length was
Superior for the failure group we can
see that the average differences between
the non-failure and failure group was
large the non-failure plus one group saw
slightly better games than a non-failure
equal set group but even still average
gains for this group were fairly far off
the failure group
this study perfectly demonstrates with
the exact same exercise biceps
hypertrophy is seriously impacted by how
close you get to failure granted this
study was conducted on previously
untrained women but you'd presume these
findings should extend to other
demographics for the simple reasons we
previously outlined that is getting to
or at the very least near failure
optimizes mechanical tension
do you have to train to complete failure
on every sets you'd have noticed I've
been saying to or at the very least near
failure the reason for this is we do
have other research looking at different
exercises and muscle groups finding that
stopping shy or failure perhaps around
three to one reps from failure can
produce similar hypertrophy to training
to failure therefore I do think stopping
just shy of failure is largely perfectly
fine too although one potential problem
with this is some people might
underestimate their proximity to failure
you may think you stopped two reps from
failure but in reality you were five
reps from failure
because of this I think it's worthwhile
for an individual so long as they are
healthy and able to do so to gain some
good experience with training to failure
in order to best help the accuracy when
or if they do go about stopping a
certain number of reps from failure
[Music]
here's a graph demonstrating the
cross-sectional area of the biceps
across its regions we can see its
largest in the middle to lower regions
with decreasing size as you get near the
upper and very lowest portions of the
muscle bear in mind this is just the
average of the subject's assist so this
precise shape won't identically apply to
all nevertheless when training the
biceps it may be common for people to
assume it grows equally in all its
regions but this largely doesn't happen
many of you might have recognized this
since quite a few studies already
outlined in this video demonstrated this
recall the Sato and pedrosis studies
finding partial range of motion preacher
codes in the initial position
considerably develop the 70 region of
the muscle moreover we mentioned this
2011 study from Brazil which involves
subjects training the biceps directly
with a barbell biceps curl an elbow
flexor thickness gains occurred in three
regions but the gains were largest at
the 50 region with slightly less growth
at the 60 and 70 regions why do the
biceps not grow evenly across its
regions there are a few possibilities we
have some interesting analyzes showing
during elbow flexion not all regions of
the bicep shorten equally this might
play a role in why some regions of the
biceps grow more than others we also
mentioned that on average the biceps
tends to contain more fast twitch than
slow twitch muscle fibers however
different regions of the biceps can
contain different proportions of slow
and fast twitch muscle fibers this
matters because fast twitch muscle
fibers actually possess greater
hypertrophy potential versus slow twitch
fibers therefore the regions that grow
more may just be areas that have a
higher proportion of fast twitch muscle
fibers
it is also possible that within the
biceps there are subgroups of muscle
fibers that have slightly different
functions to one another therefore a
certain biceps exercise May more so
Target particular subgroups of muscle
fibers and less so other subgroups will
return to this point more soon
[Music]
so the biceps do not grow equally across
its regions but another fascinating
point is different people even if
they're training the same biceps
exercise do not see the same growth
across the biceps regions demonstrating
this a 2017 study by dank Hill and
colleagues had five trained men perform
dumbbell biceps curls for 21 days and
evaluated elbow flexor growth at the 50
60 and 70 upper arm regions here are the
results showing how each subject grew
the three regions and individual
differences are clear subject 1 tended
to grow the 50 region the most subject
two grew the 60 and 70 regions equally
with less growth at the 50 region
subject 3 only really experienced growth
at the 60 region subject force or the
best growth at the 70 region but still
saw great growth at the 50 and 60
regions while subjects 5 saw
increasingly more growth up to the 70
region
why does this happen remember we've
detailed how not everyone has the same
biceps morphology people can have
different Origins and insertions of
their biceps heads and there are
individuals out there with more than two
biceps Heads This is potentially a
strong basis as to why people do not
grow the same regions of the biceps
equally the regions of the biceps that
may contain a higher proportion of fast
which muscle fibers probably drastically
differ between people and if the biceps
do contain subgroups of muscle fibers
with different functions the location of
these subgroups might also differ
between people
I think it's important to mention that
this Regional hypertrophy isn't super
crazy we're only talking about a slight
difference in growth at certain regions
most people are still growing all
regions well so it's not like this data
means your biceps are going to end up
looking weird or oddly shaped like a
bimodal distribution
nevertheless we've so far seen the
biceps do not grow equally across its
regions and different people even if
they're training the same biceps
exercise do not even see the same growth
across the regions of the biceps but an
interesting question is for a single
person do different biceps exercises
produce different growth across their
regions of the biceps potentially
various lines of the scientific
literature indicate that different
biceps exercises potentially Target
different regions meaning that training
with a few different biceps exercises
could be favorable for development of
the biceps across its regions firstly
we've touched on the idea that a few
papers suggest within the biceps there
are subgroups of muscle fibers that have
slightly different functions to one
another more precisely some papers
indicate various subgroups of muscle
fibers are only involved in elbow
flexion while other subgroups are
involved in a combination of elbow
flexion and supination of the forearm
another study suggests that when
applying isometric elbow flexion forces
in different directions not all the
muscle fibers within the biceps operate
identically thus though these papers
can't prove this since they didn't
strictly look at different biceps
exercises it's possible the subgroups of
muscle fibers within the biceps are
targeted differently with different
biceps exercises secondly we have this
2021 study by Costa and colleagues the
researchers recruited men and assigned
them into a varied group or non-varied
group the non-varied group performed
this program and we can see they
performed the same workouts on Monday
Wednesday and Friday for the biceps they
only trained the barbell biceps curl
though technically lap pull Downs can
also be considered to train the biceps
the varied group performed this program
and we can see they perform different
workouts on Monday Wednesday and Friday
for the biceps we can see they trained
the barber biceps color Monday like the
non-varied group did but on Wednesday
they trained cable preacher course and
on Friday they trained incline dumbbell
curves it's worth just noticing the lap
pull-down variations also differed
across these three days after eight
weeks of training the varied group
tended to experience better growth
across the three elbow flexor regions
particularly at the 50 and 60 regions
and total growth of the elbow flexors
were slightly more with a varied group a
potential explanation for these results
is what we mentioned that different
biceps exercises May preferentially
Target different regions meaning
training with a few different biceps
exercises more favorably develop the
biceps across its regions though there
certainly are caveats to this conclusion
it's difficult to know how the inclusion
of lap pools and variations impacted
outcomes we also established that
different people do not always grow the
same regions identically and given the
two groups involved to different people
it's possible this may have influenced
the outcomes lastly I think the fact
that varied group performed the incline
curl which we established to potentially
be one of the best biceps exercises due
to its great stretch of the muscle could
be the primary reason for the greater
overall elbow flexor growth with a
varied group nonetheless moving forward
the third area of scientific research
that potentially suggests different
biceps exercises could Target different
regions is a 2019 study from the USA in
one session trained men perform the nine
sets of cable curves with the shoulders
neutrally positioned we can call this
the non-varied training session in a
different session the trained men
perform three sets of cable cars for the
shoulders neutrally positioned three
sets of cable curls with the shoulders
extended and three sets of cable curls
with the shoulders flexed we can call
this the varied training session it was
found immediately after the training
sessions Echo intensity of the middle
biceps region increased similarly
between the non-varied and varied
training sessions however Echo intensity
at the lower portion of the biceps
increase more with the very training
session Echo intensity may be considered
an indicator of the strain experienced
by a muscle region therefore these
results May imply the varied session
cause more strain at the lower region
versus the non-varied session supporting
the idea that different biceps exercises
May Target different regions now this is
not an actual measure of muscle
hypertrophy after training period and
there is some ambiguity about what Echo
intensity truly measures so this isn't
high quality evidence lastly as we'll
see in The Ultimate Guide to developing
the triceps to be released over the
coming weeks we have evidence that if
you get a person to train one arm with a
certain triceps exercise and their other
arm with a different triceps exercise
the two arms see different growth across
the regions of the long head of the
triceps perhaps this logic similarly
extends the biceps all in all if we
combine these four areas of the
scientific evidence outlined although
each of them have their limitations they
all potentially Point towards the idea
of different biceps exercises targeting
different regions it's interesting to
know that Arnold himself seems to allude
to the idea that different biceps
exercises grow different regions in his
book
at the end of the day there's not really
a catastrophic downside to performing a
few different biceps exercises in your
program some people may enjoy the
variation and of course if what's being
speculated here is correct you may end
up better developing the biceps across
its regions to clarify and make sure no
one is confused I still believe that
curls with the shoulders extended may be
the single most hypertrophic biceps
exercise that is this exercise might
generate the greatest net to magnitude
of biceps hypertrophy however it's just
that it might not optimally grow every
single region of the biceps meaning that
other different exercises may be helpful
like the costs and the paper of the USA
study did in addition to the curl with
the shoulders extended you may perform a
curl with the shoulders neutrally
positioned and occur with the shoulders
flexed
before moving on to the next section
it's worthwhile to shout out the alpha
progression app here again for the
reason it includes a custom workout
generator and this gives you the option
to focus on the biceps muscle and you'll
see selecting this will generate a
program in line with the recommendations
presented here a few biomechanically
different biceps exercises are
programmed so for those who want
guidance or ideas about programming for
hypertrophy I'm hoping this can be
really useful the training variables
deployed are grounded in various areas
of the scientific literature plus the
generator has great flexibility you can
factor in what equipment you have
available so if you only have a pair of
dumbbells this is not a problem how long
do you want your workouts to be and how
often you want to train furthermore the
workouts generated are still editable to
your liking allowing you to
individualize things as you see fit
again the link in the comments and
description gives you two weeks free of
the app's premium features including the
workout generator
if you do like it and end up subscribing
to the app This truly helps supports the
house of hypertrophes to continue making
videos like this
remember not everyone just has a long
and short head there are people out
there with more heads and at this time
it's not clear if certain exercises
could preferentially Target the
supernumerary heads nevertheless with
the long and short heads since both of
them are highly involved in elbow
flexion and supination we know it's
going to be impossible to completely
isolate either head but do certain
biceps exercises preferentially Target
either let's imagine for a second they
did some believe that targeting the long
head specifically can change the shape
of the biceps to look something like
what Arnold had but this is most likely
not true through comparing Arnold to
Sergio Oliver it becomes apparent
although they both unquestionably have
impressive biceps the shape is vastly
different indicating that the appearance
of your biceps Peak is genetically
determined in Arnold's book he notes
himself his outstanding biceps
development is largely hereditary like
Tom Platt's dies going on to further
mention how people have biceps that
aren't shaped identically so even though
the particular shape of your biceps is
largely determined by genetics is it
possible for us to preferentially train
either the long or short heads I think
you might be able to but at the same
time I do have some skepticism let me
first detail the most widely suggested
way to preferentially Target the long
and short heads and then I'll provide
some thoughts
earlier we mentioned that a curl with
the shoulder extended might be the best
single biceps exercise due to its great
stretch but it is widely speculated
these types of curls preferentially
develop the long head over the short
head why is this both the lung and short
head originate from the scapular but
only the long head directly travels
through the shoulder joints meaning the
long head would presumably be stretched
to a greater degree during curls with
the shoulder extended therefore the
logic is that this means the long head
will experience a greater stimulus above
that of the short head
as for preferentially targeting the
short head it is believed curls with the
shoulder flexed achieve this again if
the long hair travels directly through
the shoulder joints but when it's placed
in flexion it will be shortened somewhat
therefore the logic is that this means
the long head cannot contribute as much
force to curls during shoulder flexion
leaving the short head to be biased I
think these ideas sound convincing and
they certainly could be true but the
reason I remain skeptical is simply
because we don't have research actually
measuring short and long head
hypertrophy that can confirm this
now let's say what's being speculated is
correct that curls with a shoulder
extended May bias the long head and
curls with the shoulders flexed May bias
to short head I think it's worth
mentioning I don't believe this means
the non-biased heads experience little
hypertrophy in the exercises other areas
of the literature lead me to speculate
this let me explain
let's take the curls with the shoulders
extended first many might have the
Assumption since the long head is nicely
stretched and should receive a great
stimulus this automatically means the
short head should see a diminished
stimulus perhaps they may think of it
like a seesaw as a particular muscle is
stimulated more the other muscle or
muscles in the exercise see a much lower
stimulus I do think this logic can be
true under some circumstances but I'm
unsure if it applies to this particular
circumstance take the example of the
hamstrings the hamstrings in addition to
the semitendinosis and semimembranosis
include the biceps femoral short head
and Long Head I'll refer to these two as
the BF Longhead and bf short head the BF
Longhead crosses both the hip and knee
joints while the BF short head crosses
only the knee joint due to this the BF
long head will be stretched in hip
flexion this means that seated Legos due
to it involving hip flexion will stretch
out of the BF long head more compared to
an exercise like the lylico which
involves loves no hip flexion on the
other hand the BF short head would be
trained at a similar length during both
the seated and Langley curls I.E it
isn't stretched anymore during seated
versus lying Legos we have this study by
Mao finding the BF Longhead grew more
with seated Legos versus langleykos
which is what we'd expect since the BF
Longhead is stretched more with seated
Legos but how did BF short head growth
compare between the two exercises if
you're thinking of the Seesaw analogy
since the BF Longhead grew more with
seated Lego's you may be tempted to
think the BF shorthead would have
received the less of a stimulus and
therefore should have grown more with
langler curls but this did not happen BF
short head growth was similar between
both the seated and lying Legos applying
this back to curls with the shoulders
extended just because the long head May
indeed see great hypertrophy due to the
stretch I don't believe this means the
short head will experience any
compromised gains it could grow very
well additionally it's one worth
pointing out with a short head still
originates from the coracoid process so
it is likely still somewhat stretched
during curls with the shoulder extended
turning our attention to curls with the
shoulders flexed although it's possible
the short head will be biased here as
the long head is somewhat shortened I
think it's plausible the long head still
grows very well take the example of the
rexins femoris which is one of the
muscle heads of the quadriceps this
muscle crosses both the hip and knee
joints and it will actually be partly
shortened during hip flexion much in the
same way the biceps long head will be
partly shortened during shoulder flexion
however leg extensions which are
commonly performed with around 90
degrees of hip flexion produce
substantial rectus femoris hypertrophy
in the same way the long head may still
experience significant hypertrophy with
curls in shoulder flexion despite it
being partly shortened
in my attempt to make this video as
detailed as possible it's worth noting
there exist other suggestions as how
someone may preferentially Target either
the long or short biceps heads some
suggest performing curls with the
shoulders rotated outwards external
rotation better align the fibers of the
long head to carry out elbow flexion
over the short head's fibers conversely
performing curls with the shoulders
rotated inwards internal rotation better
align the fibers of the short head to
carry out elbow flexion over the long
head this is a possibility however I
again have some skepticism as to whether
this slight better alignment of fibers
in either case is enough to measurably
make a difference in actual mechanical
tension experienced by the heads and
subsequent hypertrophy others have
suggested the grip width used on a bar
during a curl impacts whether the long
or short biceps head are biased there
are actually conflicting views with some
suggesting narrower grips bias the long
head While others suggest wider grips
bias the long head unfortunately I'm
unaware of any high quality evidence
that can verify either of these claims
[Music]
there are various surface
electromyography abbreviated to semg
analyzes comparing different biceps
exercises for those unaware semg
involves strapping electrodes to a
muscle and recording the signals you
receive with the belief this provides an
insight into the muscles activation in
fact you may be aware that various
content creators online may have used
their own personal semg equipment to
compare different biceps exercises but
how useful is this firstly here's a
table summarizing the results of all the
published official and unofficial semg
studies comparing different biceps
exercises you can see the analyzes were
quite different and there are some
conflicting findings for example this
study found slightly higher semg
recordings during a straight barbell
curl versus a easy bar curl yet another
study observes similar semg recordings
between the easy bar curl and straight
bar curl if you've followed this channel
for a while you likely know that I'm
highly critical of using semg to
specifically compare different exercises
for the reasons nicely presented by two
papers by vygotsky and colleagues semg
is simply not a validated way to predict
muscle hypertrophy and it has numerous
potential pitfalls semg doesn't truly
measure muscle activation it's an
estimate of the electrical signal sent
to the muscle and there exists multiple
pitfalls that mean semg can inaccurately
record the electrical signal sent to a
muscle we have instances where semg data
conflicts with a research that actually
measures muscle hypertrophy for example
we have some semg data finding during a
squat there's High semg recordings from
directors for more as part of the
quadriceps yes research measuring rectus
femoris hypertrophy after training with
a back squat fail to observe any
significant rectus femoris hypertrophy
as another example this semg analysis
observed higher semg recordings from the
quadriceps during leg extension
isometric contractions at a short versus
long length yet research finds greater
quadriceps hypertrophy after training
with leg extension isometric
contractions at a long versus short
length due to these reasons I simply
don't believe it's Justified to use semg
data to recommend what may be the most
favorable biceps exercises it's worth
noting there are certainly other valid
uses of semg that aren't directly
related to muscle hypertrophy so I'm not
saying surface electromyography is a
useless piece of equipment rather it
just doesn't appear to be useful for
comparing different exercises for muscle
hypertrophy interestingly some of the
early uses of semg were seemingly for
various disorders
[Music]
throughout this video we've only been
talking about isolation exercises which
involve movement at only one joint but
compound exercises which involve
movement at two or more joints are
highly used in most training programs
vertical pulling compound exercises such
as lap pull Downs or pull-ups as well as
horizontal pulling exercises such as
cable rows or barbell rows are commonly
performed in a program mainly to Target
the back muscles however since these two
types of compound exercises involve
elbow flexion the biceps will be
recruited how effective are these types
of compound exercises for producing
biceps hypertrophy firstly we do have
studies that involve only training the
biceps with vertical and horizontal
pulling exercises and measurable biceps
hypertrophy certainly occurs for example
this 2016 study out of the USA recruited
trained men and had them trained these
exercises each session for three sets of
8-12 reps to failure with 2 minutes of
rest between sets Through Time a week
for eight weeks we can see the lap pull
down and cable rows were the only
exercises that technically trained the
biceps elbow flexor growth measured at
around 60 of the upper arm length
increased by five percent but does this
mean you can maximize biceps hypertrophy
with purely compound exercises probably
not we have this 2018 study by manorino
that directly compared dumbbell rows to
dumbbell curls with these training
variables used and found elbow flexor
growth averaged out from a 25 50 and 75
region were Superior with the dumbbell
curls in fact dumbbell rows produce just
under 50 percent less growth versus the
dumbbell curls a worthwhile point about
this study is both the dumbbell rows and
dumbbell curls were performed with a
supinated grip Rose specifically are not
commonly performed with a supinated grip
rather a pronated or neutral grip is
commonly used we know that the biceps
are highly involved in supination and so
if this study had subjects trained
dumbbell rules with pronated or neutral
grip it's likely growth would have been
even lower than 50 of the dumbbell
cocaines
this study did only examine a dumbbell
row and some people may be wondering if
using a different horizontal pulling
exercise such as a barbell row or seated
row changes the amount of biceps
hypertrophy there are differences
between these different horizontal
pulling exercises that could technically
change the amount of biceps hypertrophy
for example horizontal pulling exercises
with narrower grips likely involve
higher biceps activation but still given
the back is frequently going to be the
limiting factor in horizontal pulling
exercises and the fact that frequently
performed with a pronated or neutral
grip I think it's Justified to speculate
none of them will be on the same level
as isolation biceps exercises for biceps
hypertrophy on top of this I think
there's solid reason to believe that
horizontal pulls involve motion that is
sub-optimal for building the long head
of the biceps particularly let me
explain horizontal pulling exercises of
course involve motion at both the
shoulder and elbow joints during the
lowering phase of the exercise the
shoulders Flex while the elbow extends
during the lifting phase of the exercise
the shoulders extend while the elbows
flicks
this particular lowering and lifting
movement might actually be unfavorable
for the long head of the biceps
specifically remember the long biceps
head passes directly over the shoulder
joints as the lowering phase of a
horizontal pull involves shoulder
flexion with elbow extension this means
the long biceps head will be shortening
at the area of the shoulder joint but be
lengthening as the elbow joint during
the lifting phase of a horizontal pull
the reverse of this happens the long
biceps head will be lengthening at the
shoulder joint and shortening at the
elbow joints this particular motion
going from shortened at the first joint
lengthen at the second joint to
lengthened at the first joint shortened
at the second joint seems to be bad for
muscle hypertrophy research on the
rectus femoris and triceps long had
further demonstrate this we know the
rectus femoris crosses both the hip and
knee joints a squat during the lowering
phase involves hip flexion and knee
flexion and during this lowering phase
the rectus femoris will be shortening at
the hip joint and lengthening and the
knee joints during the lifting phase of
the squat the the reverse happens we
have data demonstrating the rectus
femoris experiences minimal hypertrophy
from squat training with the triceps
Long Head we know this crosses the
shoulder and elbow joints a bench press
during the lowering phase involves
shoulder extension and elbow flexion the
triceps long head will be shortening at
the shoulder joint and lengthening at
the elbow joint during the lifting phase
of the bench press the reverse happens
we have data demonstrating the triceps
long head experiences minimal
hypertrophy from bench press training
all these data may suggest that
horizontal pools minimally grow the
biceps long head
what about vertical pulling compound
exercises are these any better for
biceps hypertrophy two studies suggest
lat pulldowns are highly effective for
biceps hypertrophy one of them compared
let pull Downs to barbell curls and
found similar elpoflexor thickness gains
between the two exercises the second one
found performing the lap pull down alone
was as good for helper flexor thickness
gains compared to performing lap pull
Downs plus barbell curls in other words
the addition of biceps curl select pull
down training did not enhance elbow
flexor thickness gains however there are
some very important limitations with
these two studies firstly the author of
the two papers was Paulo gentle
unfortunately this researcher has
previously been involved with sports
science studies that are most likely
fraudulent as far as I know there aren't
any signs these two particular studies
are fraudulent by personally remain
cautious secondly both studies were
conducted on untrained individuals it's
very possible that entrained individuals
we get different results thirdly elbow
flexor thickness was only measured at a
single region in both studies we know
that biceps do not grow evenly across
its regions recall the manorino study
compound rose the curls averages out the
25 50 and 75 regions and I think it's
possible if these two gentle papers
included other regions perhaps there
could be a difference on top of these
limitations I think the other indirect
scientific research would question the
ability of vertical pools to produce
similar biceps hypertrophy to isolation
biceps Curves in both the gentle papers
the lap pulldowns were performed with a
pronated grip we know supination is one
of the predominant functions of the
biceps recall much earlier in this video
we analyzed the 1998 study from Japan
demonstrating how when the elbows are
flexed the biceps long and short had
have greater activity with a supinated
grip as opposed to a pronated grip while
the opposite was true for the brachialis
and brachioradialis
you could actually use this information
to speculate that in the one gentle
study which directly compared let pull
Downs to curls and found similar elbow
flexor thickness gains since the elbow
flexor measurement included both the
biceps and brachialis perhaps more of
the elbow flexor thickness gains for
their lap pull Downs reflects brachialis
growth whereas more of the elbow flexor
thickness gains for the curls reflect
biceps growth
also remember that an interesting fact
is to break your radiolis appears to
have nerve cells that essentially link
it to the biceps and a few papers found
that during elbow flexion with a
pronated grip the brachioradialis sends
signals to the biceps to reduce its
activity all this information would
imply that any exercise with a pronated
grip which is commonly used with
vertical pulling exercises wooden
optimize biceps tension of course it's
actually possible to perform vertical
pulling exercises with a supinated grip
and chin-ups are one of the most famous
examples of this unfortunately there
isn't any research directly measuring
biceps hypertrophy after training with
chin ups but I do think it's reasonable
to speculate simply because it involves
elbow flexion with supination that it
will be a tremendous exercise for
developing the biceps although a
potential Pitfall with chin UPS is the
back muscles can still be the limiting
factor and this may slightly compromise
the stimulus to the biceps compared to
isolation biceps exercises
[Music]
this is actually just part one of The
Ultimate Guide to biceps hypertrophy in
part 2 which will be released in the
next two weeks we'll dissect what rep
ranges volume and training frequency may
be ideal for biceps hypertrophy in
addition to dissecting some other
fascinating science surrounding biceps
hypertrophy the reason I'll do this is
there have been multiple speculations
about what the best training variables
might be to develop the biceps more
precisely some individuals believe since
the biceps tend to contain more fast
twitch than slow twitch muscle fibers
they should be trained with heavier
loads some people also believe the
biceps experiences a lot of muscle
damage from training and therefore
should be trained less frequently we'll
examine if the scientific literature
supports these ideas nonetheless let us
now summarize everything in this video
and then provide some exercise selection
recommendations
the standard textbook details are the
biceps contain a long and short head
with these Origins and insertions indeed
this absolutely applies to many people
but as detailed in this paper the biceps
are one of the most morphologically
variable muscles in the Upper Limb
different people can have different
Origins and insertions of the heads and
there are even people with a third
fourth or even Fifth bicep's Head the
biceps are highly involved in both elbow
flexion and supination of the forearm
vertical and horizontal pulling
exercises alone are certainly able to
produce measurable biceps hypertrophy
but for a variety of reasons these
exercises are likely not sufficient to
optimize biceps development although
vertical pulls with a supinated grip
like chin UPS likely are very good for
biceps development the data shows
numerous types of isolation biceps
exercises are capable of powerfully
increasing bicep size this is very
logical at the end of the day numerous
biceps isolation exercises involve
outperfection with supination with no
real motion at other joints but if you
pushed me to speculate on what the
single most effective biceps exercise
could be I would speculate that a curl
with a shoulder extended such as done
during an incline curl or cable face
away curl would be it this is because
with the shoulder extended the biceps
are placed in a position of stretch and
we have research suggesting achieving a
stretch during an exercise is great for
building muscle having said all this
there could potentially be a benefit to
training with a few different biceps
isolation exercises the biceps do not
grow evenly at its regions and different
people even if they train the same
exercise can experience different growth
across their biceps regions but it is
probable for a given person different
biceps exercises Target different
regions of the muscle meaning training
with a few different biceps exercises
produces better growth across the
regions of the muscle
to make sure this doesn't confuse anyone
I still believe a curl with the shoulder
extended is the single biceps exercise
that generates the largest bicep volume
increases but it just might not
optimally develop all the biceps regions
making it beneficial to train with
additional biceps movements regardless
of what exercises you use to train the
biceps with making sure you perform your
repetitions too or at least very near to
failure is crucial for optimizing
mechanical tension which has been
identified to likely be the primary
hypertrophy stimulus indeed we have
research shown with the same biceps
exercise there's a large difference in
biceps hypertrophy between training to
failure and stopping multiple reps from
failure for those wondering if certain
biceps exercises can bias either the
long or short head I think it certainly
could be possible and there have been
numerous speculations on how you may go
about doing this however the problem is
we just don't currently have sufficient
research to prove you can meaningfully
bias either head
so what's the recommendations it's going
to depend on your goals for those who
aren't trying to optimize biceps
hypertrophy and are trying to train with
the least amount of work training with
just compound exercises can be great
since multiple muscle groups are trained
at the same time although vertical and
horizontal pulling exercises may not be
optimal for biceps hypertrophy for
various reasons they certainly can
produce measurable biceps hypertrophy
recall we previously noted a study at
the USA and trained to men that found
training the seated row and lap pulled
and produced a five percent increase in
elbow flexor thickness after eight weeks
of training for those who want to go a
little further simply training with one
isolation biceps exercise in your
program can likely deliver great gains
we detailed an array of studies
demonstrating that numerous isolation
biceps exercises are capable of
powerfully increasing bicep size so feel
free to select whatever you like if you
want to go along with my hypothesis feel
free to train with a curl and shoulder
extension since this might be the single
most hypertrophic biceps movement thanks
to the stretch for those wanting to take
things even further it's possible
different biceps exercises Target
different regions so you may want to
perform a few biomechanically different
biceps exercises in your overall program
for example you may choose to perform
three biceps exercises that differ in
the shoulder angle being used of course
these aren't the only options you could
be somewhere in between these areas just
described for example you may choose to
perform two isolation biceps exercises
in your program and you may base the
selection on the simple fact you really
like these two biceps isolation
exercises as mentioned the second part
will be released in the next two weeks
which will analyze the data on what rep
ranges volume and frequency might be
ideal for biceps hypertrophy in addition
to other interesting scientific research
on the biceps finally you might be
interested in a free eBook The Ultimate
bench press strength and hypertrophy
guide with over 100 scientific
references whether your aim is strength
and or hypertrophy we discuss technical
factors like grip width and bar pass
training factors rip ranges volume and
frequency comparisons between the bench
press and other similar exercises and
other fascinating science related to the
bench press you can gain access to this
free ebook through the link in the
comments and description
foreign
foreign