once you hit that 4H hour mark it's like
I don't know if I can do this yes I
would even say that at two hours but
who's counting you know it really starts
you start aching and hurting your
nervous system kicks in I like that up
until this point your nervous system was
just not around your muscles moved
autonomously somehow when you get to the
fifth hour sixth hour 7eventh hour you
know it's it's actually really grueling
and it's a very hard workout to
accomplish but wouldn't like a two-hour
workout also be hard do people just not
trade hard enough that they need this
duration of to get the done I
always say keep it short and sweet I'm
saying ladies your boy's got a minute
and 30 seconds off his sleeve it's not
much and it's not fun but I'm there for
it why do we need to do things for
longer it's just more misery for you and
pretend pleasure for me we still talking
about arms