hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization bad news caffeine is
terrible for you and you're gonna
almost swore effing die
that was close YouTube
still here though baby in any case
caffeine is bad for you and that's BS
but why I thought it was bad for you I
thought it was this thing we all
this drug we all took in secret and we
knew it was killing us but we couldn't
stop there's maybe a little truth to
that so here's the thing you ask
caffeine as a stimulant but it's a very
mild one
what is a non-mile stimulant something
like dexedrine or some shit that's like
Adderall look at that shit will blow
your fucking head off your body for sure
caffeine is actually very mild stimulant
so it can marginally raise blood
pressure
which could be enough so great thing
we'll get back to that in a little bit
it can definitely increase anxiety
especially if you're prone to Jewish
anxiety increases
I know anyone like that though
aye and it can cause mild chemical
dependence in some people which is
defined as like when you withdraw from a
drug do you experience any physiological
side effects
talking about my wife yes
two monsters a day stop hitting that
girl in the face first of all she begins
to take stabbing implements and run
after me with them which I never enjoyed
but she doesn't run for long because she
gets a massive debilitating headache and
almost passes out and
um then it's a kind of a win-win and
then when she is normal again she's not
crazy again it's all awesome so yeah
when some people don't get their
caffeine they get the headaches and all
this other stuff which tells us like hey
this is like a drug drug and we have to
have some reverence about it yeah just
assume it's good for our health
but it does some good things and good
things with relation to quality of life
and actually good things that may impact
our health better in other ways
so it reduces appetite pretty
significantly for many people or at
least controls it or at least prevents
the appetite spikes from getting really
crazy and that's kind of cool because
caffeine can be an intelligent part or
accidental part of your weight control
program why do I say accidental because
a variety of stimulants have been used
to control people's weight uh sometimes
these stimulants aren't the greatest
thing in the world but here's some
examples uh you know like if you're a
European fashion model in the 60s you
actually exist on two things coffee and
cigarettes
that's it you get so much stimulant from
those that you don't really eat much
food bad news is you're in terrible
health and a fucking drug addict good
news is that you're probably very light
and quite lean and if your physical
activity is pretty decent then you're
actually pretty healthy even with the
nicotine of the cigarettes
counterbalancing that and of course the
tar and all that other shit of
cigarettes really counterbalancing that
but that's all later in life I'm not
telling you to smoke what I am telling
you is that if you just take the
caffeine part of that and you keep it
within reason then the weight control
effects can be uh additive good to your
Fitness to some extent in some cases and
of course an increase in alertness ETC
makes you maybe more happy and more
productive at work makes you more of the
person you want to be which is I think
why like uh people a lot of times take
caffeine in people have their moaning
cup of coffee and they'll say things
like I'm not me until I've had my coffee
and if they really believe that it's a
big deal big psychological deal
but what about the long-term stuff what
about long-term health
here's the deal
most of the best studies and by the way
this has been studied into the fucking
ground because people have been
consuming caffeine products coffee tea
etc for
hundreds and hundreds of years at this
point and of course we haven't had
studies that go back that far but modern
medicine has been very attuned to the
problem or to to the situation and most
of the best studies seem to point to no
long-term reliable health effects with
caffeine use or it's unclear they can't
really tell but I'll tell you this as a
scientist with this many studies in the
Precision that we've had of them so far
if they're still unclear that means if
there is a negative magnitude of
caffeine intake on your health it's
going to be very very very Ultra small
as if these studies aren't picking it up
if it's still unclear a shit that really
fucks you up is pretty goddamn clear
like the studies the actual studies not
the fake ones
um does do cigarettes cause health
problems or like the most obvious shit
you'll ever see in your life like that
people are alive and then they all
fucking die of cancer it's not that it's
pretty open and shut it's with caffeine
so far it seems to be like okay if it's
bad
that it's probably just not that bad
because we can barely even tell and also
it may be bad only in specific cases so
if you're sensitive to caffeine in some
number of ways they're for example
radically elevates your blood pressure
or something like that
you just have a genotype that doesn't
get along molecularly with caffeine a
variety of entry points and and
interaction points you know like various
receptors of yours just saying oh and
when I see caffeine or any other sympath
of a medic I do some bad things for my
health that happens like some people
just don't meld with some things but
outside of that generally for a person
whom that's not a problem and for most
people it's not it seems to be that
caffeine up to pretty decent amounts per
day is quite healthy and totally fine
right now
the thing is it says right here if you
use responsibly and stay under a gram a
day of caffeine a gram of day of
caffeine sounds like a fucking insane
amount if you just take a gram all at
once you'll probably experience unreal
Health maladies if not death
but if it's all through the day and you
work up to it most people will never get
that high most people take in maybe
several hundred milligrams of caffeine
per day but even up to a gram the only
reason I mentioned that is it's been
studied and shown that people get used
to optogram of caffeine per day they
don't really seem to have any super
long-term negative effects and that's
awesome especially if you don't get any
chronic elevated blood pressure from the
caffeine that you're taking you're
really in the clear and then you can
enjoy caffeine funny enough tea and
coffee are both really powerful or
loaded with powerful antioxidants so
actually drinking tea and or coffee
that's how you getting caffeine may
actually be a net health benefit right
so enjoy your shit I don't personally
use caffeine because it just makes me
anxious and jittery and not a ton of
upsides there I used to have trouble
focusing so I take stimulus to help me
Focus nowadays I don't really have that
trouble anymore and uh so I don't really
like the way coffee and uh or caffeine
of any kind makes me feel I'll take it
on rare occasions when I'm jet lagged or
when I'm driving a car and I'm gonna
fucking fall asleep and kill everyone
I'll have some caffeine but generally
stay away from it but I don't stay away
from it for any reason
a lot of towel or anything like that it
seems to be just fine for health and I
think a lot of people poo poo it because
it's a chemical and you know you
shouldn't be having chemicals so like
these naturalistic fucks anytime you
have caffeine at you know your friends
party or you know you know at an airport
lounge or strike up conversation with
someone they're like well you you look
like you're into fitness you're taking
in all that caffeine yep because it's
perfectly safe get the fuck out of my
face you don't have to say that but you
can make sure you know how to fight see
you guys next time