slow slow and rack right over to the
nubells No Rest No Rest No
[Music]
Rest folks I'm Dr Mike for Renaissance
periodization this is Jared feather I
Pro also for St periodization and this
is the one and only the rock that's
right we got it for this channel but
there was a problem during shipping we
actually got some packages mixed up and
it's almost The Rock but in a sense
better no offense Mr the rock the RO how
tall are you 64 64 310 lb this is SATA
he is a pure blooded Salon which means
he's just better at what at everything
physical as we will clearly illustrate
to you my man has a Super Bowl ring
Super Bowl ring well who did you win the
Super Bowl with New England Patriots
baby with the Patriots and how old are
you you look about 32 I am uh I'm almost
50 right now man almost 50 again Sans
are better we're going to do chest we're
going to do
triceps it's cool to be with a celebrity
F oh man come on Doc mik it's good to be
here man I appreciate it awesome awesome
awesome let's do it all right folks
first up is the incline dumbbell press
here we are going to be looking for that
Big Arc out with the arms we're not just
going down we're going out because we
want to go to the outside of the chest
you're going to want to take the head of
that dumbbell the inside head of that
dumbbell and push it right into your
bicep all the way down for that Mega
deep stretch if you can't go that low
try God damn it but if you can't get
that low no worries get as low as you
possibly can wait for one or two seconds
at the bottom and then come all the way
back up common question we get is do you
Clank the dumbbells at the top dealer's
Choice it's no big deal either way
there's no additive benefit but if you
like that ASMR of that click Jack box go
for it we're going to do three res sets
here see how much weight we're using
remember SATA is a former NFL pro
fucking Super Bowl champion dline for
the fucking Patriots he weighs 310 lb
he's s which means again it's just a
level up he's not going to be using the
160s which means you don't need to use
the 160s good technique means lighter
dumbbells which is good all around shut
up Mike let's go watch this freak does
it all look like the rock train there
you go r beautiful dude beautiful two or
three
more remember soft gently touch don't
just let
it there it is that's perfect every rep
yep good RA you're done that's good oh
how's the incline feel it's good you
normally do about this one or you do the
one down I usually do the one down but
it's it's fine feels okay yeah okay so a
really common question we get is what
incline angle should I use and that
depends on really just two factors
Factor number one is what are you
targeting if you're targeting a lot of
front delts and really really upper pecs
you don't want the mid and lower chest
to get hit it's a high angle 60° or
something like that on the other end if
you're trying any more overall chest
development a very low angle like 30
degrees or even less like 20 seems to
hit the overall PEX really really
well so in athletic I almost Tri doing
it Factor number two is just variation
there's no wrong answer so when people
like what's the optimal angle how long
you do the optimal angle for until it
becomes not the optimal angle cuz it's
so fucking stale for you you do 45° for
a while maybe it's time to do 30 for a
while maybe it's time to do 60 for a
while Flawless keep
going
perfect yeah 0s is right good good
[Music]
good good stuff yes couple more let's
turn that n shit up let's
go come on one more you got it you got
it man let's do it big stretch on this
one big stretch big stret out wide out
wide bigest I'm not here you're good
you're good hold press finish one more
one more one more one more you got this
you got this you got this my
bad go go and then slow as if you're
going to do another one as if you're
going to do another big chest open up
give me two full seconds at the bottom 2
seconds rack come on man shit put it
down right here you can put it down
right here yep we're doing more oh oh
the sweat's coming now that was good man
I'm still lifting that old
like yeah yeah my is good we TR a lot of
people like that don't
worry oh I like being coached up yeah I
really do would you say that helped you
in the get getting to the pro level in
your sport 100% did you meet guys who
like had that fucking talent but they
were so uncoachable that people just
didn't end up recruiting them or they
didn't have go as high like 30 to 50%
holy it's crazy a lot of guys are
naturally talented like crazy talented
and they just can't open their mind and
open their heart and when you get to
college level everyone's great
everyone's great then you get to the
next level and it's like no matter how
fast you are there's someone faster
matter how strong you are there's
someone strong no matter how IQ football
IQ there's someone better so you have to
put every piece together everything
nutrition sleep hydration supplements
football technique I mean it's I love it
that's great to hear you know a lot of
people can try hard and then a lot of
people can do good technique but if you
do both at the same time that's a real
challenge because when you're trying to
do really good technique your body's
like dude just fucking do dumb shit just
get it up anyway you can and if you do
just easy technique with light weights
whatever anyone could do that you're
doing both that's really tough but it
gets you the best result I've been
lifting wrong this whole time no no well
to do what I want to do which is sure
but it's a different switch there's a
full footb mentality and there's the
body Belling mentality and the body
mentality is one of slowing things down
of really focusing perfectionism clearly
you can get Jack lifting how you lift
obviously wow there's just that's 70%
just being s yeah sure let's not cut him
too hard work the way we train basically
Limits The Loading and puts it way more
on the target muscle which is going to
reduce the amount of fatigue you're
going to feel throughout the day through
the gym and then really place symphasis
on that muscle group so all these little
cues it's only going to make the weight
feel harder so you're going to be doing
like 40% less than you're used to and
you're going to get more out of it oh
dude I never ever
stretch ever I literally come like right
here you're going to be sore s oh I mean
I'm
already pop gone yeah the cool thing too
is it seems to be a lot healthier for
joints as well so if you want to keep
lifting long past like 50 and 60 this is
probably a safer bet press perfect fuck
yeah damn let's go my man supposed to be
hard it's only supposed to be hard up
press one more one more good one full
control only hard the whole time the
whole time get that Target
press and then as if you're going to do
another all the way down slow all the
way down slow all the way down slow deep
pause wait for it wait for it wait for
it
R oh shoot man
golly this ain't no
joke I'm glad I did 80s golly that was a
good choice well how's that's that
athletic wisdom you've been around for a
while yeah let me go the low we all
right folks next exercise is deficit
push-ups you think what the fuck this
guy's fucking NFL All Pro whatever fuck
is he doing push-ups for doesn't he need
weight 310 lb body mass is weight and
after three sets of inclined dumball
presses PCS are a little tired shoulders
a little tired triceps tired that
deficit we're using yoga blocks so
that's like in my world that's an 8 in
deficit but in the real world that's
more like four so 4in deficit is a huge
huge thing get that Mega stretch for the
PEX folks you're doing this at home by
yourself because you have no one to love
you like me then you're going to go slow
especially at the bottom you're going to
milk that shit out when it hurts the
most that's when you go the slowest
because you're in the pain Zone and the
pain zone is The Game Zone now I sound
like some shit the rock would say time
uh rubbing off on me deep Ultra strict
touch the chest wait a second then come
back up three sets here straight sets no
need for fancy shit we might do a little
fancy at the end just cuz shits and gigs
anyway let's get it so last thing I'm
going to say man is
you are being judged exclusively on your
Technique and effort level you are not
being judged on how many push-ups you do
we don't give a you do five of them well
amazing you do 20 of them like shit
we're just not going to say much
afterwards got yeah and the last one
we'll probably have you we'll probably
have you Dro to your knees anyway on the
last one so just do as many good ones as
you can we know how you got into into
the league you've been on your knees a
few
times so if you can I want like a soft
paw on the bottom of the floor I don't
want you to rest your chest fully just
like touch it and Soft Paws right there
and then press every every single
rep nice Gentle Touch gentle gentle and
then press beautiful every
[Music]
rep
slow chest touches chest
[Music]
only finish that's it that's it good
stuff man good stuff oh golly I
feel not strong I'm shaking ah it's also
new for you you do this you like again
you do this technique acquisition which
you know from like sports it takes what
like four or five times of going into
practice to learn a technique decently
and then you got to practice it over and
over so once you do this you get really
good at it pretty quickly especially
someone like
you yes one more good
one
control finish rack good good good
good oh
golly beautiful
come on you got it press use that
stretch go go right now let's go
on yeah good good good go get to the
knees KN got to control that last bit
all right give me one or two good ones
slow control control light touch on the
ground light light light light now up
one more
down you're good you're good you're good
failing on the East a good
sign yeah the time I got news for man
you're going to be a little sore after
this golly I think we got our thumbnail
oh
shoot all right folks third and final
exercise though it's really two is a
superet of cable push Downs to Flat
dumbbell press when you superet
something like push Downs to something
like push-up a push-up is is a Clos
chain exercise there's no degrees of
freedom so even if your triceps are
toast your chest Works harder to get the
job done it's chest and triceps today
that wouldn't be a big deal but a little
better option just by a little bit is
dumbbells for that Su because if your
triceps are totally cooked after that
push down you can't just use your pecs
in order to move the weight you have to
independently extend your arms if you
just used your PEC it would do this not
good so you have to also extend with
your triceps which means in that flat
dumbb press right after your push Downs
the triceps have to be they must be the
limiting factor which is going to be
terrible use light dumbbells as a super
set give this a shot sep's about to kick
it let's do it as you come up bring your
elbows back towards your body more even
more so I almost want this to rub up
against your stomach on the way up so go
ahead and press down and now bring your
elbows shoot them back and keep this
close to you shoot the elbows back
elbows back elbows back and you can come
up at the top just a tad and then press
down the body almost try to touch them
behind
you I mean I can already you
feel that nasty stretch exact same thing
as those inclines yep big chest oh yeah
dumbbell into armpits huge chest reach
to the ceiling that's it PR good yeah
good so you can you can rack that we're
going to do the 40 we'll do the 40s this
is going to be real tough but triceps
are Juiced already 310 lb man uses 40 lb
[Music]
dumbbells
SL back reach him back reach him back
reach him
back that's it slow up up up up slow
slow slow slow slow and rack right over
to the nbbt No Rest No Rest No Rest
let's get it no rest boy full range of
motion full
control let's go
slow chest pause press there it is down
that's go feel that burn that chest up
that chest
up
down big pause huge stretch press yeah
slow another one let's push it rej just
reust reust rej just hit it and down one
more one more you got this full lock out
and then
R full lock
out finish w yeah good
[Music]
shoot
I'm recalibrate what going on I'm seeing
freaking
Stars
oh and that's why we take breaks between
sets breathe it out for real I'm like
don't expire on us man oh no I'm good I
just don't expire you guys said
something about like
you know it's like train or working out
moving away and I walk out I'm like oh
I'm good yeah what did Jared say is the
difference between working out and
training training training is on a
mission working out is you having fun
you know what I'm saying you're retired
just having fun in the gym and there's
nothing wrong with that but you want
some competitive bodybuilding goals that
means it's time to switch the railroad
track and
training got to pay that Piper man
that's
[Music]
it oh ah sh come on now let's
go CH
[Music]
upop
shit yeah let's go my man this's what
you're here for you're good you're good
you're good right into the dumbbells
right into the dumbbells right into the
dumbbell come on you got it who
technique come on no rest at the top as
soon as you doubt yes chest of the
ceiling the whole time the whole time
the whole time the whole time not
press
good
good come on we're not relaxing down
here it should only be harder it should
only hurt more big chest big chest big
chest there it is yeah that's it three
more
one two chest High chest High chest High
chest
High one two
R ouch
close on the way up close on the way up
hold that every rep good no HPS awful
NOS I don't care how many reps you get
man I just want good technique I don't
care about the Reps better close deep
stretch close deep stretch big chest two
bonus round couple more time to get
tough keep it close keep close close
close close
CL yeah slow slow slow rack right over
to
dumbbells lock in let's
go big chest big
[Music]
chest these are perfect keep doing them
ah there you go now you're leaning into
that pain keep doing
that
yeah couple more come on come on you're
not hanging out it should be pain only
pain yes
down pain pain pain come on man let's go
mean to that shit lock it out one last
breath make it
good full lock out at the top hold for
two seconds then rack SE sinking let's
go
finish
rack good
[Music]
shit oh
yeah that's good that's the money right
there time up it's been an honor and a
pleasure coaching you seriously man my
honor my my my blessing my privilege man
I love it how did you uh what did you
think about the session awesome man I've
been working out for a long time this
was intense
insane awesome coaching awesome cues
like I feel like I worked out for 3
hours and it was it was an hour yeah so
was everything I needed wanted awesome
awesome you did great if you ever want
to compete in bodybuilding you just Mr
Jared feather know to take good care of
you and uh I don't know if you we're
here for another few weeks if you want
to shot at the titter for a leg workout
or some shit you just let us know man
One does not simply smoke I love it it
we'll get him in folks on Instagram I
follow him maybe you should give him a
follow to don't get a mistaken for the
rock also you do some some motivational
coaching and stuff do a lot of coaching
go out it's pretty cool I watched a
couple of your CS I got to say I got to
say I got to say one last thing before
we go we chain a lot of people on the
channel and most of them are just
fucking dope they try hard and
everything so temp's got some magical
about him he's like uh you can tell he's
a true professional athlete which means
he shows up ready to learn with an open
mind ready to work ready to correct his
own mistakes and ready to just pour it
all in in the way that it's supposed to
be done just uh really a true pleasure
look up to this motherfucker he's he's
figured some shit out literally like a
video on like athlete psychology yeah
athlete psychology amazing take care
guys