be the Chuck that pulls the stiffest of
stiff bars in the gym while standing on
bumper plates with absolutely zero leg
Drive fellas this is going to light up
your posterior chain like no other just
look at my trapezi is about to explode
well I was getting ready to hate a
little bit but this isn't bad stiff
legged deficit that lifts I actually do
the Mone training it's a great way to
get a good stretch on the hamstrings
glutes Alors lengthen partials and all
that
good for hypertrophy so I thought I was
going to react to some bro signs here so
far all I'm seeing is a hard fact
approved science so I mean if I'm going
to nitpick I'd say like control dcentric
and you'd probably get more hypertrophy
out of the movement but on principle the
exercise is pretty solid so thumbs up in
an age where everyone pulls Ultra wide
Sumo
stance with a freaking noodle deadlift
bar