[Music]
all right welcome everyone to a new
episode of the full body science applied
series in this video we're gonna be
hitting the third full body workout on
our new five day per week high frequency
split and as always at this split just
looks totally crazy to you make sure you
check out my science explained video on
high frequency training first for some
more background on that and today even
though we are hitting our full body
we're gonna emphasize the back so the
lats and the traps by hitting them first
in the workout and with slightly more
volume so let's just jump right into it
up first we're doing three sets of six
reps on the weighted pull up to an RPE
of eight now this is our third day in a
row hitting the back in some capacity so
for the first week or two it is normal
if you're feeling a bit more fatigued or
sore at this point so just make sure
you're doing plenty of warm-up before
you jump into your working sets I like
to do a nice and controlled set of six
with just bodyweight or even some
assistance first to really lock in my
technique in mind muscle connection then
I'll do another warm-up set for four or
five reps to get acclimated to having
some weight added and then jump into my
three working sets from there and again
with pull-ups in particular you really
want to focus on your lifting tempo so
rep six should look about the same as
rep one I mean the positive or negative
shouldn't get quicker as you fatigue and
if you can't complete all six reps with
consistent form maybe that's an
indication that you should drop the
weight back a bit for the next set now
one thing I've been doing on this
program so far is stretching my lats in
between sets and I discussed the
potential hypertrophic benefits of inter
set stretching in another video where I
covered a 2019 study showing that when
subjects were given the same full-body
training program done twice per week the
group that stretched for 30 seconds in
between sets saw just about 50% more
muscle growth across the four muscles
they measured however when looking at
the individual results the difference
only reached significance for the quads
and when all the muscles were pulled
together now since then my good friend
Chris barakat has conducted a new study
in his lab which hasn't been published
yet but might add further support to
this being worth giving a shot
so for these I usually hold the stretch
for 20 to 30 seconds or so and at about
a 7 out of 10 intensity so they should
be a deep stretch but not actually
painful and as I see it intercepts
stretching is one of those things that
either has a
slightly positive or a neutral effect as
long as they aren't being held for too
long so since you've got a rest between
sets anyway you might as well stretch
the muscle out a bit and at worst it'll
just help improve the pump okay up next
we're doing three sets of ten reps on
the humble row to an RPE of seven or
eight and the reason that the RPE is a
bit lower here is that I really want to
focus on execution over weight for this
exercise that is the whole point of this
exercise to limit momentum in cheating
and if you go too close to failure on
any row I find you simply start swinging
or pulling with your arms more which is
okay in some contexts but not our
purpose here so I think I saw this
exercise first on Matt Jensen's
Instagram and my friend Phil Snelgrove
was the first person I heard call it a
humble row because it really does humble
the amount of weight that you can use so
to make the movement more a mid trap and
rear delt dominant we want to emphasize
transverse shoulder abduction by
thinking about driving our elbows
straight out to the sides and as a word
of warning you don't want to use either
a towel or some knee sleeves to give you
some cushioning on the edge of the bench
and you'll want to position the height
of the bench so your torso is about
parallel with the floor okay after that
we're moving on to three sets of 15 on
the leg press so if you guys remember on
day one our squats were much more
heavily loaded and we were focusing more
on using external cueing to help
generate max strength output today we're
doing pretty much the opposite using
lighter weight for higher reps than
focusing on feeling our quads contract
as we move the weight so I tend to not
make higher rep work like this the
bread-and-butter of my program but I
still think it does a couple useful
things for one it's great for building
work capacity if you can learn to
tolerate and recover from a set of 15
lower rep sets will simply feel easier
for you in the future you'll essentially
be teaching your muscle to respond to
whatever you throw at it also well there
doesn't seem to be any scientific
consensus on how much metabolic stress
really matters for hypertrophy most of
the literature I've seen still points to
it as being a contributing factor for
growth
even if mechanical tension is the main
driver so there are a couple things you
can do here as far as cueing goes if you
want to make it more quad dominant I try
to keep a more constant tension approach
without walking the knees at the top and
I'll place my feet a little lower on the
platform if you want to make it more
glute dominant take a slightly wider
stance place your feet a bit higher and
flare your toes out a bit
now personally I like to use these to
burn the quads out a bit more so the
next time you try these go all the way
to 15 reps without pausing or locking
your knees out just use smooth
consistent reps and I guarantee you'll
feel a huge difference in your quads all
right next we're hitting four sets of
eight reps on the standing calf raise
now these don't have to be done standing
the most important thing is just that
you have a straight leg so if you want
you can easily do these as super sets
with the leg press so just do toe
presses in between sets of leg press but
since I'm not really limited on time
myself I prefer to do them on a separate
machine and lately I've been putting
calves more in the middle of the workout
simply because if I leave them until the
very end
I'm just that much more tempted to skip
them so if you have a history of
skipping calves try keeping yourself
accountable by sticking them more in the
middle of your workout and again
remember from technique Tuesday you want
to keep your knees locked by flexing
your quads and focus on pausing at the
bottom of each and every rep to prevent
a highly elastic Achilles tendon from
taking over after that we're moving on
to three sets of ten reps on the cable
upright row using the rope and this is
another example of a very time efficient
exercise that's going to target several
different muscles for a very small
recovery demand so here we're hitting
the side delts through shoulder
abduction while at the same time hitting
the upper traps through scapular
elevation and upward rotation so rather
than programming say a lateral raise and
a shrug we can pretty much knock off two
muscles with a solid stimulus from one
exercise now I know a few of my
subscribers are still wary of this
exercise but a while back I spoke with
dr. Brad Schoenfeld who's published
actual research in this area and he
explained that most of the concerns
about the upright row are just overblown
based on is that if you're not going
above 90 degrees 80 to 90 degrees then
there's the risk is very limited can I
say that no one's going to get an
intimate from that certain people are
gonna have certain genetics where it
might hurt but it's possible I would say
that the evidence does not support what
those people are saying so for a good
mix of side delts and traps I like to
think about initiating the movement by
sweeping the weight out almost as if
doing a lateral raise while trying to
pull the rope apart and then you want to
squeeze the traps up at the top more
like a shrub so I like to think of these
as sort of like a lateral raise shrug
hybrid more than
in actual upright row per se okay and
we're gonna round out this workout with
some bicep work so here we're doing
three sets of ten on the hammer curl
now biomechanically we know that hammer
curls are great for targeting the
brachioradialis of the forearm because
it sits on the back of the forearm
meaning it's better positioned in the
line of pull of the weight with a
neutral or pronated wrist position also
even though people think of the hammer
curl as a brachialis and brachioradialis
exercise there is EMG evidence showing
that the biceps are in fact very active
on the hammer curl as well but the
reverse are palms down grip being the
only hand position that's really
inferior for the biceps so I really like
the hammer curl because it's gonna get a
very nice mix of forearms brachialis and
biceps and should be very good at
beefing up the whole back of the arm and
one thing I always do on hammer curls is
make sure that I'm gripping the dumbbell
in the middle of the handle rather than
letting the top head of the dumbbell
rest passively against my hand which can
take some of the form involvement out of
the movement and lastly again we're
gonna take these sets to failure just
because our heavy back work is done for
the day so I don't think we need to
worry too much about recovery
interference here at the end of the
workout also with the biceps I do find
that our PE can be a bit tough to gauge
because even just a little bit of
cheating can help you crank out those
extra few reps so lately I've just been
keeping it simple and saying okay let's
just go beast mode with the bicep work
well obviously making sure that form is
still reasonably intact but I'm not
holding back too much either and that's
all that I have for this workout guys I
hope you are all enjoying the series so
far I've got another two workouts left
to do to complete this five-part video
series so make sure you subscribe so you
don't miss those also I put a button
over here to my new 10 week 3 block high
frequency full-body program in case
you'd like to have all this information
put into one place that you can just go
into the gym and follow through with
don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video and I'll see you
guys all here in the next one