hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization
and today's bs
they tell me not to swear too early for
the algorithm
is that you if you want to get lean
should eat like a contest prepping
bodybuilder where does this come from
well it's pretty obvious
right contest bodybuilders are the
leanest people on earth flat out
and clearly they have the beginning lean
thing figured out so if you want to be
more like them you do things more like
they do so if you have the opportunity
to follow a contest sort of diet even if
you just want to get a little bit leaner
for the summer that's kind of something
you have to do right
that's the idea and it's wrong why well
here's a fun analogy
if you just want to get to work and work
as 20 minutes away drive do you get into
a rocket
wait
hold on a second
why would you well rockets are designed
to go really fast and you will get to
work as fast as possible so if someone
asked you why aren't you taking a rocket
to work what would you say
you could probably start by saying that
rockets are absolutely optimized for
speed at the expense of pretty much
everything else including comfort and
safety probability of death
so diets for bodybuilders that are
optimized for leanness and muscle
retention are often
optimized at the expense of tons of
other stuff like what well
specific meal times and amounts which
you have to get exactly correct if
you're doing a contest prep diet and
that is optimized at the expense of tons
of time and effort
specific foods you got to buy very
specifically it's tilapia it's not any
other kind of fish it's not oh i ate
salmon oop doesn't work it's got to be
this fish it's got to be this food it's
got to be that it's very very specific
very burdensome on your flexibility and
you know how much time you spend
shopping how much mental effort you have
to exude going out to eat is completely
off the plan that doesn't work
a lot of these diets have advanced
nutrient cycling 150 grams of carbs this
meal 100 grams the carbs this meal 50
grams the carb meal after why can't i
just eat 100 on all meals it doesn't
work like that then a lot of times the
advanced nutrient cycling and workout
window nutrition
are designed to be paired
with special sports supplements like
growth hormone and insulin which you're
probably not taking because the love of
god you just want to lose 10 pounds in
the next two months to get ready for
beach season so a lot of times
bodybuilders have an intrashake and a
post-workout meal of you know cream of
rice or something you're like oh cream
of rice that will get me lean no better
than any other food it just so happens
that when a bodybuilder is on a crapload
of injectable insulin and has a ton of
digestive issues because they take 800
milligrams of oral steroids per day you
know cream of rice is kind of the only
food that slots in so if you just copy a
contest bodybuilder's prep diet you're
getting a whole lot more than the simple
getting lean with a very low expense
yeah you can absolutely take a rocket to
work if you want to burn everyone with
the exhaust
potentially die expose yourself to
insane g-forces take years and years of
rocketry operation courses don't kill
yourself and everything down the line so
that linear thinking of what but a
rocket's the fastest way to get
somewhere is not always the right answer
just like well contest bodybuilders the
leanest people on earth maybe we should
just copy them which brings me the
thought one time on social media a few
years back i saw a discussion about
someone said they wanted to look like a
ufc fighter look like a ufc fighter and
someone's like this is simple you guys
are over complicating it you want to
look like a ufc fighter you train like
them i was just like oh my god what an
idiot like how many punches in the face
do i have to take every week how many
like rash guard burns do i have to take
in order to get abs and the answer is
zero so if you just copy people that's
your idea of insight that's not really
much insight at all
if you're just trying to lose weight and
get a little bit leaner
doing a contest prep diet is like taking
a rocket to work you get a whole lot
more than you want you can just extract
what you want at very tiny expense all
you might need to do if you really just
want to get leaner by a small margin 10
15 20 pounds is eat like healthy foods
generally three to four times per day
increase how much protein you're taking
in decrease how much fat you're taking
in
cut out some of the junk food that
you've been eating and drop a few
hundred calories of daily intake keep
your activity pretty high and then
you're good to go it's literally a
complicated say well hold on what kind
of protein doesn't matter what kind of
healthy foods doesn't matter it can be
broccoli it can be celery it could be
asparagus it doesn't matter it can be
apples it can be brown rice it can be
xyz and a trillion other options as long
as they fit that very very general
category you're totally good so like if
you have interview for a job and you get
the job and it's 20 minutes away drive
and you're like hey like what kind of
car do you guys think i should take to
work they're going to be like
what
any kind of car that can safely bring
you from point a to point d it could be
a honda civic it could be a ferrari
doesn't fucking matter so if you're
getting a car you want to take to work
you just got your first job maybe you
don't buy a ferrari maybe you don't need
it how about the fastest people in the
world drive ferraris you don't need to
be the fastest person you just need to
leave a few minutes early you get to
work just fine with you know 200 000
extra dollars in your bank account you
didn't spend on a fucking ferrari not
everyone's me although i don't buy
ferraris i only buy lamborghinis i'm a
lamborghini man for technical racing
related reasons of course
if and when the time comes for you to
compete
then you can do a contest diet
but
doing it beforehand for just normal fat
loss reasons
is kind of crazy and sad and pointless
and there's another term for that
bullshit folks thanks for tuning in like
subscribe comment see you next time
you