do singles so that you can see one
repetition maximum strength games and
like never
[Music]
before Dr T Here original doct real
doctor straight out of the hospital
where I just diagnosed 50 people with do
you even lift an itis because they
indeed did not lift now you may be
wondering what the hell were you doing
in the hospital and that's exactly what
the medical staff in the hospital was
also wondering but after I showed them
my driving license where it says doctor
they were like okay wait a second let's
get these GPS out of here and let the
real Doctor do his thing Soo people got
diagnosed people have started lifting
lives have been saved real doctors have
done it again God bless the phds singles
though am I right the ancient Greek SL
Chinese secret that is keeping you from
making amazing gains uh well it's not
keeping you but I feel that a lot of
people out there who engage in
resistance training and more
specifically want to get stronger often
do not use singles and more specifically
frequent singles as much as they could
let's get to it though now when it comes
to strength in our world strength is
usually defined as the amount of weight
that you can lift for a single
repetition most people that follow
strength training programs uh aside from
powerlifters obviously want to hit those
juicy PRS and here's where heavy singles
come in now the principle of specificity
tells us that if we want to get really
good at something we need to be
practicing that something and doing work
that is specific to that attribute that
we want to improve if you want to get
better at running doing things that are
specific to running is probably your
best bet now obviously you could swim
and still get fitter and therefore see
some improvement in your running but if
you were to do more running it's likely
that you would get better at running
because you are practicing that thing
now you may be wondering okay back that
sounds great so specificity means that I
need to do the thing that I'm trying to
get good at so I should max out every
day got it turning the video off
peace well not so fast take that extra
play that you put on the bar away from
the bar and let's take a couple of steps
back and see how we can actually include
singles in our training to be a bit more
productive so the first thing that we
want to clarify is that completely
maxing out very frequently is likely not
the best idea for strength training in
particular as it stands the current
literature on strength training shows us
a few things one we need to be lifting
something heavy go go go okay
straightforward lift some heavy stuff
that's okay we need to select a load
that is heavy enough and number two we
do not really need to go very close to
failure as that may be counterproductive
we want to maximize Force production and
we don't want to be in a position where
every rep that we perform as part of our
strength training program is extremely
slow and extremely fatiguing however in
the context of singles there are some
temperature conditions that I think are
important number three when it comes to
strength training and frequency
specifically we see in the literature
that greater frequencies sometimes
result in Greater strength outcomes
which again will tie into our whole sort
of approach here with this one simple
trick so taking everything that I just
said in consideration doing relatively
frequent heavy but not completely allout
singles is an amazing way for you to
actually get much better at lifting
heavy for one repetition and at the
same time consistently being near Peak
strength without a ton of fatigue so the
notion that maxing out is extremely
fatiguing holds true and that's why
you're not going to be maxing out if you
have to get insanely psychologically
aroused and spend a ton of time warming
up and have to have six people around
you to spot you to do your one training
single that's likely to cause much more
fatigue than you doing a casual heavy
single with a few reps in reserve in
your gym by yourself or obviously with
splots if you need spotters for whatever
lift but the idea that frequently
lifting heavy stuff for a single
repetition is going to be the most
fatiguing thing in the world is sort of
a myth based on YOLO maxing out and
missing actual repetitions and know what
actually following a relatively relaxed
approach to heavy singles without
disclaimer out of the way singles at 6
to 8 RP so roughly two to four
repetitions in reserve are a great way
for you to actually get some extremely
good practice when it comes to lifting
heavy stuff for one rep Without Really
affecting the rest of your training and
this is where the beauty of singles
comes in let's say you're following a
hypertrophy program doing three to five
heavy singles on any particular lift
obviously you'll need to calibrate that
based on how you recover from things if
doing a heavy deadlift more than twice a
week is way too fatiguing obviously keep
that twice per week separate those
sessions by a few days trial and error
it but if let's say you're following a
hypertrophy program and you just throw a
few singles on top of that that's a
great way for you to still see amazing
1rm strength gains Without Really
affecting the rest of your program if
you're already following some form of
classic strength program like a 5x5 a
3x5 or whatever adding a few singles on
top it will potentially potentiate
potentially potentiate am I right um
your ladder sets and it's really not
going to be a big deal however I would
urge you to select a few lifts at a time
to give this experiment a go before you
start rolling it out for every single
lift that you want to improve for
example I recently wanted to increase my
overhead press so I started to press
more frequently and do singles I started
with two times per week and then three
times per week then four then five and I
still train my other lifts but I did not
instantly try this whole frequent
singles experiment on literally every
single lift that I do now it's important
to note that when you're performing
frequent singles you are only just that
so you are leaving some reps in reserve
and you're only going to be doing one to
three singles per session depending on
how you feel and the specific lift that
you're trying you're not supposed to be
doing singles on Singles on Singles and
then obviously a bunch of other
extremely heavy work if you're doing
that very frequently you may be saying
though but hey back I'm following a
program that has some volume work built
in there should I still do that I'd say
you can still do it and it's totally
fine especially if you have other goals
that are more hypertrophy related
perhaps take a minor step back with the
amount of sets that you're doing and see
how you're responding but mostly see how
Fatin you feel and adjust accordingly so
if you're already doing four sets of
squats on day one and three sets of
squats on day four add a single on top
of those sets and maybe another single
in the day in between see if that's
manageable if it is manageable keep
added if you see that it's too much
adjust some of your backup sets a tiny
bit it and potentially start at just two
singles per week and then increase
frequency as you're getting used to
things it's likely that you will get
used to this type of trading pretty soon
an example and I'll show some footage on
the screen is friend Fe who literally
deadlifts heavy and does a heavy single
or variations literally every day and
we're talking 660 plus pounds on the
daily shout out to those that got their
reference lastly the one extra thing
that you will get from Singles and
obviously that will depend on the rest
of your program and how much volume
you're doing for that particular lift
and the musculature involved in that
lift is that singles assuming that
you're not doing a bunch of other volume
for that lift or the muscul involved in
that lift allow you to be at close to
top form at any given time so if you've
been doing three to five heavy singles
on the squat it's likely that with a
couple of days of rest you can pretty
much go for either an alltime PR or be
near or at your Peak strike generally at
all times so give it a go try some of
the threee training templates that I
have below there are some strength
training templates that incorporate
heavy singles but not exactly in the
form that I just talked about but still
have them in there if you want to play
around with those templates however give
this a go if you're somebody who cares
about their 1 RM strength you may be
surprised with how fun and how not much
much of a big deal frequent heavy
singles with some discipline can be for
your training and overall enjoyment in
the gym that's all for me thank you for
buying into the concept of heavy singles
make sure that you pay your heavy
singles subscription fee link for that
is below and don't forget code Dr Pat
BRP for 10% off rascle pel and a chance
to spend a week with Omar ISU on his
private jet which may or may not exist
and this competition may or may not be
made up by me but what I do know for
sure is that I'll see you guys next time
p
[Music]