okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday where every week
we're gonna break down the lost art and
science of training technique this week
my girlfriend Stephanie and I are gonna
be looking at how to perform the glute
kickback with perfect technique but
before we jump into the technique itself
let's first take a quick look at what
muscles were going to be targeted that's
what the glute kickback we're training
almost pure hip extension so basically
when you take your hips from a flexed or
bent position to a straight or extended
position and this is the same basic
biomechanical movement pattern you
perform in the hip thrust deadlift and
the squat where the glutes drive the
hips forward except here we're leaning
more forward and the hips are extending
with the legs back behind the torso
there will also be some degree of knee
extension occurrence where the
quadriceps contract to take the knee
from a more bent to a less bent position
however as we'll see since the goal here
is to isolate the glutes we want to
consciously minimize the knee extension
portion of the movement so unlike every
other exercise we've covered in this
series so far because the glute kickback
only acts on one joint and utilizes
mostly only one muscle group that
actually has a pretty limited capacity
for overload meaning it should be loaded
in a higher rep range around 12 to 20
reps and since the ability to overload
is more limited rather than focusing on
steadily increasing the weight over time
we're going to instead focus on
progressively overloading through three
other avenues first by improving the
mind muscle connection over time second
by improving or mastering technique over
time and third by improving the pump
over time which can include increasing
the reps and one way to do that is just
by adding one rep whenever you can while
maintaining good form and a mind muscle
connection now of course you can
increase the weight once you reach the
top end of a rep range such as 20 reps
or more however at a certain point
further weight increases will simply
result in form breakdown and then at
that point you should just focus on
these other three options now of course
this can beg the question why do this
movement at all then and I would say
like any isolation exercise I think it
serves two main purposes first and
foremost it can't allow you to
accumulate more
training volume for the body partner
trying to develop the most without
creating much of a recovery demand for
other muscles or joints so in other
words trying to build your glutes at a
higher priority than other muscles will
be difficult if you only perform heavy
compound movements some degree of
isolation may be necessary to really
optimize their development and secondly
these types of exercises can function as
activation drills for heavier movements
so for example if you can develop a very
powerful mind muscle connection on the
glute kickback it's very likely that
this ability will carry over to heavier
more complex exercises like the hip
thrust ok so to set up you're gonna need
an ankle velcro strap as other
attachments may cause pain or discomfort
which is really not a good thing
since according to one 2005 study from
fari√±a at all pain essentially inhibits
of muscle excitation you know if your
goal is to maximize glute development
and you really don't want to be lifting
in unnecessary pain hook your ankle into
the velcro strap and then line that leg
up with the cable you want to lean your
torso slightly forward at about a 45 to
60 degree angle so that you have a more
consistent tension curve throughout the
range of motion I'm just standing
upright will place the majority of the
tension on the glutes only at the bottom
I'm gonna brace yourself against if the
cable machine while slightly leaning
forward and slightly leaning away from
your active kickback leg with the knees
slightly bent you want to initiate the
concentric by thinking about pulling the
lower aspect of your glutes to the upper
aspect of your glutes and even though
the exercise is called a kickback I like
to think of it more as a swing back
since emphasizing the kicking component
is going to shift emphasis onto the
quads and away from the glutes
whereas thinking about swinging your leg
back and up in arc will emphasize pure
hip extension keeping the glutes at the
forefront
you should also consciously think about
keeping your hamstrings soft with more
lacs and knees which is further gonna
shift that emphasis onto the glutes as
the main hip extensors you can also
think about swinging the weight slightly
out laterally which will help target the
upper glutes a bit more however above
anything I'd simply recommend finding a
movement path that gives you the best
combination of mind muscle connection
rather than trying to force an awkward
position just for some potential
theoretical benefit the acentric will be
essentially reverse of the concentric
and the most important thing here is to
really treat the negative as a sort of
failed positive where you're not just
letting the weight fall down as your leg
swings back in but rather consciously
resisting the weight while feeling your
glutes stretch under tension as you
lower the weight under control since
we're doing higher reps here you want to
get in a nice comfortable swinging
groove and do your best to maintain a
consistent tempo meaning you're lifting
speed should be the same for rep one as
it is for rep fifteen so don't move the
way to progressively faster and less
control as the set goes on ironically I
think the main most common error that I
see with the kickback is simply kicking
back too much as I said earlier too much
kicking is gonna shift the emphasis away
from the glutes and on to the quads so
as a fix instead of just moving the
weight back we want to really focus on
squeezing your glutes to move the weight
out and up in an arc another common
error is having too much upper body
movement although some upper body
movement is fine you don't want to rely
on upper body momentum to carry your
active leg up as a counterbalance you
should brace your upper body against the
cable frame and keep it nice and stable
initiating every movement from the
glutes so donkey kickbacks are a
reasonable alternative here when she can
set up on the lying leg curl or Smith
machine
however these machines tend to lock you
into position more you can prevent that
freedom of motion for finding an ideal
movement path for your particular
skeleton so I prefer the cable kickback
to these other machine based
variations but they are an option ok so
that's all that I have for the coop
kickback now before you guys click out
just yet and I want to quickly let you
all know that both my glute focused
training programs are going to be
discounted for the next week so you can
get my glute hypertrophy program for
$19.99 so about 35% off and my women's
specialization program for $29.99 so 25%
off the glute hypertrophy program is a 5
day per week upper lower split the
trains of the full body but there is a
special emphasis on the glutes and it's
a bit more of a fundamental program
designed for someone with more of an
intermediate training status so you can
perform all the basic exercises safely
but haven't been trying to grow your
glutes
say three to five years and the glutes
are hit four days per week because there
is a bit of glute isolation work on one
of the upper body days now the women's
program is a more advanced program
you'll be in the gym six days per week
with the glutes also being hit four
times per week but the programming and
exercise selection here is geared more
toward women with more training
experience or who have very stubborn
glutes now so anyway you can check both
of those programs out at the first links
in the description below and I've got a
bit more information about those down
there so don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video don't
forget to subscribe so you don't miss
future technique Tuesday episodes and
I'll see you guys all here at next
Tuesday for the hip thrust