[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at proper technique
on the row and why cheating in this
context actually makes biomechanical
sense now with any rowing exercise we're
generally going to be performing some
combination of shoulder extension where
you drive the elbows down and back and
scapular retraction where you squeeze
your shoulder blades together at the top
the shoulder extension component will be
handled mainly by the lats and the
scapular attraction component will be
handled mostly by the mid traps so even
though many people think of the row as a
back thickness exercise it is in fact
going to develop both back width and
back thickness an idea supported by
research showing very high levels of lat
and trap activation on rows however the
way most people do rows creates a pretty
poor resistance curve at the bottom of
the row where you're by far the
strongest there's virtually no tension
on the lats because the dumbbell is
lying directly beneath the shoulder you
can contrast this with the top of a row
where you're by far the weakest yet
tension on the lats is the highest since
there's now an external moment arm
between the load and the shoulder you've
probably noticed this yourself when you
reach failure on a row it's usually
because the top part is so hard but you
might have actually been able to rep out
another 10 or so reps in that bottom
half this might mean your lats haven't
actually fatigued they just aren't able
to complete the full range of motion
because of that steep resistance profile
now in last month's issue of the mass
research review greg knuckles offered
using momentum as a potential solution
to this problem if the dumbbell doesn't
have some momentum you can't really
grind out those last few inches of a
dumbbell row as such just a little
cheating allows the row to become more
effective in other words we can make the
dumbbell row much more effective by
generating momentum at the bottom that
can then carry over to the top so with
the dumbbell row like all unilateral
exercises you should start with your
non-dominant side to prevent muscle
imbalances place your hand and knee on
the bench with your other foot out
further to the side to create a wide
stable base of support to maximize range
of motion on any row your torso should
be close to perpendicular with the line
of pull meaning your back should be
somewhere between 0 to 20 degrees above
parallel to the floor staying too
upright might allow for heavier loading
but is going to seriously limit the
range of motion that the lats can
perform grab the dumbbell in the middle
of the handle and lift your chest up
keeping your head in a neutral position
try to keep your back straight and
prevent it from rounding and begin each
rep by allowing your scapula to protract
at the bottom which is going to allow
the traps to work through a full range
of motion as well allow the dumbbell to
drift slightly forward which is going to
achieve more stretch on the lats while
creating more consistent tension
preventing the dumbbell from stopping
directly beneath the shoulder from here
you want to think about dragging the
dumbbell back in an arc instead of
straight up you should be pulling the
dumbbell back toward your hips and then
allowing it to come both down and
forward under control on the negative
now from the front you can see that a
completely strict row has the shoulders
remaining completely horizontal with
zero torso rotation this is something i
would advise against a complete bro row
uses a lot of torso rotation to cheat
the dumbbell all the way up and then
just letting the weight fall on the
negative and that's something i also
wouldn't recommend but i think there is
a middle ground here where a moderate
amount of torso rotation can be used to
assist the lats at their weakest point
in the lift this is going to allow other
muscles to contribute more equally and
prevent premature fatigue simply due to
the lat's inability to complete a full
range of motion now when viewed from the
top you should be keeping your elbows in
close to your torso rather than flaring
them out to the side if you find your
biceps or your grip giving out before
your back you can try placing your pinky
toward the back end of the dumbbell or
consider using straps to shift emphasis
away from your grip and onto the muscles
of the back
that you're actually trying to target
now the dumbbell row can be used as both
a heavy compound overloading movement
and a mind muscle connection type of
movement so both low reps and high reps
can be used however because you need to
work each side separately to save on
time and energy i tend to stick with a
more moderate rep zone something around
8 to 12 reps per side now in another
technique tuesday video i covered the
pendlay row which i prefer to perform as
a much stricter row so this type of row
tends to be a more even mix of lats and
traps implying you may not stand to
benefit quite as much from moderate
cheating still with a standing barbell
row where you have a more upright
posture moderate cheating can be helpful
if you find your lats fatiguing early
and preventing you from reaching that
full scapular retraction at the top but
just be careful to put a cap on your
cheating since using momentum can create
a slippery slope between true
progressive overload and just
progressive cheating briefly when it
comes to the cable row whether or not i
advise cheating depends on the grip
being used with a close neutral grip
because the lats will be more involved i
like to use a bit more momentum by
leaning forward at the hips allowing the
spinal erectors of the lower back to
assist the lats through the end range
with a wider grip the row becomes more
scapular retraction based meaning more
trap and rear delt involvement and in
this case i like to keep a more upright
posture focusing on protracting my
shoulder blades at the bottom and
retracting them at the top so i would
say the most common error that i see on
the dumbbell row is just losing control
while some momentum is acceptable once
you start getting your legs calves and
the planted arm involved it's just going
to turn into a completely different
movement and it's going to rob tension
from the back itself remember that the
point of using momentum is to help even
out the strength curve of the lats not
to move more weight just to impress your
friends another very common error is
staying too upright on dumbbell rows
many lifters will use the dumbbell rack
itself or the back of an incline bench
which i wouldn't recommend because
you're only going to be taking the lats
through a partial range of motion and to
maximize the range of motion on any row
your torso should be close to
perpendicular with the line of pull this
means you shouldn't lean too far back on
a cable row and you shouldn't be too
upright on a dumbbell row now a third
error that i see mostly in new lifters
is doing ultra strict rows while being
more strict can have its place such as
on a pendlay row or with a chest
supported t-bar row when it comes to
dumbbell and cable rows being overly
cautious and rigid can seriously reduce
overloading potential and even halt
progression even just a little bit of
cheating can transform the dumbbell row
into a much more effective exercise now
for some context i rarely go lighter
than 80 to 100 pound dumbbells on rows
and if you've been in the gym for
several years and are still using the
lightest dumbbells on the rack it might
be time to loosen up a bit and start
moving some more weight so guys i'm
going to leave it there for this one
make sure you guys check out my video on
training for back width versus back
thickness for a little more insight on
the various grip positions on these
exercises don't forget to give bro jeff
a follow over on instagram i'll leave
the video a thumbs up if you found it
helpful subscribe if you haven't already
and i'll see you guys all here in the
next one
[Music]
you