the biggest nutrition BS scams myths
whatever you want to call them that you
may be falling for Dr pack here straight
from the Medical Association of Bristol
where they kicked me out and they said
get out of here you're not a licensed
physician and I was like yep but I am a
real doctor and then I sat there arguing
with the security guard for 4 hours
about what it means to be a real doctor
here to talk to you about some of the
biggest new nutrition BS you often see
out
[Music]
there what should I go
[Music]
for starting with muscle supplements and
now by muscle supplements I do not mean
creatine monohydrate or whey protein but
rather supplements that are sold to you
has potential game changers for muscle
building that will add pounds and pounds
of muscle to your frame without them
being performance-enhancing drag you may
remember a pill by muscle tech that they
were selling as the muscle pill or the
scam by Greg dued um that came in the
form of testerone without any testerone
in it but in generally any supplement
that you see out there that is promoting
significant increases in muscle mass is
likely to be a scam now you can check
the active ingredients of that
supplement cuz usually they are blends
of you know a plethora of ingredients
that may have some literature behind
them to show that they could potentially
a in some muscle increases in specific
populations in specific circumstances
but in most cases we're talking about
completely overhyped supplements that
are not going to deliver anything near
what they offer check out examine.com a
website where you can type in a
supplement or an ingredient and see what
the actual literature behind that
supplement says this latest product that
may have come out promising massive
gains is probably a scam next on the
list is pre-workouts now preworkout
supplements are fine in the sense that
if they contain a solid amount of
caffeine so if you're ingesting 150 to
400 mg of caffeine you're are going to
get an energy boost from that
pre-workout based on the caffeine
specifically but the synergistic effect
of every other ingredient in there is
likely not going to play an important
role as far as your performance goes and
as far as your long-term gains go the
current literature on pre-workouts is
meh at best with current studies showing
that in some cases even when compared to
Coffee they don't seem to give you much
of an edge and given that the main
ingredient in pre-workouts is caffeine
just opting for good old coffee or an
energy drink or just having caffeine in
the form of a tablet is going to do the
trick keep in mind that pre-workouts
come with a heavy placebo effect via the
naming via the packaging and obviously
the promotion by the athletes that
promote pre-workouts because they get
paid to do so it's totally fine if you
want to have the pre-workout session
here and there with the lads where you
go to the gym and you have 500
milligrams of caffeine from the latest I
don't know real Dr pump uh explosive
diarrhea formula pre-workout that gives
you the tingles because of the betaling
but it's not really doing much more than
if you had just had a few cups of coffee
totally fine to do that here and there
but thinking that you need to buy a
pre-workout or that a pre-workout is
going to actually make a meaningful
difference as far as your long-term um
hyperen strength go is simply BS
additionally consuming insane amounts of
caffeine close like you know six hours
out of your bedtime can impact sleep
which is much worse for muscle building
than you not taking the Pre-Workout and
having a good night's sleep uh at the
same time regularly consuming a ton of
caffeine is likely to have an effect on
your tolerance level of caffeine and you
may need more and more as time passes
which H is not going to kill you but at
the same time you will be becoming less
and less sensitive to pre-workouts which
then creates an in efficient environment
where you're spending money to buy a
product that is not really giving you
much more than just playing old caffeine
and you're just stuck in an endless
cycle of depending on a hefty dose of
caffeine to just get your workout in
ideally don't rely on a ton of caffeine
to get every one of your workouts in use
caffeine as a supplement when you really
need that boo another nutrition myth or
scam that is still alive to this day
especially when it comes to shedding
body fat is the idea that low carb diets
are somehow Superior to consuming
carbohydrates or having a diet rich in
carbohydrates for fat loss and just for
muscle gains in general the current
literature on low carb diets and their
effect on muscle building does show that
you can still build plenty of muscle on
a low carb diet and you can still make
gains however the literature on low carb
diets and fat loss clearly shows that as
long as you're in a calorie deficit
whether you're consuming more or less
carbs is not going to make any
meaningful difference as far as
long-term fat loss is concerned now when
it comes to short-term weight loss low
carb diets are likely to lead to greater
results but we're specifically talking
about weight not fat simply because
because you will lose water weight when
you drop your carbohydrate intake and
the idea that low carb diets are
superior than just regular diets that
include carbs for fat loss stems from
the idea that obesity is a result of
increases in insulin via the ingestion
of carbohydrates where fat utilization
is negatively affected and you're
therefore storing more fat versus
utilizing them and so on and so forth
that model that was developed in order
to explain obesity has time and time
been proven wrong in the literature when
we've looked at studies where
carbohydrate intake was controlled and
we compared people consuming similar
calorie deficits but some consuming
carbohydrates some not in every study
that we have examining whether that
model is true or not we've consistently
seen that over the long term both high
and low carbohydrate diets lead to
similar outcomes as far as fat loss and
weight loss go the idea that low carb is
somewhat magical for your health for
your performance and for fat loss
specifically is BS another nutrition SL
supplement scam that is still alive for
some reason is the use of bran chain
amino acids now I don't understand how
in 2024 we're still on about BCAAs and
whether they're useless or not but time
and time again BCAAs have been shown to
not give you any any additional benefit
if you're consuming enough protein
throughout your day also keep in mind
that protein intake and gains yep those
things are important but at the same
time it's it's the training that is the
most important thing for you actually
growing muscle now whether you're
consuming the optimal amount of protein
to absolutely maximize gains is a
different story but keep in mind that if
overall protein intake can only make so
much of a difference the addition of BCA
is on top of that protein intake is
going to do absolutely nothing for your
gains yes there may be scenarios where
if your protein intake is insanely low
you can and you have some BCA lying
around and for some reason you cannot
eat food for days and days Days in and
days out and you can only rely on BCA
maybe there's some utility to them in
that context but even in the context
where you're missing your pro your the
optimal protein intake AKA around 1.6 to
2 gam per kilo of body weight um if
you're missing that a day here and a day
there and you're still engaging
resistance training and you're still
consuming some protein it's unlikely
that you're missing out on a ton of
gains but BCAA supplements uh either
presented as intra workout supplements
or as whatever post-workout or pre-bed
supplements are complete BS lastly
intermittent fasting intermitted fasting
is a great way for you to manage your
calories and manage your caloric intake
throughout the day but the data is
spiling up against intermittent fasting
being any form of Magic Bullet even when
it comes to things like
appetite more literature is showing that
intermittent fasting is not really
making any difference for weight
management weight
loss appetite and for gains as well you
can you can make great gains while
intermitted fasting but the idea that
you're you're boosting your growth
hormone and you're going to BU gain more
muscle and burn more fat and all that BS
that we used to hear back in the day is
simply not true intermittent fasting is
another way for you to manage your
intake and in some cases training fasted
may actually be delerious to your
performance be somewhat DS right it's
not going to be the end of the world but
if you're somebody who's trying to
absolutely maximize gains training fast
and may not be your best bet still fine
you're still going to grow muscle but it
may be best if your fasting to train
while you're fed so while you you know
you've broken your fasting window so
when if you hear again that intermittent
fasting is the way to go when it comes
to building muscle losing fat managing
your appetite or your overall health
take a step back take a deep breath and
go wait a
second and then just show them my video
and just watch them laugh at the mess
that I am and then be like look now we
can be friends right they will forget
all about intermittent fasting you'll
shake hands and who cares at the end of
the day it's not that deep but in all
seriousness intermittent fasting
consistently being shown to not be a
magical bullet and take it from me I
fast every day not because I want to
live forever or because fasting is
magical but simply because I don't like
breakfast and I like having my coffee
and then eating after a few hours and
I've also done intermittent fasting
specifically controlling my eating and
fasting Windows when was younger going
as crazy as 20 hour fasts and 4H hour
eating Windows every day and I did that
for quite a few months consistently
but do not fall for the if trap unless
you really like to manage your caloric
intake and have a specific fasting and
feeding window also keep in mind that
you within that window you can eat even
if you're you can break your fast and
have a few calories and that will make a
difference the whole idea is again for
you to manage your calorie intake it's
not that you're going to stop some
magical process that is happening just
because you're not fed and you know if
you decide to have your coffee with
sugar or a bit of cream and you do
ingest 100 or 300 calories of whatever
during your fast that's not going really
to change anything as long as you stick
to your calories throughout the day it's
also important to note that fasting
specifically can be somewhat restricting
if you're traveling or if you have
social events to attend and so on and
and so forth so if you have an eating
window that doesn't coincide with those
events or with your schedule it can be
restrictive for no actual benefit you're
not going to live longer you're not
going to lose more fat you're not going
to build more muscle You're simply
choosing to not eat when everybody else
is eating and that can make you a party
pooper and negatively affect your
psychology your relationships you're
going to get you
know your significant other will divorce
you your family will live you and here
you have it intermittent fasting the
worst thing you could potentially do for
anything any sort of metric in your life
just kidding intermittent fasting
totally five but not a Magic Bullet by
no means and there you have it more
scams more myths debunked here in the
wolf's slay another day another dollar I
bid you at you which is German 4 I love
you and don't forget to like subscribe
hit the notification icon and hit your
screen because you're soing excited that
another video is over and you made it
till the end I appreciate you send me
money please my bank account details in
the description until next time Free the
[Music]
guys