water is just going to follow salutes
you just need to make sure that when
you're drinking water it's going to end
up in the appropriate places and that's
going to be from finding the appropriate
balance of carbohydrate intake and
sodium and potassium everything is in
preparation for that Friday load with
the rapid back load I'll load
carbohydrates very very high a lot of
the assumptions around the quote unquote
sodium potassium pump and some of the
older School approaches kind of mistake
the intracellular and extracellular
space with the subcutaneous and
intramuscular space which which are not
synonyms it really depends on how they
are affected by the chemical so an
enhanced person it kind of creates more
variables to the variables that we're
discussing I use fats because I don't go
as crazy with the car loads and I want
them to hold and not burn through it and
as you use dietary fat you're going to
hold it
better all right hello everyone and
welcome to the ice cream for PR's
podcast my name is Jeff nippard and I'm
your host and joining me this week I've
got a a panel of guests um all Elite
level coaches uh for bodybuilders and
other physique athletes um and I'll get
to introducing them in just a minute uh
but first I just want to remind you guys
where it is that you can find this
podcast uh so first of all you can
listen to it on iTunes and Stitcher and
it's available for download there if you
subscribe uh so you can find it there
just by searching ice cream 4 PRS that's
four with like the number four um or you
can also find it just by searching my
name Jeff nippard um the video and the
audio is available for download on my
YouTube channel um so you can find that
at
youtube.com jefnier um and you want to
be sure to go over and subscribe there
as well uh just to make sure that you
don't miss future
episodes um also uh this podcast uh is
currently unfunded uh so if you guys
would like to support it the best way
that you can do that is by going to
iTunes and leaving me a rating or a
review so if you're enjoying the sort of
content that I'm putting out here um and
you'd like to help me keep it going um
that is the best way that you can uh
support
me uh so in terms of introducing our
panel of guests this week uh first of
all we've got Cliff Wilson uh so Cliff
was actually on the podcast a nice few
episodes ago now um and we've talked
about a whole bunch of stuff to do with
contest prep generally uh but I don't
think we really focused in on peaking
per se uh we did we did touch on it but
we also covered a whole bunch of of uh
topics around preparing for a
bodybuilding or physique show um so for
those of you guys who who maybe haven't
seen that one uh Cliff is a contest Pro
or contest prep coach uh Team Wilson
bodybuilding uh he's coached hundreds of
competitors to class wins dozens of pro
cards and other professional and and
national titles all around the world uh
so Cliff it's a real pleasure to have
you back and welcome to the show man I
appreciate it man the first time was a
blast and you know being on with these
guys this is going to be a fun one I
know it awesome uh so second uh we've
got Eric Helms Eric was also on the show
before just a few episodes ago for the
reverse diet debate uh where he argued
against against reverse dieting um and
uh he went up against Norton and Peter
fiton and he was on the side with meno
henselman that was a really good episode
I got a lot of really really good
feedback on that uh so Eric it's great
to have you back man um for people who
might not be familiar with Eric uh Eric
is himself a natural Pro bodybuilder
he's a competitive powerlifter he's got
a master's degree in Sports Nutrition
and exercise Sciences uh he's currently
working on his PhD and uh he has
multiple studies published in scientific
journals and is himself a coach at 3D
muscle Journey uh so Eric welcome back
to the
show absolute pleasure thanks for having
me so last but not least we've got Jason
Theobald uh Jason is a contest prep
coach uh he is the founder at Scooby
prep he's worked with high level
athletes in the MPC uh he's himself a
competitive bodybuilder and he's
regularly featured on the geared up
Podcast which is another show that I I
recommend I I don't listen to it all the
time but uh it does have a number of
episodes that I I did enjoy uh so Jason
thank you so much for joining us yeah
thanks Jeff um you know it's it's good
to be here and uh I think uh with the
guys you have on the panel I'll actually
learn something myself so I was uh glad
to take you up on the offer so awesome I
appreciate it so yeah guys like I said
uh basically what we're going to be
doing here is a round table uh we're
going to be focusing only on the topic
of peaking for a bodybuilding show or a
physique show um my goal with this is
for it to serve as the most
comprehensive resource on this uh
available for free online uh so I want
us to cover all of the variables that we
can manipulate and then also cover all
the all of the facets um on the spectrum
of competing uh from natural
bodybuilders bikini competitors uh to
guys who are enhanced um physique
athletes and and everything in between
um so uh a quick reminder uh if you guys
um maybe aren't able to retain all the
sort of information or maybe if uh you
find that there's a lot of Rapid Fire
stuff coming at you uh feel free to take
notes as um I I've heard a lot heard
from a lot of listeners that it is
helpful if they write things down um if
you are listening on YouTube uh then I
will be annotating the entire show uh
with timestamps uh so you can skip
through to where we talk about carbs
where we talk about water and all that
stuff um so uh I guess we'll get going
guys uh so the first question that I I
just wanted to ask you to sort of um
Encompass the whole conversation that
follows is um relatively how important
is peak week uh one often hear is that
um relative to the prep itself it's of
uh relatively small importance um but
then on the other hand you have some
people that make a a really big deal out
of it um so if you had to quantify it
about how much of a difference would you
say we're looking at in terms of
physical Improvement as a result of peak
week and uh I'll start with you
Cliff yeah you know uh one thing I kind
of find interesting is you know people
like try to put a percentage on it 1% 2%
and I will say compared to the entire
prep itself it is a rather small
percentage but I think it
changes depending on the person I think
I hear a lot of people say well if you
look good Peak Week doesn't matter as
much because you already look good and
you can Coast in but I almost feel the
opposite I feel like the more ready you
are the more able you are to able to
present a a change in your physique if
you're not ready Peak weak isn't going
to mean anything it really won't you
know if you still need to lose you know
six pounds seven pounds you probably
can't do much with your peak week but if
you are spoton then I think it you you
have the ability to manipulate and
create positive changes in your physique
so I would say the importance of it
rises the more ready that you are the
leaner that you are and with the higher
level of competition you're facing
because at the professional level
there's going to be a lot less
difference between first place and
eighth place than there would be at say
an amateur
show right yeah no that's great answer
um Eric or Jason do you guys have
anything to add to
that yeah I do I first off I just I
agree with Cliff um and I think one
thing why I always take a slightly more
conservative stance talking about Peak
Week especially when it's to a wider
audience is I think while the ability to
improve is you know small but maybe more
if you're very lean and makes more of a
difference at a higher level the ability
to really Jack yourself up and look
terrible is actually quite large so if
someone is to do absolutely everything
wrong during a peak week they can take
someone who looks absolutely r and make
them look like they're six weeks out and
I have seen that happen time and time
again um so it's one of those things
where there is probably a greater
potential harm you can do rather than
benefit if you're completely doing
things in a way that is not optimal um
and that's I think probably the only
thing I'd want to add to what what Cliff
said I uh I I actually agree with both
things that were just said what Eric
just said was something that I kind of
was was thinking through my through my
head um I will say beginners place a lot
on it and I usually have to kind of
buffer them and you know they'll be so
excited to get a peak week and I'm like
it's really you know you're not going to
be overwhel you're GNA be underwhelmed
when you get it um you know a few
changes here but yeah I I don't I think
the percentage of how important it is is
is fairly small and there is a great
percentage for screwing yourself up so I
think everything was stated pretty well
there yeah for sure sure um so first of
all I'd like to get into uh water I
guess that that's a fairly big one um so
Cliff do you want to talk about how it
is you manipulate water and if it's
close enough related you can also bring
up what it is you do with sodium and
potassium um at the same time if you
want yeah for sure uh you know well
first off it water's going to depend uh
a little bit on the person that I'm
prepping and which division they
competing in uh largely I like to keep
water pretty steady across the week
people like to do some crazy things with
water but I think water's one of the
variables that will probably Remain the
most constant for me at least from the
beginning of the week to the end of the
week uh I usually like to keep it high I
would estimate that my female
competitors will take in anywhere from
1.25 gallons to two gallons per day all
the way up through the show male
competitors probably two gallons to
three three gallons all the way through
and that that that's whether I use a
front load a back load or anything the
only situation that I do cut water uh is
if I have a female bikini competitor
that I think is maybe possibly
borderline too lean and too hard for
bikini I will reduce her water with a
conservative reduction not anything
dangerous but I will reduce her water to
soften her up a little bit and uh you
know it usually gets the job done quite
nicely
yeah
Eric I think Cliff probably just broke
the brain of about a thousand people by
saying that he uh reduces water intake
to harden people up I love it um to
soften people up right to soften people
up right yeah yeah uh sorry I can't
speak English but um yeah I I I'm very
similar water is probably the the
variable that that goes the most
unchanged um like if you were to look at
the Excel sheet that I give pretty much
everybody regardless of the other
manipulation
a lot of it is you know drink your
normal amount of water um the one thing
though that I will bring up is this is
something I've learned with experience
is that stress and changes to your
environment uh make you behaviorally do
different things with water some people
will get stressed and forget to drink uh
other people especially when they're
starving if they have water in front of
them they keep drinking it and they'll
keep refilling it and they'll end up
drinking a surprisingly large amount of
water or a surprisingly small amount of
water um so even though they're drinking
to quote unquote thirst uh because they
are focused in other places they're
stressed uh and you know all the stuff
that happens during contest prep and a
peak week gets in their head that can
change so I do find with my
more uh probably my beginner competitors
and my more kind of stress ball
competitors I will actually give them a
a water mount that actually says Hey
drink this much just to make sure that
they're they're they're tracking it um
but also putting into a context that
it's not going to like don't don't
stress if you're you know 100 milliters
off or something because that's not big
difference um since you mentioned sodium
potassium I will will point out that if
one drinks more water drinks less water
that will affect the amount of
electrolytes that are in the system as
you urinate more or less out so that's
another reason I like to keep it static
because I do actually manipulate sodium
a little bit which I don't know if you
want me to get into or or wait on we'll
wait on that and come back around in the
second out of it yeah sounds good Jason
what what do you typically do with
water well I made a few notes you know
to sit down and have this talk and I and
I put things that I think I believe
because I've definitely changed over 10
years of prepping and you know I wrote
down that basically for Naturals I use
the keywords they did I keep it more
steady and High um throughout but when
I'm dealing with an enhanced athlete it
really can be all over the board um it's
a feel I get during the diet and how
certain chemicals like testosterone and
things affect um the athlete and you'll
know if a guy is a type of guy who stays
really dry and you can basically do an
unchanged water type situation I just
had a guy and I think it was a gallon
and a half all the way through um he won
both classic physique and the overall
and the bodybuilding open um but you
know you have some guys were water
balloons and you have to really pull
back um to get that to get that right
look um so I I I don't know if I need to
go into more detail than that but that's
where I'm at on you know the enhance
versus the naturals is there any you
know does that make sense Jeff yeah it
does I mean I've often heard that uh
like one of the side effects of of
steroid use is is subcutaneous water
retention um so I'd be curious to know
how it is exactly that you combat that
and then also how it is you would
discriminate between someone who's
holding water and someone who just still
has fat to lose as an enhanced athlete
uh well it gets complicated you've got
to pull out the chemical um so let's say
we're talking about testosterone is a
major one you would want to pull that
out two weeks out but even though you do
that some guys are going to you know it
takes time to get out of the system
system and they're going to hold you're
also going to up their Arimidex towards
the end or any anti-estrogen they're on
which is also going to help clear out
the water um so really by the time
they're going in you would want them on
just like an oral you know keep it
simple an oral steroid and then but you
know again you've got to really
watch how they hold during their prep
and how can you tell if it's you know
water or or or
fat it the skin like let's say we're
talking lower back you can kind of see
if it's just a skin flap or if it's an
actual you know fat still on the the
back I think it's year it's just years
of experience but you know if it's skin
on skin there's no fat under there if
you tell someone to rub it together and
there's no granules then they're
probably just having a little water in
there if they still feel hard granules
well I'm like you're still you're still
holding fat um so that's kind of what I
would be communicating with them but I
think I didn't say you know um low ing
the water could be anywhere from you
know having them at three gallons
beginning of the week and down to a
gallon but it could be also down to a
half a gallon on Friday it you know it
really depends on how they are affected
by the chemical so an enhanced person it
kind of creates more variables to the
variables that we're discussing right
yeah no understood um and I think I can
tell the difference just because in my
own experience after the show when I go
out and binge um I I will retain water
like I'll look puffier but it won't look
like soft it's like a harder water type
it's a watery look and there there is
clearly a different you won't feel any
granules you'll you'll literally just
feel skin on skin right still but you
can see it's a softer area yeah um and
then I guess my my concern with that
would be the one that the natural guys
usually voice which is that there's a
fear of flattening out so I I guess it
would come down to a balance of making
sure that carbs are high enough water
isn't too low um and then also balancing
that with the sodium intake so that you
get rid of that water layer while at the
same time ensuring that the the
vascularity and the muscles Stay full
right well for the naturals like I said
I agree with the guys who spoke I I keep
that more steady and and high you know
so it's really not as huge of a variable
on on those guys so I kind of agree with
that so to to rid water I mean if your
water's high and your and your sodium's
kept high and constant your aldosterone
is going to be low and as long as you
didn't do something dumb like load
pottassium which actually increases
ostrin you should be pretty solid and
then you can mess with your CBS which
we'll get into yeah so I'm pretty much
in line with those guys I think at least
for now on on you know on the natural
side sure um so Cliff I I just had a
quick question for you um 2 to three
gallons seems like really high like a
normal person wouldn't drink that much
um is there a reason why you push water
that that high during peak week and do
your athletes have water that high
throughout their entire fire
prep or in other words how is it that
you go about deciding how much water
someone gets for their peak week yeah
well you know I guess I should preface
that by saying and I I saw what you
posted on Facebook and everybody wants
to know about the the rapid backload
Peak that I do because it it it freaks a
lot of people out and so uh you know I I
guess Uh I that you know obviously I'll
use different methods for different
people but I would say the rapid
backload is the method of choice that I
use for 90% of my bodybuilders and then
I use more of a subtle loading strategy
subtle backload strategy for about
another 5% and then I probably only uh
front load about 5% of my bodybuilders
so with that uh the the big load with
the rapid backload I'll load
carbohydrates very very high uh on
Friday the day before the show and so uh
the way I view with the rapid backload
because that's the one a lot of people
want to know about is everything is in
preparation for that fr load and I
should also start by saying with this
rapid backload it's uh it's a lot of
things that I learned through experience
along the way and uh some of the
mechanisms through which it works I have
like Jason said I think I know what's
going on and I hypothesize what's going
on but you know sometimes I'm just sort
of uh I'm sort of taking an educated
guess here and so for to to consume so
many
carbohydrates uh I need to have a lot of
water available to be stored uh at with
the glycogen in the muscle tissue and so
I don't want to increase water
excessively from you know early in the
peak week and then increase it
excessively on Friday and so I'm just
preparing the body to be able to
eliminate any excess and uh that way it
will be a consistent so if somebody's
going to take in three gallons the day
before the show I don't want to go from
one gallon you know Monday Tuesday
Wednesday Thursday and then up to three
because I am not confident that their
body will eliminate that excess because
it's such a drastic change from one day
to the next whereas if I bring it up
high earlier in the week uh it's already
being established that this excess water
is going to need to be eliminated and
that way you know the system will be all
to flush out any excess that will be
coming
inh um one of the times that I've raised
water really high myself is after say a
day I go a little bit overboard with
sodium and I can tell visually that I'm
I'm retaining a little bit more water um
I find that by drinking more water I
help to sort of flush that out is that
something that you guys have had any
experience
with well and you know like like Eric
said you know that's going to the more
water you drink it will affect your
electrolyte balance too so you know that
that's definitely going to play a factor
and like you said keeping it consistent
will also minimize another variable that
you might need to adjust at least that's
my take on it there right um Eric like
let let's say you have a competitor who
for whatever reason whether it be stress
or maybe they just Mis you know
miscalculated their sodium or or what
have you um does spill a little bit in
terms of water H how do you uh approach
that from a water
perspective well it is difficult to fix
a spill and um sometimes when you know
to fix a spill it's like oh it's after
prejudging but we think you're going to
be in finals anyway so that's the only
time you can do much um but I actually
experienced this in the show where I won
my Pro card I spilled over at prejudging
and we had to fix it by finals and we
were pretty sure I had my class on lock
um and we pumped the water up very high
um and did multiple pump ups and that
was basically you know again you know as
a scientist this is one of those things
where this is we'll have to basically
say like look if anyone is talking about
hard science behind peak week they're
they they're overstating the evidence
because we have very little but
experientially um I've definitely seen
that if you can identify a spill over
early obviously simply not giving them
as many carbs as planned uh and pumping
the water up and increasing pump UPS is
is a good way to to try to amarate that
and and change it and it definitely
worked for me um now as far as what to
do with sodium that's a good question
because as you pump the water up and
you're urinating more you're probably
losing sodium as well and you can spill
for a lot of reasons so um you know
looking back on it I actually I look
good for finals but then I very quickly
lost it and I part of me I think maybe
is that I got sodium flat uh whether
sweating on stage or from all the pump
ups but I was able to look good enough
to then you know win my class and then I
started to fade as I was you know taking
pictures with my sword so perfect timing
for the
internet you know but but no with my
clients I've experienced the same thing
that if I can notice uh like if I get
the pictures morning of or after
prejudging and there is a you know a
reason to save it like if we think
they're going to be in the finals or
they've got a second division they're
competing in uh driving water up and
doing multiple pump UPS is is is a way
that can kind of save a
spillover um and last on on the water
questions um Jason maybe I'll have you
comment on this one um earlier in my
bodybuilding career um I I did
manipulate water a lot more um and I
have manipulated it for like
powerlifting events just to make a
certain weight class um and there have
been two different approaches that I've
taken one would be like a taper
throughout the week uh so say I drink I
don't know eight liters Monday Tuesday
cut it back to four liters Wednesday two
liters Thursday one liter Friday and
then just sips on show day um that would
have been one approach uh the other
approach would be a load throughout the
whole week so say 8 liters 8 liters 8
liters 8 lers one liter Friday and then
just sips on on Saturday um in my
experience I looked about the same in
both which was flat as it were but um do
you think that there would be one one
approach that would be better if you did
say have someone who was cutting water
and then also I think that this might
make a bit of sense to me because if you
are loading carbs at the same time then
at least from an as omotic perspective
it would make sense that the the
carbohydrates are going to draw water
from somewhere um and so it it could
very likely be from the subcutaneous
spaces um so so uh yeah maybe Jason I'll
have you comment on those two approaches
and uh then we'll probably move on okay
um can we Define cutting do you mean
like completely out or do you are you
talking a taper uh well the the first
approach is a taper um so say half at
Wednesday then half again on Thursday
Friday down to half a liter and then
Saturday is just
sips okay and then the other approach
would be a load all through the week and
then a sharp cut on Friday say much
Friday after see to me you know if
you're at three gallons and you and you
drop to a gallon I mean depending on the
size of the person and you get enough
carbs in you're still you can still be
full
yeah again still cut down to a quarter
or lower um you know that's probably not
going to work so I mean again it can
still work out so I it's kind of
slightly hard for me to answer because I
mean it still can work well you're just
going have to get enough carbs in yeah
so um I don't know if there's one way
that's better that's why literally when
I'm dealing with Naturals I just try to
keep it fairly fairly steady on what
they're drinking I find out okay you're
on a gallon and a half let's let's keep
it let's keep it basically there um to
eliminate the variable so I don't know
if I would say one of those ways that
you're talking about is better but I
would say that
if they still have a gallon on Friday
it's probably G to be fine okay anything
under that for a man is probably gonna
have them a little bit of flat in my
opinion interesting and then what about
an enhanced guy would how would you
approach cutting the water in that case
again it comes back to just knowing his
body during the time of his diet so you
know if he's holding a lot and I can
tell this I might even have to use um
some diai which is prescription you know
diuretic and have a guy do that it
really depends on what they're holding
we might be able to get it out by a
taper three gallons three gallons two
and a half two down to three qus on
Friday and you might be fine as you carb
up um but it's going to be a judgment
call as the coach honestly um on what
you think is going to be necessary
generally I try to go with a taper um
and maybe just some over-the-counter
like Bell or h2o remove something like
that um and that usually does fairly
well for an enhanced guy try to stay
away from the the harder ones if if at
all possible um if you are going to use
them you want to get something like DIY
that's not ripping potassium out as well
um so if something were to go AR Ry you
know that it's a sodium issue if you're
using like a loop diuretic like Lasix
and you got a problem you got a big
problem because you don't know if it's
sodium or potassium and you could kill
up by messing one the other so anyone
out there who is inhan who's thinking
about doing that I don't recommend any
of those Loop diuretic type things
interesting uh Cliff I know that you had
your hand up yeah you know I I guess
when when when dealing with natural guys
I they still get really freaked out
about the water you know they and I
think that comes from the term holding
water uh you know people will say oh
he's holding water well our body is
composed primarily of water so I I hope
to God we're all holding water and so um
you know I find that term generally just
describes when something has gone wrong
whatever it may be you know it could be
one reason or another they just say he's
holding water it means he looks like
crap and uh so you know I I I think they
need to think of it realize that the
water is just going to follow salutes uh
and so you just need to make sure that
when you're drinking water that it's
going to end up in the appropriate
places and that's going to be from
finding the appropriate balance of
carbohydrate intake and sodium and
potassium and I I always this is a gross
oversimplification of of a way to
describe it but it works well for new
competitors I would say you know if
you're drinking water normally uh the
excess will be urinated out it's almost
like a a bathtub an empty bathtub with
the drain open you turn the faucet on
the water will drain out at at the
appropriate rate and you won't spill
over the tub but if I start throwing
sponges in there the water will stick to
the sponge
and if I throw too many sponges in there
you know eat too many carbs then
eventually the water will start to spill
out of the tub and so you know it's
making sure that the water ends up in
the appropriate places and for a natural
you know a natural athlete uh you know
most most of our water will be in those
intracellular compartments so our our
ratios are already skewed in our favor
it's when we mess up the N natural
ratios we start to see problems and so
it's not the water that's the problem
it's a lot times the carbohydrates and
sodium potassium that will will cause
the issues and the water will just
follow if they're not appropriately
placed Eric do you want to comment on
that actually no I think they they
covered that really good or really well
if you like proper English but um which
again I don't speak but I I I did want
to just say probably a useful thing to
to just kind of caveat the whole
discussion is at least from anything I
say for the listeners it only applies to
to Natural competitors and if I do
speculate on something else it is just
that speculation because I actually
don't have any experience working with
this competitors so I think it's very
cool that we're able to you know have
multiple coaches on here have experience
with both but um it is interesting to
hear how much the game changes when
you're working with someone who's you
know introducing chemicals into their
body yeah and I should also add that my
experience with with enhanced athletes
is so extremely limited I've worked with
a few but it's it's uh it's not not very
extensive so I would defer to Jason on
that at in all
areas um Eric I'm just curious to hear
your thoughts on the idea of of like a a
dry backload so say you you cut water
while at the same time simultaneously
increasing carbs do you think that that
makes sense from an osmotic perspective
do you think it's likely to pull water
from the subcutaneous spaces or is it
just going to pull it from the blood
volume and and cause the person to
flatten out and have you experimented
with that yourself or with any of your
athletes yeah I've always read that the
idea is is that you you know if if if
you load water or sorry if if if you
load carbs and don't load water then all
the water in the body be pulled to where
the carbs are and you'll just have all
your water and your glycogen you look
amazing uh it just doesn't really make
sense from a survival standpoint when
you think about it um and you know a lot
of the assumptions around the the quote
unquote sodium pottassium pump and some
of the the older School approaches um
kind of mistake the intracellular and
extracellular space with the
subcutaneous and intramuscular space
which which are not synonyms um and I I
I I just don't think you're going to be
able to massively disturb some of those
homeostatic functions in the body to the
point where that would work as well as
expected um and when you think about it
even if you know we we we take that
approach of hey you know water follows
carbohydrate and has to be stored with
glycogen you know one: three ratio if
you are limiting water you're limiting
you're you're limiting three fours of
where that fullness comes from right so
you can carad a lot but if you're only
getting one out of those four grams
being loaded into the muscle per se if
that's even the way it really works
which I think is a huge question mark
then I I think you're going to have
trouble filling out with a without water
when you're loading carbs if you can
even effectively store that glycogen
right Jason um I I missed that part when
you put that question on me I guess I
can't handle two-part question so
um uh I I agree with Eric and the reason
I raised my hand is because when I said
I think I believe one of these things
that you're talking about are things I
did in the past with myself um Dan Dukan
in his book had formulas based on you
know if you completely depleted how much
carb it took based on your lean body
mass to you know become full um and I
used those formulas a couple times and
on Wednesday I would take take in the
full amount that I needed and even as a
band on it was like 1,200 carbs and I
took a gallon of water in I'd always
wake up the next day and I looked pretty
darn good but what I did was on Thursday
I would bring the carbs down a little
bit and then I would only do three4 of a
gallon well I started to fade Friday I
would do about a half a gallon well I
was even flatter the best I looked
during that process was when I still had
a gallon in and on the most carbs
um so there was times when I would move
that to just Friday and I'd hit a [ __ ]
ton of carbs and use a gallon of water
and I'd look pretty damn good had I used
more water like Cliff does maybe I would
have looked even better but I looked
pretty damn good so my point is that by
the time I got to Friday and I was still
hitting a good amount of cars we're
talking 600 and I only had a half a
gallon or less that's when I went to
[ __ ] so it might sound good in theory
but I just don't think it plays out
really to do it that way I guess the
only difference there would be like you
didn't when you when you decreased your
carbs you also decreased your water so
it'd be interesting to see if you
decrease your water while increasing
your carbs if that would still cause you
to fade or not um yeah Eric yeah I see
your point um but I mean the carbs were
still pretty darn High I mean right yeah
true I get what you're
saying Eric yeah it's F yeah I've read a
lot of the same stuff and I think Dan
was probably the big pioneer for this
stuff uh but you know the when you get
really number heavy and you do all these
equations based on like what you can
load based on your body mass and all
that stuff I've also seen it just
doesn't seem to play out and it makes
sense when you think about it because
every single person even at the same
body weight is going to have a different
total energy expenditure so we're making
a and you don't know what how much of of
their energy they're burning from from
carbohydrate or fat in a given day how
much becomes a blood glucose that is
burned off what is burn and their what
their their daily lifestyle and then
what actually gets storus glycogen is a
huge you know you're guessing there
right um and and you know if I have
found that when you have someone who's a
very has to go on very very low
carbohydrate in total calorie numbers to
get very lean and you try to load them
on what makes sense for their body
weight they almost invariably spill over
uh with with most approaches and it's I
like to use the analogy and I I know
we're kind of skipping into carbohydrate
loading so feel free to cut me off here
that um the we're not just like a gas
tank you know muscle glycogen is like a
gas tank that shrinks or or engorges
itself the actual size of it based on
how many carbs it's getting right
because your abil your ability to
synthesize glycogen increases or
decreases with your carbohydrate intake
right so if you've been on a low
carbohydrate diet for months on end and
then you try to load it's not going to
quite work out as you expect and vice
versa too if someone is on a High
carbohydrate diet and that becomes their
primary fuel source you can load them on
what makes a lot of sense you know oh
this a good amount of carbs for the
person but they might chew right through
it and not end up looking very full
right go ahead cliff and then we'll move
on to sodium yeah one one last quick
thing to add and and I totally agree
with what Eric said when people try to
uh reduce water while loading you know
water is held in a lot of compartments
in our body and the main area you know
tell in plasma and our intracellular
spaces and we we want it to obviously be
held in the intracellular space but uh
that's like assuming that if we cut
water our body is just going to say oh I
know you know it's a survival mechanism
to keep these keep this
homeostasis uh you know to keep it
steady and to keep the ratios
appropriate it's our body is not going
to take the approach of oh I you know I
know what he's trying to do he's trying
to get shredded for a bodybuilding show
let's let's pull it only from the places
that you know will be appropriate so you
know it's really a Gamble of where that
water would be pulled from and where it
will end up okay so how about we move on
to sodium now uh we started with cliff
last time so Eric you can take this one
away and if you want to mention
potassium you can I don't know if that's
something you guys actually track and
manipulate or not but you can throw that
in there as well if you want good
question so yeah I think there's a
difference between theoretical and
practical so I'll kind of talk about a
bit of both and cut me off if I if I go
on a monologue too long here um but yeah
going back to that whole uh PR principle
of of of the sodium potassium
manipulation to try to get you know the
water into the intracellular not the
extracellular space um that is very much
true in a theoretical like petri dish
kind of sense but what we forget like I
said previously is that subcutaneous and
extracellular are not synonyms and
likewise intracellular and intramuscular
are not synonyms and one of the
extracellular places is where you think
you wouldn't want water like if extra
equals bad which it's not that simple is
the vascular system and uh what I have
found most consistently in people who
cut water and cut sodium is that they
have a hell of a time getting a pump
backstage and they have this kind of
muted look and especially with with with
like when they have dream tan number two
backstage they just kind of look like
they're wearing a brown paper bag and
they just don't you know they they've
got no pop to their physique and I can
almost if if I can see that they're in
shape I can almost always guess they did
something funky with sodium you know um
so as we know as as our health
organizations in some company in some
countries in my opinion may have
misguidedly suggested oh reduce your
sodium intake to try to get your blood
pressure down um and yeah so sodium we
know has an acute effect on blood
pressure whether has a long-term effect
it's debatable and it depends on your
genetics however um there is definitely
an acute rise in blood pressure to you
having a large sodium intake and uh as
we know from the few studies that have
been done in anyone who's done a contest
prep is your blood pressure and your
heart rate drop substantially in the
course of getting very very lean uh this
is due to a lot of factors um but in the
end you can see some pretty crazy
Baseline blood pressures at the end of a
prep uh and it's even harder to get a
pump during training you're on a lower
carbohydrate intake you're on a lower
total food intake so your sodium tends
to be lower uh you often are cutting out
foods that typically have high sodium
intakes just as a course of either
trying to hit your Macros or if you have
a more kind of holistic approach and
you're eating less and less processed
food so your carbohydrate and sodium
levels are going down throughout prep um
and you are getting flatter and you're
having a and your blood pressure is
dropping normally so in the end you
haven't had a good pump except on maybe
the day after refeed days for months and
you forget how much of an effect that
has so I think sodium is one of the most
critical variables to manipulate uh
acutely and typically what I do is right
before the pump up starts they're having
anywhere between 1 to 3 grams of sodium
which is not the same thing as table
salt um right before they start their
pump up and and I try to encourage them
to eat semi normal Foods the foods
they've been eating throughout prep
unless they've gotten to the point where
they're eating all kinds of weird stuff
because of diet behaviors like I
wouldn't want them like you know having
wal and farms on a salad right before
they they pump up or anything like that
um but yeah so that's kind of where the
theory and practical mix is ideally if
they're on a diet that makes sense for
foods during peak week not a high fiber
diet what I'm doing is I keep pottassium
I just tell them to keep their Foods
relatively the same manipulate carbon
take and then acutely I bump up sodium
right before the pump up the day on
stage and that's it I keep it very
simple uh and I try to keep like we
talked about water levels constant so
that therefore therefore I know that uh
for the most part body levels of sodium
are the same so when I do increase
sodium I know it's an actual physical
ological increase in their sodium levels
in the body um Eric how do you go about
getting someone to get in 1 to three
grams of sodium 15 minutes
out well I think and I'm saying this off
the top of my head I think half a
teaspoon of sodium is just over one gram
of sorry half a teaspoon of table salt
is just over one gram of actual sodium
so I will just tell them the appropriate
serving size of of table salt to use and
I'll have them just throw it in the
water and drink it um and my my
competitors always hate me when I tell
them to do that but I know that it's
going to get into them the fastest way
that way um and then just go straight to
the pump up and I I tend to separate
that from the meals I know a lot of
people will just put it on like you know
a rice cake with almond butter or
something like that but in my mind I
just I don't want to slow down the
digestion it probably doesn't make a
massive difference it depends on how
long the pump up is how long you're
going to be on stage I mean I've seen
wnbf Pro shows that prejudging lasts an
hour so it depends but um but yeah I
just Sho it with water it's gross but it
works yeah uh okay Jason what uh what
are your thoughts on
sodium
well here's how I generally set it up um
when someone starts with me I have them
add about an eighth of a teaspoon of uh
sea salt to all their meals um if
they're bigger competitors let's say
heavy weighs super heavy weights it
might be then um a quarter of a teaspoon
or something like that but I'll have
them just do that through the whole diet
um and well that'll stay unchanged and
then what I do generally is I I ask them
to use you know mustards and Franks and
different things wen's Farms just extra
extra economists that are getting sodium
in them as well that a lot of times what
I'll do during the peak week is I'll
leave in um the added sea salt um and
then I'll pull out the condiments
Thursday or
Friday um just for a slight variance
downward and um
I do what Eric then has his athletes do
before stage although I haven't gone up
to three grams but um anywhere from 500
milligrams to a gram of uh sea salt I'll
usually put it in something with like um
sweetened um you know highly branched
cyclic dextrans or something so it
doesn't taste like total [ __ ] his guys
are hardcore if they're drinking that
[ __ ] with water um but uh you know and
that that usually works pretty well so
as you can see all I'm really doing is
keeping it pretty constant and then just
kind of pulling the condiments out just
to give a little bit of a variation to
create a downward shift but you're
obviously not nearly losing enough to go
flat or anything along those lines um
you've got the sodium you need to carad
you know that's important for the
listeners you know um you need that to
car blo um so that's generally how I do
it um there have been times where I've
pulled it earlier or I will have them
half so let's say they're doing seven
meals a day I'll say do it you know put
it on three or four cut it out of three
or four um and that would be for the
guys who hold a a [ __ ] ton of water and
they're enhanced but generally the first
map I gave you was what I do with
sodium yeah that's that's interesting um
yeah I think it kind of reminds me of
people will sometimes purposefully
decrease carbs before a load so that you
become more responsive to the carbs so
you kind of like decrease sodium a
little bit and then when you get that
hit of sodium it's like vascularity
comes out like crazy um I exper that
myself um and yeah Eric like your your
thing works like Eric if you guys don't
know was my coach for my Pro debut last
year um and uh yeah when I shot the
table salt it was just like the veins
came out almost immediately and I could
feel my heart picking up I was like I
don't know if this is good or not but at
least I have the veins
so yeah yeah and I I think I think Jason
and I get to the same place you he
probably starts his people with the
added condiments and added salt just did
a higher
sodium level so then the bump is still
relative to where they are and with you
since there wasn't that added in and if
we kept your food the same then the
addition is still an addition so yeah I
think the principle roughly seems to
hold well and and I don't know about you
guys but I've seen that tends to make
one of the more consistent and obvious
changes in a peak week is throwing the
sodium in at the end at least in my
experience yeah definitely Cliff all
right here's where uh I probably start
to sound like a crazy person compared to
some other people all right I'm going to
start once again by by prefacing saying
I'm going to talk in context of the
rapid backload because that's what
everybody seems to want to know about um
and I'm not gonna and I'm going to say
if you are not absolutely sure of what
you're doing before you try any of this
please run a practice of it because I
don't want people showing up looking
terrible on show day and saying well
Cliff told me to give this a try so so
um Cliff before you dive into that maybe
just quickly like just debrief everyone
on what a rapid backload is and then
yeah talk with the Sodium okay so rapid
backload is a is a peaking technique
that I came up with some years ago and I
I used to do front loading at the
beginning of my coaching career and it
it went well it really did but uh I
think we've all experienced that
situation where we're depleted and maybe
we see a competitor have like a massive
refeed or a massive sheat meal or
whatever it is a lot of water a lot of
sodium a lot of carbohydrates and they
wake up the next day and they just look
amazing uh and there's a certain uh
tightness to the skin and fullness that
um I just didn't see being recreated
quite the same you know there a subtle
difference but quite the same with the
front load and I kind of set out to
mimic that and so I will a lot of times
uh my back I'll deplete carbohydrates
earlier in the week and we'll talk about
that I'm sure later and then uh I'll
load them uh the day before the show
male competitors generally taking in
anywhere from 850 g to the high one of
the highest I've ever done is600 G
of carbohydrates the day before the show
and uh usually around once again 2 and a
half to three gallons of water with that
and so uh you know a lot of people want
to know how that's that's possible and
so so uh within the context of that
rapid backload everything during peak
week is designed to set up that load and
allow the body to be able to process uh
efficiently and handle any excess of
uh one thing or another that there may
be and so sodium I don't I don't control
my client sodium during uh the large
amount of the prep but as we start to
get close to peak week I'll start
telling them to add sodium and I I my
goal is to increase and I'm going to
just give a general range it doesn't
mean I never step outside these these
lines but uh for my male competitors
starting about Saturday before the show
I'll put them between uh upper 4,000
milligrams maybe 4,800 milligrams up to
6,000 milligrams daily uh female
competitors maybe 3,000 to 4,000
milligrams daily and the idea behind
this and this is also where I come into
I have hypo you know I have hypothesis
behind this uh based on some of the
research I've read and you know and then
it works in practice so you know it may
be what's going on what I believe but it
may not be uh it may be something
entirely different so my my goal with
increasing the sodium is to to just uh
allow their hormones to adjust to be
able to eliminate excess sodium you know
that they may see a slight holding of
water in the first uh few days of the
increase and going up to that high of
sodium but this will usually correct uh
rather quickly once once their body
adjusts to eliminating the excess uh
then the day
before now the the reason high is
because sodium is going to be very high
on the day of their carbohydrate load
and the reason I do this one like like
uh Eric said sodium just does a lot of a
lot of beneficial things for
bodybuilders it's a primary regulator of
blood volume and you know it's one of
the Regulators of blood volume so it
will help you get a pump and it uh also
is like Jason said largely uh it is a
factor in how uh you know glucose will
will enter you know there's a there's a
co-transporter with glucose and sodium
and so when you're loading that many
carbohydrates in one single day I'm
really looking at efficiency I need
everything to load as efficiently as
possible and as quickly as possible
because timing becomes a little more
important if you're loading on Wednesday
that probably doesn't really matter uh
but I'm loading the day before and I
need to make sure everything is going
through efficiently so the day before
the show uh sodium will sometimes go up
to around 8,000 to 10,000 milligrams uh
the day before the show when the
carbohydrates are very high
and then potassium on the other hand uh
now I run a deplete stage earlier in the
week carbohydrate deplete during that
period I will actually deplete
potassium my idea behind this is that uh
I am trying to potassium being one of
the primary you know intracellular ions
uh I'm trying to reduce that essentially
eliminate as much water in general from
the body as I can and just get them as
flat as possible um without going to
very low caloric intakes and then early
on in their load uh early Friday morning
I will have them consume very high
potassium foods like sweet potatoes and
red potatoes and so potassium levels May
reach somewhere around 12,000 milligrams
the day before the show and I I'll start
high on Friday morning I see Eric
laughing at me because these
astronomical numbers I'll start High
Friday morning um to load higher
potassium levels and essentially offset
the depletion that we've done and then I
taper uh as Friday goes on and then
allow sodium to Come Back in Balance
with that and I know that sounds super
super tricky but uh you know it it works
really well and then you'll see the
progression then when they wake up
Saturday morning I don't do anything
crazy with it I keep uh sodium and
potassium levels pretty even until right
before stage where they'll take much
like the other two guys they'll take in
a big dose of sodium uh before they pump
up and then we're just ready to
roll yeah Cliff I guess one of the one
of the red flags that I would see with
that approach would just be that often
times when I have like a very high
sodium meal like even if I go for sushi
I'll wake up like four or five pounds
heavier I'm not a really big guy um and
I do look more watery like I like at
least in my own head that's the way I
see it do you ever see anyone
spill as a result of that approach you
know not no I I would say even just
slightly spilled I've never had a
disaster I'll put it that way and I
would even say slightly spilled um is
probably only a handful of times in fact
more of a flat look is more of the you
know that I've seen more often and uh
but one thing I always I always tell
competitors is uh and and I guess
there's another thing that's going to be
an issue because I you know I think you
hopefully some of the people listening
have seen some of my competitors on
stage and uh it's funny though because
there's a certain disconnect with the
way we
feel uh with the way we look to a
certain extent you know because we've as
bodybuilders we start to associate
especially over a prep uh we start to
associate with depleted with good and
and there's a certain disconnect and so
a lot of times my competitors will wake
up and they'll say oh God I I'm I'm
spilled and then they'll send me the
pictures and I see that they look fine
and you know then also uh when they hit
the stage and they get the pictures back
and they say well I can't believe that's
me I look great you know so there that's
where um I I don't usually I wouldn't
trust a lot of people to do use this
approach on themselves because keeping
out of their own heads would be a big a
big
problem
Eric yeah first I have a brief question
for for Cliff is um and this is going to
be so hard to differentiate between what
competitors do at a restaurant post show
but maybe for your competitors who have
multiple shows back to back did they hit
a point where they just look like [ __ ]
on Sunday or Monday after the show uh
you know it it's funny because uh that
was a big concern of mine when I first
started doing this and uh you know uh
Zack reps I'm going to use him as an
example one of my clients just competed
this weekend he took second um in his uh
in his Pro in one of his Pro classes and
they did a Friday night prejudge and a
Saturday
morning uh in a Saturday morning night
show and we loaded him yeah we loaded
him on Thursday heal this conditioning
um and you know people people hear this
and they say that just sounds crazy to
do this approach but you know that
honestly um I have found that once the
look that I want to see has been
achieved maintaining it is surprisingly
consistent and surprisingly easy uh when
when they hit the next day I can usually
expect they're going to wake up looking
uh a little bit flatter uh not quite as
full but uh pretty similar conditioning
and
christas for how long can they can they
maintain that uh I I mean I can maintain
it for the next day and then I've gone
into uh I mean they'll look continuously
flatter the longer they go so there's
never a a point where uh after the load
I I've never experienced at least where
the next day or the day after you just
think they look like garbage uh
everything seems to be pretty well
regulated and and one of the reasons I
love the this this um approach is
because it's been uh I I've had success
with it and it's been uh surprisingly
consistent for me when I have my
competitors I have them check in while
they're loading midload uh they'll text
me pictures of what they're looking like
and I know I know by Friday at 3 pm. if
they have a certain look that I want to
see I I I know precisely what they're
going to look like the very next day
midload because I just start seeing it
come together and it's it's extremely
consistent and for me as a coach it um
it it really takes the pressure off me
because of the consistency I don't need
to worry about any variables I A lot of
times I'll set the plan and you guys
know when you set the plan and you you
just see things come together and you
don't need to adjust it um it takes a
lot of stress off me uh to be able to
know all right we are right on point I
know where we're going to land tomorrow
I'm feeling great about it you know um
sorry I I'll just go real quick um Cliff
like what do you think it would take for
someone to spill then because if I was
drawing up a program to have someone
spill I would spike their sodium up to
like 12,000 milligrams and give them
1,000 grams of carbs so like what do you
think it would take like you know I've
had some I've had some competitors
actually want me to test that uh and I
usually I usually aim low I lame I aim
low if I if I estimate somebody can take
in you know if my thought is I can
estimate somebody's going to be able to
take in 1,200 gr during their load I'm
usually going to put it at 1050 or 1100
you know I'll put it a couple a little
bit low because I'd rather come come in
a little flat than a little spilled um I
I've had some competitors want to almost
challenge me to see how many they can
handle but I'm not really uh in that my
I would say one if we're going to look
at spill I would almost reverse what I
do with sodium and potassium I would
load it up really high uh to to just
higher high higher levels and um and I
would cut water and but where their load
level is at and I know we're going to
get into carbohydrates but uh the a lot
of people think this massive person you
know well I'll say Doug Miller everybody
wants to know about how Doug Miller's
peent because he's just a you know the
most massive person and Doug's load was
pretty high but it wasn't near the
highest that I've had in fact some of
the the thinner clients that I've had
will require some of the highest loads
because they're metabolic great shoes
through these carbohydrates almost as
fast as you can give them and uh and so
it the biggest factor of whether or not
uh somebody's going to be able to handle
a high intake is going to be dictated by
their metabolic rate not necessarily
their size and uh so you know and then
one one last word on sodium I I don't
know if the other guys noticed this but
I've noticed this uh and this may be a
controversial topic to talk about but
there's a drastic difference in how much
sodium I can give many of my um white
competitors compared to my black
competitors uh black competitors just
seem to sometimes have a harder time uh
dealing with the changes in sodium
intake and so I take a little bit more
conservative approach usually with my
black competitors compared to my white
competitors because I sodium seems to
blur uh a lot of my black competitors
more so than than the white ones so I I
take a little bit different approach
based on race in that in that uh
regard interesting um
Jason well I I just had a question
because you know like like I said
earlier as a banam back in the day I
would do 1200 and I started us just
moving it before stage because I load on
W not doing a gallon I more water now
and just seeing how it went but my
question is I would never do that same
type of thing with like a figure girl or
a bikini girl because they're not lean
enough is this something in my opinion
they're not lean enough is this
something you're only doing with
shredded bodybuilders because they can't
hold anyways yeah I I have uh I have
done the backload for a few figure
competitors that are very lean and and
very thin that need to be bigger um I
don't do it for bikini competitors
because you know I don't I don't think
vascular and shredded is the primary uh
description of a of the ideal bikini
competitor uh and so it it's only
shredded bodybuilders and you have to be
and I I cannot understate this you have
to be very very lean uh to to be able to
make this work uh if if you're not very
very lean it's it's it's not going to be
a disaster but it's just not going to go
as well and so so that yeah it's only
only the most shredded bodybuilders if
if there's any pocket of fat that you
can pinch don't do it yeah that's kind
of what I was
figuring yeah
Eric yeah Jeff just kind of going back
to your comment about if you were going
to give someone a program to spill over
I would agree I would agree that a crazy
high sodium intake the day prior might
do it but I've seen it acutely sodium is
a very safe thing to play with you know
like if I get pictures from somebody and
there and I'm surprised like crap you
look bad I don't know why my go-to is
like I have some more sodium because I
know that there probably won't acutely
be a negative effect if they're on that
day
competing um I actually remember uh
Berto did his did did his Pro debut in
2008 at I want to say the wbf mid
America which I think Dr Joe was Dr
Joe's Show and Dr Joe was around just
giving sodium to all his competitors
backstage just kind of willy-nilly
almost um and I and I think I can't
remember I can't remember if if I spoke
to Dr Joe or Alberto did at some point
but this is something that he he's seen
as well is that sodium seems to be a
pretty safe bet because of all those
things that people talked about it being
a co-transporter and blood pressure all
those things it just it's hard to go
wrong in a very short-term
period yeah I totally agree you know I I
think when you load sodium for a single
day usually you won't see uh negative
effects the following day but really
once you start getting into a multiple
day sodium load that's where I've
noticed some some blurring and it's
probably why uh you know going back to
your question Eric when do you see do
you see them spill the day after and it
I think a lot of that has to do with the
carbohydrate intake does come down a
little bit the day of the show and uh so
does sodium intake there's nothing crazy
there's only two hits before prejudging
and before Night Show and then it's a
somewhat moderate sodium intake at least
compared to what they did the day before
gotcha gotcha um and yeah so just to
make sure that we've got the uh bikini
class covered do you guys basically just
go like constant water constant sodium
with those uh or is there any
manipulation like the shop before they
hit the stage for
fullness um I can start with you
Eric yeah for for my bikini competitors
I mean to be honest it is very very
minimal I'm like what I consider a low a
low amount of sodium like a gram or
something like that and not even trying
to get
vascular just pump um but yeah I really
don't run much of a what would look like
a peak week I kind of take them out of a
deficit and I make sure uh they aren't
spilled over depleted but that's that's
really about it it's it's pretty pretty
straightforward I kind of just run them
straight through most of the time for
bikini competitor uh fig competitor
depends on the organization some like a
wbf figure competitor most of the time
has to be just as Lan as a bodybuilder
or close to it so that looks more um
close to what we've already talked about
female bodybuilder obviously the same
and um then yeah if you're talking about
a figure competitor who is borderline
lean then kind of a hybrid of what I
mentioned for bikini versus uh the
harder classes mhm um and the other two
guys are you in agreement or if you
disagree you can speak
up uh well you know I I would say uh
where I go with a bikini competitor goes
uh has to deal with where their starting
point is if they are less muscular and
and uh need to add some size to hold
their own on stage I'll probably I don't
I'll just start from their point of
where they're at with sodium I tell them
to start adding up their sodium intake a
few weeks out and I find out where their
Baseline is and I'll increase it a
little bit and increase and increase
going into the show to create some
fullness and uh and give them the
ability to get more of a pump like Eric
said but for example I have one client
that took uh uh she she's competed she
took third at the uh a Australian
Olympia and and she is she's very
muscular she's genetically Elite and so
we have to tone her down we we lose
muscle going on purpose going into it
and uh with her I'll actually deplete
sodium just to soften her up and Shrink
her down a little bit so the approach
will go either up or down depending on
where their starting point is and where
they need to end up right um and just
while we're on the topic because I think
that for the most part bikini
competitors since you know they don't
need that dry hard vascular look um the
manipulations will probably be more
moderate throughout um when I posted
about this podcast on the Facebook uh on
my Facebook uh there was a question
about women entering Peak Week um and if
there are any variables that can be
manipulated uh if they anticipate PMS
uh or is it just uh considered a bummer
if it happens um so is there anything
you can do to reduce bloat or water
retention as a result of of the
PMS or of the cycle
generally um Cliff oh okay sorry uh I
you know for the most part I I think by
the end of it some some girls will lose
their period uh so you know you know you
can do with that what you will but if
that is a concern I will tell them
sometimes to keep on hand just some sort
of uh herbal diuretic like you know
expel it's not usually something I love
to use but it's good to have just in
case and and I'll say this to to the
women out there uh when it comes to PMs
and bloat and things like that I
speaking from an outside perspective it
makes you feel way worse than you look
uh I can barely notice the difference
and most of the time not at all they'll
say I feel I feel like I'm holding tons
of water and I feel like I'm bloated and
I look at the pictures and I say there
is absolutely no difference here and a
lot of times I'll just take their
pictures side by side from where they
were uh you know pre uh you know
precycle and I'll just put them side by
side and I I'll say look you are
precisely the same so sometimes even
even the uh even if they do get it I
won't even give them the expel or
anything like that because it's just not
necessary
all right uh so guys what I'm going to
do is I'm going to take a quick break uh
for about a minute and then we'll come
back and we'll get into uh carbohydrate
manipulation uh cardio and training and
then uh we'll talk about some show Day
stuff like pumping up tan and all that
sort of stuff uh so we'll be back in
just a minute
[Music]
so guys we are back um I guess we'll
kick it off with uh carb since I think
this is probably the big one where views
might differ um so just front I guess
I'll clarify the two big terms or the
main approaches that are used one would
be a front load where you increase carbs
earlier in the week typically a Monday
or a Tuesday um and then they'll often
taper back down and then perhaps
increase again later in the week or
maybe not um and then the other would be
the backload which is the one that Cliff
has popularized uh which is where carbs
are relatively low throughout the week
and then there's a massive Spike uh
right before the show um so how about uh
actually we can start with Jason on or
or go ahead Eric sorry I was actually I
was telling a story to Cliff and I
thought it actually might be cool to
actually share it on the podcast during
the break but I I was recently uh in
Australia doing uh some some talks with
Lane and we talked to a lot of
bodybuilders and I got a fair number of
questions about the the rapid backload
and um one of the things that I was
emphasizing was that these aren't just
techniques they're also skill sets so
you can take the same onp paper protocol
and have two different coaches run them
and you may see very different results
because you develop an eye over over the
years and you know what is pushing it
what is dialing back what is you know
the right amount to to add or take back
even even just how to communicate to
your client to get them consistent
pictures or or photos to you so you can
tell what's going on so I said you know
Cliff is an artist with the backload he
kills it every time but that doesn't
necessarily mean that that you will be
able to be an artist um with the
backload so I think that's just one
thing to clar it's not only a discussion
of techniques it's also a discussion of
of skills sure and and Cliff is skilled
yeah that's what I'm saying he's got the
skills um yeah go ahead Cliff well you
know I along those lines and I I want to
kind of clarify because you know
sometimes we get newer competitors where
they get the approach this peak this
peing style is right this peing style is
wrong you there are so many ways to Peak
properly and like he said you know there
there you any coach they get better at
peaking because there's so little
knowledge to start from like Eric said
there's no there's no research on
peaking and so you get better at as you
go along and you know I've gotten you
know proficient at diagnosing I always I
always say there's such an important
part of peak week is diagnosing the
situation and uh sometimes flat and
spill can look eerily similar and uh you
know if you don't if you don't think
it's important to be able to diagnose
the state let's let's say I'm a I'm a
medical doctor and maybe I'm the worst
medical doctor that there's ever been
and the nurse tells me my patient is in
a coma well coma looks irally similar to
death and I maybe I can't tell the
difference you know and uh the way I'm
going to treat my patient in a coma is
going to be drastically different from
the way I treat my patient who is dead
even though they from the outside they
look pretty similar so you know that
that should tell you right there
diagnosing the situation is half the
battle right yeah Eric it's funny I have
a similar story I um I was prepping a
guy for a physique show and he had
listened to my previous podcast with
cliff and so when I sent him his Peak
Week documents he was uh he was he felt
so deflated he was like what happened to
the rapid backload idea like I was
expecting all these carbs and I I just
went with a more moderate approach um
just because I mean I Cliff I know that
you've had a tremendous amount of
success with this um but I I'm my
skepticism comes from the fact that you
do tend to deal with a very elite breed
of athletes from what I see I mean they
tend to be genetically gifted
bodybuilders who probably as I see it
would look pretty damn good on any
approach do you think that there's a
role to play there not not to take away
from what it is that you you contribute
to their to their success but um do you
think it would work as well with someone
who say isn't as genetically gifted as
as a
bodybuilder uh assuming they're lean
enough yes I I'll say that uh because
you know when I first started coaching
in like 2010 and 2011 I would or 2011 is
when I started doing this and I would
use it I didn't have really any Elite
bodybuilders back then you know it was
just amateurs trying to become pros and
uh and that was the method I would use
and then as they started doing well uh I
got more Elite competitors coming to me
wanting to do it so it does work well
but you know I I will say when when
people send me messages about it and
they want to know about it 99% of my my
uh time 90 9% of the time my response is
don't don't don't use this because I you
know don't go do it yourself at least if
you're going to do it you need to
practice and practice because I don't
trust most people to be able to use it
first time out the first time I ever
used it I did not use it going into a
show I had I had two competitors that
were contest lean I had this idea that
it could work and I said let's try it
and they let me try it and work out some
of the Kinks before I used it on anybody
else that would be really irresponsible
if I had this crazy idea to throw tons
of sodium at you and tons of carbs and
let's just see how it plays out on stage
so you know I I tried it out uh multiple
times before I used it in a game time
scenario so to speak and I would
recommend anybody do that before they
even thought about trying to use it
coach or just average competitor trying
it on themselves right um so how about
we narrow in on carbs and and what it is
exactly that you guys do there uh so
Jason I'll I'll start with you
well I mean it's definitely variable
let's start there um I did five Peak
weeks today and it ranged from a fat
load to a load on Friday that was pretty
high um I won't use the same terms that
we used to refer to Cliffs because I'm
not trying to pull that off um and I did
a load that was
moderate um Thursday and Friday um you
know about 300 on Thursday 300
Friday um and then I had one where they
got a cheat meal on Friday night because
we found that that works very well for
her so I mean I don't really know if I
can put a rule together um I can start
and say the reason the one girl fat
loaded was because she's done awesome on
high-fat keto diet and until we pulled
out our cars she struggled she was
bloated one day not bloated the next no
matter what carbs we used and so I said
screw it we're not putting carbs in
you've been on keto long you look great
and we're going to Fat load and so I did
that one that way um and you know as
long as you H have the protein and fat
high enough you're still going to get
some carb conversion through
gluconeogenesis and things of that
nature um the other ones were feel you
know um I did it on fi like I knew the
one guy was really lean and like I said
I've had experience myself on on High
car blows Friday before and so I did it
that way with him um I don't know how El
to put it into to words I and say I
carbs are going to be variable and it's
going to be based on how the person
dieted and how they look and how lean
they are um so you know I I don't know
how else more specific to get on it um
I'll leave it at that for now and I
guess let other guys go around the the
the table sure yeah I I think that's
that's reasonable um Cliff maybe you can
get into your whole approach next okay I
I guess I should start by uh I'm going
to start off by saying one like we've
already touched on uh the body likes to
keep a pretty um uh static ratio of
intracellular to extracellular uh fluids
and so one thing I think is a
misconception no matter what approach
you take and I'm sure you guys have
noticed this that uh if you if I were to
keep sodium high keep water High keep
protein high enough keep fat high enough
but reduce my carbohydrate intake you're
going to get a a flat but very tight
look would everybody agree with that
you're going to have this thin skin
feeling um and competitors want that
thin skin feeling with the super full
feeling and but the problem is I've
reduced my carbohydrates I've reduced
intracellular water intra you know
because I've reduced intramuscular water
I've reduce my levels and there's going
to be less water inside my muscle and so
there's going to be less are also
outside and so if you increase your uh
you know your storage inside muscle
there's just going to be a natural
thicker feeling to the skin uh and it's
it's going to be very perceptible to the
person that is experiencing it because
they just don't feel that thin skin but
to the outside people it's not really
perceptible um maybe if you pinched it
you could feel it a little bit but maybe
not maybe not to the degree that it's
noticeable and I always tell people what
looks really good right up on somebody
is not necessarily going to translate to
the best look on stage so keep that in
mind you're never going to combine a
super super full look no matter what
approach you take with the thinnest
possible skin you can experience and so
I'll state that for the record so with
carbohydrates um with the backload
approach I will bring carbs up a little
bit uh over Saturday and Sunday a week
out from the show uh as as Eric said if
carbs have been really low the they may
their body may not be uh efficient at
storing glycogen at this stage so I'll
bring cars up for two to three days just
to um fill them out a little bit and
also make sure they don't get too flat
for the deplete stage that I'm going to
put them through and so after those uh
something along the lines typically in
the range of two to three high carb days
whatever their high carb day is uh in a
row and then uh starting Monday
sometimes Sunday if they really need to
flatten out more Sunday Monday to
Thursday I'll run through a carbohydrate
deplete phase and I'll I'll say
carbohydrate deplete not calorie deplete
a lot of people want to drop their
calories down really low but I don't
think depleting uh yourself near death
is an ideal state to be in before a body
bodybuilding show so I I'll usually keep
calories pretty similar to what they've
been dieting on uh take from
carbohydrates give to proteins and fats
just to maintain
significant amounts of weight just from
the water loss but uh if calories are
the same you know that's that's just
water that's not going to be um that's
not going to be muscle tissue being lost
and uh people get really nervous
watching the scale drop like that but
you know they'll we'll see a couple
pounds lost in a couple days so I'll do
that and once again this goes back to uh
uh creating the ability to superc
compensate with glycogen and you know I
know a lot of the research around super
compensation revolves around a 3-day
deplete in a 3-day load but in my
experience anybody who's in an
aggressive 3-day load knows that that's
probably a recipe for some sort of spill
and so I I just didn't find it was as
consistent so carbohydrates may go down
to Monday through Thursday could go down
into anywhere from 40 grams uh to 100
grams if somebody's been having a high
carbohydrate intake throughout prep uh
usually from a lot of vegetable sources
and then the day of the load uh the it
can vary like I said 850 grams uh to,
15,600 grams I would say most
bodybuilders male bodybuilders fall in
the range of 1,00 to 1250 grams of carbs
on their load and my female bodybuilders
uh will probably fall in the range of
550 to 800 grams females per pound tend
to not be able to take in quite as much
as the males and then uh same thing like
I touched on before uh there's a big
difference for me between my black
competitors and my white competitors uh
you know insulin resistance issues uh
are prevalent in the black community and
so sometimes they're not as efficient at
storing that glycogen in a timely manner
and so I will play it a little bit more
conservative conservatively with them uh
and aim on the lower end and I find if I
get a little too aggressive uh it just
they they're just not quite as
sharp Eric
yeah so what I do with carbs that's
basically the the big question cool um
so yeah it's it's I'll give some
background here um so I came from kind
of the school of learning from Dr Joe
and then lane and then Berto primarily
uh but of course I really kind of
learned to coach from my fellow coaches
at 3dmj you know Brad um Jeff Berto
myself were the originals and then also
from Andrea now um Brad Lumis actually
Chang ched the way I do my front loads a
little bit because he had experience
working with skip Lor actually takes a
pretty aggressive skip loading approach
so he kind of uh ended up blending the
approaches and we started eventually I'd
say probably the majority of our clients
are front loaded if they're lean enough
um and the approach looks not as
extended over time I think if you look
at some of the older approaches to front
loading sometimes you'll see a load
happening very earli in the week or even
the weekend before and tapering down and
coming back up on Friday I'd like to
load carbs on Tuesday uh and
tap Thursday and come back up on Friday
and then typically typically taper into
the show uh after that to try to kind of
keep that look um and again I think like
like the the two other the guys have
been saying a huge part of this is what
you're seeing and context dependent um I
never run a blind front load it's not
like I send him an Excel sheet and tell
them hey email me on you know Saturday
night let me know let me know how the
show went um I think it's absolutely
critical you have to babysit a peak week
so uh typically the way I do it is I try
to get all the work done by Friday night
uh and it's not that I don't think
there's value in adjusting on on the day
of on Saturday it's just that with
online coaching you can't always be sure
that where the person travels to uh that
they will be able to get pictures to you
uh and have internet access depending on
how far they have to travel what the
hotel's Wi-Fi looks like what their data
plan is etc etc etc time zone
differences all that stuff uh even just
a simple delay in my email could mean
that I I miss communication back to them
before prejudging so um I like to try to
be bulletproof in my Approach and I look
at pictures on Thursday and Friday
before the show and I try to do
everything in my power to know that
they're going to go to bed with the
instructions that they need to be in the
right position the next day and I give
them a little bit of kind of
self-guidance tools um if they're really
in a bad way or if I'm sure because I've
with the person before that will be able
to communicate the morning of then I
will you know be like hey give me
pictures first thing upon waking up etc
etc but um anyway so uh lots of
information there uh specifically on the
carbohydrates typically I use an
approach where they're using refeeds one
to three times per week they typically
get more frequent throughout the whole
diet and I try to keep the refeed carbon
take level similar to where they were in
the off seon uh and I will eventually
most times have to adjust it but most of
the time I'm keeping those carbohydrate
intakes from the refeeds the same
throughout the whole prep and a big
thing I'm looking at is how do they
respond to their repeats what do they
look like uh in response on the day of
and day after their repeats um and this
is something that becomes more of a uh I
guess a key variable I pay attention to
as they get closer to competing um so
anyway uh I always base the carbohydrate
intakes that I give the person on that
front load that I talked about on
Tuesday and Friday um based on what the
refeeds were so typically the load on
Tuesday and Friday will be somewhere
between 90 to 120% of what they had uh
on their refeeds at their highest point
um typically I will try to throw in and
it just depends on what they're looking
like on Thursday and Friday but refeed
esque carbon takes on those two days and
then somewhere between kind of the
Midway point between their low days and
their High days will be what the taper
between uh Tuesday and Friday look like
and then the day of the show will be
probably 75% of their their refeed or or
slightly lower or slightly higher
depending on what they look like Friday
night um so yeah that that that's more
or less the approach I take uh again
it's more often than not maybe 50% of
the time I guess that's that's not more
often than not that's half and half uh I
end up I end up adjusting based on what
I'm seeing especially on Friday
sometimes I'll make adjustments on
Thursday if they're looking way out of
whack but I I I have I have like kind of
like clip mentioned he knows there's
certain things he wants to see there's
certain things I want to see Friday
night um and slightly spilled over is is
is is fine and that's typically where
where I'd like to get them to or if they
look great then I'm probably just going
to keep that as well but um if they look
really really sharp Friday night that's
not always necessarily a good thing as
well yeah Cliff yeah and maybe Eric and
I messed up we were having some good
discussion during our break and so uh
you know regarding the carbohydrate load
like he said uh I think sometimes when
people go to bed on Friday night and
they're really really sharp and they
think yeah I've nailed it well uh Friday
night is not show day and I I think
sometimes people get panicked when they
haven't peaked on Thursday or Friday and
it's important to note that you want to
you don't want to Peak midweek you want
to Peak the day of the show and even as
when I load people and this is where
Eric said you you need to be able to
identify the state that they're in um
when when I even when I load people
there's a certain you know eye that you
start to develop like I'm waking them up
early on Friday and I'm giving them
let's say 1,200 grams when they wake up
in the morning I know what look they're
going to have or like I like them to
have and then I have them text me
pictures midday and I know that what
look I like them to have and actually as
I load them I I want to see some
blurring I I suspect that because I'm
giving them so many carbohydrates in
such a short amount of time the body
cannot keep up with synthesizing
glycogen quickly enough and my guess is
that some of that glucose is just
floating around in the you know in the
uh spaces between and so uh you know I
see the blurring and I see the blurring
increase over the the course of the day
Friday and I want to see that I want to
see them blur Friday night uh just
subtly not you know massive blurring but
just subtly and uh like I was telling
Eric in the break I've gotten to the
point where I realized like early on I I
used to think if somebody was really
really sharp on Friday night I would
think oh man they're going to look crazy
the next day what I can't wait but then
they would wake up the next day and they
wouldn't look bad but it just wasn't
quite as sharp as what I had seen in the
past so if I can get them to the point
where they're blurring just slightly F
Friday night I know they're going to
wake up the next day when you know that
glycogen can be synthesized and the
glucose can make it in the right places
uh they'll be really sharp on Saturday
morning yeah one thing that I've noticed
in every single show I've done is that
uh I always think I look incredible
Friday night and then Saturday morning I
always wake up really really flat
looking like really flat and there's
like not a vein to be seen and like my
forms usually get really vascular more
than anything else and it'll just be
like just dead muscle like there's
there's no definition to it whatsoever
um and then sometimes uh like most shows
I would say by the time uh prejudging
rolls around I've I filled back out as
I've kind of like rehydrated and so on
um but no matter what I do even no
matter and I've been very aggressive at
shows um it always seems like Saturday
morning I wake up really really flat is
that common in your guys
experience yes I I would say I don't
know there's there's a more recent uh
change in in bodybuilding shows where
they have like live judging
where and I noticed now that I've had
people who get on stage sorry can you
start right over from the beginning you
just cut out completely for uh whatever
you just said sorry yeah
I I said a yes I've noticed that
typically people don't look as good in
the morning as at night typically um and
I the reason why I really started to
notice this and believe it was now that
there's more shows are done as what's
called live judging or in a one- show
format where you just get on stage in
the late late afternoon early evening
and that's and you go till the night's
over um is that the when I have when I
Peak people for that show format they
typically look better uh than
and then at least compared to their
prejudging shots when when I have people
in a in a two two two stage show format
and I don't know if that's just a time
thing like it just takes more time for
um you know water and sodium and and and
carbs to do their thing or what but uh
that's something I've consistently
noticed and it you can be very very
aggressive and it doesn't always
necessarily uh counteract
that yeah I I find that I usually uh
look better by the Night by The Night
Show and I I tend to underestimate what
it is I think I can get away with um and
I feel like a lot of a lot of guys who
take them maybe the more conservative
approach tends to tend to fall into that
camp like I see so many guys come in
looking really hard and full at the
night show but they just looked really
flat at prejudging um and one one of the
things that I've I've done is get up at
like 3:00 a.m. and start eating and uh I
I guess that that that does help to a
degree but I think that a lot of guys
might be surprised with how much they
can really can hold on to without
spilling but yeah um so I guess I guess
that's yeah so I I was just going to
Echo what you were saying I I I'll tell
like if one of my spreadsheets will say
eat your first meal X numbers of hours
prior to when you think you're going to
be on for prejudging and sometimes that
means you're going to be eating at 4:00
a.m. or 3:00 a.m. and that's just kind
of like well [ __ ] you know you probably
didn't sleep very well the night before
anyway and you've been dieting for for
six months I just kind of suck up like
to get up it's like about 3: a.m. I get
to eat
sweet true right
yeah yeah Jason go ahead one thing that
we we didn't touch on here is you know I
noticed the same phenomenon you're
talking about and um a lot of times it
came from clients I would have them go
have a steak um sweet potatoes something
like that and they're buttering the hell
out of that thing and you know flaming
On's got a lot of fat in it anyway so
one thing we really didn't touch on was
Fats and their role in loading um I I I
use fats because I don't go as crazy
with the car blads um and I want them to
hold and not burn through it and as you
use dietary fat you're going to hold it
better and usually you know I get my
athletes up early and I want them to
have at least three or four meals in and
I'm I'm controlling their fat intake too
when I give them their
macros um and and you know usually tell
them what fats I would like to use and
things of that nature and I find that
that helps fill them back out a little
faster and I find that it helps them
wake up so flat in the morning as well
um so that's just one thing to think of
my body is that way I actually do better
and look better on a ketogenic diet than
I would say on a lowfat 200 250 carb
diet um so you know a lot of times I'm
taking that into consideration with guys
and gals as well um that yeah I could
give them a lot of carbs but if I don't
have any fats here it they still could
be really flat so yeah I I've actually
noticed that when I load on on fat as
well I I look better in I look more
vascular um for whatever reason like if
even like it can happen quite quickly
too like even an hour or so out from the
stage if if I have like peanut butter
and some chocolate or Reese cup that
sort of thing um it can really make a
big difference in terms of my fullness
um so I don't know if that's just like
increasing the blood volume the uh with
the triglides in in in the blood um or
if it's increasing the intramuscular Tri
Trier store uh but I I found that fat
usually don't cause me to spill until
like I don't know a couple days out of
massive
overfeeding um so and that's not spill
over if you if you
m yeah exactly you will look worse
though yeah yeah yeah um Cliff I'm
curious to know what you do about fats
because you bring carbs so ridiculously
high uh that I feel like that would be a
pretty potent stimulus for fat storage
um yeah you know uh I I uh I keep them
the the fats will be pretty much during
the load uh the fats will be pretty much
just whatever the carbohydrate sorts I'm
using uh you see pictures of a lot of my
guys posting what foods they're eating
on Friday you're going to notice that my
guys eat a lot of Cheerios and sweet
potatoes and the during their load and
the reason for that is that it just make
those Foods uh go down rather easily uh
compared to some others I've tried in
the past there's nothing magical about
the foods but they also have the sodium
[ __ ] ratios that make it easy for me to
uh manipulate as needed and make any
changes early on in the first couple
years I started doing um the backload i
instead of Cheerios I was having people
do oatmeal and they they looked good but
that was just way too much oatmeal
they're like I'm dying eating all this
oatmeal right now and so uh I switched
it to Cheerios a lot of people can kind
of just snack on them you know
throughout throughout the day and so uh
you know I'll do that I I'll keep fats
just whatever they end up being with
those Foods uh typically I'm going to
say in the range of 30 to 35 gram for
that day maybe 40 up at the high end and
then uh like these guys on on show day
I'll rely on fats a little bit more uh
carbohydrate my my Approach uh is to
take a then a conservative approach on
show day because with the massive
loading the loading should have been
accomplished the day before and then
just F TW weeks on the day of and so I
don't need to push carbohydrates so I'll
take a moderate approach you know maybe
20 to 40 gram every couple of hours but
then fats will be bumped up anywhere in
the range from 15 to 25 grams every
every few hours and uh I'll use things
like even Reese's Peanut Butter Cups the
day of the show uh that have moderate
carbs and higher fats and I I'll even
use olive oil just because sometimes it
travels well they can dump it in a
tablespoon and just shoot it back
doesn't taste great but it the job done
and you know I I pretty much the same
thing as the other guys right um and
then what about between prejudging and
and finals uh do you guys just do a
repeat this is what I've usually done
it's just a repeat of what they did
leading into prejudging yeah I I
typically make it a repeat unless I am
fixing something that didn't look right
the day prior um so for example if if I
think I need to push more into them for
prejudging I might give them an
adjustment to eat more Friday night and
then eat more prior to prejudging and
then let it taper off um but but most of
the time I set it up just cuz it's
easier for them to pack and
conceptualize just as a repeat for
prejudging and finals unless of course
it's one of those you know live judge
shows that I talked about but typically
I the same and I do a double salt load
so actually you know the funny thing is
everyone was talking about how crazy
Cliff sodium loading is it's really not
that different from what I do I might
give someone two grams twice and that's
four grams of added sodium on top of
their diet which might be 3 to four gram
so I I I yeah I don't I think that uh
not that crazy of a sodium
yeah what about you Jason you're talking
about after prejudging
yeah um typically you know I instruct
people to go with their family and
friends who came and get a meal out um
chicken sweet potato something of that
nature um keep it clean um usually have
them go ahead and get water you know
nothing nothing that needs to be uh
limited there and um then after that
I'll usually just have them repeat the
macros that I had used from the morning
unless obviously you know they're really
flat or there's some problem um but
generally that's how I set it up and
then go from there if I have to adjust
anything but um so really it's kind of a
repeat of the meals in the morning with
just a meal out with the family um that
you know it's not really
cause more fat salt but it's all fine at
that point really um and I let them have
usually 10 to 12 ounces of water
depending on what their water situation
is for that day um so I I don't really
do anything that's you know too drastic
after
prejudging what about you Cliff uh I I I
manipulate a lot after prejudging uh if
it's a single class say it's a pro class
and there's no heavyweight there's no
lightweight there's just a single class
um I will start adjusting things to see
what might work for them the next show I
may push carbs really hard to see what
their spill point will be and see how
much more aggressive we can get with our
next one I'll maybe give them a bunch of
sodium because if they come in softer at
the night show and it's a single class
the judging is done with it doesn't
matter um and you know so I test their
limits and if it's not a single class um
this may be a little a little
controversial because bodybuilding you
know how I say focus on yourself I if I
know it's not going to be a single class
I actually tell my competitors to scope
out their competition in the other
classes I have their families take
pictures of the of the best guys in the
other classes
and we the look that will make us most
competitive against that the person we
view as our primary competition if we if
we're going against somebody that's
Fuller but we're more conditioned we may
get a little bit
full just to we going with somebody
that's maybe a little bit leaner we may
uh reduce their carbohydrate intake to
flatten them out a little bit but make
them sharper to compete with their
conditioning but still be bigger so I'll
uh I'll go whatever way we need to do to
try to get the win yeah I mean that's
insanely impressive if you can do that
by a distance
like I feel like that's uh impressive
the least well you know if they're us
clients if they're us clients I do it
through text if they're uh International
uh Facebook Messenger has been really
beneficial um and uh you know I um like
the the timing can be difficult because
I have some Australian clients and
obviously that's way that's way uh the
very opposite time zones so a lot of
times I'll schedule check-ins with them
and I honestly I'll just wake up thr the
night um you know if they're going to if
they're going to check in with me at 2
or 3:00 a.m. uh I'll set my alarm and
I'll wake up check my Facebook Messenger
adjust I'll say check in again you know
four hours later and I'll just wake up
at 5 or 6: a.m. and I'll adjust and
we'll just make sure we have the game
plan um you know ready to roll that's
awesome what I'll do next is move on to
uh cardio uh so what you guys do for
that as peak week goes on um so I'm
going to start I think I'm back to Cliff
so you can you can start here
super simple short answer uh I usually
just manipulate slightly from where
they're at with their base uh if they're
completing I'll increase just a little
bit and then no cardio during their load
if they're doing more of a
conservative where I just slowly is
going up um I'll just slowly taper down
a little bit uh it's not something I
like to adjust uh to very high amounts I
don't want people's legs being sore on
the day the on the day of the show and I
don't want them tired so um usually
there's some sort of
reduction in the day or two prior but
that's about it Go Works within a range
of their
base
Eric almost exactly the same to be
honest it's um the only times I have to
make large manipulations if I have
someone who had to do a lot of cardio to
get in into shape for whatever reason
which is rare um but then I end up just
uh reducing their their
card in the peak week itself which might
change a few other things but but for
the most part it's very very similar
said okay uh
Jason a lot of times I'll pull the head
out about seven days out let the legs
rest we start you know letting the water
get out of them let them let them heal
um I'll I'll keep the list in you know a
lot of times I'll say keep the walking
in uh till a lot of times Wednesday and
then at which point um I might just
switch them to posing on Thursday and
Friday for X number of minutes um if
it's a bodybuilder or something like
that
um that's that's generally how I do the
cardio so basically it's a it's cutting
back as well as the other guys right um
and then what about resistance
training uh I'll start with Eric on this
one yeah I typically um I this kind of
I'm gonna start a little broader again a
lot of guys like to try to deplete with
their the resistance training um and I
think in many cases unless you've had
the opportunity to eat someone up into
the show they're going to be relatively
depleted anyway because they're a
dieting bodybuilder so I don't go Hog
Wild with it but what I typically do is
I pull out any exercises which have a
large Ecentric component uh so if
they're doing rdls or like heavy
dumbbell flies or something like that
those those are gone um because I don't
want them to be sore while they're while
they're trying to you know load and and
pose and you know just pose on stage
really um so and then I shift the rep
ranges up a little bit and pull the RP
down so they're just a little further
from failure uh so the volume is similar
uh and I get it done prior I get it done
by basically two days out um and I
normally shift it so the leg leg days
come earlier so for example if I had an
upper lower split it would become lower
upper lower upper just to give an extra
day for any kind of related inflammation
to go away so that there is no you know
blurring this in the legs um and then
yeah so everything's over 8 to 10 reps
that's kind of lowest i' go similar
number of sets similar setup I just
condense it into an upper lower most of
the time and um and then yeah just keep
them far from failure and pull out the
Ecentric stuff and that's about it oh
sorry one more thing I have them do a
little pump up circuits occasionally if
I need to morning of the show prior to
the show and maybe potentially on on
Friday and Thursday but not
always
Jason well similar to Eric I um sto you
know know the failure training you know
I make sure that that's done um usually
around I'd say that Monday I started
asking them no no more failure training
legs are usually done seven to six days
out um bodybuilders I will tell them
though to flex the legs a lot especially
as the carbs are coming in just keep the
muscle a little Fuller um I I don't see
a need to to not at least pose them and
do something to to push some blood and I
know some guys just rest them completely
and do do nothing and don't touch them
again I think they'll be a little Fuller
if you Flex them pump them up as you're
eating
um let's see so no
failure um I'm generally don't do like
you know you'll see guys like start like
circuit training on like a Wednesday or
something I generally just keep them on
their same split the legs are done early
and I ask them no failure uh training
and I'm usually done the last training
session is usually Wednesday and then
again like I said I switch them over to
posing and things of that nature there
have been some Thursdays where I've had
guys do a modified circuit um because I
felt like they needed a little bit more
depletion before I hit like a bigger
load on a Friday but generally um a lot
of the training's done last session on
Wednesday I want the body to be rested
and healed up really right uh
Cliff uh yeah uh so with what I with
what I do I guess I should say with my
my whole thing with peek obviously I
manipulate certain variables drastically
uh you know carbohydrates sodium
potassium and uh but I'm really big on
minimizing all other variables because
uh you know I think a process as a coach
is to be able to pinpoint when things
aren't going as you'd expect uh what is
the variable causing the issue and so
this may sound really controversial but
when it comes to Peak Week training
almost all of my clients will be on the
exact same Peak Week training protocol
because I know that sounds like late
theing part of a coach but for me it
allows me to get a consistent look from
person to person uh because the process
is very similar from person to person uh
the goal is the same you know you reduce
the same as the other guys you reduce
the intensity and it's pretty much just
to maintain what you have uh create
glycogen storage and allow the body to
rest up and heal up a little bit and uh
and so I'll give the same protocols to
pretty much every person so that way uh
if something's not going as I would like
it to go mid peak week uh I can't I
don't even have to think is it the
training causing this issue um it's a
variable that I can completely take out
of the equation they're not training too
hard you know they're not doing this
exercise that exercise so minimization
of variables is a very important part to
me and so um you know I'll I'll do uh
each body part trained uh once across
Monday through Thursday you know like
legs on Monday back on Tuesday uh chest
on Wednesday and uh shoulders and arms
on on Thursday so you know I'll just and
then and then a whole body circuit on
Friday um and that way it minimizes a
variable that I have to worry about and
I can focus on the other variables
interesting um Eric I I just wanted to
pose this question to you um do you
think that the case could be made like
from say a a sarcoplasmic hypertrophy
perspective um for really increasing the
rep so doing a lot of like 20 to 30 rep
sets just a lot of pump work
um is that something that you think
could have Merit uh
or well uh there's always other effects
you know anytime you manipulate one
thing think about other things you would
you'd have a depletion effect going on
there so that would probably affect what
you'd have to do with I mean it's more
total work right yeah if you would
actually just calculate the total work
you started doing 20 30 rep sets um
that'd be a significant increase in
volume um and I I I don't know the
actual timeline if if we want call it
sarcoplasmic hypertrophy which I'm only
semic comfortable doing um then we're
we're we we're talking about increased
glycogen in the muscle as well as other
stuff you know I don't know the timeline
for that how long that adaptation would
take it it might be that for you to get
that effectively it takes weeks and I'm
not 100% sure I don't think we had data
on that um uh I know some people do it
and they they go very very heavy on
depletion um but yeah I man you're
already going to be depleted in many
cases you know
um so yeah I I I don't know is probably
the overall answer and I'm skeptical as
my second yeah yeah no I think I'd agree
I uh I guess just stick with kind of
what's worked in terms of training
throughout the the majority of your prep
and then make sure you're rested up so
you can store the glycogen it seems to
be the most reasonable thing to do um
okay so uh now we'll move on to actual
some actual show Day stuff uh so maybe
what you guys use for tanning color uh
oil that sort of thing uh so Jason I'll
start with you on on this one sure um at
least in my area you can always find a
company called liquid sunrays um and if
they're not these sponsor spraying
they'll usually be at the shows so I
mean it's like where I'm at in the NPC
90 90 95% of the time they're there and
um their colors were great um I've used
it when been at Nationals the junior
Nationals everything and judges always
like it so I get sprayed and I always
tell my clients to get sprayed I think
it's the easiest in the NPC they don't
like dream tan so there wouldn't be any
dream tan you would just be using uh the
color um and then those companies
usually have oil that they'll do
backstage and um the caveat with that is
always you know you want to look like
you have a nice Sheen but you don't want
to be too oiled you'll start you know
that blurs you too and just looks bad up
on stage um so that was those would be
my things with with uh with tan I'm not
a big fan of spending eight hours trying
to put 10 coats of [ __ ] on me with a
sponge you know so that's that's my
recommendation usually to my clients
right uh
Cliff uh for for bikini competitors I'll
usually just tell them to get the Tanner
uh they're not going to be sweating on
stage and at least not significantly to
worry about running or anything like
that and so they'll just usually and it
it has a clean look that they want in
bikini uh for for bodybuilders uh like
Jason said they don't usually like dream
tan at the NPC but if they allow it
sometimes I'll have people do a spray
tan and a really thin coat of dream tan
just to give that Sheen I love the I
love the glow of the dream Tan on stage
and uh for most of my bodybuilders I use
dream tan I guess I'll say I'll say with
dream tan though you have to be really
really lean for it to look it's best uh
I always say dream tan highlights it
highlights whatever you have if you're
incredibly conditioned dream tan will
highlight it but if you are off if you
have a little bit of fat to lose dream
tan will also highlight it and so you
need to make sure you're really on if
you're going to use dream tan because it
will highlight any uh work that still
needs to be done and uh you know that
and one last thing I'll say about dream
tan too is that I think it tends to look
better in person than in pictures just
kind of my experience I I don't know if
it's the the shine or the reflective
nature of it but as you take pictures uh
it doesn't quite show like it does in
person right uh
Eric yeah not a whole lot more to add
than what's been said but um yeah for
you know I'll tell one funny story
before I had really ever worked with a a
woman live I made the mistake of putting
dream Tan on a figure competitor uh and
finding her suit was all over the place
and touching it and realizing oh not
everyone's a male bodybuilder so um so
that that that is one thing just to
think about is some of the logistics so
you know obviously if if you have a very
complex suit and and dream tan for those
who don't know about it basically never
dries it is oilbased
um and you can sweat and it won't come
off again because it's it's oil based
which is nice and I think it looks great
if the like you said uh Cliff if the
person is leaning enough and if the
organization like you both mentioned uh
allows it some organizations really hate
dream tan not because of the way it
looks on stage but because of what
competitors do with it when they're
putting it on Backstage and bumping into
walls with their prep brains um because
again it never dries so so you got these
dieted people who are incredibly focused
on everything except their surroundings
uh covered in in basically paint bumping
into [ __ ] and sitting down on toilets
and
um it's not uncommon for a firsttime
promoter to put on a show not really
think about this and then the venue will
never allow them to use it again because
it looks like a you know a bucket of
brown paint exploded
backstage so while dream tan is great
there's not uncommon for certain
organizations like the NPC or promoters
to say no you can't use it and in that
case you have to uh find a good spray
Tanner often if it's a wellestablished
show like Jason mentioned they will have
a good spray Tanner there um but not
always so that that's kind of one of
those things where you have to look for
some good recommendations from
experienced competitors get a good spray
tan um and then the trick becomes how
much oil to put on and most people tend
to over oil I really like dream tan just
because you don't have to worry about it
it's kind of it's got these little gold
flexs or bronze Flex built into it that
will give you the that kind of
highlighter look like Cliff mentioned
that are that are there but um yeah if I
can for a bodybuilder I like dream tan
uh at least the look even though it is a
pain in the ass if not a good spray tan
with a light coat of oil is the way to
go and that's the same case for female
competitors is to get a spray spray tan
unless they're a bodybuilder right um
one thing I would just add that I've had
a bit of experience with is a product
called jantana um I actually really like
this one I like the way it looks uh so
there's a base product called high def
which is kind of like it's kind of like
protan except a little less orange and a
little more Brown I found it looks
really nice um and then but it's not
quite dark enough and then their Sheen
product is called Ultra and you put a
coat or two of that over it and it ends
up just being really really dark and uh
it looks really nice it doesn't have the
same glow as dream tan would but it has
more of like a drier look uh which I
actually personally really like um the
only issue that I had with jantana was
that since it's water-based it it does
run uh and yeah I experienced firsthand
at the Mayhem that can just really like
derail pretty quickly um but uh if
you're not someone who's going to sweat
a lot on stage then I actually found
that to be a fantastic product um and uh
Jason I did also use uh liquid Sunray uh
in 2012 at the Canadian Nationals and
that was a really really good look as
well I I really like that one it's
really dark and um yeah yeah I've always
found it I they do a damn good job and
it's just a really nice deep dark brown
that that does well stage yeah for
sure um okay so that's that's pretty
much it for that uh in terms of like
adding oil or anything to the to on top
of the tan um there was one thing that I
saw one of the competitors doing uh at
my Pro debut last year which was he he
had a hair dryer and he was like uh
drying the the dream tan and it gave it
like a really nice glisten um and I was
using dream tan as well that but mine
didn't have it it didn't like shine
quite as much I guess it just like sort
of melted it or or whatever it was that
it was doing um but yeah that was one
thing uh one thing not to do over dream
tan would be to actually add oil over it
because that just makes it run I learned
that no no no no no yeah yeah it's oil
on oil don't do that yeah don't do that
um but dream tan is kind of like you
guys have already said kind of shiny as
it is so you don't really need to do
anything but if you are going to then
the hair dryer actually looked really
really good um so it's just well I I'll
add one thing about the oil on oil I
will in some cases add a little bit of
uh oil on top of the dream tan but I'll
smear it and it yes you guys said it
will smear but then I repat and the only
situation I'll do that I Bas it um I
tell the competitors to look out for the
lights if the lights are high you don't
put any oil if the lights are bright
don't put any oil on but if the if the
sometimes you go to a show and it's
really dim and I'll I'll use a little
bit of oil to take advantage of the lack
of reflective nature of the dim lights
so that's the only situation I'll put
just a little bit on and then
repat actually one thing to add that too
sometimes I don't know if you guys have
found this but the dream tan will not
always be consistent bottle to bottle
yes um some are a little yeah some are a
little oilier than others and if you get
a very very dry dream tan uh little tub
they're kind of like an what looks like
a makeup case or makeup tub kind of
thing is you can just add a drop or two
of baby oil and mix it in and that tends
to to brighten it right up good point
yeah how about we talk about like
pumping up
backstage uh you know for for the uh for
the people that do the rapid backload uh
pumping up is extremely important
because the the
more first off they just have a ton of
water in their system it's not uncommon
for me to see people gain six to 10
pounds of scale weight uh uh to the
morning of the show and that's a lot and
that means there a lot of water just in
their system and when you pump up you're
going to make sure that those um you
know that you're getting the you know
the blood flow going and a lot of that
water in the right places and so I have
people do a a very aggressive pump up
backstage I almost tell them uh to go
all out and you know you hear people say
you don't want to uh you don't want to
over pump because you don't want to
flatten out on stage and one thing I
would say to my competitors is uh that's
that those are problems for people to
worry about that haven't eaten eaten a
th000 gram of carbs the day before we
don't have those problems if you're if
you're consuming that many uh
carbohydrates so you're not going to run
through all your glycogen so uh I have
them do a pretty lengthy I don't I don't
pump the legs I just have them do some
posing don't pump the ABS but everything
else we I have them go for
it
Eric pretty much the same thing um and
probably not as aggressive as a pump up
as as Cliff just since I'm typically not
loading them on 1,200 grams of car but
um but actually F funny thing you
mentioned that is is uh that I was very
aggressively pumping up for after my um
the story I told earlier about how I
spilled over at prejudging on the show
that I got my Pro card uh and I I was
surprised at how much that actually
improved my look and some of it could
have been just that I was um you know
mitigating a spillover but I felt like I
actually caught a pump that I hadn't
felt in a long time uh so I would say
that yeah maybe there definitely is
something to the larger your carb load
the more aggressive your pump up um so
yeah I would agree with
that
Jason well I'm I'm more along the lines
with Eric uh for sure um the only time I
would have someone pump up aggressively
is if they're definitely spilled over um
and I'd have them get into the weights
and um really get into it generally um I
tell people bring some bands uh because
the weights are usually too freaking
heavy they're all taken everyone stinks
and they're over there
farting man so usually I just have them
keep on their tracksuit keep on their
socks they're not getting cold have them
get in the corner and just go with their
bands and push-ups bands and push-ups
bands and push-ups start maybe like 20
15 minutes out I usually give them a
couple Reese after they've had the water
and a little sodium
and I just have them not go crazy with
it pose a little bit in between um I'm
not a real big fan of going and hitting
40 pound dumbbells and really cashing
yourself out unless you know I've seen
pictures and it's verifiable that
they're spilled which generally doesn't
happen because I air a little bit more
on being a little flat in the morning
and then getting more food in you so um
that's generally how I I ask them to do
the pump up right yeah I I pretty much
do the same thing um one of the things
that I do do with the pump up is uh I
find it can be a way to sort of balance
out people's uh imbalances or or make
their proportions a little bit better um
so for example I have a really
well-developed chest but not so great
biceps uh so I'll focus on really
pumping up my biceps and my back yeah uh
rather than doing a bunch of push-ups
just to kind of like even further
accentuate that body part yeah I'm
opposite of you and I do the same thing
yeah so yeah um okay so guys uh we're
pretty much ready wrap it up and we're
going on two hours here uh but I did
want to take a couple questions from my
Facebook uh so if you guys um follow the
podcast listen to the podcast um then
you can follow me on Facebook uh you can
still uh request me as a friend and
that's probably the best way to um have
your question answered on here uh so
typically I post about these episodes
usually a day or two before we record
and I'll select uh questions from uh the
comment thread below uh I'll also
occasionally do that on my Instagram so
you can follow me over there it's just
Jeff nippard um so uh there was the most
like comment was one from Alberto Nunes
uh and it wasn't U so much a question as
just a comment he said glycogen super
compensation uh I think we've touched on
this a bit but I guess what he's
referring to is the fact that if your
glycogen depleted then you're going to
have more glycogen storage uh as a
result um I guess that this is more or
less your baby Cliff so you can comment
on that if you want Eric if you even
want to started with this one go ahead
yeah just just to briefly clarify what
what um what what Berto is asking is I
think sometimes
people like an endurance athlete will
try to do they will load carbohydrates
to then load them more and they're
trying to basically going back to that
analogy increase the size of their gas
tank and then trying to get as much as
they possibly can so trying to Super
compensate and but the difference is is
that you know Lance AR arong doesn't
care if his abs spill over you know
right so um the idea is that perhaps we
should not be mimicking the super
compensation uh Protocols of an
endurance athlete to the same degree
because if you're a little bit over then
you look worse because we're not
actually so super compensation can equal
spillover I think is the point that
Berto maybe wanted us to make yeah you
know I I I completely agree I I do a
protocol that uh creates glycogen super
comp compensation but uh I don't once
again I do the one day load rather than
the multiple day load like endurance
athletes do because uh I've just found
that if you try to deplete and then load
for aggressively for multiple days um
the the look just isn't quite the same
there is Spill and that's something that
endurance athletes don't have to uh
consider like Eric said and uh you know
it's kind of funny because people get
really hung up this they get really hung
up Lage compensation but uh they're
sometimes not lean enough to you know
worry about something that's more
important first and uh you know if if
you're not practiced with where you'll
spill over or how to do it um I don't
think the risk is worth the the benefit
so you know make sure that you're you're
practiced in it before you just try
something crazy on show day right um and
another really good question uh which
would probably being good at the
beginning is at what point during a prep
do you decide if a competitor competitor
is ready and ready to start reversing uh
into a show Eric I I'll have you start
with this one that's a good question uh
it's when they look damn near stage
condition like like perfect stage
condition because typically some people
will wait until their absented and
peeled but I find that that
process of getting shredded and peeled
is normally helped by increasing food
because you get fullness back it can
sometimes what seems like stimulate more
losses so if someone is starting to get
pretty full glue striations but they're
not like we're talking about a male here
typically if but they're not like crazy
shredded um what I like to call legally
shredded or you've still got some hints
and glutes that's when I will start
feeding them up um and you know how much
that feeding up looks like is going to
be dictated based on the individual and
where they're at um but like once
they're 95% of the way there that's when
I will start to feed them up because I
find that helps them get to 100% uh
pretty well um and on a side note when
you are eating someone up into a show
and they've been on higher carbs and
higher calories for a while going into a
show at least with front loads that's
when I find the look is the most
consistent if I had had three or four
weeks of eating someone up into a show
and I run a front load I know it's very
it's it's a lot I I can know what I'm
going to expect because there's less
disparity between refeeds and low days
right Jason when when do you tell that
right on the nail I was going to just
say 95% ready and then he already even
said it um that's that's how I do it too
when someone looks like they're just
about there and we have time I start I
start increasing it you know I might I
might give them 30 and split 50 pre 50
post and see how they do a lot of people
before you know it they're down another
pound then I might give them another 20
put it here and every another 30 and
then I just go along those lines till
they're about ready and see if I can
Coast in you know sometimes you guys
keep upping people the whole damn time
um but you know I I think that we're all
well Eric and I are in agreement I
haven't heard Cliff but that that's
that's where I'm at with it
too uh you know you know I think uh one
thing I take into consideration is a
little bit of the mentality of the
person uh if
somebody is just breezing through and
they're 95% there I probably won't
adjust it and I'll just let them get all
the way there before start coming up and
we have time assuming we have time uh
but if somebody is a high stress person
I find that getting 95% of the way there
and then bringing food up will create
those losses because I think theyve
probably been so stressed out that those
last few pounds wouldn't come off unless
I bring food up and so um you know I I
look at the mentality and how much
because for some people uh that food
that additional food that you bring up
it's almost like a it's a godsend to
them you know they they can relax they
probably train harder well I know they
train harder not just because of the
extra fuel but also like a weight has
been lifted off their shoulders they
feel free I can go into the gym I have
more food um and it just causes this
mental adjustment that'll increase their
neat and they'll just start dropping and
so um you know that that'd be the
situation but with people that are just
kind of rolling I I'll usually just um
I'll just finish the job and then once
they're they're I mean I'm splitting
hairs here but maybe not 95% but I'm
maybe like 99% I'll get them there and
then I'll come up I know that sounds
terribly nitpicky but I'm just trying to
be
accurate fair enough um and then I guess
the other side of that question would be
if you have someone coming into peak
week who isn't quite ready um is that
the time to really dig hard and say give
them something like a protein sparing
modified fast where you just bring the
carbs and calories way down uh to get
that last little bit of fat off um or
are you probably better off um going
with an increased approach a regular
peak week and at least having them come
in full if you can't get them quite as
lean as you'd like I I'll make one one
small comment is that that the times
when I do use a backload is typically
when someone is not in shape yet and
they won't listen to me and just wait
and do a later show um so if they've got
multiple shows in the season uh
basically what I do I just move a refeed
to the day prior and then um you know
let them get a little extra food on the
day of I just restructure it so they're
still dieting that week and then I give
them a very small like have some have a
steak and some some steamed veggie for
for dinner with your family celebrate
and then let's get back on the diet on
Sunday kind of thing but um yeah I'm not
a huge fan of going into starvation mode
to get someone on stage because then
they're going to be if they really
aren't lean enough they're not going to
get lean in a week they'll get leaner
but now you're going to have someone
who's not still not lean enough and flat
as [ __ ] so that doesn't seem like a good
idea in my
mind uh Jason do you have any thoughts
on that um I mean I try not to let that
happen but if it does I I try to discuss
with them doing another show but I'm
with Eric I mean you're not going to
accomplish much in four or five days of
you know putting them on 800 calories I
mean mostly you're going to hurt you're
going to hurt them and you're going to
hurt their their look it's just uh if
the work wasn't done by then pick
another
show yeah Cliff yeah first action I take
is I give my my absolute best uh pept I
possibly can to make picking a different
show sound really good uh and I try to I
almost try to throughout the beginning
of prep because you know what as prep
coaches I think we'd all agree I hate
when I tell a competitor that they can
be ready by a certain show and it just
didn't happen um I absolutely hate that
you know I made them that promise that
they'll be ready and it just didn't
happen and so sometime you know I'll
just I'll say let's pick this show I'll
give you that extra time for free uh
we'll make this happen because um you
know with me and with my clients I I
like to emphasize that we're going into
a show with a certain standard and we
don't cut Corners anywhere so it's
almost like I I start people's prep with
the expectation that if you're not ready
we're not getting on stage and they
almost agree to that beforehand before
we ever even start prep and so um I
almost kind of get that guarantee from
them before we even embark on the
journey and uh then that way I don't
have to deal with it if it comes
up yeah I I will just sh share a
different perspective just a personal
perspective um when I'm dealing with
clients I tend to do what it is you guys
do uh but with myself uh in 2014 when I
turned pro at the Mayhem um I knew what
my competition was looking like and it
was a lot more conditioned than I was a
couple weeks out um so I borrowed a page
out of Lyle's book he wrote a book
on the rapid fat loss uh solution or or
something like that where he outlined a
protein sparing modified fast um and I
followed that pretty closely to the book
and um I think I dropped probably
something like uh two three lbs which at
the end of a cut is pretty impressive in
a couple weeks um for a guy my size who
competes in like the high 140s low 150s
um and so uh I did find that it made a
big difference in terms of uh fat loss
in in those final couple weeks that I
think that if I had just resorted to uh
increasing or keeping it the same um
maybe I would have been a little bit
Fuller but I think that based on
how conditioned my competition was I
think I uh was better as a result of
having Doug for that show um so uh
obviously a little bit more risky but I
think that if done right it it can be
successful or at least it has been in my
experience
personally okay I just wanted to say I
mean a huge part about coaching and I'm
sure Jason and Cliff would would agree
with this is that you you might tell
people on a podcast what you would do in
most cases but there's always going to
be exceptions yeah um and my friend Jeff
not to take away from your your
accomplishments at all but uh you hold
on to muscle pretty well having diet
dieted you down once and I think if
there was anybody who would do okay with
like a protein modified fast for a week
uh especially among among the drug-free
crowd you'd be one of them who'd do okay
yeah but I I wouldn't necessarily take
that and throw it at a you know an
average genetics kind of more what we
might call an ectomorphic guy or he
might turn from looking like a
bodybuilder into a um a guy who might
not lift so yeah no I and I totally
agree um I just figured I would share
that um because I I mean as sort of like
a last Stitch approach uh I suppose it
could work but you just do have to
Simply accept the fact that you could
risk coming in looking a lot more
stringy as a result of it um so just
tread carefully I guess well well Eric
you made a great point there uh I think
I think we'd all agree with everything
at least for me uh everything that I've
said on this podcast or everything I'll
say you know when I do maybe like
seminars or something like that I'm
giving um I you know generally what I do
but I'm sure there's been situations and
context is everything uh where where a
person you know of the context of the
entire person's prep and what I know
about them even though I say I usually
do this there are probably plenty of
situations where I've done almost the
opposite and so you know I think that's
important to uh to
mention um and then maybe we can finish
uh just by touching on uh the
psychological approach so like maybe how
it is that you can uh maybe calm people
down if they're fearful that they're not
ready which is really common uh or just
how you deal with uh Peak Week
psychologically with your athletes uh so
Jason we'll start with you on this
one well I mean there's a couple things
that I've done in the past I mean if
someone's a complete stress ball and I
know it um you know I've used some
supplements that'll help with cortisol
um phosp sing things of that nature um
put it in the in the prep um and the PE
you know that I set up so that'll help
with that mentally you know I I can
write tons of stuff but you know if it's
that bad I'd probably get on a phone
call or either at least talk to him
through Facebook on a live messenger and
try to just talk them off the ledge and
let them know you know the hard work's
done uh they did everything I asked and
you know I believe that they're ready
and that you know having their coaches
belief a lot of times will calm someone
down in that type of area because the
biggest thing is is you know I I don't
know about you guys but I've looked back
at old pictures when I did hit really
nice conditioning and it didn't matter
if I was two weeks out and shredded I
didn't look I I looked at those pictures
and didn't think I was ready but six
months later you look at it you're like
damn I looked pretty lean for that show
so you know I think we all go through it
so it's really as the coach you let them
know that you believe that they've put
in the work and that they are ready and
I think that usually goes a long way
with most of my people they're like all
right if you're proud and you think you
know I'm ready I'm ready so that's
generally as far as I've really had to
go with it I don't have anyone who's
ever had like a compl meltdown and went
off their diet for 5 days or anything
like that I guess I'm lucky that way but
um that that's kind of what I would
do yeah
Cliff uh a couple things like he said
you know I think having a a relationship
with your clients and you know if they
trust you and you let them know I'm not
going to steer you wrong you know I
wouldn't put you up on stage looking
looking bad and so that that's a big
part of it but uh you know also uh
especially with my Approach I I mean I
deplete them I load them there's lots of
wild swings which can you know me affect
them mentally so one thing I do to uh
mitigate some of this is I give them a
rundown of what to expect uh not not
only physically but mentally during the
peak week process um each day pretty
much day-by-day breakdown on this day
you're going to probably feel this
physically and you'll probably start to
feel this mentally and uh and each day
it has the breakdown and that Comforts
them because I think a lot of people
always wonder is what I'm feeling normal
and uh a lot of times as they go through
the process I can usually pinpoint what
they're going to feel each day and uh if
they are feeling exactly like I
described in my breakdown then they know
this is normal everything's going
according to plan so that's a that's a
big thing that I think uh kind of puts
their mind at ease that everything is
going as it should and I don't have to
worry
Eric yeah Sim similar stuff I I huge
part or or or you could even argue
almost everything to being a coach is
communication you know uh developing a
relationship with the person and you
know a lot of us I think most of us work
with most of our clients primarily
online um and so there's a time and a
place to send an email if it's a very
simple communication but there's also
time and a place to record a video
message for the person like an unlisted
YouTube video or to hop on Skype or to
hop on a video conference or a call and
when you've got someone in the final
week who is really stressing about the
way they look um I I think in what what
Jeff is is asking in that question is
just to go over how much does stress
affect things and one thing I've seen is
that the really stressed stressed out
stressful people tend to have a more
variable look um they tend to have less
consistent weight loss which can
sometimes make a coach um and I've done
this I wish I hadn't you know make
inappropriate calls in the diet you know
like cutting their calories too early or
too consistently or too frequently
because you know what I assume is water
retention is is is is tricking me into
thinking I need to drop calories early
so the peak becomes harder because of
that so having Poise as Jeff Alberts
would say is is a very useful thing and
it comes with experience but it also
comes from you're experiencing as normal
so setting clear
expectations uh and and helping the
person understand what they're going to
experience especially if they're first
time using your approach is very
important having good communication and
uh and and like Jason said you know
sometimes as much as I'm normally like
hey I want the client to know what I'm
doing what evidence is behind it not
just what to do but how and why
sometimes I will tell them hey you just
got to trust me like your your
objectivity you know part of your brain
is broken at this stage it's very normal
for that to happen so ju just listen to
me honestly I swear and if you just if
you're just trust me these last couple
weeks stop looking in the mirror you
know just let me evaluate your pictures
or video and uh I and you will get on
stage looking great uh that that can be
a take a huge weight off the the
shoulders the client sometimes if
they're in a constant state of
self-evaluation when they're non when
they can't be objective it can be very
harmful so those are typically the
approaches I use okay uh so I think I
think we've pretty much covered
everything uh and I think it's really
cool that uh we can see that there's
more than one way to get to basically
the same uh destination
um and I've I've liked the fact that
there were a lot of uh different
perspectives voiced here uh so thank you
so much guys for coming on and and
sharing all your opinions on this stuff
I really appreciate it um I personally
learned a lot and found it to be very
interesting and I'm sure our listeners
will as well uh so guys um thank you so
much once again for listening to another
episode of the ice cream PR podcast
thank you Cliff Eric and Jason for your
time uh if you guys like this podcast
uh and you're watching on YouTube uh
please hit the Thumbs Up Button uh feel
free to comment uh with any questions
you might have or any feedback uh if
you're listening on iTunes uh please do
give the podcast a rating and or a
review um and I will see you guys in the
next
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
what you
[Music]