hey folks dr mike israel here for
renaissance periodization i even said
some fraction of my last name there
weekly tip video number three
having your elbows in on the way down
during skull crushers sounds like what
you're just supposed to do what the hell
am i talking about well here's the thing
on skull crushers it's really easy
to start having your pecs help you and
your front delts help you by flaring out
so you start with all good intentions
having your elbows and you're doing
these color crushers and then as the
movement goes and get more tired it kind
of turns into this press situation which
still stimulates your triceps a lot but
not as much and it also fatigues your
chest and your front delts a little more
than you may want and so that technique
breakdown just essentially takes the
stimulus to fatigue ratio of the
movement and starts to lower not ideal
now
normally really good advice would be to
keep the elbows in the entire time and
if you start to flare at all
whoever's spotting you says elbows and
elbows and elbows in and that's
excellent advice that's actually the
gold standard of advice that's what you
want to do first and kind of at all
times
but you might have noticed something
that when you're really focusing and
keeping your elbows in on the way up
you're
thinking so much about elbows in that
you're reducing the amount of central
drive to your triceps you're thinking
more about having good technique than
you're thinking about fucking pushing
the weight and we know that tension
through the triceps no matter how it
happens arables and elbows out is what
actually accomplishes the signaling of
muscle growth so there's this weird
trade-off there of being like like a
nerd like the opposite of chad with the
nerd virgin guy like oh yeah rir you
know good technique and then all of a
sudden you're using like 45 pounds
because you never want your elbows to
ever flare and you're not actually
driving meat potatoes growth in the
triceps because you're refusing to do
anything that increases the level of
exertion much more than would violate
perfect technique it's a serious concern
how do we get around that well here's a
suggestion for you guys
on the way down
you can think exclusively about keeping
your elbows in and just keep it slow
elbows in in in in super slow slow slow
and because going down is a relatively
passive exercise passive movement
you can put a shitload of tension
through your muscles by keeping your
elbows all the way and that's really all
you think about and then the rest takes
care of itself now when it's time to
drive back up in a skull crusher you can
just generally say okay i'm not going to
flare a ton
but if you flare a little bit that's
okay because on the way back down elbows
come back in and you get a crazy
eccentric overload for the tricep
another way to think about this it's
actually like a mini superset inside of
itself your triceps are pre-fatigued on
the way down
and then when you flare a little bit on
the way up
they're still the limiting factor
because no amount of help from your pecs
or triceps can overcome the fact that
your triceps just got toasted on the way
down
is this ideal again the answer is no
ideal is elbows in both up and down but
if you're getting to that point where on
the way down you're good but on the way
up you want to push more central drive
and you notice that you really can't
progress as well
unless your technique gets a little bit
looser on the way up that's totally fine
have them really far in on the way down
on the way up do a good job don't
intentionally flare them try to keep
them in but worry more about pushing the
weight than about exactly where your
elbows are in space maybe that'll help
you get big triceps if it does use them
to develop a crapload of punching power
and go punch bad guys in the face until
next time i'm dr mike see you then