I've been using the RP diet to fill my
weightlifting performance for years and
our piece simple science-based approach
has been instrumental to my success with
the new RP diet app following our P's
principles is as easy as entering my
goals and schedule in choosing my
favorite foods the app builds a diet to
my exact needs reminds me to eat my
meals and adapts to my body's changes
every single day and week the RP diet
app is a huge help in my quest to become
the best athlete I can be and if your
goal is to be your best it will help you
folks we're back I'm back I'm the one
who's been it up this whole time
but finally I have enough DSL internet
to do another webinar we're here dr.
James dr. Mike our P webinar finally
coming at you from the beautiful state
of Montana dr. Mike how we doing oh I
tried to leave this meeting by accident
doing well I live in a house in Las
Vegas Nevada now for the next year
because my wife is doing a sports
medicine fellowship program is going to
say residency that would be insulting if
she'd just graduated residency and then
we also have a living bomb roommate
jared feather and boom he's good for sex
and not much else
but that's been fine ice to look at he's
very nice to look at as long as he zip
the lip and that's good so that's been
fun we're training at a new gym and Las
Vegas is actually great there's so many
places to eat and why there's always the
same and very nice it's just a little
hot but my wife did win that bet the dry
heat definitely is different than like
the humidity yes that's true I
thought it would be oppressive but it's
only oppressive on the saunas in your
face when the sun's not on your face
like if you're in the shade it's like
they say it's a hundred but that's not
really a hundred um you can't get
dehydrated super easily because you
don't ever sweat and you're like I'm
flying and then you're peeing Brown
you're like oh I'm not fine okay yeah
especially like in Vegas too it's
natural to go drinking and stuff too and
like the next thing you know you have
like a couple beers and you're um
so in any case enough about me
personally we have some big news to
announce good good news bad news yeah
guys so good news bad news so again I
apologize for the delay that was but I
was my bad on my end but we just didn't
have a stable internet situation and
frankly it's still not that great but
it's enough to get this done so sorry
for that but going forward we're gonna
make some changes this will be the last
week where we're asking you guys to
submit questions via rp+
as you have been in the past and then
from that point on we're going to start
doing is wrapping up any of the
questions that Mike and I have not
answered from rp+
up to that time
then we're gonna start asking you guys
to post the questions on YouTube and
then you're gonna have kind of a
democratic moderation of the questions
yourself so we're not socialism so to
speak exactly so what we're gonna do is
people will post questions on the the
most recent weekly webinar video and
then we're gonna take the top ten which
was vote based on up votes so if you
guys see questions that you're really
interested in you're gonna upload them
you can certainly submit your own
questions but if they don't get uploaded
and they make their way kind of to the
bottom of the list they might not get
answered so essentially what it's going
to be is for the next couple weeks Mike
and I are gonna wrap up all the rp+
questions that we have not answered to
date since we were kind of backlogged a
little bit so we're going to make sure
we get all the questions that were
submitted answered July 7th to say July
7th I believe will be the last date that
we will be combing the forums for
questions so make sure if you guys are
are petite plus members if you have any
outstanding questions or you've been
sitting on some like I didn't really
feel like asking maybe somebody else
will ask but I don't want to pester and
with my own personal questions no get it
in make sure you put it on there and
then after that what we're gonna do is
switch to a more YouTube focused format
where people can upload questions that
they think are really important and
we're only gonna answer we're only gonna
answer ten questions per week on YouTube
but it's gonna be the top ten and it's
all gonna be which ones get the most
votes and unless we've covered that
question that's getting the most votes
like six hundred thousand times before
and they will just sort of look we're
just preferable okay guys we didn't
answer this one because that war if it's
a stupid insel humor and it's just not
good and some huge bad inside humor then
we won't answer the question but you
know lol sure other people are laughing
with you as you continue to not have sex
with people voluntarily what are in cell
plant walls made of in cellulose in
cellulose exactly that was good I wasn't
good in a soldier was alright
shall we I got I got a case of the in
cellulitis yeah what's uh that's that's
enough to question since the
the people are hungry for questions I'm
sure I don't even remember how to
do this anymore okay here we go screen
share all right
Shazam we got some spicy names this week
yeah some a lot of Brazilians are seems
like this all Brazilians what the
are you say that I would say kya Lu hey
ro is that how you how would you say it
Lu hey Lou hey Lou Hado that's what yeah
that's what I think God hey ro all right
kya says hey Docs I would like to know
your thoughts on physiological
mechanisms that explain my MPs decreases
as someone is getting closer to their
genetics healing a potential explanation
could be that muscle fibers increases
are not proportional to ribosome
biogenesis and many sites gentlemen
meaning the ribosome number per fiber
doesn't change much but fiber si si does
and if there isn't a definitive answer
but I would like to know if those
explanations seems reasonable of
something else could explain this
actually I'm absolutely no idea I've
never even thought about the subject of
exactly what mechanistically explains
the fact that you know it was a ceiling
one thing could be this isn't like so
conceiving a muscle growth has
exclusively described by MPs muscle
protein synthesis is to building
skyscrapers muscle building said this is
the MPs s to building muscle what the
number of bricks shipped to Manhattan is
to building skyscrapers like yes the
more bricks are shipped the more house
skyscrapers have psychically being
constructed it's a lot more complex than
that so one of the limiting factors we
do you know about is that when you only
have a certain number of satellite cells
and once you run out of those and
they've all filled up there's me you
know and we know that there's my own
nuclear domain control I'm not exactly
sure how they might equally domain
control happens but at a certain cell
size the nucleus just refuses to grow to
sell anymore for obvious reasons is that
it would be non-functional and
incrementally less functional and we
know that when you maximize the mind a
clear domain size oh every single
satellite cell then you just don't grow
anymore so instead of thinking it as MPs
it's total muscle growth and it's kind
of like the way you think about this is
if every square block of Manhattan has
the tallest possible skyscraper the
technology can allow then you just don't
build any more skyscrapers because
you're like we can't go an elevator
shaft we'll just fall little thing will
topple over so we can't build anymore so
that's basically look at it like that
that's my only sort of statement on that
and I think they're they're probably I
suspect they are deep internal I
honestly designed evolved right
rate-limiting steps and net caps on
muscle growth that are not just the
processes that grow muscle have just
sort of fizzled out of can't keep up yes
I say this with the amount of training
that farm can recover you from in the
amount of raw stimulus the farm itself
provides and the fact that humans can
eat an inordinate amount of food means
that if the only thing stopping you from
gaining muscle when was the fact that
you were insufficiently bathed in
testosterone derivatives and you didn't
can't couldn't eat the food and you
couldn't train hard enough all those
things are solve problems and but we
still see with the most non natty
bodybuilders that there is a limit to
size it's just a certain size people
just can't get to and some people for
example Markus r√ºhl what comes to mind
he was enormous a huge bodybuilder but
his biceps
yeah his triceps never really did grow
all that much as much as he wanted them
to at a certain point they just stopped
growing and he said he tried everything
and I just wouldn't grow and I believed
him and all of a sudden muscle groups
grew really well but he you know
something was up with those triceps
where it wasn't just a matter of more
training and more food and more drugs
because he had all those things in
spades and it just they wouldn't grow
and that does happen for the whole body
at the getting it muscle to muscle to
muscle level so I think there are
definitely those mechanisms they're not
very well studied but and also very
depressing to study but hypothetically
so here's the thing right real quick if
you studied them well enough to turn
them off you would be in a really
interesting scenario where they may be
there for your physical safety and for
cellular function like it could be like
if you turn them off all the sudden your
muscle cells become cancerous
that would be really bad so there's that
those are things that you play with but
very carefully and and that's what
happens with people who have mild statin
deficiencies is they just grit rampant
cancer because the the
micro RNA is associated with mass debt
and are all over the place so I agree
with dr. Mike I don't I'm not I
definitely recognize that that mechanism
could be at play though I'm skeptical
because protein synthesis has auto print
and pair current effects meaning it
affects the things within the cell
nearby the cell and could have effects
downstream within the body so I don't
really feel like the ribosomal density
is necessarily the limiting factor to
the muscle growth it's not like
capillary density or mitochondrial
biology where there are logistical
factors to things moving in and out of
the cell since the the protein synthesis
affects all parts of the cell I don't
really see how the density of those
ribosomes would have a huge effect on
that and I think the kind of the more
MRV model of why genetic ceilings exists
makes the most sense and is probably the
most validated at this point which
really is a dose response training age
problem where at some point the amount
of training stimulus you need to
continue making gains exceeds your work
capacity and/or your ability to recover
from said stimulus and that that is
undoubtedly true we know that for sure
why that limit exists there's there's
reit there's a number of reasons that we
could explore we're not entirely sure
but that is at least for now I would say
like a 98 percent safe bet on why you
stopped growing at some point and simply
because the amount of training that you
need is no is just more than you can
actually do from this point on yeah but
like I sort of for explained earlier if
you manage to overcome that with an
inordinate amount of drugs and food
there is still a limit now the limits
much hotter like if you naturally are 45
years old and your natural testosterone
if you just use the kitchen sink you'll
grow 50 pounds of muscle but then
it will stop still so there's it's not
just a matter of being able to recover
from training there is more to it than
that they're probably hard limits but so
I guess it's kind of cool that there are
hard limits because then you can
actually say you've reached your
genetics ceiling in some way and there
could be like evolutionary limitations
to that as well we're just like at some
point just being that muscle does energy
inefficient and actually costing you
your not only your longevity but acutely
like you might just be so muscles that
you're less fit to survive such thing
all right number two what could be the
limiting factor of an aha moment of
volume that can be performed in a single
session in order to maximize hypertrophy
on a single set oxygen to produce ATP
what actions are sown fatigue increases
high threshold motor units need to be
required to maintain force output
intention is produced causing an
accident occur trophy it would be
correct to assume that there may be a
maximum capacity utilize oxygen for
producing ATP on a certain muscle for a
given session therefore actually almost
won't get low hmm and high threshold
already told you recruit if I portray
maybe impaired well so that's a part of
it so high threshold motor units
actually tend to get recruited less and
less the more high acid the environment
is the more metabolites generated
actually Foxtel high threshold motor
units more hilariously and what is the
sort of part of the design is they
actually generate the most metabolites
and also get over matter most
metabolites
so it's kind of a self-limiting problem
and it's noteworthy that
sorry it's noteworthy that that that
limitation is not due to lack of oxygen
it's due to the byproducts of anaerobic
metabolism it's not that you are you
don't have enough oxygen flowing through
system it's that the energy systems that
you're using to produce high energy
output are inherently anaerobic even if
you had a huge saturation of oxygen
there's a logistical limit in terms of
how oxidation can produce enough can be
synthesize ATP it takes a significantly
longer time for that process so your
body will still preferentially use the
anaerobic once for high power and high
force activities muscle building
activities we have an arson and also
that doesn't actually limit your per
session ability to grow a muscle because
you can always rest and do more sets
what limits your maximum adaptive volume
it's not so it says what could be the
limiting factor for the maximum amount
of falling that can be performed in a
single session the real hard limit of AB
is is muscle injury rhabdomyolysis like
at some point you will just become
injured your muscles will degrade and go
into the bloodstream you could die then
up until that point you can continue to
Train
it'll just be incrementally stimulus to
fatigue ratio will fall as you continue
to Train to eventually become negative
is essentially costing you gains but the
the big factor there is damage a certain
level of muscle damage you are just
you're sorry at a certain level of
training volume anymore volume in that
session is causing incrementally is so
much more damaged that it actually
Gibson to your recovery adaptive
resources and makes you less jacked
after that session is over so that's the
realistic limit and you can continue to
train but it won't be productive
training and there are like bioenergetic
limitations as well not not nearly as
profound as like the damaged one but
like so ultimately like you're going to
be producing products in terms of like
energy output products that are going to
start having downstream inhibitory
effects on muscle contraction and force
output that nothing can in that short
amount of time can remedy outside of
just rest right so essentially when
you're lifting you're creating a huge
energy deficit right that your body
literally cannot keep up with and that's
why you have to stop and ultimately when
your body recognizes hey I have all
these bio energetic rod
in a much greater ratio than the
reactants themselves I'm actually going
to start inhibiting a lot of these
different enzymes involved in high force
high power output energy production to
prevent catastrophe and this is
completely normal there's no amount of
oxygen that's going to stop that from
happening that's the thing so there are
a lot of limitations as to why that
happens so ultimately you can just think
of it as like once you start you're on a
time bomb because you're eventually
gonna start accumulating products and
your body's gonna start recognizing and
say you know what I gotta start shutting
some of the off things aren't going
so well all right
Eduardo tronco Allah Jesus spicy rice
high Docs do get on the Block here first
thank you for all the freaking knowledge
you both enlighten us Werth question
regarding how to proceed with a deal or
on vacation I'm right now in my second
week of hypertrophy Mezo I've programmed
in such a way that the vacation
coincides with our pre-planned deal a
week the thing is I'll be ten days away
without having access to weights just
some calisthenics in the park how would
you proceed a hitting the bars in my D
load week and at least that's what I
thought and at least doing some circuits
pull-ups dips handstand push-ups and
having some fun in general or leading
your maintenance be not doing anything
at all mean it's diet of course dropping
fatigue like a and starting
my second type hypo mezzo fresh as a
teenager I would think that if it's not
Taylor Glinka me you can absolutely go
two times during that time and do some
dips and pull-ups and some lunges and
stuff and get a little bit of a workout
and it'll probably help you recover you
faster and keep you nice and limber for
when you come back James yeah I think
you know option option a it's probably
the best but option C which is like the
doctor James the doctor my keeping it
real like you homie you're on rp+ you're
asking intelligent questions you're
telling me you can't drop in for two
training sessions somewhere right like
make it happen you can do it yeah so the
best options actually get into a channel
about two or three times second best is
the calisthenics and then last is the
time off unless of the either one of
those options comes terribly significant
are terribly inconvenient to you listen
I've been to the Arctic circle
like three times and I have found a
place to drop in and train you can find
a place I know they're on vacation but
obviously training is important enough
to you to drop a question on rp+
that means it's probably important
enough to you to pay the ten to twenty
five bucks to do a drop-in deal of work
out BAM yeah alright second question how
much of an interference effect can
walking have and potential lag muscle
growth my case I do every day because of
work between twenty and thirty thousand
steps I've noticed that my hamstring
over your super low in comparison with
other muscles but I wouldn't know that's
due to interference effect or not they
lag a bit when comparing them to my
quads usually after training they take
longer than any other muscle groups to
recover there's always a lagging
soreness due to too much movement
outside the gym I suppose I don't think
that's a big deal actually if you walk
that much your rv's usually go up but
you experience less hypertrophy because
your work capacity goes up because
you're more sluggish dominum I wouldn't
say that MRV will go down i Murphy will
go down when you do higher intensity
stuff jogging cycling sprinting then
your mov will notice if we go down but
if you're walking in the first couple of
weeks of walking just the sheer
magnitude of the effort is gonna
temporarily decrease your Murphy but
after some number of weeks and months
you're over he's gonna be the highest
it's ever been but it's not a very good
thing because you can recover from more
but you the thing you did to recover for
more training is you did way too much
slower twitch fiber essentially
reconversion james yeah and so I think
kind of getting to dr. Mike's point
there if if you did that like at once
every two weeks yes that would be kind
of a problem but the thing is if you're
doing it every day you acclimatize to
that really quickly and it's really no
longer a problem anymore like dr. Mike
already said so if it was kind of an
incidental thing like yeah you're gonna
have issues for that week or two but
once you kind of get into that habit
then your numbers just adjust and I
don't think it's gonna be much of a
problem for you you might just have to I
mean this the process is still the same
going through the MeV MRV Auto
regulating your way there it's the same
thing you just have a higher daily
average workload than most people
okay number three currently a five-day
split I'm gonna start working night
shift once per week do the to my
biorhythm on those days usually I wake
up every day at 5:00 a.m. go to bed at
22 an hour does that 10 yeah yeah I'd
say the most logical approach would be
to split the workouts in such a way
throughout the week if the day of the
night shift in the next day I don't go
to the gym working out my split normally
during the other five days do you agree
appreciate any suggestions um help yeah
that sounds like a good idea but I would
say you can come up with that idea or
maybe even other ones by figuring out
when during the week you can both train
the hardest and when afterwards you can
recover well and that could be like
after a night shift you get some time in
the middle of the day and then you take
like a huge long sleep if you're a very
motivated person and you there's muscle
groups that you can train with
relatively is like the more capacity and
degree of efforts never the limiting
factor its recovery ability it's totally
possible to train after a hard day's
hard night's work and then and then go
to sleep eat a bunch of food go to sleep
for 12 hours and the super
anabolic whereas on the other hand if if
you're someone who recovers just fine
but it's you really have to have tons of
energy to Train may be your last day
should be before that night shift of
sort of things so it really depends on
those two which one of those limiting
factors if both the limiting factors to
roughly even extent then you should
probably just avoid the that window
altogether as much as you can for
training yeah I agree this might not be
a cut and dry thing where it's like oh
this will definitely be the best day to
train hard and these are the best days
to Train lighter it's just one of those
kind of things you might find that some
days just happen to work better than
others and it might not be a predictable
thing so I would guess and check a
little bit that's the only rule of James
that was baller cuz he wore Obata
towards the end but it wasn't full robot
voice it was just real slow so you're
like that's the only damn it that's
pretty man they'll probably have to let
you let you take the reins on most of
these for now just because in my
internet situations Milwaukee
once that came out great all right let
me take the reins and you know I'll stop
after every one when you say yes proceed
or if I just like cut out or anything
just keep going because remember when we
did the practice one like I cut out and
then it just yeah you kept recording for
whatever reason so just James just
keep going alright the shows are in the
dim Valley says hey fellas how are you
doing I just want some recommendations
on where to go learn about cardio
prescription along with a more in-depth
mechanistic explanation for cardio
itself so you get a little more context
the question that understand difference
is your cardio prescription more
specifically why I won't go to prescribe
different modalities and for resistance
training background I'm just so cardio
to me is death and whilst I'm here any
recommendations for was trading
modalities would be appreciated so our
book the scientific principles you know
strength training is good for that for
cardio I would probably look to Alex V
Otto's book the hybrid athlete James
what do you think yeah and the hybrid F
is wonderful I've read it if you are
most of the literature reviews on
high-intensity interval training do a
nice job summarizing
all of the kind of basic cardio stuff
and they give tons of links it in terms
of where to find more information so if
you go and just do like lit reviews on
on hit training for cardio they'll
usually give a really good breakdown as
to like what the benefits of low
intensity cardio are what the benefits
of moderate intensity cardio are what
the benefits of interval training are
and then high intensity of all training
specifically so those are really good
places to kind of like jump off and just
find different wormholes to go through
because it's it's just like we're
distance training there's all sorts of
 to talk about there's wall in
considerations intensity frequency you
know all sorts of stuff same thing for
cardio and just as much as we talk about
the volume landmarks and MREs and stuff
for weight training there's just that
there's just as many things to talk
about for cardio and I find those are
usually the most useful places to kind
of jump off from because that they don't
really talk about hit training without
talking about the other forms of
training so good place to start
excellent all right next up Colin Hudson
hi docs number one I'm currently
delivering for mezzo tuna male physique
tempo
and I'm going to start 14 we cut next
week should I repeat Meza 1 yes you
should and - yep and increase initial
set volumes and just a regular for a
minute I wouldn't really increase
initial South volumes I would start nice
and low because you got a hole cut to
increase them if needed and yes do auto
regulate yeah the only thing I would add
to that is like you might consider
during an initial set increase if like
if you go do your MRV your mev thing and
you're kind of just like feeling flat
but that's again it's more of an issue
of auto regulation not not necessarily a
pre-planned that would be an incentive
to but you don't have to do that yep
Colin Hudson says hopes the second
question I was going to skip him also
should I also should i do have
maintenance calories for the d loads yes
always maintenance for the dealers
alright Magnus says hello my
understanding is that maintenance phases
are generally recommended when
transitioning for massing to
conventional cutting phases because of
muscle settling points among other
things why is this not the case before
minicard what ensures that you don't
just lose the recent nestle and
preparatory structures gain and a prior
mass is just the duration prime factor
concern yes the duration and the total
amount of weight lost but as you see in
the mini cut manual book the longer mini
cuts the ones later in the whole macro
cycle actually do have mean it's phases
before there's this very short meeting
spaces so that's the answer
John serene did you want to say
something James nothing nothing
enlightening it was just again like the
the the training is also adjusted
slightly at the mini cut where it's not
trained at normal maintenance volumes
it's like what would be MeV volume so
you do kind of get the benefit of
slightly hard rather than what would
normally be maintenance going training
John serene serene question currently my
priority goal is training as a rock
climber the name of the game yes yes
first developing heat strength and power
and then building power burns for longer
climbs I do understand that you guys
aren't climbing experts but I'm really
curious to hear you I'll take on this
because the climate is perfect
scientific literature is extremely small
so there could be some potential or
something from weightlifters the number
one challenge of training for climbing
is recovery or the finger tendons and
pulleys as well as the bicep insertion
was not surprise me
number one what would you change or
consider training for sport we're
connective tissue is the star of the
show you really never hit a systemic MOV
or local musculature MRV my first answer
would be like you really know what your
connective tissue MRV is and make sure
not to exceed it and use connective
tissue specific signs of MRV like you're
getting increasingly more joint and
connective tissue pain and stiffness so
that's interfering with your ability to
perform your climbs at a normal pace and
normal difficulty level james so yes i
agree and the thing with climbing is
that people often just assume that
climbing is like its own thing and
really you would approach climbing like
you would approach any other sport where
you have some basic fitness you're
trying to develop work capacity during
some times of the muscles that joins the
tendons of all the the agonist muscles
you're also trying to develop some basic
skills some drills and then eventually
some tactics so the key with developing
the the connective tissue strength with
hands and for climbing is to treat it
like you would other treat other sports
where at some point in your training
you're building them up you know using
more capacity type training and then
you're starting to incorporate your
skill work right but you're never
exceeding the actual tissue capacity in
terms of load you're actually cognizant
of things like MRV right then you start
incorporating drills into your skill
work where it you take some basic things
like okay I was working on this grip
this foot this type of climb right and
now I'm working on maneuvering from this
position to this position over and over
again being cognizant again of like
you're not only your muscles but your
connective tissue in Murphy's and then
you start incorporating your tactics
which is actually like doing some
submaximal to you know close to maximal
effort climbing stuff over time and if
you are doing those things kind of
systematically rather than just saying
I'm a climber that means I climb all the
time and I do weights to try and
supplement my climbing you will find
that works a lot better where you can
actually focus on certain things and
build up your tolerance to training in
those positions just by spending
specific
I'm doing skill work drill work and then
eventually moving into what we would
call tactics which is actually doing
your like live climbing later on my I
don't know climbing that well I know a
few climbers in mice what I have seen is
that they generally just try to climb
all year they don't actually focus on a
lot of specific skills with drills and
then kind of ramping up their climbing
stuff so just like what Mike and I when
people say like how do i how do I get
like my power endurance in my calves for
soccer what's the answer to that it's
like will you progressively work on your
fitness and then you start increasing
your soccer training and then your
soccer training basically covers that
for you right same thing here so you
work on your fitness you work on your
skills your tactics you build more
capacity and then ultimately you're
climbing training is what governs the
recoverability of those things using the
same tools that we always do sorry that
was a long winded granted that makes
sense
perfect sense actually almost entirely
answer the second question and I might I
might actually steal this question for I
might steal next time I do a James
Dysport episode I might do climbing
because that one was an interesting
questions so you almost answered the
second question - how would you
recommend training five per trophy of
the forums and pulling muscles in order
potentiate future strength gains
climbing itself for sport specific
strength training is terrible for
hypertrophy finger curls after climbing
session seems low quality because there
are two fried doing it before the
session can negatively impact the
performance doing them an arrest a
problem scope recovery I do supposed to
train four times a week trainer today if
my tennis could take it but alas would
be the best compromise so I think that
first of all those two questions that
are how do you train your pulling
muscles and how do you train your
forearms your pulley muscles can be
trained with first two grips which you
should purchase with absolutely no
effect on your fingers whatsoever like
you basically don't even use
your fingers then use first grips and
you can train those in probably after
after your climbing sessions take 20
minutes take a drink of Gatorade and
protein and then go hit a hard pulling
session so that next time you recover
from climbing you're also recovered from
that session you can train your forearms
with wrist curls without really using
your fingers much so you can take a
dumbbell place it right here not on your
fingertips and you can curl it up on a
bench and curl it back down and that
trains your
or musculature tunning gives you general
hypertrophy for all the exact same
muscles that you use to move your
fingers but without up your
finger tendon so you're essentially load
the bar though far more approximately
than distally and the training them
right after the training is probably
your best bet in the context which you
supplied ma'am and lastly to sort of
spring upon what gene said there should
be distinct times in your training we're
doing much more effort repeating much
less climbing and then vice versa
because then remember kind of her trophy
training can be maintained while by
climbing but probably not increased
optimally by climbing so there's a time
and a place to do both it's almost like
saying when can I have the most fun and
when can I do the most work to make the
most money well you don't think there's
a reason there's a five-day workweek
immaturity weekend one of those is for
work one of those for fun and they both
potentiate each other whereas if you
just tried to look for up six hours
every day instead of eight you would
kind of ruin or weekend and you
probably wouldn't be focused on their
job or out of that so we don't always
want to do the same program of climbing
lifting one-half times or it's more
lifting less climbing and climbing less
lifting yes that's completely spot-on
and then so like during your hypertrophy
phases you might actually spend less
time doing full-scale climbing and spend
more time just at the gym working on
some basic skills and maneuvers that you
haven't really written refreshing very
much
so it's it's unrealistic to think that
you can train your forearms up to like
their hypertrophy MRV and expect to
maintain the same climbing regimen that
you did before so I think as a wise
maneuver at that point would be like if
I'm really focusing on beefing up my my
grip strength and my forearm muscles and
their endurance they're I'm gonna have a
couple blocks of you know maybe amongst
other things like your biceps and other
things maybe you're not just doing like
for forearm for I'm special as they
should phase that might feel a little
not quite enough its justify mass but at
during that time you might just take
like you're you're you're you're
full-scale climbing or you're live
climbing down to like a maintenance
volume where you maybe just do like one
big climb per week and then the other
training that you're doing is mostly
just like working on skills and
positions that you either find that are
not good for you or that you just
haven't really practiced much before and
you're trying to expand your repertoire
of skills that would be a smart move on
what I would I would consider to be a
smart training stop
so bonus round and what's his name John
yes that's right question all right digs
I got all sorts of ideas here's another
cool idea you can happen that you're
climbing climbing training bethey you
could do the following you say that your
fingers and your finger tendon is a
bicep tendon there are sort of a
limiting factor for climbing
but unfortunately or for whatever it is
it's not the only factor in climate so I
can think of at least a couple factors
you could train and climbing journey
various phases the last several weeks
when you deep prioritize how much you
use your fingers of their hands and how
much the living factor that is and
prioritize other things for example in
climbing the rapidity of a climb can be
something you can train like he might
not be a finger technical climber finger
demanding climb but how quickly can you
get up to climb there's another one
where there's reach climbing where like
you couldn't have a really good perch
and it's doesn't hurt your fingers at
all but you really got to reach and
learn how to extend your body if you
combine that with a time climb of doing
that quicker
holy like it doesn't matter if your
hands are perfectly grippy like look
like James and I have really great grip
I guarantee you we suck dick at climbing
cuz it's not the fact that our fingers
suck it's the fact I don't know where to
put my feet fast enough for you
no and here's another one same reason
why we suck at swimming we just we're
not good at it we haven't practiced
right and and another one you could do
is you know climbing it's much much
harder when you're heavier so what you
can do is actually load yourself
I'm courses in which the grip strength
is not remotely a limiting factor like
you know when you get those grip that
the climbing gyms the gripper thing that
goes all the way over and you're like I
could do a one-arm pull-up on
this thing right now the ledge grip or
whatever but the full grip if you have a
climbing gym access and especially some
climbing gyms will let you put your own
pegs wherever the you want
for real advanced guys and you get to
choose which pegs you have do that put a
 weighted vest on and during your
hypertrophy Mezo or whatever
climb in such a way that it really
doesn't with your fingers much and
that's an excellent suggestion yeah work
on just climbing it at 20 pounds heavier
than normal and going for real reach in
real distance and real technical
transitions and faster then once you're
good with that you're going to be just a
 better climber and during that
time you can jack it up your fingers
slowly reach transitioned into technical
climbs in which the finger purchase are
the limiting factor Rozlyn you have all
this reserve capacity of better
coordination better strength you're used
to climbing heavier and if you used to
climbing heavier oh my god taking that
20-pound vest off you're gonna be
 spider-man right so without
hurting your fingers the entire time so
don't just assume that you'll always
have to use finger limited climbing you
can do a little bit better than that
very autonomous yeah that was a really
good suggestion okay let's see number
three the only deal it's been existed
rock climbing world is tapering before
competition or a big trip a few times a
year no that's that's just guys being
knuckleheads that's all that is yeah
they're more dealers can exists me me
that's the best way to do it it's a
skill sport more times we're practicing
it's always a benefit that's not sure
it's not always better fit not
necessarily know or maybe people just
train like that because there's not much
research available to make better
methods if this is some people train
with all mad research things they just
train as much as possible the survivors
win because there's still the survivors
what's your intuition on sitting on
macro cycles even purely in the physical
side of climbing straight power power
endurance I think that that question is
one that's actually very easy to answer
it's just a traditional model is totally
fine let's address the actual contention
and your question is the D loads thing
you should absolutely be taking
Delos for climbing if nothing else take
finger d loads every yeah that's why
your fingers are up dude weeks
every X number of weeks that your
fingers really start to get up
take a finger dealer so there's
no research on how much how much do you
learning to take from jiu-jitsu right
but i jusu which by the way up
your triggers at least as much as
craving des how often do I take D loads
from that well what I'll do is I'll
figure out when my fingers can't
take it anymore and that's roughly every
four to eight weeks so every other D
load for our perfect for training I also
deal in from jiu-jitsu and sometimes I
can D load in the cool way which I just
switched to all Logie training instead
of ghee and then no D training doesn't
 your fingers at all so I get good
green tea Jitsu training just like that
no finger limited climbing I was talking
about but at the same time limits might
really frees up my fingers so that's
that's something you can consider but
they're the answer to all D loads if
funded
is you know when you need them and you
should be taking them when you need them
if you're training intentionally so easy
that you only need them when you compete
you're training too easy all training
should be pushes and then we're coming
back push you come back push and come
back so you should take de loads my
guess is once every 48 weeks is probably
something but if it's more often than
you need to take them then maybe that's
the right idea yeah it might be one of
those things where maybe maybe you are
pushing an appropriate overload but
you're never getting enough recovery
time like your muscles are recovering
but your tendons are and that's why your
fingers are up all the time right
and so you might just what you might
find is that you train the same way
let's just say roughly the same way
maybe you took some some pointers here
from Mike and I but you just add in a D
load every let's just say every five
weeks you what you might find it's that
your performance is just as good as it
was before and I'm just your fingers on
this up all the time like that's
one of those things where it might have
simple but tangible benefits to just
taking that lighter week of just not
going quite as hard you might not
interfere with your training much you
might it actually might pay giant
dividends where you're actually having
better training as a result of just
taking that extra time off but I would
guess that it would be largely the same
with less pain which is kind of what
you're going for so I would start
thinking about it climbing training is
really fascinating that we're on you
could I hope some of the guys are doing
this you've been a very specific
training of like weighted vest big reach
huge differences in heights but really
easy to grip and then the other one
could be like bouldering essentially but
the worst grips possible so you can
Boulder Boulder Boulder jump off Boulder
Boulder Boulder jump off and work with
me on your ripping stuff because it
sucks when you have a completely mixed
course but only one of your abilities as
a limiting factor
you essentially slack on all the other
abilities well just like if your finger
strength or technical ability to grip
weird objects is the limiting factor
you're never really getting challenged
in your strength then everything we
challenge them your reach and the only
thing it's like oh why do why do you
keep missing at that Junction
they're like well my fingers right that
means you have to climb all the way up
to that Junction essentially face almost
no challenge or a little bit with the
other tougher ones and then you fall off
because their fingers why can't you just
Boulder and do your fingers right I I'm
sure
positive some people do that
not enough so figure out what your
limiting factors are and do phases of
specialization where you work on those
while in the meantime just working on
those you can actually work on
everything else if you intelligently
split up what you need to do yeah
absolutely
and just keep in mind like this the
issue here is again like your training
is exceeding the amount of training
you're doing is exceeding the tissues
capacity to recover from that's fall
ultimately what you're doing so in order
to remedy that you have periods where
you're building up the tissues that
includes the muscles the connective
tissues building them up to have a huge
tolerance of training and then making
sport-specific transitions along the way
getting implemental ii more and more and
more looking like you know competitive
rock climbing but the beginning of that
training might look more like somebody
who does recreational rock track
climbing and a lot of hypertrophy stuff
and then it will become less and less
and less like that and more and more and
more like rock climbing as you
transition closer to your competitions
or just you know whatever
100 percent and also just required to
practice UC rock climbing is skill sport
are really correct there are ways to
train your skill without damaging your
hands and a whole lot one of them
is literally just like I don't know if
this is tenable although it probably is
if you have someone pull on your the
rappel thing the belay or whatever did
you know he had pull in the talk like
doing this on screen if you have someone
unload you you could do very similar
technical climbs unloaded so that you
can all of a sudden not have to do like
put your body through the wringer but
you could still work on your limiting
factor stuff and you can work on your
technique of climbing without getting
all the fatigue of being super
heavy right so there's different ways to
go about that it's not just quieting
just climbing and doing lots of climbing
is how most people train because most
people are thoughtless
just that's one thought that
just do this and luckily the principle
of specificity scoops their dumb asses
up pretty well but it doesn't scoop up
the people who really want to improve
the best you know like that's the the
biggest revelation of modern
periodization is that you don't always
just train there sport
there's other stuff you could be doing
that's probably pretty good it's like
posing hard for bodybuilding it's
 stupid
it's all the yeah and so uh John
I'm gonna have you know let's see in
August we're gonna have a draft zero of
the next volume landmarks book which
deals with a lot of this kind of stuff
where it's like how do you integrate
skills tactics Fitness into you know the
volume landmarks and how do you put it
into a training program so keep your
eyes out probably in the next year or
two
that'll come out and it'll be pretty
pretty on point with what you're looking
for
do BOSU Moorish says I know I didn't
know how to do that one you nailed it I
wonder probably not
I have been training now for three years
and have come a long way from a ski
70-kilogram to 85 kilogram now probably
50% in front especially Java says oh
especially in the last year I I have
learned a lot thanks to you guys my
physique is coming along nicely except
for some weird points by Lance and
results are well developed by middle and
lower traps really lacking it can't seem
to get them to grow properly during
three years of training and always did a
lot of pull-ups chin-ups rows deadlifts
etc do you have any insight in exercise
selection I should try let's see
middle and lower traps got it okay I
should thank you both for knowledge and
the free info you guys share really
looking forward to your people coming
out dr. mike and dr. james is a
co-author book goddamnit sorry i posted
in the wrong place the first time it's
hard finding where the post questions
when you knew he got for sure
so my recommendation would be rose all
sorts of rose and specifically Hammer
Strength rose and one-armed dominoes are
really good because they allow you all
protract retracts like crazy and when
you're at the top of the hammer rose or
the one on those wanted a really are
chop and then really protract and you're
literally that's what your middle and
lower traps do so that would be my
recommendation don't lock your scabs
that's what I was going to say so what
most people do on their rowing movements
is they get into a good like arch
position and then they lock their scaps
into place and then it's just a lot of
like arm movement so what you really
want to focus on whatever movement you
pick maybe there are some that are
better than others for you that's that's
an SFOR question but more often than not
with the rowing movements it's a
technique issue at least in my opinion
where people just aren't doing a good
protraction lee traction with the
scapula so what you might have to
consciously do from this point on with
whatever very issues you choose is allow
your scaps to actually protract that's
where your step your scapula is kind of
come forward and then retracted peak
contraction at the top and then repeat
every single time most people do their
rep the first rep good they start here
retract and then they're locked and I
just don't move anymore and then it's
just kind of like a shoulder extension
elbow flexion kind of things so that's
probably the issue that hand kartik sink
says if I'm only doing 18 cents for my
back Wheatly three times a week should I
split the volume like six cents three
times four or one big session of 10 to
12 sets and the rest of it--and
remaining session so I would say that
roughly splitting your volume pretty
evenly forever trapeze a really good
idea so I would say something like four
to six sets in each session and some can
be a little lower a little higher but I
wouldn't do like one mega session in the
two smaller size
James especially with the back where I
feel like doing three sets of back is
like kind of like not much going on
there and then doing like twelve
fifth might be a little overkill I
really find that like five to ten is
that sweet spot I'm back where I feel
like I got not just me but people I work
with like we get good pumps good good
productive performance increases sorry
I'm feeling stupid today I would say
probably more of the six six six rather
than two like 10 and then like four four
yeah and then Kartik says can you give
an example of her Adele specialisation
routine for an air media trainee yes
it's actually in the RP website the
hypertrophy
hobb hypertrophy guide central harbour
whenever hypertrophy volume central
harbor effects colleges google auction
and there's gonna be a sample routine in
there and you're gonna have enormous
results I I can't help but think of like
I know he didn't mean that literally but
I just was thinking about like rear delt
only specialization phase right six days
ago there's nothing else like once all
squat all days that's the rear
delt
alright Henry small says hey docks
thanks so much for hamsters last couple
of weeks it has been super helpful a lot
of you to structure my future training
plans there was a recent article on a 3d
mg page the critiques the idea of
increasing volume weekly oh oh oh I
would love to hear your opinion on this
the basic premise was that there is not
enough evidence to suggest adaptations
occur so rapidly the volume should be
increased weekly and only significant
changes that should be accounted for
would occur at the beginning and end of
the mezzo may actually only be very
small difference of volume the
suggestion was that with continuous
progression and low slash reps per
session alongside the accumulated
fatigue that there is no actually no
necessity to increase following week to
week how would you respond to this
that's easy the long response is coming
it's being published like literally the
next several days on the RP site RP blog
we have a 13 point response to that of
you you want to live in a even longer
theoretical foundation read the book
James and I wrote called how much Jerry
if you read that book and discussions
like these become a little bit of a wash
but the best answer I can give you in a
short time is if you ever in your
program find yourself doing a certain
number of sets at the appropriate
progression in all IR that you're
supposed to be increasing load and and
reps to keep your eye on where it's
supposed to be between 3 and 0 if you
ever find yourself in any weeks or
sessions to be having very unimpressive
pumps a very unimpressive amount of
muscular disruption to where you suspect
that you are not actually training as
hard as it could be to get remotely
optimal per session gains then you
should probably add a center tooth and
if that's not true don't add a setter to
and that's literally the end of the
story and if you end up volume ends up
going like this or like this or like
mass then it's up to you using
autoregulation properly to continue to
keep the training hard at the end of the
day the only reason we
load or increase traps is to keep
training sufficiently hard to be doing a
good job
that's the only reason we increase
volume either and all James and I are
really trying to say and myself James
and Jared feather all we're trying to
say is like look if you if whatever set
number you started out with in your
muscle cycle could be not as many as you
need towards the end to do the best job
you can hey well let's still work
probably but it probably won't work
optimally then again look look if you
don't increase your load through a mezzo
there's still enough weight to do a good
job if you don't crease your reps it's
still enough reps to do a good job if
there's no way in which the James
started squatting 315 4 4 by 10 he could
just do 15 4 by 10 4-6 weeks straight
and every single session will caused
some measurable hypertrophy unless
unless last last by a big factor but if
James does some kind of job to increase
some of those variables whether he does
3 a 13 by not 5 by 10 but then 6 by 10 a
some medicine or so forth whether he
does that whether it is increase in reps
or load that will help keep the results
better and whether or not you use set
progressions as a part of that is a very
nuanced discussion that has as far as I
can tell very few or no categorical
problems with set additions it's just
that some folks just I think there's
some downsides there that we just don't
see and and to give that to throw them
some bones here I think you know in the
sense that so if they're saying that
like adaptive resistance and adaptations
to volume don't occur on this leg
massively short timescale in some sense
they're right meaning like if your MeV
was three sets within a mesocycle your
MeV is not necessarily going to be 10
sets right that's a massive shift and if
they and if that's kind of what they're
saying I agree but I think what is fair
to say is that there is enough acute
adaptation from both changes and where
capacity changes in technique efficiency
and a variety of other factors where you
do acclimatize to the actual movements
and activities that you're doing and a
little bit more can be tolerated and
also can be benefited from which are two
separate issues same as our our same as
load same as wraps right and so what
we're saying is like
the volume progression only takes you
from your jumping-off point to your auto
regulated finishing point for some
people it's big for some people at small
what we're not saying is that it should
necessarily be like a 20 set pre-planned
gap that you're spanning and if that's
if that's what they were arguing like I
agree right it might only be like a four
or five set progression maybe even less
than that for some people and that's
totally normal for some people who are
maybe more slow-twitch it might be a
little higher but to ignore the fact
that adaptive resistance and adaptations
acute adaptations occur and could be
mitigated by either increasing intensity
and or volume particularly volume for
hypertrophy it's just kind of silly we
all know that it happens it's been
demonstrated and anyone who's ever been
in the gym before knows that this
happens right three sets one week anyone
who who just got back to the gym
in this quarantine who did two sets and
got their soul crushed and then they
came back and did two or three sets the
next time and and they felt like nothing
happened at all how do you explain that
it's this we're gonna keep doing two or
three sets like that until someone's
like why don't you do more sets of it
cause I we need quarantines or why yeah
yeah it's so silly so um in the sense of
like the the volume progressions being
these like outlandishly large
progressions I agree with them but
that's never what we've been saying
we're saying like they're Auto regulated
and sometimes they're big sometimes
they're small sometimes the right in the
middle and the numbers that we put out
are usually right in the middle and you
adjust from there and there are always
samples that we put out so people have
an understanding of where these kinds of
things could happen it's similar to how
much load you should progress session of
a session
people say 2% 5% whatever all those
numbers are pretty arbitrary but
they're pretty good averages to at least
think about it and some people take that
too far too and say I have to put five
pounds on the bar every time I train
what if you're not strong enough to do
that what if your reps fall off then
it's two and half pounds for you or five
phones every other section or every
third session so or if you're a little
sponder like what are you then yeah all
right next question is in regards to
extending a mouth cycle through on a
regulation if you still feel you about
hit frv if you are on your final
pre-planned week and are working at zero
an hour but feel towards the end of the
week that you can carry
for another week before hitting an RV is
it okay to push for an extra weekend
zero to 100 you know straight after your
first 0 to 1 RR week well so this is a
very extra very good question there's
two ways to go that I can see James and
I probably prefer one of those ways one
way to go is to completely Auto regulate
you're good to go you're good to go and
that's a fine way to go but we were
actually Jared I just did a podcast with
John Julia and a couple other guys in
jeonju or James's and ify fro it was a
very evidence-based he's a registered
dietician or everything and we sort of
he sort of all independently came to
this conclusion that he actually deal
oats once every six weeks no matter what
because it's like I don't trust that my
body knows what it's doing and it'll
just me up and like I'll feel great
great great you know something will snap
off and like that's a awesome
thing and I'm not sure that you a big
fan of pre-planned d loads like we're on
a regulation within that scheme but not
at infinity so you can't just continue
on a regulator you probably be fine but
James and I usually prefer option two
which is to shut it down take your D
load and then the next week next mezzo
try the same the same one same four
weeks let's say and if I'm the next
meadow you also got to four weeks you've
got chose your one hour IR and you felt
like a champion of the world
still D load wash it away and then the
third mess okay five weeks and then if I
don't you feel great that's one I don't
a beautiful perfect number of
weeks
oh a Philadelphian number can you
see on this filly you're washing the
filth of Philadelphia James really hates
you back good it's everyone so but but
that's really the thing is at some point
it's just it's better safe than sorry we
just don't like to advocate multiple
weeks of grinding to failure and but if
you notice that like look like we could
say three to one paradigm is the best
but a ton of people would reach they
don't want to be like I can keep calling
then them keep going but like don't
do it just make sure that you're really
good to go yeah yeah I totally agree I
think where most people get confused on
this issue is they there they go
pre-planned versus Auto regulate it and
you don't have to pick one you do both
right and so the pre plan says you know
what autoregulation saying like maybe I
could keep going and like Mike said I'm
just going to cut it off this time
but I have some new information which
I'm going to feed forward into my next
mesocycle so maybe I didn't hit my MRV
for whatever muscles are systemically so
maybe I'm gonna actually increase my MeV
and progress to a higher point on this
next one or like Mike said do a repeat
see if it happens again there's a lot of
different options there usually it's you
take that information do what you
planned on doing anyway right which was
a deal owed in this case and then use it
to either monitor or change the
subsequent mesocycle that comes and I
think that's a much much better strategy
than just taking a hard line pre-planned
or a hard line Auto regulated because
that's the downside of a book where you
pre-planned you could overshoot you
could understood or to regulate it same
thing like both have that same flawed
that just come out in different ways why
not use the information you get from
both of them to get the best of both
worlds and in this case it might air you
might err on the side of being slightly
more conservative just to prevent
unnecessary injuries and wear and tear
which Mike and I are it was a big fan of
like if if the question is like can I
push harder but maybe hurt myself like
bro come on no let's not do that yeah
you'll find yourself doing that less and
less the more advanced you get to
because it's not just a matter of like I
feel pretty good there's new weight new
number of cents on the bar and you're
like oh my god like I have to 5:05 from
electriss-- it's not a 504 how many reps
since I that I'm just dealing is
they think like I I feel good now but
there's no way I'm going to be able to
do this but if you honestly feel you can
do it then can it deal in any way and
then the next meso are two muscles later
when you're like okay this is a repeat
pattern or four weeks of accumulation
just clearly not enough for me I think
try v and if that goes well try it again
and if that goes well hey you got
anything then if you still need another
week or then you know maybe even think
of six six off like you've seen the
movie Braveheart yeah
remember when William the Longshanks was
talking about the problem with Scotland
I don't James I was so he very clearly
states he's in a like a war room meeting
with his generals and Stephanie's like
the problem with Scotland is that it's
full of Scots that's how I feel about
Philadelphia the problem
Elfi is it school philadelphians
you you
I was a Philadelphian before you were
don't you give me that that was raised
on the streets
[Music]
you're serious about your goals and the
RP diet app is here to help it creates a
diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI is you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
world fun
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today alright next question from Henry
small I have heard you say before the
two-day training is best suited to
advanced trainees
is there anything inherently wrong with
intermediate doing two times a day
training if the volume is the same as to
what would be done in one day but it was
just split between the two
would this be significant work for team
they're doing all the other training one
go no actually be the same
probably same level of fatigue
everything balance now there's nothing
wrong with it at all it's just not
necessary
and that's why we don't advocate it so
it's not that the multiple day training
is totally fine for beginners to do is
that necessarily and this can be
psychologically crushing we don't want
people who can grow 99% as well from
four days a week I one hour at a time as
they can't grow from an integrated
jarrod and Mike twelve session paradigm
to do the twelve session because we view
it then bodybuilding is too hard
this like but you don't need to do that
it's it's like my only because I'm
interested in food analogies lately if
you get like ninety nine percent of the
food value from ten dollars of Chinese
food why would you go to $700 our plate
steak house I don't know surely when you
get to be a real foodie and all the
Chinese foods just not good anymore I
need the best then you can go to the
French Laundry in San Francisco or
whatever and then you can spend three
dollars a plate but you know only while
the goings good why the would you
do that right is that a real place yeah
my wife tells me it's real it's called
the French the French Laundry yeah it's
in the Bay Area Napa Valley
oh man Lee is so bonito super powerful I
will if I can help it'll never go to a
fine-dining French establishment ever
almost every single brush I've had with
my diet sucked so I personally heard it
was like a French it was kind of like a
quasi change called Mon Amiga B that was
like popular in the Midwest for a while
did you ever go there no hell no I
absolutely bad yeah I I didn't go there
either but it was like you could get
like extra credit for like our French
class if you went and ate there what the
 did they serve I did I don't know I
didn't go friends you didn't get extra
credit no I hated French class
so his French fries dipped in mayo
see was their entire yeah dude food is
funny because in French aren't even fat
people their food cuisine is exclusively
the most fat me but that's
cuz they eat like once a day and they
smoke cigarettes mostly yeah yeah
alright Hugh by the way the the
neighboring town per more live is named
French town Wow
the they ran dry on the well of funny
yeah we've dipped into the the Native
American stuff too much we're going to
the front route French town alright my
final question is how would you program
sumo deadlifts most effectively if you
were doing a variation of push four legs
one day would be best to place in what
deadlifts also how would you contribute
them to volume would be case the recess
of s LDLs means three sets for quads
hamstrings traps or back would it look
like what four five sets so I give two
easy answers and then James can clean up
for me unless does that okay James yeah
go for it okay cool so I would do them
on leg days because properly xq2 sumo
deadlifts are much more leg than they
are back and these are just like my best
assessments but fundamentally Oh end
this with what a really much better
assessment is and then for counting sets
you just need to know how much do you
listen fatigue they're causing and
that's something you can only auto
regulate like that's perceives to most a
fatigue ratio you know for example it's
almost certainly not three sets of quads
because the partial room for the quads
so maybe like 1.5 sets for each maybe
you want like doing lots of stuff
regatta that's honestly tell yourself
how much quad stimulus in fatigue is
happening it's probably very little the
glutes could probably have a lot
hamstrings depending on how you pull
maybe have a moderate amount back if you
pull properly not much but maybe some
and then so all of these are gonna be
sort of different answers so at the end
of the day the answers to both of where
you want to place them and how much
volume your account is really up to you
and how you perceive that left
interacting with your body like if if
you do these sumo deadlifts in a way
that doesn't interfere with your legs at
all but flex up your back put them on
back day for the love of God and count
them all for back but if you do them in
a way that Fry's your glutes tears your
adductors to hell and barely touches
your back at all do them unlike days and
count them a ton for boots and a
doctor's does a really good answer I
think that's that's one of those
movements where you really need a
recalibration all over because it's just
a hard movement to program for it I
think trying to partial sets on the
different muscle groups is largely a
waste of time it would be like it's the
same thing with something like a push
press like what is a push press count
for is it like triceps or shoulders or
quads or back it's just too much it's
just hard to figure out so at that point
autoregulation becomes really handy and
if you're using some some of your volume
landmarks numbers you're gonna do kind
of a reset for that block if you
introduce a new goofy exercise like sumo
deadlifts it's just one of those ones
where it's just too hard to to pin down
and you just have to adjust everything
else accordingly because it's gonna have
a downstream effect on everything else
so take your other muscle groups know
that you have kind of your rough mev MRV
areas that you normally work with and
then auto regulate as a result of
introducing this new crazy stimulus that
you haven't really done that much of all
right irene sallam has a few questions
should i rapid-fire these jeans
rapid-fire quickest
number one how to stress /chorus all
affect water weight gain and why does it
affect it I'm not exactly sure why it
affects it but cortisol does seem or
high stress does seem to increase your
water retention but when it declines the
water retention falls off so when you're
very very stressed and you're trying to
look for evidence of physique
enhancement and body weight are you we
awning James sorry yeah who's it
alarmist I thought you're about to say
something yeah and then so they just
expect that and when your stress reduces
just know that it's coming James cut me
off okay number two if the goal is to
stay in energy for as long as possible
why not just do some super low micro
progression mesocycles or does that come
with some problems you incrementally
increasing fatigue does not allow you to
stay at mev very long anyway so if you
micro progress you miss out on the
potential functional overreaching
element of going to your RV
and you try to stay somewhere where you
can't remember everything is mobile
there's nothing you can do to keep it
from being mobile at some point we used
to be right maybe you try to repeat it
for three or four sessions there's no
longer anywhere close to your maybe you
need to do more and by doing more you
accumulate more fatigue it costs more
than flushing down the toilet so Irene
if you read the book how much should I
train we address every single one of
these contentions very very directly if
why not start why not stay at the low
end of mev why not start at the low end
a high end of MRV why not just try to
stay in the middle we've I think pretty
confidently explained why all of us are
not the best possible ideas
yeah and Mike nailed I just want to
reiterate like the micro progression
prevents you from actually training at
NAV anymore because your nav is still
going up and then you are starting to
lag behind that's the problem
yep all right number three how does
isometric training affect growth I've
started doing these two sets of heavy 45
to 60 second hold on traps we're just
both watching where I just put three
plates in the machine but just hold it
flash later think of your traffic oh my
god I felt my traps really well but I'm
worried that the weight will start to
put too much I'm desires trust my
skeleton I wouldn't worry about that I'm
not going to do more than two or three
sets per week of them but I'm curious
how they get growth I'm not doing any
other heavy Polidori I need my traps
secret right heavily isometric training
is robust way to increase muscle
hypertrophy but nothing beats
isometric Plus concentrate plus he's
under treaty so you're just sort of
getting rid of two very effective things
that you have no good reason to get rid
of so I would say that and also there's
probably a fatigue element there we're
just having that much reloading
go through your body it's not gonna
up your skeleton but it's gonna give you
lots of axial fatigue and it's fatigue
you don't mean so just light load do
actual concentric my eccentric and
isometric shrugs with a bit of a top
hold with dumbbells or barbells and
that's the best way to grow your traps
you know you don't grow your quads by
isometrically pressing on a leg press
that's loaded more than you can lift so
why the would you grow your traps
or really anything else like that James
yeah and that that protocol sucks 45 to
60 seconds oh my god brutal brutal and
what are you doing cut that out all
right number four I just feel like we're
reprimanding and like what are you doing
dad
I'm just asking this because I'm curious
how you can feel free not to answer if
it takes up too much time how much more
muscle can someone grow if they were
literally in a lab getting fed directly
through the bloodstream and sleeping all
day and the only stress they would have
be getting from training with that much
bigger and maybes yeah
they wouldn't have bigger M V's the
magnitude of the growth from any given
volume would be higher but I suspect
that if your life is not completely
insane you would grow 90 to 95% as much
as you would living in a laboratory as
long as you have any crazy stress eat
enough food you don't have any crazy
cardio component your girlfriend's not
like stabbing in the dick every hour
that my wife left too much of that one
maybe what do you do when I fall asleep
because I've been having stab wounds on
my deck now I know where they come from
she's laughing again so basically that's
that's the deal man I think it's I don't
think it's a huge huge factor because
some people the James I'd love to hear
your your James rant on this some people
basically look I have a day job I can
bring meals to it and I get eight hours
of sleep a night but I have a day job so
I can't get jacked like Yasha you know -
huh works for RP various family friends
and relatives of his he like he lost a
bunch of weight at some point of course
using RP and that eventually he came
employed by it and he got into super
amazing shape which he's held this
entire time and his Ronson's were like
oh my god how'd you do it he's like well
you know they're like oh well I have a
real job this is kind of off like I have
a job I have a career so I can't do it
even with a you think I do you
think it's like it was the same that
this was when his job was to install
like computer voting systems across the
country so he traveled like 200
days of the year and he still did it was
just like one of these like I think some
people confuse optimality by five or ten
percentage points from like you're all
man it's 5050 like I could get double
the gains if I just sat at home or sat
in a lab and got fluids in my dick yeah
that's and that's completely insane
right first of all you couldn't even
sleep that much if you wanted to and if
you were like medically induced into
sleeping you would have all sorts of
other wackadoo problems that
wanted to with the thing is like
everyone thinks they're special right
you're special just like everyone else
like shut the up if you don't we
don't mean you shut the up sorry I
just mean like people who make the
excuse of like I have other things going
on but everybody has other things going
on right it's a matter of like is it
important enough to you to make the time
and effort to do it and if not that's
okay you can just say like you know what
I got other stuff going on it's more
important but don't make it an excuse
and say like well I can't do it well
it's like everybody else has a date I
can't live like a professional athlete
everybody else is probably more
than you do
cuz you're a bum no I'm just kidding but
you know the thing is it's like it's an
easy out and it's an easy way of
projecting your dissatisfaction with
yourself on to circumstances outside of
your control the only option you have in
your life is to take the control of the
time and effort and focus that you have
that's it so if you want to be more fit
you got to go to the gym you got to be
better with your diet you got to be
better if your lifestyle that's it right
and if it's not something that you can
do right now realistically that's also
fine that's also fine it doesn't make
you a worse person or a less successful
person or any of those things but when
someone says hey I noticed that you
spend a lot of time by playing
PlayStation 4 when you're not working
you could probably spend in 45 minutes
in the gym doing that you're like oh
 you bro like now that's just you
you shut the am I gonna get better
a fortnight if I do that gym yeah
so it's just like one of those things
like um I don't want it like go down a
rabbit hole but like a bunch of people
if you read a lot of self-help stuff
like I do like there's like Jocko
there's Jordan Peterson there's all
sorts of other people doesn't have to be
them but they all have the same kind of
message which is like take ownership of
your own if you don't take
ownership of it then you have no right
to complain anymore that's it
one hanji percent all right I'm getting
to the next question number five from
marine uh I named my horse in Minecraft
after you don't worry he is wearing
diamond armor so that's that's nice
which one of us are you speaking to come
on
come on we know also what the is
minecraft or another there's a horse
there's a horse named dr. mike is
Rachelle wearing diamond armor somewhere
in cyberspace right now that's pretty
sound like the diamond armor oh it's a
good touch
I'm honored if it's indeed me and if
it's indeed James then he's even more
honor because a nerd that knows
what minecraft is minecraft is one of
those really weird but kind of awesome
games do you know what it is at all
my first thought was minesweeper but
clearly that's not the case it's like
it's like World of Warcraft except like
way creepier kind of it's more like it's
like um it's like a world builder it's
kind of like the SAMS you remember the
sims yeah imagine the Sims except you
like literally build everything in the
world with like a pickaxe that's fun
that's a video game yeah and it's like
really selling it James it's like a the
thing is the game it the game actually
there's not it's not like a straight
forward where there's like a way to win
it's just one of those it's it's kind of
a D&D in a sense where it's like there's
no real objective outside of just
playing it to have fun and you just like
just do it people love it yeah it's like
what it's like an alternate life where
you can create your own world all right
speaking of alternate life month√≠s Billy
breaches from Lithuania
I was thinking Greece but then he says
Lithuania Romania Greek laughs dude
Lithuanian Greek name sound very similar
it's way trip you have no idea the
 lose lane we just aren't even
related from what I know but it's really
weird that like they end up with the
same names that is weird um month us no
matter how great you become you will
only be potentially ever at your peak
the greatest Lithuanian of all times
because the greatest Lithuanian ever is
I'm sorry there's just a limit to what
mortals can become that you guys let me
tell you guys a story once
Thanos got the Infinity Gauntlet or
whatever he came up to as a journalist
and he like snapped and answer jurors
like uh are you do playing music is that
snap part of musical note that's nice
now I am winning my 50th world Strongest
Man and
that was the whole interaction and that
was just left he's also like a city
councilman in like a small town isn't he
he's amazing he's amazing unbelievable
one of my favorite interviews biggsy was
like he was he had just won the Arnold
like coming from behind and he was like
40 at this point and they were like you
just broke the world record on this
 log like the log thing were you
not not the log press but like Fran
Kerry where it's built up like it's 900
pounds of timber James and you brought
up a 10 degree ink yes so like
crazy the yoke yeah and he's like yes I
have we think but before does this event
I injured ink my calf muscle I Derek my
calf but some Kyle I still have power to
win 900 pound run uphill waka me he's
the man can you imagine being his
competitor and like you see him do that
you're like I used to love when a
kid before when they still had Kazmaier
to in the post interviews where he could
he'd be so intense like you Judas I saw
in your eyes the passion of a warrior
who needed to pick up that yoke and walk
up the hill because his family was
burning and he needed to get water and
like yes yes okay
amazing alright month√≠s enough is
internist talk some background
information before the questions I start
train at the age of 16 my bra jump is
180 centimeters during that time most of
my physical activity came from physical
education classes at school after a
second I was following a plyometric
routine online nice
I got a 265 centimeter broad jump she
joined a gym and after a year of linear
progression I Chih 1500 centimeter broad
jump I was job right Super Mario
Montes over here seriously I was afraid
of slow intermediate gains and did a
bunch of resets on a program with
similar loading parameters as 5 by 5 and
then got me into a 6-month Plateau yeah
slow and immediate gains you basically
generated yourself by doing beginning
gains all over again then I switch to a
similar program to the Texas method in
five months I acquired a 315 centimeter
broad jump number one oh we got 13
questions great should i rapid-fire
these James actually
James you're gonna rapid-fire these
because uh these are all sports specific
okay what yearly rate of progress could
I expect how fast should your rate of
progress decrease is a lifetime goal of
375 centimeter broad job totally
unrealistic you know what these are
impossible ones an impossible question
to ask because the inter-individual
variability is so massive we cannot give
you a hard number I mean you've already
increased your broad jump by roughly 50
centimeters which most people may not do
in their lifetime honestly so it's fair
to say that you've already increased a
lot the rate of increase is only going
to go down over time and 375 or actually
increased more than that Sara's looking
at the other numbers um I would say it's
feasible given how you seem to have like
a really good proclivity to jumping but
I mean that might be one of those things
where you get to like 350 and then 375
might require you to move heaven and
earth and it might take like ten years
at that point you know what I mean you
know it's just it's hard to say so hold
on James I'm sorry no you're good to
read those numbers again 375 70 broad
jump so the world record in the broad
jump as far as I can tell is 373
centimeters oh so he's trying to break a
world record and I was just basing it
off of the numbers that he's already
been doing yeah it's held by African
American gentleman who this probably has
better jumping genetics than you my
apologies yeah so in that case I mean
like I didn't know the the numbers going
into that I would say there's a reason
why it's a world record and it's because
it's only one person has done it so I
would still think that like even your
your your increases from 265 to 315 like
you still probably got plenty of
progression of the tank but that's gonna
drop each year I mean like you'd be
lucky to start seeing like five
centimeter increases per year of really
good training at that point you know
what I mean so that's just the way it
goes so let's go to number two what are
your thoughts on accommodating
resistance for broad
training especially for box squats so I
know Mike has opinions on accommodating
resistance training I personally think
it's mostly a waste of time it's
something that was useful for people who
did equipped powerlifting because it was
similar in terms of the loading scheme
from using equipped methods but I think
for people who are trying to do more
track and field type events like
yourself and people who are lifting you
know unequipped I think it's mostly a
waste unfortunately I think he would
have a way bigger bang for your buck
just getting strongest raw powerful
as raw and not messing with any
other stuff mike debrie yep cool I never
do heavy pulls from the floor but I do
some variations in a love Olympic lifts
could that limit my rate of progress so
if the question is like do you need to
do the lifts from the floor absolutely
not
the reason being and this is actually
something that's pretty well-documented
in research is that the the peak power
that you produce in those movements is
from what they call the power position
or what's more commonly called the
second pole and the second pole could be
hit from a number of positions whether
you start on the floor whether you start
from the knee or from above or below the
knee or from the power position itself
so you can actually get the same
potential benefits with less
complications from just training the
partial derivatives then doing kind of
the full movements themselves so I don't
think that you're limiting yourself and
from not doing things on the floor
especially if you find that doing like
the full technique from the floor is
technically challenging for you number
four where are some good reasons on a
good broad jump or what are some good
resources on a good broad jump technique
you know what you got me on this one no
clue I have been studying project videos
of NFL Combine I think those guys are
good I don't know if they've actually
been training Bravo jump very well maybe
maybe not it seems that everybody jumps
differently is the technique largely
individual I think there are some
commonalities that most coaches could
walk you through on good broad jump
technique in terms of like where your
center of mass is like when to start the
counter movement the appropriate time
scale in which your body tilts forward
before you actually hit
triple extension I'm sure people have
thought and analyzed these things
through and through I don't know
Mike anything um nothing that comes to
mind I think Alex Harrison of RP might
have some insight at some point maybe I
gotta reach out to him but there's
almost certainly a standardized
technique that is best but because he's
only using the NFL Combine I don't think
a whole lot of people are keen on what
the standardized technique is it's not
broad jump unfortunately just not or
unfortunately it just happens to not be
something that is internationally
competitive so there's been no
competitive drive to win oh the
technique down to what's optimal but I'm
sure there are some good folks that
didn't know you know some somebody else
until a cop is Chad Wesley Smith
juggernaut training he might have some
resources out on broad jumping or good
broad jump technique looks like yeah I I
don't know of any but I would guess I
mean I've seen I've seen countless
plyometric technique books I can't think
I didn't look through them specifically
so I'm sure there's stuff out there
number five our isometrics always
suboptimal for hypertrophy in the sense
that you are substituting isometrics for
full range of motion concentric
eccentric movements I think if you
incorporate them with those movements
and don't spend a huge chunk of your
resources and MRV doing isometric
specific stuff it's not always
suboptimal but I think the bigger bang
for your buck especially if you are
doing more athletic endeavors not just
hypertrophy training for its own sake
well of course be the full range of
motion concentric eccentric stuff and
then you can train isometrics as needed
by your sport or desire I think for core
training there's no difference in the
rules here how important is body fat for
the broad job
it's I'll get to in a second I am around
15 18 % should I be leaner year-round
would that maximize my uuly progress or
cut a little bit before peaking so every
sport every activity every athletic
endeavor has an optimal body fat or body
weight to strength or power ratio so in
this case you're looking at body weight
to power ratio so I don't know what that
is it's something that is absolutely out
there I bet if I spent an hour looking
it up I could find it and figure it out
and tell you I would guess that it's
probably for a male closer to maybe H to
12% somewhere in there so 15 to 18% is
not necessarily bad but you're probably
carrying around a little bit more fat
than you need to be maximally powerful
or explosive so I would say in any of
the move any of the sprinting jumping or
gymnastics type movements power to
weight ratio is king or queen depending
on who you are and I think it wouldn't
hurt to try and get down closer to 10%
body fat or less for competition
purposes for other you know for the rest
of the year if you did you hang out
comfortably at 15% that's fine no big
deal Mike you have any uh anything you
want to throw in there oh no man if you
could cover that one I really won't
cool number seven why are many elite
track and field athletes relatively
skinny because of the power to weight
ratio issue that we just talked about
does the need for hypertrophy rapidly
diminish when an athlete progresses in
their career um not necessarily so the
need for hypertrophy again is mandated
by the power-to-weight ratio especially
in track and field so what you might
find is that somebody coming out of high
school who did pretty good in track and
field is a skinny mini right and they
were just naturally kind of explosive
but you might find that actually gaining
like 10 pounds of muscle mass makes them
incredibly explosive and doesn't
actually weigh them down that much right
on the other hand you might have some
guy who was like a fast football player
who carries around a lot of excess
weight and it's like super muscled and
you might find that actually even losing
some muscle mass especially in like the
less important like the upper body might
actually be beneficial in terms of power
to weight ratio for something like
sprinting not recommending that you go
forth and try and lose muscle but that
is a feasible scenario so the need for
hypertrophy is coincide with the need
for power to body weight ratio sometimes
it's good to go up sometimes it's good
to go down everybody's different and
there are normative standards so if you
look up like 40 meter hurdles you will
find that more often than not world
caliber athletes are a certain height a
certain weight and a certain body fat
percentage and this is all normative
stuff that you could kind of look up so
powered body weight man can't say enough
number eight since I train daily
undulating
position I have one light session a week
which mitigates almost all of the
fatigue well that's pretty sweet
after a mezzo cycle I usually dropped
the weight by 10% and skip a D load what
he doesn't de load yeah I have a purple
like that's not coming out okay so we so
essentially he kind of just reduces the
intensity and doesn't actually deal oh
it feels that this approach reduces all
the underlying fatigue could this mean
that my training is not taxing enough
yes ding-ding-ding-ding
ding-ding-ding-ding you got it my man
that means that you are chronically
under training now I suspect given how
much talk of jumping and Penn track and
field stuff you do you're probably
trying to overemphasize preparedness for
jumping and maybe under emphasize the
under cut line characteristics that
potentiate jumping like gaining muscle
mass gaining strength gaining power and
then eventually transitioning back to
jumping so I would say if that's the
case if you're always trying to maintain
a low fatigue state so you can always
jump really hard on training days that
would be a poor non-face potentiated
strategy you might want to think about
adding some phase potentiation where you
have some hard or training hitting your
memories and this is this is true I mean
in the in your current training like if
you don't need to deal ODE even if
you're trying to maintain a high level
of preparedness you're still running to
the same problem you're probably not
training hard enough so think about it
maybe think about phase potentiating
training a little more as well number
nine why does nobody overload in a
microt cycle by increasing the rest
intervals overload in a microt cycle by
increasing the rest intervals well some
people just do that for maintaining a
high intensity during their training
which is not uncommon it's because of
systemic fatigue for instance I feel
ready to do my next set up for two
minutes but if I rested for a minute
longer
I could add a few reps if I had three
sessions its Mike's gonna chime in here
if I had three sessions in a week for a
particularly body part why should I not
rest two three and four minutes
respectively no time constraints because
you can just do more sets with a normal
amount of rest in the same amount of
time and by doing more sense you get the
same number of Highly Effective reps in
half for a third of the time so you can
do it this way it's just grossly
inefficient yeah and so like it's
also an interesting question because you
might be doing it you might be thinking
about it backwards where if you could
have higher intensity or more voluminous
sets why not start with maybe four
minutes especially if there's somebody
like yourself and you're trying to jump
more it seems to be having a jump
focused program I would maybe just
consider maybe adding a minute to what
you're already doing and then just
locking net in and being consistent with
from that well I'm that way maintained
at really high intensity without
compromising your volume too much
there's some sweet spot that you have to
figure out for yourself or it just
becomes too time inefficient like dr.
Mike said generally for people who
aren't strength power sports we say I'm
kind of favor a very high level of
preparedness per set but that doesn't
necessarily mean taking five minutes
every time it just means like make sure
you're ready to go and that you can go
hard every time for hypertrophy purposes
you might not be as constrained by that
number ten should you increase the loads
of Olympic lifts that you have never
practiced fast to hit but you have never
practiced fast to hit a slightly lower
than you usually are or stay almost an
empty bar for a few months so let me see
if I'm understanding this question
should you increase the loads of Olympic
lifts that you have never practiced so
first of all you never increase the load
on a lift that you have not practiced
the first and foremost thing that you
have to do is learn how to do the
technique appropriately and then load
increases come with increases in
competency on that lift especially in
the Olympic lifts where there's a lot
more impact and a lot more just chance
of injury than doing something like a
squat or a deadlift so I would not
increase the load on a lift until my
athlete has demonstrated their various
milestones of competency on it lifts
right so that's another one and then is
he asking if you should just do it
faster so that you hit a hot you hit a
more intense RA or is that the question
that's what it looks like to me
still I think no because you're
unfortunately at some point you're just
too low if you're using like an unloaded
bar and is trying to move as fast as
possible
you're not reaping the benefits of those
lifts those lifts are meant to more be
kind of in like the 80 70 % range of the
power spectrum of what you could be
doing so you kind of might as well just
be strict sprinting are
jumping at that point on resistant
rather than trying to do the number 11
would it be a better idea to do all sets
with the same RER by varying the reps or
to keep reps the same and achieve a
similar average RER for example I can
hit a 5x5 with IR 3 3 2 2 1 respectively
would it be superior to do 6 reps at the
first set and drop the reps and later
sets to match an RA or two so I think
for strength and hypertrophy purposes
it's better generally to have a preset
intensity and let your reps and you know
are regulate your volume overall around
that intensity I don't really see the
big benefit of doing that unless you're
working at really really low volumes and
at that point we do something that we
call wave loading where it's not really
an rir issue we just kind of fluctuate
the intensity of each so let's just say
like you don't have a lot of volume to
work with maybe you're doing kind of
like a 3 by 3 or 3 by 2 right one of the
things you can do is say like ok well
one of these sets is gonna be at like 90
percent and the other sets gonna be at
like 90 2.5% that's not a change in our
IR it's just changing the load within
kind of a spectrum of operational loads
for that day I wouldn't necessarily
change the IR just because it becomes
impossible to really track your fatigue
at that point so it's like you do a 5x5
and you finish your last set at our IR
of one what are you going to do the rest
of that session probably not a whole lot
or at least it's going to be a complete
wash when you're trying to track your
performance on some things and manage
the fatigue so I would say have a
pre-programmed intensity and let your
reps and sets kind of fall around that
in other regulated fashion what
bodyweight exercises generally have the
best FF SFR for abdominal training SFR
is an individualized thing so you know
there are some that I dr. Mike and I
could just kind of rapid-fire and say
these are ones that have worked with for
us and for our clients in the past but
at the same time yeah so I think there's
like modified candlesticks I think like
hanging leg or knee raises tend to work
well wait behind the head decline
sit-ups those are ones that have worked
historically for for me and some of my
clients but that doesn't mean that
they're going to work for you so SFR is
always a guess and check thing
number thirteen che complete novices add
weight and reps every work for example
every two days after MeV and not be
excused me not be very concerned about
MRV or D loads hmm well so just
fundamentally the last part I don't
agree with it all you should always be
concerned about both of those things
even if they're not completely necessary
especially with novices where part of
being a novice is just gaining
experience and learning about the
training process and the things that go
into that and so we we D load our
novices maybe they don't deal owed as
frequently as some other people but we
get them in the habit of D loading so
that they know that this is something
that you're gonna be doing and you
should be used to doing
MRV is something like yeah maybe you're
not training close enough to MRV for it
to be a major concern but to just say
that it's not a concern would be a big
mistake in my opinion should novices add
weight and reps every work no absolutely
not
again novices are novices because they
don't have any experience doing what
you're doing they need to demonstrate
increasing competency and all the things
that they're doing before you really
start adding a lot of weight
adding reps is something that we
generally do in an auto regulated
fashion and for a beginner there's not a
huge incentive to do either because
they're going to get massive beginner
gains from very very little once they
start training for dr. Mike you can
chime in here when if you think I'm way
off I would say after about a year you
can start taking AB uh you know weight
increases and rapid increases a little
bit more seriously but that first year
it's really about show me that you can
execute this technique we're gonna add a
little bit of weight on the bar or maybe
we're going from a broomstick or a you
know a a training bar to a regular bar
now or maybe we're adding five pounds on
each side but I want you to demonstrate
that you can do this technique it
consistently injury-free with the
mechanics that I'm asking you to do and
once you do that then and I can I feel
that I can walk away and you're gonna do
what I asked you to do then we can talk
about adding rep sets and weight more
more linearly across time yeah we don't
add a lot of reps we stay with fair
single rep sets of five to ten because
if you do add a lot of reps and tends to
fatigue them inside the set and
technique breaks down we tend to not
push closer and closer to failure
because that also tends to them up
and we tend not to push volume too high
because
 him up approaching very close to
Murphy he's not a very good idea so you
end up doing is you do build up sets
over time slowly mostly because they get
really good at doing the sense that it
becomes quite easy and you can do more
and learn more but the best way to do
that is probably expand the number of
sessions if you can ideally but also
just sets per session is fine
fundamentally you're gonna increase load
a lot for beginners not because you're
pushing the load but because they're
going to be competent and a good
technique and no longer challenged by
that load the beginners I like to say
earn their load increases through
exemplary technique competency once they
are good at good good at a certain
technique and you notice that the bar
was moving super fast like there are ten
rir or more then you put more load on
the bar and of course they're gonna put
like hundreds of pounds on each lift in
the first year whatever you know dozens
of pounds on each lift in the first year
but that'll be from them earning that
and then after about a year or so of
training then you can push the load
proactively getting closer to failure
because they're already the techniques
not gonna break down you're losing sleep
yeah absolutely agree all right thank
you James that was a hell of a lot of
questions really be says hello Docs I'm
hoping you're well and healthy thanks
please thanks to you I'd like to start
off I think you for the advice he gave
me a few weeks ago I have been lifting
for three years with high volume for
sure was inconsistent bro split I was
for spinning my wheels in the whole time
without seeing performance increases I
started training with 20-plus sets for
each body part and just stuck with that
for through my lifting career and even
after I started RP training I would
start somewhere close to 15 sets and go
up to 25 sets my performance wasn't
decreasing so didn't think is an issue
after dr. Mike's advice after hiring my
coach who is advising me to do the same
I've lower my volume dramatically to
about half of what I do and I'm now
making great progress my performance
rate is increasing a lot more now than
it did after d learning from a high
volume I think I'm one of the ones
doctor made so scrub the best that after
responses in a little fatigue state I am
now doing four-day upper lower split
with only ten weekly sets for chest 12
for back my shoulder six five substance
triceps in 20 legs thanks for the advice
this stop awesome dude alright on to the
questions number one I read somewhere
that mixing strain hypertrophy training
the same session is not good as it sends
a mix to a particular body's as true it
probably is true
if someone for someone who's not really
power lifter a bodybuilder and wants to
focus on both sides of strength for
instance starting the session with heavy
composit five reps and then moving on to
volume work on that session go to 15 but
that not be effective it is it better to
split them into a power day in
hypertrophy day so it's not power it's
strength just to be very clear on that
splitting into strength and periphery
days is probably better than doing some
strengths and some hypertrophy and then
splitting it further into distinct
phases of strength and iver trophies
also even better than that
so give that some thought but if there's
not a problem as long as you do the
strength first I've virtually after you
get a good mix of both so if you're not
super professional whatever that's
totally fine you can make it a little
better about splitting up the sessions
and even better still by splitting up
the mesocycles and I think splitting up
the sessions is not only good from a
performance standpoint but from a
fatigue management standpoint as well
cuz it's like what are you gonna get a
break from doing the fives right you
should have those distinct days where
it's like okay I got a heavy day I got
lighter it is number two I've been
overruled of genetics playing
building-sized huge literally if we
assume two individuals doing the same
training and diet will you say the one
with the better genetics would gain
double the amount of cores of like 30 to
50% more so depends on how much better
the genetics are but we'll say that when
you talk about my new variables and
program design like five or six days a
week to our r1 RA are things like that
they're undetectable in the realm of
changing genetics there's just not to
take that's how powerful genetics are is
I would say genetic variation accounts
for about as much difference in training
or in muscle mass as doing everything
almost completely wrong versus almost
completely optimal that is to say people
with incredible traumatic stew do
everything almost completely wrong we
were roughly the same muscular size as
people with pretty bad genetics to do
things optimally now let's say actually
genetics is more impactful that even the
mat on muscularity so extinction
actually even more important than that
but unless you're really have really bad
genetics it's at least that powerful me
give you an example I was in Chicago in
time for leisure or no James II okay is
there someone walking in your yard or
some sure Mel and Doug are filling up
the hot tub and I can't help but notice
that the water is looking very Brown
move
I just I seen the water level rising and
I'm like mm-hmm
I can't wait mm-hmm so I was in Chicago
for a leisure trip and a gentleman came
out to my I was like 18 and gentleman
came up to myself and my friend who was
there with me in Chicago and this guy
was probably homeless and almost
certainly a drug addict and I would bet
had never trained with weights will
certainly recently had not trained with
weights in years and he was probably
about five eight five nine I would have
to meet about 180 it looked like a
competition bodybuilder with the body
fat and the muscle bellies in the full
development and everything it's just who
he was like he was literally just born
to be like that that's the kind of guy
that if he trained he would be a
drug-free two-twenty
damn near onstage and if he took drugs
he would be a guy you know from the
magazines right
many people never reach lean 180 at 5:00
9:00 suffice to say most people wouldn't
so genetics is more important than
steroids it's more important than
everything it's even more important than
if you're trained right or wrong
genetics is huge however as with almost
all normally distributed variables most
people have mediocre genetics or pretty
decent genetics is somewhere between the
two right very few people have Italy
genetics and the very few people have
very very shady genetics but it
absolutely does happen so there's that
you can always follow up with another
question later yeah number three would
you be able to quantify the impact of
stress on building size I know it lowers
once every for instance but again oh the
same scenario let's say two individuals
are following the same training diet
plan one of them has high stress and
anxiety though doesn't know stress
individual gain more even if the stress
is a vigil responds better to low volume
so you mixing two variables they're of
like genetics and stress it's very hard
to tell because we need to know
magnitudes I will say that good muscle
in genetics can cancel out a whole lot
more stress than a low stress lifestyle
can help with shitty genetics James
cracker ephemera on here but we tend to
find is people with pretty bad genetics
nothing really helps them all that much
drugs included and people with good
genetics not
really hurts them all that much stress
together to slow down so so it's one of
those that genetics is a real
solidifying it's almost like I was that
called like a strange attractor variable
where it's like any any anything you
insert good genetics to it like Rican
forms reality to be like I'm good you
don't need food or rest now it take any
person of a to give a genetics and those
other things absolutely do matter and
they matter more at the extremes just
like genetics does so if you take a
person with the elite muscle of genetics
and you stress them out to the point
where they sleep one hour a day and
they're tortured the rest of the time
they will wither down to something
that's less muscular than someone with
the worst possible genetics but that's
unreason likely so we're talking about
best analyst question for the real world
like real world like I have a stressful
job the wife's always yelling me I don't
know like kids names like
that like you can still get jacked us
 if you have good genetics and if
you you know have pretty bad genetics
just like a low-end of mediocre you
could have a little completely
restructure lifestyle maximize your
gains but you're still never gonna
compete with the guys with really like
genetics it's just what it comes down to
if anything just genetics are the most
important variable for muscle growth
short of getting enough food to eat and
being alive and under enough sleep to
not die so I would feel confident saying
like if you had two identical twins and
they did everything the same and one had
a high stress and one had a low stress
like the hot the low stress one's
probably gonna grow more or the you know
the other one's gonna have more if live
ten pounds more muscle or something not
like 80 yeah exactly that's genetics
lifetime of training genetics and drugs
are the big variables there and and
eating enough to gain weight all right
Jordan Negri
Leonard yeah that's like kind of a spicy
name ominous noises
yeah but then Jordan Leonard by itself
to us on that great all right I mean
doesn't sound that great that was really
mean doesn't sound that exotic which say
worse all right
hi first part is not really question
more just remark our previous webinar
where dr. Mike said he can click his
bones when he squeezed his glutes I can
do something similar in my thoracic
spine when I squeeze my scapula together
cool it's really satisfying
I'm sorry if any of these questions have
been asked before it's good that you
apologized beforehand we demand
reference when programming in the
conventional deadlift and taking into
account volume for muscles which muscles
with the deadlift count restored
specifically for example enter quads
with a tangent back but I'm looking more
for specifics as to which back muscles a
little bit of the lats tons of traps of
the entire traps mid traps of the traps
lower traps and probably rhomboids and
stuff like that to some extent and
majorly majorly major the spinal
erectors so tear is major and lats just
a tiny little bit not much mostly your
the entire trap complex so actually if
you look at the back it's this big cable
that goes all the way from your traps
down to your ass in the middle that's
the spinal director to trap complex
that's really the meat potatoes
deadlifting and the rhomboids the
muscles that control the scapulae to
some extent are also hit everything else
is a very minor thing so well we don't
want people to do as people say like
people send us like if you're not I get
a body building forms completely insane
 like how do I get my last to grow
people like you got a deadlift for a big
bag it's a are you serious
not even a dynamic exercise isometric
for the lads at best and it's one of
those things reciprocate if you have a
really thick back but you don't have big
latch this weave out don't forget
deadlift okay that's me yeah and it's
just kind of like this the sumo question
came up earlier in the webinar this is
one worry if you're trying to do that by
the numbers you count it as deadlift and
then just Auto regulate everything else
in fishing when programming conventional
okay here's what would how would you do
program rotator cuff work Intermezzo I'm
not sure if those are deep muscles we
only get certain superficial muscular
later here good you could theoretically
treat them like any other muscle group
the problem with those like deeper and
smaller muscle groups is that like using
IR has major limitations because you go
from like five to zero like very quickly
so it's one of those things like
ultimately like you're still controlling
for frequency still controlling for
intensity still controlling for volume
so that's 10 reps just do it in a much
smaller scale yeah it's just it's the
same stuff just scale down
massively and be careful I say how would
you program rotator cuff work into a
mezzo not just by itself forever the
rotator cuff muscles are used for
everything else that you do the shoulder
so be very careful very ginger and maybe
do less shoulder work in general and
more specifically to cuff work if you
need but then the question comes back to
do you need specific rotator cuff
programming and and when James on our
PhD students was hammered into us over
and over the compound heavy basic
movements really just take care of
almost everything you need your old
rotator cuff that it's not clinically
significant so if you rotator cuffs are
a problem they're normally weak and a
physical therapist told you this then
yeah the physical therapist probably
take care of your programming but if you
think your rotator cuffs have some kind
of weak link and you need to make the
bigger and stronger but you could do
pull-ups with 200 pounds and 50 pounds
of that is extra weight at it and you
can do bench presses two lateral raises
everything's fine you probably don't
have rotator cuff muscular weakness
issues I don't think yeah and and I
would just do them generally at the end
of every session because as dr. Mike
said if you're doing heavy compounds and
stuff already you're gonna be hitting
them so it's probably not in your best
interest to pre fatigue them if you're
gonna be doing like heavy press thing or
anything like that
oh do is just do them at the end this
last question is a bit different how
would you how would someone go about
getting into your line of work well you
got to meet a pimp because you can't do
the on the streets by yourself you
know what I'm saying you need protection
then you gonna have to pay this
 money he might get upset
every now and again and put his
hands up if that's what you guys to end
up for yourself cover your face what was
I saying
asthma has another life um for reference
I'm in a final career of math degree I
started finally year of a math degree I
did think a couple of years ago about
changing the sport science degree but
never did I would love to do research in
sports science but I'm not sure how to
get there from where I am well so it
depends on what you want to do yeah it's
your life are gone right well so like it
depends on what you mean by our line of
work what you can do is potentially you
can contact Brad schoenfelt's master's
program and strength and conditioning at
Lehman College in the Bronx and ask them
what kind of car requisites they'd like
to see for master's student and go to
school extra to get those prerequisites
and then apply
I will actually be a professor in that
program in a couple months so so there's
the one for one thing right you can do
to get a formal degree and you can do
that with other masters programs it
might be a big uphill road you might
need to take like another two years of
prerequisites to become eligible that's
if you want to do research now once you
get a master's degree then you get a PhD
and then you can do research but James
and I don't do much research anymore I
do a little bit I'm a co-author on
papers of various sorts and do data
analysis I don't actually get in lab
much at all so I don't games in it
aren't exactly in that line of work but
you know a similar line of work James
and I are on the line of work if it
would help people enhance their fitness
the way to get into that is you just
watch everything you can or rp+
every single video read a bunch of books
all the we recommend and then start
you know you're already training
yourself get more jacked get leaner if
people inquire or you can ask people if
they need your help and all of a sudden
you have some clients do your best job
with clients if I truly get really good
at training clients have success stories
people want more more of your help
you've got a website so on and so on and
then all of a sudden you're a competitor
to RP and we send dr. John case over to
kill you in the middle of nine why you
see success yeah yeah I think like you
know your life is your own decisions but
if it was me I would say you're the
amount of prerequisite stuff that you'd
have to make up it's just it's you're so
far gone I don't think it would be it
necessarily a good use of your time
unless you were trying to do a complete
career overhaul because we're talking
even with like an advanced math degree
you're gonna be taking numerous
undergraduate classes numerous masters
level classes like you're talking like
two years of exercise physiology motor
learning motor control biomechanics like
all sorts of stuff that's I'm not saying
you're not capable of doing those things
it's just gonna be a huge huge time
commitment so it might be more in your
best interest to maybe not do lab stuff
so much as like just looking into being
a fitness person like and that's cuts
more less with Mike and I do we have we
have education in the field and we can
help break things down that are hard to
understand and do easier concepts that's
like what the volume landmarks are but
for somebody like you man it's it's a
hard sell for me I would feel bad saying
yeah come on down Mike here's a bunch of
schools you could go to because it's
like you're gonna be in school for
for like ten years at this point yeah
so I think Mike's suggestion was a good
alternative
all right ready for YouTube oh my
goodness
let's do it okay I shouldn't probably do
the screen share huh yeah can you see
you train like a machine and that's
chair and feather and I commercial we
filmed um alright so let's get into the
good ones three questions this is not a
question but I'd like to read this guy
that gets informed this guy says I used
to think I was a hardgainer when I first
started lifting I just needed more of a
caloric surplus and more protein also
more volume overtraining basically fixed
everything or got good and out of
nowhere I was no longer a hard gainer
and that's the thing that's why I
locally we'd been to the James Hoffman
skeptical squint like when you say I'm
not gaining and use kind of obvious to
you while you're not it's just not
obvious to us where you're but you're
doing everything properly it's not
obvious to us why we're not doing
everything properly so just it's good to
to know that maybe what you think is an
intractable problem really is just like
are you sure you're doing the basics
right sometimes you're like no it's like
okay why the are you asking about
like you know the spoiler on your Toyota
Tercel is not gonna make you go
underneath miles now or you need a new
car
he's still there James James Hoffman and
he's back alright James turn on your
microphone I bet okay sweet no worries
alright so I rented the show goes on
with me that's right
ah let's see the first question hey
docks we went automated yourself when
out of regulating for gymnastics
strength exercises how would you
recommend using our Bri our exercises
such as the front lever and as I called
planche names of planters of his hand
James hah where are you looking sir
old youtube channel what no I'm just
trying to figure out which question you
were reading oh there we go
domestics how would you recommend using
me
uh-oh I see yeah so this like you
basically would swap out our IR for kind
of like percentage of maximal effort or
like our PE it would be a very similar
kind of assessment so in some of these
cases you might not actually be even
remotely close to hitting a maximal
effort on some of those movements just
because they might not be challenging or
dynamic enough like you might be able to
just do it with your eyes closed and
it's no big deal so at that point it's
more of an issue of like the the number
of repetitions and the quality of
repetitions whether or not they were
executed at you know in whether it was a
routine or a drill or you know whatever
was if they were executed at the level
that you were seeking them that's a good
rep and that's a good you know basically
a productive set and I would just do
something like that it's very difficult
in some cases where some of the
movements are not truly a maximal effort
you know so it can be hard to use
something like RPE or IR in those cases
and so at that point you look more for
quality and quantity of efforts very
cool Riley says MRV increases as we
increase frequency what happens with any
the minimum effective volume I suspect
that it changes very little but if I had
to guess I think any V for the week goes
down if you increase frequency because
you're very frequently eerie stimulating
and if you frequently reached emulator a
process that it probably doesn't require
as much of a stimulus at any one time
but I don't think that that's a
meaningful are ship it's the most
context
yeah I agree ooh can I see this with
this guy sue trying to give me a call
out here James could you just use the
data from your phone to connect your PC
to the Internet just a suggestion no
phone service out here call me are you
out of your minds
check out the response that I carry
Jumeirah with Dave okay Kerry yeah very
good girl
sue I think he said Montana up here you
remote enough to need a fiber drop to
your house
cell service isn't gonna be great but ya
know homie I got no cell service
I barely I had a range extender put in
for my house and even then I would only
get an LTE signal at once a day if my
phone was touching the range extender
and then it would go away so I mean bro
we're talking satellite and DSL out here
for the time being yep that's why I
dropped out already right
high-pitch asks is there a place where
you speak at Renaissance as a restaurant
securitization about creating a macro
cycle yes on RP plus RP plus RP plus and
there'll be more of that on YouTube as
we transition our V Plus DV to one last
car there's a bunch of videos of me just
doing it for you aster oh yeah that's
right there's a good question down here
okay
I've been training for over a year
didn't see much results after six months
throughout this time I kept the volume
constant at about 15 cents per muscle
per week I've bumped it up to 30 sets
for back and shoulders and over 20 for
arms and chest and I'm finally seeing
progress again but my sessions have
become super long over 140 sets for
systemic MRV and later later third of my
session was basically I was
considering twice a day training but
I've heard from you guys multiple
instances is an advanced tool and I'm
considered a beginner but most accounts
what should I do
thinks of advanced you're not a beginner
by most accounts beginner and mean
advanced is really judged on how quickly
and easily make games and if you're
struggling to make games whether the
first six months of your training you
can consider yourself advanced after a
first six months of training so you do
whatever you need to do in order to make
gains now to the earlier comments about
the James skepticism I'm not sure if
you're doing a great job of everything
else but if you're doing a fine job of
the basics I think multiple sessions may
be some place for you to go to get
better games yeah I don't disagree with
Mike but my skeptic my skeptical radars
going off here what what's this guy's
name true Hari
my man what I suspect that you're doing
is just having what ultimately boils
down to very low SFR choices for your
whatever it is that you're doing so I
suspect I don't know but I would say
that whatever exercises that you're
choosing or the technique in which you
are executing them is not great that
could be a thing
so for beginners like if you're not
seeing pretty good beginner gains and
you're doing a shitload of stuff and
you're considering doing two days who's
very skeptical signs possible like what
what you're doing it's it's more signs
put more - you're doing a shitty job
then then you need advanced training
that you know what I'm saying it's not
that it's not that it couldn't be a
little bit of both but if I was to with
my if I had a dial and I had to point to
which one I'd be like yeah you're
probably doing a shitty job you know
what I mean EDD that's okay it doesn't
mean that you're that you suck it just
means that maybe you got to go back to
the drawing board a little bit and all
of us have to do that my
included from time to time it's no big
deal
folks that's all we have for today yeah
that was good I think we're gonna dr.
Mike and I are gonna try and play catch
up a little bit so I'm not sure if we're
gonna get another one this week or what
but we're gonna try and get another one
soon to make up for the questions that
we didn't answer yet so let's just do a
quick reminder fun friendly reminder
we're gonna switch formats starting soon
on July what did we say July 7th we're
going to switch to primary just to
YouTube only so if you have any
outstanding rp+ questions that have not
got answered or you've been sitting on
it for a while or you're like I don't
want to bother those guys get those
questions in because we're going to
switch to YouTube and then it's going to
be an upvote system based on what people
think are the most interesting questions
and we're gonna take the top 10 from
there so rp+ subscribers make sure you
guys submit your questions you'll have
until July 7th I believe and we're gonna
backlog all the questions that have been
asked that we have not gotten to yet up
to that point and then from that point
on it'll be YouTube up votes so make
sure you guys post those questions