welcome to the house of hypertrophy what
is the most effective way to build as
much muscle while training as little as
possible today we're dissecting the
latest science behind just this step by
step we'll uncover how to effectively
manipulate all the trading variables as
well as utilize Advanced Techniques to
successfully cut the amount you train
while still trying to gain as much as
possible let's dive straight
in at the house of hypertrophy we've
seen countless times that reps between 6
to 35 produce similar muscle hypertrophy
provided you're getting two or close to
failure reps below six can still build
muscle but appear to require extra sets
for example one paper finds per exercise
seven sets of three reps produced
similar muscle gains to three sets of 10
reps a second paper found that seven
sets of four reps produce similar muscle
gains to three sets of 12 reps thus if
time is of the essence
it's best to train within that 6 to 35
rep range sticking to the 6 to 12 rep
Zone May save time due to fewer total
reps although this does require you to
load up heavier weights which sometimes
cancels out time saved as for repetition
speed despite it being widely believed
slower tempos are needed for maximum
growth this recent review established
that scientific literature finds
repetition durations between 2 to 8
seconds are likely comparably effective
for building muscle so you may lean
toward the faster end of the spectrum to
save time some prefer combining a faster
lifting Tempo with a slower controlled
lowering Tempo there is some evidence
this builds muscle better but it's not a
consistent finding nevertheless I
believe this is a perfectly fine thing
to do if you enjoy
it the scientific literature suggests
the total number of sets you perform is
likely more important than how many
times per week a muscle is trained so
let's start with sets to make sure we're
all on the same page say you train two
sets of back swats on Monday two sets of
leg presses on Wednesday and two sets of
leg extensions on Friday this totals up
to six weekly sets for the quads on
average the available data points
towards 12 to 20 weekly sets per muscle
group probably being n ideal recent data
suggests more than this might be better
under specific circumstances but can we
still see notable gains with fewer sets
as suggested by this meta Anis the
answer is yes meta analyses combine the
results of numerous papers firstly I
need to mention that the published paper
of this analysis actually contains
counting error many people are
unfortunately unaware of this and so
when you see the numbers of this
analysis in other videos it is not
entirely correct here I'll be reporting
the fixed numbers I obtained from an
article by one of the authors of the
paper the analysis found fewer than five
weekly sets for a muscle still produced
measurable hypertrophy It produced 53%
of the growth that training with more
than 10 weekly sets per muscle group
achieved now fewer than five sets is
vague but most studies use two to four
weekly sets per muscle thus this may be
the minimal amount of training needed to
see some Fair gains but I would lean
towards four weekly sets per muscle as
inferred in this review on time
efficient
hypertrophy however there are some
considerations most studies used
untrained indiv uals but we still have a
paper finding that three weekly sets per
muscle elicited measurable gains in
trained men regardless as these results
are averages it's likely some trained
individuals and perhaps even untrained
individuals struggle to grow from these
lower sets in fact this recent paper
found some previously untrained older
adults hardly grew with two weekly sets
for the quads but experienced much
better gains with eight weekly sets for
the quads therefore consider 2 to four
weekly sets as a general recommendation
if it's not working for you or if you
want a higher chance of seeing more
growth bump up the
numbers if this is too time consuming
don't worry we'll soon describe how you
can utilize Advanced Techniques that
technically enable you to train with
higher volumes while saving
time we mentioned how 6 to 12 reps is
generally a good Zone to be in with your
sits but do you need to perform these
reps to actual failure a recent meta
regression suggests training to failure
is superior but understand that there
were limitations that led the researches
to emphasize caution when dissecting
what I feel to be the highest quality
papers stopping one to three reps from
failure seems to produce similar muscle
gains to training to failure but these
papers involve training with six or more
weekly sets per muscle it's possible
with fewer sets pushing harder and
training to failure is better the
closest paper that can help us is this
one which had subjects largely perform
two weekly sets per muscle one group
went to complete failure while a second
group performed their reps just shy of
failure muscle mass increases were
better with training to
failure as this is one study and the
hyper measure wasn't the most precise
it's most definitely not conclusive
evidence anyhow I think it's a solid
idea with few assists to do your best to
train to failure or at least get as
close as you can
how many days per week should you
distribute your weekly sets for a muscle
across on average the most recent
scientific literature suggests that when
the total number of weekly sets per
muscle is kept the same muscle growth is
largely similar regardless of how many
days per week you distribute those sets
across thus you're free to select
Whatever frequency you prefer we'll
provide some training program examples
in the next section on exercise
selection
[Music]
here I'll be providing two different
approaches to exercise selection
compound exercises train multiple muscle
groups making them time efficient for
instance squatting motions can
significantly grow the quads gluteus
maximus and adductors pushing exercises
like the bench press can effectively
grow the chest triceps and front delts
as a bare minimum the simple first
approach is to have a push exercise
pulling exercise squatting motion and
hip dominant exercise these collectively
stimulate nearly every muscle in the
body if you have extra time adding some
isolation exercises to Target your
choice of muscles can be worthwhile to
balance things be it isolation for the
biceps triceps side delts or even leg
isolation here's a very simple example
we're largely getting two to four weekly
sets per muscle and it may be most
practical to divide this into two
sessions per
week besides the simple approach a more
complex second approach is to divide our
sets across greater exercise variety for
more complete muscular developments at
the house of hypertrophy we currently
have an ongoing series on optimally
developing each muscle and the knowledge
in these videos can help you identify
which exercise combinations can be
beneficial even so here's an example
two-day a week program that I crafted
with the help of the excellent Alpha
progression app largely involving two to
four weekly sets per muscle for the
quads we have squats on one day which
highly develop the vasty quad heads and
leg extensions the other day which
targets the rectus foror of the quads
much better than squatting motions for
the hamstrings we have ROM remaining
deadlifts on one day and seated leg
curls on the other and these different
motions likely Target slightly different
haming regions for the glutes both the
squats and rdls will help develop it for
the chest we have the bench rest on one
day an incline on the second day which
can help bring up the upper chest for
the back we have pull Downs on one day
and barbell rows on the other day and
these likely preferentially Target
slightly different areas of the back
finally we have some isolation exercise
to potentiate biceps triceps side Del
Cal and ab growth some machine exercises
are involved but this is perfectly fine
as the scientific literature finds Mach
gen exercises can be similarly effective
to free weights for building muscle a
lot of these exercises involve attaining
a great stretch this is purposeful as
emerging evidence suggests these types
of exercises are powerful for building
muscle for example seated leg hes attain
a greater hamstring stretch than lying
leg hes and appear to produce Superior
hamstrings hypertrophy overhead
extensions attain a greater tricep
stretch than push downs and appear to
produce Superior triceps hypertrophy
thus exercises attaining a stretch can
help us reap even more gains from our
few sets now there is contention about
whether the benefit of stretched
exercises persists in the long term but
I'll discuss this in a future video If
you dislike this general program or are
just interested in potential
Alternatives the alpha progression app
may help you out it can generate a
program tailored 100% to your needs in a
minute or less just select the equipment
you have if you want fewer or more
sessions per week the session duration
and if you want to focus or neglect
certain muscles to reduce training time
more sets can be reduced to the
recommendations from this video plus
there are Advanced methods we'll
describe soon during workouts the apps
algorithm dissects your past performance
to provide progression recommendations
to assist you with making continued
gains there are aesthetic graphs that
automatically track your progression and
a massive exercise data space with
simplified text and video instructions
the link in the comments and description
gives you a free 2E trial and if you
like it the link gives you 20% off a
subscription the app's numerous reviews
speak to its high
quality back to the video remember that
if these lower set numbers aren't
working bump up the numbers if this is a
time constraint or if you would just
like to shorten training time even more
the scientific literature suggests we
can utilize some Advanced methods but
but before that it's worth discussing
rest time between
sets how long should you rest between
your exercise sets Shor rests are
commonly recommended for hypertrophy yet
the research actually finds when total
sets are equated resting around 2.5 to 3
minutes between sets builds more muscle
than shorter rest times compound
exercises are overwhelmingly used in the
research finding this with isolation
exercises it's possible short rest could
be
fine regardless this still means a
significant chunk of typical training is
spent resting interestingly it might be
possible to build up tolerance to short
the rests so that muscle gains are not
compromised this concept comes from two
papers that found progressively
decreasing rest time between sets across
weeks produced similar muscle gains to a
group using the same rest time more
studies are needed to properly validate
it but you could try out if it's not
appealing don't worry let's now describe
some other Advanced time-saving
methods the following methods can
generally cut your training time down by
50% super sets tend to have you perform
two exercises back to back and then rest
super setting exercises that train
different muscles are the best for
minimizing fatigue and maintaining
performance with antagonistic suets
being quite popular these involve
training opposing muscle groups for
example instead of Performing three sets
of bench presses and then three sets of
rows you perform them suers seted
research suggest antagonistic supersets
largely do not compromise performance in
fact there are some documented cases of
increased performance such as this paper
that founds performing leg Coes before
leg extensions increased the number of
reps on the leg extension
as for research measuring hypertrophy we
have two studies one supersetting a
biceps and triceps exercise and the
second Su setting leg Coes and leg
extensions both largely finding
non-significant differences in muscle
gains to normal sets non-related super
sets are likely also a fine option on
the table going back to our example
program we could employ these
antagonistic suets and non-related
suets the alpha progress regression app
has a neat feature that enables us to do
just
this Based on metaanalytic data drop
sets seem to be mostly similarly
effective for building muscle to normal
sets there are different ways drop sets
can be performed but from a Time
efficiency perspective the best approach
may be to perform reps 2 or n failure
with a load then immediately reduce the
load by 20% and perform reps two on N
failure again 2 to four drops are
recommended and we have researched
suggesting three or four drops may be
equivalent in stimulus to three normal
sets while cutting training time down by
more than 50% drop sets like these are
going to be super challenging and tough
and they are probably best used with
isolation exercises like the highest
quality research on this topic has done
going back to our example as opposed to
Super setting some of the isolation
movements we could just use drop sets
again the alpha progression app has a
neat feature that permits us to do
this here I'll Define rest por training
as performing reps two or n failure
resting for a short duration and then
performing reps two or n failure again
with the same load you repeat this a
couple more times or until you reach a
desired total number of Reps for example
you may have a target of Performing 20
overall repetitions with a load you can
perform 10 Max reps it may look like
this fascinatingly two papers using rest
pause methods such as this have found
Superior hypertrophy compared to normal
sets with one of the papers reporting it
cart training dime down by 38% yet a
potentially critical limitation of these
papers is the normal set largely trained
much further from failure thereby
limiting our ability to say they prove
rest pause is superior also I came
across this unpublished paper suggesting
myor reps a form of rest Porche training
produced comparable muscle gains to
normal sets hopefully this paper gets
published so we can critically dissect
it but all this data at least indicates
rest po training can stimulate time
efficient gains thus if this appeals to
you you may explore this method on any
exercises you think it could work well
with the 37 method seems to originate
from a 2005 French Fitness book it has
you select to load you can perform
around 12 maximum reps with it you
perform three reps rest for 15 seconds
perform four reps rest perform five reps
rest perform six reps rest and then
perform a final seven reps the final
reps are where things get tough the only
published paper on this method found
that with a machine biceps exercise two
bouts of the 37 method produced Superior
bicep gains to eight sets of six reps
with the same load now this is is an odd
comparison as the normal group would
have been far from failure on many sets
and a more typical normal set structure
would have been a better comparison so
this paper is most certainly not proof
the 37 method is superior even so some
may enjoy this novel form of training
and if it appeals to you you may explore
it with any exercises you think it could
work well
[Music]
with so there we have it we we have
thoroughly dissected from top to bottom
how time efficient hypertrophy can be
attained here are the summary points
perform two to four weekly sets for your
muscle groups divided across however
many days you prefer using anywhere from
6 to 12 reps per set and aiming to get
two or at least as close to failure as
possible using some exercise variety and
selecting movements that attain a great
stretch of the muscle can help get the
most muscular development out of our
fewer sets here's an example two-day a
week program now some people can see
minimal gains from lower set numbers so
if this happens bump up the set numbers
to save even more time we can use these
range of Advanced Techniques if you're a
viewer who skipped to the summary head
to these time points to fully understand
the execution and science of these
methods remember to feel free to check
out the alpha progression app or our
Ultimate Guide to developing the lets