someone's like is it cool to like train
chest with back or is it chest with
quads or hey as long as you can hit all
the muscles hard no wrong answers just
make sure whatever you're training gets
high quality training here's an example
of when that does not happen you do legs
first and then you do chest for many
people who are Advanced and training
hard after legs M you ain't doing
you might be peeling yourself off the
gym floor the urine stain below you
maybe even a stain if you really
squatted heavy you're not doing anything
but going home and eating and and
drinking and recovering so legs and then
test just might not make anying sense on
the other hand if you have something
like biceps and legs bicep training
doesn't make you that fued up it's just
not a very big muscle doesn't make you
systemically tired you can't do it after
legs cuz you got nothing after legs but
you might be able to do it before so may
able to do biceps first legs second
that's a workable split in and of itself
that's part one so muscles need to gel
well together here's another example if
you do back first and then legs after
can be done but generally your lower
back and midback are now so tired all of
your squats and good mornings you're
going to fold over cuz of your back not
your legs