[Music]
these were shape Gods symmetry gods they
stand above everyone else they're
actually multigenerational Gods because
before and since it's rare to see people
of that kind of shape genetics what was
it that kept all of those guys from ever
winning the Mr Olympia the answer is
Dorian
[Music]
the8 hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength I've been a longtime professor
of exercise and sports science I'm a
competitive bodybuilder and Brazilian
Jitsu Grappler and I'm also
balding oh we're on TV
still Dorian Yates one of the greatest
Olympians of all time six times people
showed up to the Mr Olympia contest with
hopes and dreams and desires and prayers
and wishes and expectations of winning
and six times they were all denied by
the one man they called The
Shadow do you like terrible barely
articulated impressions of a universal
but non-existent British accent you're
going to get a lot of them from me today
cuz we're reviewing Mr Duran Yates
Olympian training routines we're going
to try to be critical in a respectful
way because when you win six olympias
kind of earned infinite respect in a
sense um we're going to have some jokes
all for the laws folks all for the
laughs all and good fun let's take a
look at what Dorian AG trains like 3 2
1 uh oh let's go in uh professional
bodybuilding circles when I was
competing I was known as The Game
Changer yeah I thought it was the
shadow what a terrible
start that was because I brought a new
level of uh
muscularity uh size and condition to
professional bodybuilding this is
actually a really interesting point on
sort of bodybuilding history and uh in
bodybuilding history I know very little
if you want to learn a lot dror Eric
Helms and uh I believe Omar ISU run uh a
YouTube channel and podcast together
where they it's called iron culture and
they talk about bodybuilding history a
ton Eric Helms might know more about
bodybuilding history than definitely
anyone else and maybe than is reasonable
or necessary but godamn does he know a
 so he could tell you a lot about
errors and Transitions and changes
emphases but one thing I do know is that
Dorian Yates changed the game in a big
way for sure he brought a next level of
size something that at the time well
later a little bit was called '90s size
you just didn't see people that big in
the 80s on average on stage Lee Haney
who was the best of a generation and the
tied for the best of all time with eight
Mr olympas dominated the 80s in
bodybuilding and from what I understand
he was on stage roughly 245 LBS or so
and uh Dorian eight brought a 265 to the
stage and I think was a smidge shorter
than Lee and that's a big deal but
there's another deal Dorian brought at
that size a level of conditioning that
you would see every blue moon from a
bodybuilder that weighed 190 or 210 lbs
Dorian brought that and he brought
something a little bit more special
photos and videos don't quite do it
justice from what I understand because
I've communicated with a few folks who
saw it in real life back in the day and
even in photos uh there was almost a new
term invented for dorian's appearance
his level of conditioning which in
bodybuilding circles just means how lean
you are it doesn't have anything to do
with how many push-ups you can do and
run the mile his level of conditioning
was termed grainy it looked like he had
sandpaper under his skin and he also
looked like he didn't have skin was just
sandpaper wild it was wild stuff it was
described by people who saw it in real
life to be like d I don't even know that
is what how did that happen now that
combination of size and conditioning
size and leanness brought Dorian home
six Sandow trophies six Mr Olympia
titles but let's be completely Frank
here Dorian Yates never had good
proportions quote unquote now compared
to regular human unbelievable
proportions a God among men but among
the genetically gifted Elite of the ifbb
professional League at the time and
before and since Duan didn't exactly
have standout structure his waist wasn't
super narrow his muscles weren't super
bubbly and Dorian Yates victories in
that sense are a little bit special
because if you look at someone like Phil
Heath all due Mega respect one of the
all-time
greats his size was ridiculous his
conditioning was next to level but his
shape and structure were like well his
nickname is the gift the gift from God
so you can look at Phil and go I mean
yeah but you look at Dorian maybe
offseason and you know it's not standing
next to anyone he's a big dude but
didn't have like such a crazy shape
there were guys in the early 9s let's
see if I can get a couple off the top of
my head Kevin levone Shawn Ray Flex
wheeler in a sense Paul DEET the Chris
Chris Cormier Cormier I don't know he
says and list goes on these were shape
Gods symmetry gods they stand above
everyone else they're actually multigen
erational Gods because before and since
it's rare to see people of that kind of
shape genetics and what was it that kept
all of those guys from ever winning the
Mr Olympia the answer is Dorian Yates
never had amazing structure but what he
had was an unbelievable amount of muscle
with the kind of conditioning that when
he was on stage against the best in the
world he just there was Dorian there was
kind of everybody else in a certain
sense that happened a bunch that's a
magical magical thing why am I making a
big point of this because when you got
all the tools and you win everything
people yeah makes sense but Dorian
didn't have all the tools but he made up
for not having all the tools all of the
genetic structure with well I'm pretty
sure he out trained everyone in a sense
and his dedication was super wellknown
he's that magical very rare thing in
sports which almost never happens in
sports where grit and dedication and
commitment and
unfaltering loyalty to the craft in some
small sense overcome some genetic
disadvantages and that's awesome and I
think why in some sense Dorian lives as
kind of a spe animal in all of our hands
so in any case this is all real deal and
I did that by training average 45
minutes four times a week where many of
my competitors were training 2 or 3
hours a day uh around uh six days a week
45 minutes four times a
week I wonder if that includes warm-ups
I think Dorian emphasized recovery a lot
which is really
good I think that if he would have
trained maybe a little bit more maybe 5
days a week maybe he could have been
even better and I know I know it's not
it's a little rude which I understand
and uh it's a little confusing when some
worthless nobody like me says somebody
else 10 times better than me at the very
thing that I want to be good at could
have done it better it's weird it's a
weird vibe but it's also true No One
winner No One champion no one best of
the thing at everything has all the
answers and we can all be wrong on stuff
there are many scientific things that I
say that I went to school a long time
for which I think Dorian could probably
correct me on and I think that training
four days a week is well but for muscles
that recover much quicker shoulders
biceps
forearms sometimes calves sometimes
triceps depending on how you train them
training more frequently might actually
be a better idea and uh all the muscles
I just listed specifically biceps and
shoulders were never really Dorian
strong suit compared to his competition
and maybe he could have benefited from
training those a little bit more
frequently muscles like the chest back
legs you smash him once a week like
psychotically hard it just takes that
long for them to recover where once a
week training frequency works really
well for them especially when you're
Dorian sized you just need that recovery
time can you intelligently train twice a
week each muscle when you're Dorian
sized yes absolutely but once a week
also works super super well for smaller
muscles that recover faster maybe a bit
more frequency would have been uh
slightly more ideal but uh you got to
take that with the biggest grain of salt
ever cuz who the am I all right Blood
and Guts time in 13 years of
bodybuilding Dorian Yates has gained 70
lbs of muscle and made the journey from
the back streets of Birmingham England o
and Bam in a minute back in streets and
they I love love love the British
criminal underworld references I Can't
Get Enough Scott don't you feel like
you're in like a what's that you
watch on TV peaky blinders all the way I
know the set in the 1920s or some
 but to me never changed I love it I
can't get enough of this each body
part is trained every 6 days using a
4-day split he trains two days on one
day off 2 days on one day off and then
repeats this cycle that is a very
interesting way of training and I would
say really smart so it's an asynchronous
split which means your workouts don't
line up to the week sometimes Sunday is
off sometimes Sunday is legs but two on
one off is really awesome because you
can go hard and get in that groove of
training for two days and then you get a
rest day every other day or every two
days and it really heals you up in a
huge way physiologically and
psychologically and so this is really
really awesome and I guess if we're to
believe that he did two on one off two
on one off to me that's actually a
little bit more than 4 days a week of
training that seems to be more like four
to five days a week of training so uh a
little bit higher of a frequency than
mentioned elsewhere but uh this is just
sounds like a really smart split I'm
currently doing three on one to two days
off depending on how recovery is going
and then three on one to two days off
using the the RP hypertrophy
app what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now it works super super well for me
because I get to auto regulate my
recovery sometimes I'll train 3 days and
I feel amazing I'll just train
another three days sometimes I'll TR
train three days and I feel man I need a
day off I'll take a day off
sometimes I'll train three days and I'm
like dude bro what the hell I'll take a
day off and my body's still like this
ain't it I need another day off I'll
take two days off I'm really real
covered and then I go into it again it
works well give the asynchronous split
some thought we do Scott the video guy
we do have videos about the asynchronous
split don't we ha Google that
you'll see dorian's form is textbook
perfect he controls the weight on the
way down then pushes it back in a
precise non-explosive
style the next ntion is everything um
like a Discovery Channel documentary the
female hyena pounces on her prey uh
generally agree this is really good
stuff full range of emotion good control
on the Ecentric anything I say here
would be super nitpicky so this is great
he uses a full range of motion on all
exercises his aim is to promote the
greatest amount of stress on the muscle
not to exercise his ego by using immense
poundages in sloppy form smart real
smart well you know it's funny when you
get strong enough that four plates on
the incline is
uh considered not immense poundages
wonderful finish
[Music]
it you guys notice as the set progresses
the only change is the Reps get a little
slower there's no no technique change
there's no ego there's no
heaving there's no hoing well
unfortunately there's no hoing
right this is good stuff this is proper
training all right I'm going to go look
at that again make an
analysis let's go let K die again come
on now let
K finish it
yeah yeah because the spotter's hands
are on the bar it's tough to tell how
close to failure that really is but I
think the spotter's really helping a
little bit on that last rep which means
it's actually Beyond failure which is
really dope um I will say I have to make
this joke um Dorian kind of like
reinvented and perfected training to
failure and Beyond and I guarantee you
if you post this video today some
 in the comments would be
like yeah man he had at least two reps
left in the tank like ah yes of course
you would say that click on profile no
picture zero posts follows 800 has one
follower thank you you're not a human
being folks there is still more video to
come don't click away but if you want
the extended edition of this video raw
uncensored uncut full of well things I
can't say right now because it's full of
them you see our member's area is the
place to go so give that a
look oh yes sque me good
solid yes want finish come on Dorian you
wink uh no offense Dorian if you ever
see
this let's go if I had to be real picity
emphasizing The Squeeze probably doesn't
do a whole lot for muscle growth it's an
interesting variation you can try every
now and again but uh he's already hit
incline upper part of the pecs he's hit
a flat press which is dope whole PEC and
now he's doing a decline fly which
generally is good he's using a really
big full range of motion Big Stretch at
the top uh which is really awesome
not
you bring
in let's do one more one more come on
squeeze it
home I love it
nice Scott can't get enough so good I
can't it's so good it's so good you need
a you need an English man yelling at you
in the gym or you're just not growing as
much as you could so you guys saw durian
had help from his training partner to do
that full range of motion every single
time what we're learning recently in
science uh in the science of of lifting
and getting jacked is maybe if Dorian
wanted to go beyond failure another
interesting thing for him to try in a
time machine I'll take that back for you
guys to try in the gym is instead of
having someone help you lock that full
 out when you can no longer lock it
out go as much as you can and when you
can barely move at all then the set is
over super failure integrated with
lengthened partials partials at the
lengthened muscle position at the
stretch muscle position those to be
superior for hypertrophy they're going
to be really fatiguing but they might be
worth it in your case especially if
you're small you have trouble really
training super hard and feeling the
muscle you got to go to town on this
kind of
 it's
big
any oo incline
curls yes it's not ideal you can see
he's hipping into it I'm not mad at it
but less hipping into it would be good
this is a great movement my
recommendation for you guys at home is
to take the incline bench and turn it
literally down into a flat bench lay
down on the flat bench and do the curls
till the dumbbells touch the ground and
come back up you get even more tension
applied at the stretch which will grow
your biceps maybe even a little bit
better than the incline curl the incline
curl is a great exercise they use it all
the time they can all be the best
exercise but lying dumbbell curls is
some you guys get uh should give a
shot to it might be worth it business as
usual man come on
in I steal you it's going
again I got to say yelling at Dorian is
hard work somebody's got to do
it
interesting so we went to failure on the
two ARM version and we know that there
is a situation in human physiology in
which doing one arm or one leg at a time
can push you a little bit beyond what
you would be maxed out with both so now
he's doing one arm at a time which is
really curious I've never seen this
before um and also notice that his
breast is entirely out of his tank top
my God somebody censor this video all
right folks let's do some take-home
points because unlike most of our
Hollywood training which has no
take-home points other than go home and
shoot yourself in the dick this has some
interesting lessons in it on the
critical side you might need more sets
to failure or close than Dorian did cuz
once he got really really big and strong
each set was so stimulative he didn't
need that many of them nor could he
recover from that many you probably need
more sets that's the
criticism the things to take away that
are really insightful here there a
couple of them one Dorian did really
good technique unless you think you got
some kind of Ace of Spades out on him do
good technique too because
a lot of the people that treat Dorian as
a spirit animal rightfully so for hard
training also suck dick at technique and
they're terrible and it's like what but
the but the Dorian use good technique
would you you don't think you agree with
that part but you agree with theing
screaming get out of my face everyone
needs to be doing good technique it's
more effective and it's safer I don't
know what the argument is against that I
don't like to do it slow clap who gives
a you after massive muscle gains
you're going to do what it takes not
what you like facts as a matter of fact
from what I remember there was a
training style popular for a short time
in the muscle magazines and among some
pros in the in the 90s called
instinctive training they didn't really
plan their training out didn't log book
anything Dorian log booked his whole
career from what I understand and they
would just kind of go in and whatever
muscle they felt like training they
would train it and whatever exercises
and loads they felt like using they
would use which is unfortunately how a
lot of bodybuilders train now they could
benefit from learning from Dorian and
they asked Dorian what do you think
about instinctive training and he said
something to the fact of if I did
instinctive training I would be on my
couch right now having a beer because
that's what I feel like doing you got to
do this that you need to do not
necessarily the that you want to do
now if what you need to do has some
options definitely choose the ones that
are preferable to you if you can either
hack squat or leg press yeah you don't
like leg presses currently but you love
hack squats hack squat away to your
heart's content but you got to go hard
and if you don't feel like going hard
either take a D Lo or shut the up about
it that's really the one of the main
points of this whole video analysis
dorian's trying and then on top of that
he tries some more and on top of that
when you think he's done he's still
trying and then it's four straps and
he's still trying if relative effort the
ability to push yourself to your limits
is a problem for you I only have one
solution you go on YouTube and you watch
The Blood and Guts Dorian H training DVD
from start to finish and if that doesn't
help you train harder you're hopeless
just pick up tennis or another Hobby in
which you don't have to go to failure
anyway I give Dorian Yates a legend out
of 10 is my rating and uh Big Ups isn't
that what they say you if you know it
Kingdom folks if I'm ever in the UK
again please don't stab me I know you
guys are into that sort of thing see you
guys next time all right that was fun
right over here you're going to want to
click on that video why because it makes
you watch more of our Channel and you
see that increases our algorithm and
then more people are brought in and
somehow that makes us money I have no
idea how see you guys next time