okay what is going on everyone that's
why in this video what I want to do is
share the top 5 training myths that most
beginners seem to fall for
I've personally fallen for all five of
these early on in my training career and
now I've been training seriously for 13
years and it's during those first few
years of lifting that you're most primed
to make the best gains you'll ever make
so you really want to capitalize on that
newbie period that's what I'm gonna do
is overlay some clips here from my
latest full-body workout as I go through
the myths and before we get started I do
want to thank Squarespace for sponsoring
this video it'll have a little bit more
about that at the end so the first
training myth I want to cover is the
idea that high reps are better for
toning and low reps are better for
bulking up now both of these ideas
aren't really true first of all the term
toning is one of those buzzwords without
any real science base I think what most
people mean when they say toning is
basically losing fat so the underlying
muscle can show through better the
losing fat part is actually really
simple according to the best research we
have losing fat is just a matter of
putting yourself in a caloric deficit
and eating enough protein and the
building muscle part is pretty
straightforward as well you simply need
to apply a progressive tension stimulus
to the muscle by getting better at
lifting weights over time but I think
the basic idea is that people think by
doing more reps you'll burn more
calories and as a result lose more fat
especially from the body part that
you're training but there are at least
three studies showing that body fat spot
reduction isn't possible and according
to a recent issue of the mass research
review a typical weight training session
only burns about 75 to 300 calories
anyway and even if you could increase
that number by doing more reps the rate
of energy expenditure will never hold a
candle to traditional cardio 150 pound
person would burn about the same
calories in a 10 to 15-minute jog as a
1-hour workout with weights so in my
opinion I wouldn't think of using weight
training as a fat loss tool at all
I'd recommend fine-tuning your diet and
cardio to set up an appropriate caloric
deficit while using weight training to
take care of the muscle building process
now the other side of this coin is that
low reps are supposedly going to be
better for gaining mass and as it turns
out this really isn't true either
we know from research that high reps and
low reps are both effective at building
muscle as long as you're taking sets to
or close to failure take this 2015 study
on low versus high load training for
example one group did 25 to 35 reps per
set and the other group didn't want
moderate reps in the 8 to 12 zone both
groups use a typical 3 day per week
full-body training routine and after
eight weeks ultrasound showed that both
groups saw the same muscle growth and I
love this graph from stronger by science
where you can see that most people think
a more moderate 8 to 12 reps own is
better for building pure size resin
reality all rep ranges can be effective
for this still I think there is a
practical hypertrophy zone somewhere
around 6 to 15 reps this is because even
though reps above 15 can still cause the
same growth they're also very taxing on
recovery for no extra benefit and by the
same token reps lower than 6 tend to run
an extra risk of injury from heavier
loading so while in theory there isn't
anything magical about the 6 to 15 rep
range in practice it is the most
reasonable and you should spend most of
your time working in this rep range just
occasionally dipping below it or above
it but hopefully by now it's clear that
there is no reason to think that doing
higher reps is gonna help with toning or
doing lower reps is gonna help with
bulking all rep ranges build muscle and
no rep ranges are particularly good at
burning fat okay so the next myth pretty
much everyone falls for is that you
should only train one body part per
workout early on most people are
encouraged to follow a split something
like this one where you hit chest on
Monday back on Tuesday Wednesday is leg
day Thursday is shoulders and abs and
then arms on Friday and then you have a
rest day on the weekends and this is the
split that I followed when I first got
started and I think the idea behind it
is that you want to split up your
training so you can really just destroy
one muscle per workout and then give it
a full week to recover and grow but as
it turns out research shows that a full
week between workouts is way more time
than you actually need and there might
be an upper limit to how much of benefit
you can get from just killing one muscle
in a single workout in the scientific
literature this has been proposed as a
per workout upper threshold for volume
so rather than absolutely destroying
your chest on Monday with 12 sets you'd
be better off splitting up those twelve
sets across two workouts so for example
using a push-pull leg split you'd hit
six sets of chests on the first push day
and then the other six sets on the
second push day and you can check out my
push-pull legs science applied series
for more examples on that also the
entire point of training isn't to beat
the muscle to a pulp
it's to stimulate muscle protein
synthesis and make the muscle more
sensitive to amino acids this is what
actually triggers the muscle to grow as
you can see in this figure from Damas
and colleagues when you train at time
zero muscle protein synthesis spikes up
for around 24 hours after training but
then goes up back down probably going
back to or near baseline around 48 to 72
hours after lifting so this means that
after just two or three days you're not
really getting anything from that chest
workout anymore and you'd be better off
hitting chest again in a couple days now
in more advanced trainees this response
operates on an even shorter timescale so
after just ten hours or so muscle
protein synthesis starts to go back down
and within a day or two it's back to
near baseline levels again so this might
offer some theoretical basis for a high
frequency full body training routine in
more advanced lifters now I think it's
important to say that I don't think that
so-called bro splits are totally useless
I personally managed to build a ton of
muscle myself using a body part split
for at least three or four years when I
first got started with lifting and I
know several top natural bodybuilders
who still use a bro split so it clearly
can and does work and I've been saying
this for a while four years ago I
uploaded a video explaining why I think
bro splits aren't actually as bad as
people make them out to be and
interestingly enough this year a new
systematic review and meta-analysis
looking at 25 studies concluded that
training frequency actually doesn't
significantly impact muscle hypertrophy
when volume is equated and this goes
along with what I've been saying all
along the best training split is the one
that allows you to get in an adequate
amount of volume per week while
distributing your working sets
throughout the week in a way that allows
you to recover and perform optimally and
I would say the main reason that the bro
split isn't the best apart from all that
theoretical stuff is that cramming all
those sets in one workout isn't going to
maximize your performance on those sets
later in the workout you're going to be
more tired and you won't be able to move
as much weight as if you had just split
that workload up across two or three
workouts throughout the week also in the
real world hitting each body part more
once a week is usually going to lead to
more weekly training volume anyway which
tends to cause more hypertrophy so it
isn't so much that bro splits are
terrible and you'll never make gains on
them it's just that they probably aren't
the smartest way to set up your training
routine and from a practical perspective
our most likely gonna end up leaving
some gains on the table and this is why
and my fundamentals hypertrophy programs
which is designed for beginners I
included three different splits a full
body program and upper/lower program and
a modified body part split all of which
are very effective so the third myth is
the idea that you need to get sore in
order for a workout to be effective and
I just don't think this is true at all
soreness is the result of a novel
stimulus not necessarily an effective
stimulus so for example if I were to go
run a marathon after recording this
video I'd probably be very sore the next
day but that doesn't mean I would have
built any new muscle because there'd be
no tensile stimulus for growth or for
some reason I decided to start stabbing
myself in the leg repeatedly I'd be
significantly more sore than after a
well-designed
leg day but the leg day would definitely
cause more muscle growth and in some
ways I would say soreness can actually
be a negative thing for muscle growth as
it can interfere with performance for
example I just finished my upper/lower
program where I hit my upper body every
two days now if I annihilated my back on
day one and was still really sore on day
three that would undoubtedly interfere
with my ability to perform my best on
that second upper body day which is what
really matters for progress with that
said I will say that soreness can be a
decent indicator that you actually hit
the muscle if you were trying to hit for
example if you're new to doing hip
thrusts and the next day you only feel
soreness in your lower back and
hamstrings that's an indication that you
perform the exercise incorrectly and
that you didn't actually target your
glutes properly now but still assuming
you're using proper form progressively
overloading and choosing exercises that
actually target the muscles you're
trying to grow I'm not really convinced
that getting sore really tells you much
of anything useful so rather than
relying on soreness as a gauge of a good
workout I think you should instead look
to your workout log did you lift more
weight this workout and the last workout
did you do more reps than the previous
workout did you improve your form in
some small way three more focused during
the training session I would say these
metrics are far more valuable than just
how much your muscles hurt the next day
okay the next myth that pretty much
every beginner falls for is that muscle
confusion is really important for
shocking the muscle to grow I discussed
this in more length in a recent research
summary video that I posted last week so
I'm not going to go into too much detail
here the long story short is that
research tells us that it really doesn't
matter if you're constantly switching up
variables from week to week
because progressive tension is the main
thing driving growth actually I would
say that if you're constantly switching
things up it can actually stunt your
progress because there's no
intentionality to your progression let's
say one week you're doing lat pull-downs
next week you're doing Hammer Strength
machines with lots of drop sets the next
week you're doing weighted heavy
pull-ups by constantly switching things
up it becomes so much more difficult to
actually progressively overload on each
individual exercise this is why for
beginners I actually recommend the exact
opposite approach you want to keep the
core of your training routine exactly
the same from week to week this way
you're gonna master form while getting
stronger on those movements this is
gonna cause the muscle to grow so much
better than constantly switching things
up well now with that said your training
doesn't need to be boring you can't have
some exercises that you swap in and out
and you can be more flexible with those
and you're welcome to change the reps
and even add in some drop sets or
whatever else but I would say that
having at least one or two main heavy
movements per day that you stick to get
better at and get stronger with is smart
for example on a pull day including a
pull-up and a pen delay row each and
every workout for at least eight weeks
is gonna ensure that each and every
workout you're improving something on
these two movements whether that be
weight technique mind muscle connection
or some other form of progression okay
so the fifth myth we're gonna cover here
is no pain no gain which basically means
if you're not killing yourself in the
gym and taking every set to failure and
the muscle just isn't gonna grow and
this of course isn't true now it is very
important that you apply an appropriate
level of effort in the gym but as I
explained in my video on effective reps
based on the data that we have muscle
growth is very similar between a set
taken all the way to failure in a set
that leaves one or two reps in the tank
and since taking sets to failure
especially on heavy compound exercises
can cause more fatigue increase injury
risk
breakdown and reduce the volume that you
can do later in the workout I generally
recommend reserving sets taken to
failure for the last set of an isolation
exercise while leaving one to three reps
in the tank for everything else and if
you guys want more detail on that I
definitely recommend checking out my
full video on effective reps which I'll
link down below so for all other
information I want to direct you guys to
my fundamentals video series here on the
channel which covers all the basics you
need to know as a new lifter and if
you're looking to make all this stuff
more actionable in the gym I definitely
recommend checking out my fundamentals
hypertrophy program which was designed
for people in their first few years of
training and before we go I want to
thank Squarespace for sponsoring this
video
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that have been using to run
Jeff nipper calm since 2014 I think and
they make it really easy to redesign my
website feature a new program whenever I
have a new one ready for launch and even
set up affiliate links and other tabs
for content and Squarespace has really
aesthetic designer custom templates and
24/7 customer space for showing your
support on the channel thank you guys so
much for watching don't forget to leave
me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one
[Music]