are you overtraining the odds are you're
not overtraining is actually quite hard
to reach within the gym overtraining is
defined as a consistent decrease in
performance lasting several months
sometimes if you train really hard you
might be getting into something we call
functional or non-functional
overreaching where by training really
hard for a few sessions in a row and not
allowing full recovery to occur you may
or may not then see an increase or
Rebound in your performance and
potentially muscle size for performance
this is relatively well documented and
results in something called functional
overreaching where you see a benefit at
the end for muscle size this is less
well documented when don't go so well
you don't see that rebound in
performance and that is called
non-functional overreaching within the
evidence we very rarely see many
instances of non-functional reaching or
of overtraining within resistance
training in fact one of the only studies
where there's been evidence of
overtraining has been where they expose
people to 10 sets of one rep max on the
squat daily for several weeks on end
odds are you're not doing this there
have been studies of people doing up to
150 to 200 sets a week and they still
saw a benefit and didn't overtrain so if
you're doing anything reasonable within
the gym in all likelihood you're not
going to overtrain