and locking out your joints is no
riskier than tons of the stuff that the
very same people who tell you not to
lock out do all the fucking time without
ever thinking about
it hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance puration I have a question
for you if you lock out your elbows or
your knees I promise I'm doing it
another the table here during training
does that make you immoral will the hag
be interested in putting you in Euro
jail forever maybe and does it really
make you a bad person let's find
out you've probably heard some of you
who've been in the gym long enough about
an Infinity number of
times that'd be a sweet meme to make
it's like all the atoms in the universe
huge number number of times I've heard
not to lock out knees and elbows in the
gym plus one that
shit you've heard it a bunch don't lock
out a ton you've maybe even seen videos
of lockout accidents especially with the
knees and and hack squats and leg
presses really just leg presses I guess
and this has convinced you that lockouts
are a terrible idea and even without
accidents you've heard people say that
degrades your joints it unloads the
muscle etc etc so should we just not
lock out is it better safe than sorry is
that a Dependable principle we can apply
to all human Affairs and this human
Affair well maybe but let's ask some
questions first these are the kinds of
questions that most of the people ProMag
gating this idea
seemingly have never asked
first how high actually is the acute
injury risk from locking out like what
are you really in for does a black hole
automatically open and suck in the next
5 kilometer radius around you or is it
less dire than
that I'll give you a couple of ideas if
you actually
lift a weight you can do for at least
five repetitions with a reasonably full
range of motion and can control it
if you use a good technique with that
weight that's not collapsing into the
weight and then shooting back up into
the sky pointlessly if you're
controlling the movement at all times
the risk of acute injury from locking
out your knees or your elbows is
insanely
low it is no higher than the risk
generally of bench pressing I can tell
you this the the number of injuries or
the injury rate of Peck tears at the
bottom position of the bench press of
quad tears from squatting of back
injuries from deadlifting and Rowing is
almost certainly higher than of acute
injuries from locking out at the top of
any of those movements or the leg press
or whatever you have it doing preacher
curls exposes your bicep tendon to a
massive lever arm tons of torque the
very tiny tendon that attaches to your
bone is that also risky yes everything
in the gym is risky and locking out your
joints is no riskier than tons of the
stuff that the very same people who tell
you not tock lock out do all the fucking
time without ever thinking about it and
if you're saying well okay look but
better safe than sorry let's just not
lock out and maybe not even do that
other stuff I have another problem to
put in your risk management is almost
certainly completely
miscalibrated because you are putting
yourself under much higher risk in
totally otherwise benol and unnotable
conditions that you engage in all the
time way more risk than locking out for
examp example hiking way more people get
hurt hiking than locking out their
joints in the gym you step on a rock it
moves snap your ankle helicopter ride
that cost $300,000 the Rope snaps you
die well that was a pretty bad example
but you know what I'm saying hiking gets
fucking people hurt all the time because
you're on rough terrain there's a lot of
mystery shoes etc etc what about a sport
like swimming people get hurt in
swimming they get their shoulders hurt
from too much of this too much of that
almost every competitive even
recreational sport in which your body
moves dynamically through space and not
through a completely prescribed and
controlled range of motion that is
lifting weights in a gym is more
dangerous basketball holy fucking snap
City forget about it way more dangerous
and if you're ever curious feel free to
look up the injury rates for
bodybuilding and compare them to the
injur rates for almost every other sport
you're going to take your six-year-old
daughter and pull her out of gymnastics
real quick if you think that one through
but don't do that because it's good for
children to experience some risk
injuries aren't the end of the world all
that shit builds resilience and if
you're really serious about minimizing
your injury risk you would never leave
the home and if you leave the home
enough to go to your garage to train or
to a home gym setup or even to the real
gym well shit then you're driving and
that's a really high-risk activity
especially on the freeway at high speeds
when you get to the gym and finally
avoid to lock out by a millimeter you
are barely moving the fucking needle so
when you're saying it's too risky to
lock out the question of well too risky
compared to what is a question that if
answered properly like we just did leads
you to nonsense and you're just
apparently really freaked out about that
shit for no reason at all it's like
people that will drive a car at 90 miles
no problem but are deathly afraid of
spiders most of those people will tell
you look I don't really think spiders
are that dangerous it's just mental
thing that I should be getting over how
many people die of fucking spider bites
in America not that many how many people
die have car accidents not that many how
many people die of their knees buckling
and then getting folded in half fuck oh
we're not talking about death we're
talking about injury it's still an
unbelievably low rate because almost
everything you do in the gym even though
the weights are heavy and scary is
insanely safer than anything you do
dynamically in real life that remotely
looks like a sport or physical hobby
because of that unpredictable nature
because of the higher speed and anything
in which you jump up off the ground any
sport and land is going to be more
dangerous than anything you do in the
gym so unless you're just never playing
pickup basketball pulling your kids out
of gym class really the whole locking
out thing is just some kind of distorted
risk analysis now you say okay fine fine
fine fine it's not very likely at all
that I'm just going to snap my shit up a
I lock out my elbow flies over the other
corner of the room and that old lady
that finally started lifting weights get
hit with my fucking part of my elbow
bone and then she's never coming back
again that's traumatizing but hold on Dr
Mike doesn't locking out grind your
joints down over time that wear and tear
is going to be something you paid for
there's always that old motherfucker in
the gym that's like hey don't lock out
man I used to be just like you and able
to walk and use my arms but I trained
with lockouts too much and now I can
barely move and like is that guy right
no he's not why because locking out your
joints does not hurt them over time your
joints evolved to lock out that's why
the fuck they lock out and yes underload
it just has to be an intelligent
Progressive load with adequate rests and
Del loads and active rests such that
drum roll your joints actually get
stronger over time if you consistently
safely lock out under control your
ability to resist injury and wear and
tear in that lockout position escalates
it doesn't degrade if you lock out all
the time regularly under control
intelligently you are going to be
building a buffer for injury and just
being straight up more resilient here's
the thing folks even though it's 2023
we're not that fragile your body is
antifragile it is an Adaptive system and
if you in a graded controlled manner
expose it to delaria stimuli it usually
nuts up fucking puts his testicles on
the table and fucking gets better at
shit which means that your joints get
stronger over time number three all
right I fine Mike you say to yourself
begrudgingly while slamming your iPhone
against your
desk I'm not going to get a traumatic
injury in all probability from locking
out I'm not going to grind my joints
down to a pulp imagine your joints in
like one of those old school pencil
sharpeners that won't happen
but Point number three you retort
doesn't it take tension off the muscle
when you lock out if I'm doing leg
presses and I lock out my quads for a
second or lock out my legs don't the
quads significantly turn off or turn
down their muscle activity doesn't that
make it easier on them it absolutely
does but it also gives them a break and
then you can do one or two or even four
or five more repetitions in that set
because every time you lock out your
muscles get a little bit of a break they
getting pushed very close to failure
then you lock out they get a bit of a
break they drop some fatigue that growth
stimulus from coming close to failure is
already set in you do a couple more reps
and then you lock out and you even if
every rep is locked out you get a mini
break so your muscles instead of getting
close to failure if you're not locking
out and you're like I can't lift this
anymore you have to Rack they get a
little bit of a close to failure effect
which is good it's good it's good
training nothing wrong with it at all
but if you lock out during presses or
during leg presses shoulder presses
bench presses anything that little
lockout gives you some rest and as long
as you don't just fucking quit if you
keep going and keep doing reps with
lockouts it lets you float close to
failure for longer one two three even
five reps more close to failure training
in any given
set training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same if you just do leg press with a
given weight that's your non lockout
10rm you never Lock Out Just sh lock out
right back down Just sh lock out right
back down you might be able to do 10
reps and then you have to Rack it
because the next rep would just Crush
you if you lock out between every rep
and let's say even for extremity sake we
say you rest one full second at lockout
you may be able to do 12 or 13 reps and
those last two or three reps are two or
three reps fucking really close to
failure which is where tons of growth
happens so instead of the last three or
four reps being really hypertrophic in a
set of 10 where you don't lock out in a
set where you do lock out you get
another Chi wiiz a total of six or seven
reps let's call it five or six reps
that's a whole lot better you might get
more hypertrophic yield more growth
simulus from locking out then from not
locking out so give that some thought
that's something to Nole on for a bit so
no it does it does take tension off the
muscle yes but the result is because you
get extra rest you may actually be able
to grow more
muscle so with all that taken into
account is the conclusion that everyone
should lock out do we go in the gym and
just go slam our elbows no if locking
out just feels icky for you don't do it
if when you're locking out you seem to
notice a worse effect for your muscles
and your joints are hurting a bit and
you don't like it don't do it you don't
have to lock it out any reason you think
of for
yourself that concludes don't lock out
is totally find you never have to lock
out it's not like well you got to do it
for better gains nah the gains are about
the same so if you don't want to do it
don't do it but please if you don't lock
out for the love of God stop telling
other people they have to stop locking
out and you could tell people that but
then there's no compelling reason to
believe you and people look at you like
you're stupid which is my entire fifth
grade year was uh it was hard it was
really fucking hard guys
I'll see you next
time