big Ramy does a set of bicep curls that
is more systemic fatigue than people
doing hamstring curls because his biceps
are bigger than your hamstrings but his
heart is roughly the same size well in
his case maybe three just because he has
so much love to share with the
world welcome back Dr my wolf today with
Dr Mike Isel this is like a a later
episode of the sports scientists where
all your friends have left you and I've
come to replace
them please allow me to introduce myself
your host Dr Mike isrel and my
co-host and now it's just all fake
doctors it's it's true or are we the
real doctors I mean where did you get
your PhD from I don't remember eBay
Alibaba express.com it was actually
University of Phoenix online oh Trump
University I never filled out I never
did a test I just paid money how many
Buck 15 20 Buck I it's in rupees from
India so I do yeah had a guy from fivr
take it for you as well I believe so
respect you're great company anyways
real phds real doctors in fact here
today for part two of the rest time
series part one is over on Renaissance
pation Channel but in this video I want
to focus on a more practical application
of the rest time stuff because
specifically I've seen you use a
checklist
for should you go for your next set have
you rested for long enough do you need
more rest are you making a mistake in
your hypy training and while I know a
fair bit I think at this point about the
rest time research I'm involved in the
most recent metanalysis on the all the
rest time data in fact I was involved in
the extraction of the data so I had to
look at each individual study and
extracted the results um there's about
like nine studies I think what I want to
get from you in this installment of the
series is how you use the checklist what
your alha it is and what even is the
checklist so let's start with how would
you recommend a traine auto regulate
their rest periods between sets and do
you have General recommendations as far
as duration of rest goes and as far as
the actual checklist sure the checklist
comes as a result of trying to figure
out how do we get high quality sets so
we have to answer the question of what a
quality set is and the second part is
without resting longer than necessary
because if you rest a long long time you
get all of your energy back and your
next set is guaranteed to be ultra
productive the only concern with rest
time literature outside of how long you
are in the gym is are you resting so
short that each successive set is
considerably less productive that is by
itself not a major concern in all cases
because in my view hypertrophy stimulus
works like like filling a cup it doesn't
matter if you do it in 20 little spurts
of the soda machine or one long Spurt of
the soda machine as long as you fill the
cup you're good to go as far as my most
recent examination of the evidence on
rest times it seems to uh highly agree
with that such that if you rest very
short times you just have to do more
sets if you rest very long times you can
do fewer sets as long as you fill the
cup all as well generally now there are
exceptions to that we do know that very
short rest times can interfere with your
ability neurally to recruit the
musculature if your cardiovascular
recovery hasn't occurred yet you can gas
out before the muscles do anything for
example if the reason you rack a squat
is because because you're on rep
12 and you can't breathe anymore your
quads may be four or five reps away from
failure as a muscle but your lungs are
failing and so if you didn't rest long
enough to get your breath back before
the last set you can always do more sets
and make up for it but your efficiency
and the degree of other kinds of fatigue
neurological fatigue cardiovascular
fatigue that you're summating just might
not make a whole lot of sense so what I
want to do is kind of give people a
broad Strokes perspective of how long do
I need to rest to make it highly likely
not for sure that the next set I do is
going to be a relatively productive set
as a standalone concept I'm not even
talking about doing more sets or fewer
sets to make for the difference so to me
it's it's a couple of things one is
cardiovascular if you're still breathing
really heavily before your NE set there
is a probability that that next set you
will hit failure in your cardiovascular
system before you hit it in your
muscular system and that's no good
because great training for your
cardiovascular system but if you have
like five reps left in your quads but
you can't breathe anymore and you rack
the weight you're done I did that on
hack squats yesterday as a quick aside I
think leg training is a surprisingly
good form of cordial yes like people are
like ah lifting weight isn't functional
it's not making you healthier have you
seen the view to Max of many healthy
relatively Advanced jacked lifters who
also between legs their view to Max is
probably like in the best for longevity
sort of bracket totally totally yeah 55
to to 60 that sort of thing fine yeah
100% so um you know on hack squats
yesterday I definitely had one or two
extra reps left in my legs but I
couldn't breathe anymore so I racked the
weight and that kind of sucks I that I
rested long enough for my cardio just
kind of was outpaced by you know how uh
how uh uh my my my legs are more jacked
than my card is in that regard so
checklist item number one if you're
still breathing super [ __ ] heavy
before your next set starts it is
unlikely that that next set is going to
be your most most robust stimulus to the
Target muscle because there's another
limiting factor there number two is a
very very poorly barely undefined term
that I still think has some uh weight
behind it and it is uh your
psychological perception of how strong
you feel because um activating and
recruiting especially the most large
fastest witch high-end motor units
requires you trying really hard and if
you're so psychologically tired you know
just that g feeling after a set like if
someone was like hey do you think you
could beat that guy up you're like yeah
after a set of 15 to failure in the leg
press you think you could beat that up
you're like hold on a sec man I barely
lift your own leg out of the machine so
if you still feel weak I would say it's
good to rest a little longer until you
feel strong like I'm ready to go close
to failure again if you're not there yet
I'd say rest longer um exercises like
deadlifts bent rolls ones that affect
your soul a lot you need some time to
get your mojo back wrist curls you never
use your mojo to begin with so it's no
big deal so that's Factor number two and
if you're still breathing Ultra heavy is
unlikely that you're psychologically
prepared to go again maybe but also
those two have an interplay there the
next one and this is a very important
one and I don't think this one's really
up for debate if your synergists are so
tired that you can't synergists in any
so synergists or um stabilizers of any
kind are less recovered than your target
muscle they're going to be the limiting
factor on that next exercise and you
will not be able to drive that muscle
close to failure the good example here
is
if someone's like hey you ready to do
your next set of squats your quads are
good to go but your lower back actively
has detectable lactic acid in it like it
still Burns you're going to fail by
bowling over in the squat and it could
be eight reps in reserve for your quads
now it's just back training uh here's
another one forearms and pull Downs if
your forearms are still pumped to [ __ ]
and fried don't do another set of pull
Downs you're going to get six you could
have done 18 if you had Versa grips on
right so that's Factor number three
synergists can't be the limiting factors
you need enough time for them to rest
now in some exercises like calf raises
there are no synergists so that one just
goes away and the next one is we know
that roughly sets of five to sets of 30
are effective for hypertrophy and sets
of 1 2 3 4 are very effective but you
have to do so many of them in order to
sum up enough juice in the cup to get
growth that like if you're resting so
little time that your next set is three
so little time that your next set is two
it would just rest a little longer and
get a nice robust set to do something
with uh Al it's also much easier to
focus on technique if you have a few
reps to lead into it if everything's a
cluster set sometimes it gets [ __ ] so
if that muscle can do at least another
five reps then you're ready to go and do
another set again also for tracking
perspective imagine tracking let's say
if you're doing wrist curls and you were
like okay I got to do another 10 sets of
two or one to get to my volume Jesus
Christ just rest in and then get all the
10 reps done in in in a certain uh
single time and also the neurological
fatigue of that short of a rest time and
the imposition of constantly having to
work degrades variable number two so I
would say as long as you can do around
at least five reps the target muscle
itself is rested long enough to get at
least another five reps in that's really
good here's another thing why they think
that last part matters when you get very
fatigued and you start doing like uh
everything is a cluster set
your fastest twitch largest motor units
are generally just smoking a Sig at that
point now they're still active to some
extent they still get hypertrophy but
not as much and those are the muscles
that grow the most if you take very
short rest times to where you're doing a
set of one set of one set of one there
is a chance you're majorly focusing on
the slower twitch musculature and they
do they do grow but not as much So the
faster twitch fibers they need rest more
than anything else and you want them to
be a big limiting factor but also get
some [ __ ] work in and that means like
you're good to go it's kind of like if
if you uh bring your kid to Disney World
and he you're like i' got to hit this
ride this ride that ride and he's so
tired from the last ride that he doesn't
want to go yet getting him to the next
ride yeah you can put him on the roller
coaster but he's not having any more fun
where the [ __ ] did you go to Disney
World if it not have fun for your kid I
don't I'm not 800 lb heavy and he's the
Jack person in your Father's son
relationship he takes Mickey Mouse's
head clean off his body and heats it and
you're like all as well all is well it's
all for fun folks this is just an
illusion it we were there to stimulate a
lot of fast witch fiber hypertrophy as
much as we can those fibers need time to
rest so that is even more support for
that at least rest long enough to get
five good reps in and feel yourself also
here's another thing Milo if you feel
strong like ready for a set your faster
fibers are probably going to be able to
turn on if you're coming up to your next
set with a short enough rest time to
where you feel weak me you ain't
recruiting [ __ ] now of course recruit
something I'm just kidding but it might
not be as much so to me that's the four
Factor rest model your cardio is pretty
good you feel pretty [ __ ] strong CER
just aren't in the way and you rested
long enough for at least another set of
five or so if you're not checking those
boxes and you're going faster just doing
more total sets can probably make up a
vast majority of that difference as far
as I understand it but you could be
missing out some faster fiber stuff
might just be cashed out at that point
and then you're doing slower fiber pery
might not be is good but if you're
resting here's the other part of this
equation if you're resting much longer
than those factors so let's say
someone's like you doing another set of
legs or what and you're like oh don't
know man I need more rest she like okay
you're breathing heavy and you're like
no do you feel strong I felt strong four
minutes ago synergists like what are
those okay fine how many reps do you
think you can do like at least 18 so
like why are you spending another 5
minutes in the gym where you could have
just done another set now there were to
that usually is people say well instead
of getting 15 reps I can get 18 reps now
and that's dope but why not just do 15
rest half the time do another 10 you're
25 Reps versus 18 in the same window of
time that area on the C is suddenly much
larger area under the curve is larger or
the same with way less time so a lot of
times it's like you have the psycho
crossfitters no offense fellas just just
jokes that will take like 3 second rest
breaks between everything and wonder
that I can't grow much and then you have
the [ __ ] lazy ass powerlifters no
offense fellas all jokes that are like
resting 25 minutes between sets because
every set needs to be the perfect set I
think that four Factor rest model
completely bere of any direct literature
on rest times gives us a good heuristic
model to at least like all of my [ __ ]
sess pump the rest of it detects really
bad edge cases and really terrible bad
ones on the other end and puts you into
a range that is and I'll say reasonable
that's it beautiful um a couple of
followup questions on that that case one
is this sounds like it's mostly in the
event or in the case of people who are
looking to maximize stimulus to fatigue
ratio right for any given set or any
given walkout really for people a Time
ratio so you think that that same
checklist applies verbatim to people who
have limited time or would you still
because ultimately spoiler from part one
if you haven't watched it yet there is
diminishing returns to how long you rest
right so like huge you can get 80 to 90%
of the effec a set potentially by just
resting one minute right might you get
up to 100% of the potential
Effectiveness by resting up to say two
maybe 3 minutes what maybe but then
could you potentially if you're
constrained on time do three sets with
one minute rest at 80 to 90% of the
effectiveness and only Take 5 minutes to
do that versus getting in three sets
with the optimal Effectiveness and
getting a bit more hypertrophy overall
for say say the same fatigue
theoretically yes but in much less time
so uh here I would say it's not a
stimulus to fatigue ratio it's raw
stimulus magnitude exactly uh so if for
raw stimulus magnitude that's what the
scale is best designed for um if you
rest longer than the scale stimulus to
time ratio is for sure dog [ __ ] if you
rest shorter than the scale your
stimulus to time ratio can be much
better but the amount of raw stimulus
magnitude might be lower and and then
it's kind of like this scale I designed
is for people very serious about hyper
if you're not super serious about
hypertrophy just pretty serious compound
alternating antagonistic super sets is
just basically the
you're going get 89% of your and you do
not have to rest a long time and you can
still do it but if you're like dude my
qus don't grow but I see you breathing
and vomiting between every set I'm going
to slow the [ __ ] down and your quads
might grow better so essentially with
the checklist for people who are more
constrained on time and therefore by St
Str so stimulus of time ratio you would
ear a little bit on the side of let's
say your optimal rest time just as far
as RSM so raw stimulus magnitude would
be 3 minutes between sets for people who
on time you would be a little bit below
that typically maybe even significantly
below because I think something that
people Miss on the stimulus to time
ratio and optimizing for time efficient
workouts is they'll say look I'm losing
50% of my RSM yield per set resting this
little yes but you're resting four times
less time so it's actually a twofold
increase right so then you get a
two-fold increase and then all of a
sudden it's like I'm sorry if you want
to and this is public service announce
if you want a very high degree of
jackness for kind of a regular person
just trying to look [ __ ] great and
you want to save time in the gym you are
going to be sweating and breathing heavy
hours are going to be oh my God week
yeah for
100% look if you want to save time
that's a 20 or 30 minute workout bro
stock loaded machines or dumbbells
instantly go like a warm so chew ready
to go super set you know
and then people say like well my set
quality has degraded dope but you got
plenty of time to do more sets but isn't
more sets more time sets don't take that
much time resting takes a lot of time
and the good [ __ ] if you're busy and
don't have that much time to train
anyways is that you probably don't need
to worry about fatigue that much nope
like if you're in the gym 2 hours a week
or an hour a week you don't need to
worry about fatigue bro about training
yes and everything to failure by the way
and Beyond at that point and uh that's a
really big deal and so uh I think people
sometimes misconstrue what it is they're
going for they'll say I'm trying to save
time and then they're like but what
about resting for like a really good
Peak contraction or robust whatever and
I'm like no no no no no you're back to
being a prob bodybuilder again Pro
bodybuilders spend two hours of time in
the gym which they damn well should be
because it's their job if it's not your
job the [ __ ] is going to [ __ ] suck
and you're going to do lots of sets in a
short time with very little rest and
another bonus point you get an awesome
cardiovascular workout from that [ __ ] if
you're a regular person who just wants a
great Fitness level 30 minutes four
times a week backto back compound
alternating super sets is going to get
you an an unbelievable amount of
muscularity and it's going to be really
coming close to the you know various
World Health Organization checklists for
cardiovascular work too and you will
understand what we mean if you ever try
this Y no for sure the final question I
have on this topic is from your
practical coaching experience being
around the gym and all that if you had
to speak in Broad Strokes what things
impact rest times like for example do
you typically find lower body exercises
require longer rest times to meet these
factors than upper body exercises do you
typically find that more advanced people
require long rest times what broad
Strokes can you speak in yes that will
dictate that on principle definitely one
is the the muscle mass size of the the
exercise that you're recruiting so like
squats recruit a whole lot of muscle
that lifts even more that amount of
metabolic dump is going to require more
time to rest so that's a big one and
another one is how big you are because
that's another way of expressing total
muscle volume that you're uh you're
doing another one that's related because
of cardiovascular requirements right oh
totally well so if you're really big
your heart is roughly still the same
size it's like working hard relatively
big Ramy does a set of bicep curls that
is more systemic fatigue than people
doing hamstring curls because his biceps
are bigger than your hamstrings but his
heart is roughly the same size well in
his case maybe three just because he has
so much love to share with the world so
so that's one another one is strength if
you're stronger it's just going to [ __ ]
you up more it's going to cause more
fatigue another one is if you are um
have a higher level of androgens which
Bridges the male female Gap and the
enhanced unenhanced Gap you have a lot
of androgens floating around you can try
really hard you can't even help yourself
feel a canary in the coal mine and
that's going to mean you need a
considerably more rest another one is
degree of advancement if you're more
advanced that probably means you're
bigger and stronger Etc but it also
means you know how to squeeze a lot out
of your muscles beginners will fail and
you're like how do you feel they're like
okay and you're like do another set
right now Advanced people will fail fall
out of the machine you're like we're not
starting right now cuz he can't even
walk I guess on the flip side if you've
never trained before or you're just
really sedentary you might find that
your conditioning is so poor initially
that your rest times are actually longer
totally totally and then at that point
uh that's like the kind of leading into
real training phase that you're dealing
with another one is um the degree to
which the exercise uh trains or taxes
the anti-gravity musculature postural
requirements machine chest supported row
it's just really your back and not even
your lower back you're fine squats
deadlifts bent brows the fact that you
have to contract your posture muscles
the entire time there's a two Factor
problem one your posture muscles get
tired and then there's the synergist
problem two is it just so much total
muscle contracture that your
neurological and cardiovascular fatigue
skyrockets like you think you can do
short rest times on every exercise try
doing it with sets of 20 in the deadlift
good luck you're you're like I can't get
up 135 right 100% oh yeah oh yeah we had
a workout with Danel Lin Bailey actually
in our Channel a while back and we
started with high rep deficit deadlifts
I mean she was laying on the ground for
like five minutes between sets and one
One does not simply say okay do it again
she's like I can't get up like right
okay I guess you need more rest so those
kinds of exercises um also exercises
that have a large total range of motion
because they have to they produce more
total work work energy exp which has
formations with cardiovascular
you said lower body earlier which I
think is super [ __ ] wise but it's not
categorically true cuz your calves are
in your lower body they don't that much
rest hamstring curls seated curls
exensions whatever you do them right if
right I just started doing them recently
cuz my Rec fam [ __ ] sucks and I'm
bringing them up but of course I'm lying
back like person should so those are to
me the things that would generally
require more rest time um smaller muscle
groups for people that aren't as strong
very small ranges of motion uh exercise
sizes that have no synergists uh forarm
curls oh what the [ __ ] I legitimately
take here's how I do forarm curls when I
do uh bench wrist curls you know wrist
curl over a bench with a dumbbell I do
this I go like this I stretch my wrist
out I do this I go like this there is no
rest and you're like what about
cardiovascular like I do not lose my
cardio doing wrist CS if I did I would
have a real big problem in j- Jitsu um
those are the kind of exercise don't
require a lot of rest time which is why
slight little Soap Box I'm about to get
on here for just a second when people
try to give universal time requirements
one to 2 minutes I'm not a big fan of
that I like it for regular people going
into the gym I love it but in the next
level of lifter seriousness you cannot
tell me that calf raises require a
similar amount of time for rest versus
deficit course all exercises is a bit
silly it's a bit s but Milo how many
times you see YouTube videos of people
like this is how much you rest between
sets see you next time if your program
says a 3x1 on everything and your
program says 1 to 2 minutes of rest
between every exercise and you train the
same muscle group six times with six
different variations of the same broad
movement pattern in the same session
your programs dog [ __ ] yeah yeah and
look it'll work and it's great and
you're fine have fun but there's so much
to be the surface area exposure exactly
for further optimization is nearly
infinite and and and you'll tell from
your program you'll be like dude
deadlifts man my sets really fall off
towards the end cuz I can't recover but
like C raises I'm standing around
looking at my watch and I'm like I I
could have gone minutes ago like no no
no trust me you need to rest like no you
don't Mike it's been a pleasure Milo I
love it if you want a second video on
rest times make sure to check out part
one or part two whichever one it ends up
being but in the meantime if you like
the video please comment like subscribe
go check out the RP Channel and I'll see
you guys my subscribers in that next one
peace