and can I say one potential piece of
Hope for the future that may make people
consider doing ridiculous things
hyperplasia we say it doesn't happen in
humans it probably does don't temp me
I've I've put that off in my mind for
forever folks welcome I am Dr Mike is
Rell here for Renaissance periodization
we are super excited to have Dr Eric
Helms here one of my esteemed colleagues
and he works for 3dmj and they have an
amazing YouTube by the way that you
should be checking out there's I would
say significantly more formative than
ours but less giant bald round-faced
 making stupid jokes so it's just
better um
Eric stretching is something that women
and old people do it won't get me jacked
it died I think in the 80s with yoga
you're saying stretching can maybe get
me jacked and you tried something and
you have some studies let's hear about
it yeah this is some crazy stuff and you
know it actually goes all the way back
to highly unethical animal models where
we took anals loved it they I mean we
didn't ask and we didn't know how to ask
you tell they love it but you assume
right they especially like being
sacrificed so anyway back in the day um
and this is how we actually learned that
mechanical tension was one of the root
causes of skeletal muscle hypertrophy
you take quailes primarily or chickens
with a few rabbit models and you put
them under constant stretch like
mechanisms weighted things put things on
their wings yeah for for those animal
lovers I I'm I also uphor when I read
these studies don't read them just know
that they did things that resulted in
extreme stretching yes sometimes for
days for days don't worry in nature
right now hundreds of animals are dying
in the worst possible way and now and
again now and again now we're missing
all the trigger warnings for the people
who like animals so but the result is
was these massive increases in
hypertrophy we're talking not only uh
hypertrophy by socir and series but also
parall okay that means we're not just
stretching the muscle out uh because
like technically that's hypertrophy like
if my let's just say for uh comedy sake
if my genitals were about this wide but
got twice as long you could go to your
ex-girlfriend be like baby my is
all different I was twice as big she's
like oh that's what's up she pulls it
down and then she's like that's just a
spaghetti dick you weirdo and
you're like well it didn't mean thick
but this means it not not only did the
muscle get longer but the muscle also
got thicker corre it's just Arnold bird
was the quail like Quail sound and the
next thing he was like absolutely yes I
fig 100% so um yeah so we're seeing
increases in cross-sectional area as
well as length right so this is really
interesting now the perspective only a
few years ago was this is an only an
animal phenomenon I don't know why
people ever said that it's only been
seen in animals well I'll tell you why
yeah because there were some studies on
stretching Inhumans yes mild stretching
protocols and unfortunately I think the
way the typical person even when they're
trying to be evidence-based they look at
research as black and white if you said
intervention was stretching and the
tested measurement was hypertrophy and
the outcome is no significant difference
stretching doesn't work correct next
thing however uh a group led by waran
colleagues out of Germany basically
figured out as a part of his PhD
dissertation what's the most the human
will tolerate and let us do an
experimental applied study that's a very
German I'm not going to make any more
jokes about that cuz we'll get canceled
but please continue and then let's try
it out and they used a calf stretching
model with an orthotic device that pulls
you into dors of flection so it takes
you and puts you into a calf stretch
position correct and it locks you in
there yep and there's a key that's
controlled by a satellite that you can't
unlock until an hour goes by not exactly
the last part's not true correct you can
always unlock it yeah so they don't
don't do it an hour a day right sitting
upright like this back
foot out on something and they stretch
themselves to an 8 out of 10 pain
discomfort and they hold it for an hour
per day8 out of 10 like when I show up
to the hospital and they're like how bad
is your stomach virus eight out of 10
well it's like pain stretching
discomfort okay so it's in the context
of stretching do they tell them it's
going to be for an hour before they ask
for you to rate the scale because like
an eight out of 10 for me is like panic
and survive for 10 seconds so they keep
it at that eight and then each time when
they do it in the next session it has to
get back to an eight so you're getting
more and more flexible over time and
even acutely you get more flexible right
what starts out as an eight 60 seconds
later you're like yeah yeah so the
results are what's crazy over multiple
series of studies they they've compared
men and women finding that women get
less benefit out of this probably
because they have more stretch at the
start so there's less tension applied so
the more flexible you are probably the
less you're going to get out of this so
the less the muscle pulls back basically
like you put them in the in the the
stretch position and they're like it's
Tuesday right so the women still grew it
just was less than men sure right um
most you just say women are less than
men I said the women grew less than men
you trying to cancel me I I try it it
didn't work you're still here I thought
people just disappeared when you did
this I I wouldn't know sorry one quick
follow have never been canceled one
quick followup did the the study
subjects at least get a Game Boy I know
a Game Gear would be a lot to ask for to
play why they did this but there was a
Game Boy they could do whatever they
wanted unbelievable I wonder how many
brought a Game Boy so over six weeks
this has been done how many times a week
daily shut up daily six days daily
or seven days seven days daily they
showed up to a place they did it on
their own okay that's a ltic device well
it worked so they clearly did it enough
enough um so what they and the most
important study is they compared it to
three sessions per week this is the
experimental comparator two groups one
psycho stretching for seven hours a day
control didn't do measured pre and
post like look you're still the same
correct stretching orthotic device
intense yep long hourong duration daily
so it's high intensity high frequency
High duration and then the third group
is three times per week five sets of
calf raises failing in the 10 to 12 rep
Ranch well this likes uh more generous
than what the average bro does for Cals
it's an extra day basically yeah two
extra days so you're comparing 15
minutes of hard calf sorry 15 sets of
hard calf training that would take you
about 45 minutes to 7 hours of Highly
painful continuous stretching yes and
they had very comparable increases in
not only muscle thickness but strength
which is really interesting strength
crazy yes
really goes to show you a few things
please correct me if I'm wrong one is
that definitely a proof of concept of
stretch mediated hypertrophy
100% second definitely a proof of
concept that resistance training is
insanely more efficient than trying to
stretch away to gains maybe because
there's another study going to talk
about I shut up and you say go go so the
critiques of this were basically you
know I had a tagline in the mass article
I wrote about this Le this latest study
I said the world found out that you
could stretch your calves for an hour
per day as hard as you almost as hard as
you can and they to grow them and nobody
cared nobody cared because why would I
do that I would just do calf raises
right it's a lot of pain so the
critiques of it are one completely not
feasible right and I've actually done
this for 12 weeks yourself myself not to
someone else correct
we did a case study of me um which we
can talk about in a bit but I can tell
you the name of my next album by the way
case study of me I like that so we did
uh I've done this and I can tell you
that it is absolutely as awful maybe
even more awful than it sounds I thought
you were gonna be like it's not that bad
you're like it's that bad it is that bad
100% um so really not feasible not time
efficient no one's going to do it is the
first critique and and that's completely
valid all true the second critique is
the mechanism that is proposed to induce
this is mechanical tension and people go
well that's the same mechanism as
resistance training redundant not going
to work in trained individuals this is
only done in recreational athletes right
now there's a huge issue with that
because we're very much painting with
the broad brush when we say mechanical
tension so that is One Singular concept
yes we'll talk about that see muscle
fiber aric is just made of one
homogenous type of thing it's not an
insanely complex arrangement of a 100
molecular machines designed or five
whatever whatever please continue we'll
have to come back to it gives me crazy
overation drives me wild
absolutely it is frustrating and then
the third critique is well you know what
this is probably just a phenomenon in
the caves for various again why would
you say that why suppose it could it be
true definitely but like I could also be
the only bald man in the world I haven't
seen another bald man around why would I
suppose that that's true well the
argument is that certain muscles are
very difficult to actually reach high
tensions of stretch because of just the
way they're structured on your body and
that you'll stretch you stretch other
structures that are liming factor with
the typical abilities we to stretch them
yes and that's where this next study
comes in okay Wallen and colleagues and
war is on this paper but it wasn't the
one leading it did a PEC stretching
study and they only stretched four times
per week four for 15 minutes not
terrible and they got similar
hypertrophy to doing the same exact
protocol they with calf raises but with
Peck flies same amount of time basically
training correct so now we're comparing
45 minutes to 60 Minutes of stretching
very similar so now the time efficiency
Gap is vastly closed who are the
subjects they were a group of men and
women at a University campus who are
recruited from the Sports and Fitness
Halls recreationally active oh so
they're participating in sport or
Fitness wow okay so these aren't just
like Harry Potter clones I would call
them recreationally trained right
and again very similar hypertrophy
results very similar strength results
slightly better range of motion gains in
the stretching I hope but still
great range of motion games in lifting
intervention better some still exist in
the lifting intervention I mean lifting
which is awesome is stretching if use a
full range of motion yes it's not as
good as what they did yes now it sounds
more feasible and it absolutely is more
feasible but there's an intensity change
here okay so what they had was they had
them set up and basically like a 9090
abduction external rotation position
straps around the elbows this already
sounds like my Saturday morning with my
480 pound dominat it's BDSM y bench
deadlift squat military Pro um so
they're laying on a bench like this if
you look them from from the side and
they have their feet against the wall
with their Hip Flex literally me tied up
anyway so they can't arch their back and
lose stretch holy now the straps
are actually attached to
a load cell great so it's measuring the
actual Force response and they have the
wraps they're self- ratcheting so
anytime the person is relaxing into it
that is the new position they're stuck
in this is a torture device set a third
they didn't have him at eight out of 10
they had them at maximal stretch
discomfort so like you press the red
button when you want but if you don't
want to press it we're still here
correct so the the position they
initially got into was what the
participant said I cannot handle any
more stretch that is the most I can
handle oh anymore I see correct not I
can't handle this stretch correct okay
so and then when they actually have a
plot in this study where they show the
graph and there would be a relaxation
effect of course so the muscle tending
unit is acutely adapting to the stretch
they get a little more and it ratchets
and then you see the force curve go up
on the load cell yeah it happens again
and it ratchets again yeah and they
would do this for 15 minutes right so
this while this is not a full hour I
guarantee you those are probably the
most fit uncomfortable 15 minutes those
people had in their lives unless you
were high as and then it'll be
amazing a machine that auto stretches
you you just Vibe out for 15
minutes sign me up my concern is that
you might not be able to rate what
maximum discomfort was and you could
maybe get injured oh come on there's no
machine that can hurt me Eric maybe not
you humans in your toys outliers that's
the problem super villin Arch just got
in there by accident so while this does
seem a lot more feasible this is the
caveat is this intensity might have been
required to offset the8 of the time that
was being applied so I don't know for
sure um but it is really intriguing that
if you can do a very very high intensity
stretch you don't need to do it daily
you can do it four times a week you
don't need to do it for an hour you can
do it for 15 minutes and you're going to
get comparable results to doing 15 sets
to failure of peack flies y so I think
that's really interesting does this have
application yet the big question is what
is the mechanism of action here we know
it's mechanical t
and I know that means some people just
dismissed it and hey this is redundant
if you're trained because like if I just
isometrically contract here same same
but I don't think that's the case we
already know that's not the case because
accentuated stretch already is superior
to same amount of mechanical tension
supplied at the top range and now we
have a deep confirmation of a profound
theoretical stretch study confirming
that there something about the stretch
that does this so we know the body
detects tension the muscles detect
tension a variety of ways we know that
some of the tension is passive some of
it is active we know that tension at the
stretch is effective for causing
hypertrophy when you have lots of load
in your hand and you're just down here
but it's also effective at causing
hypertrophy when you're just like put in
a bird cage and they do this
 to you yes Eric from Real World Gym
stuff let's say none of us have enough
time for even 15 like because look
honestly real talk I am not putting
myself through 15 straight minutes of
pain four times a week I don't
give a if my dick is going to get
bigel maybe maybe there but but barely
I'm just I'm working with a lot of right
now I don't saying condoms don't fit in
any case um uh just lifting wise yes
what do we take from this General
understanding that's emerging about
stretching and hypertrophy what is good
to do what is good to not do absolutely
I think this shows us one of the
mechanisms by which training in a
lengthened position or at longer muscle
lengths or even just the same muscle
length but biasing the tension at the
longer position is likely uh you know
causing the hypertrophy or at least a
small part of it I would I would suppose
probably a small part of it another
potential application though is however
let's say you're traveling yes and
you're in an area where you don't have
access to gym equipment um or let's say
covid happens again that you know I
would ideally have liked to have that
not happen it never happened the first
time or it was planned I don't know
planemic that didn't
happen China didn't do it because it
didn't happen all of those things are
logically consist yes um I think if if I
was in a position where I was like you
know what I can't get to the gym and I
have 15 minutes absolutely I think
there's a role for getting really
serious about it and doing stretching
yes so you know when I travel uh ideally
I'm going to a place where there are
high quality gyms but sometimes my
coaching responsibilities like I
remember I went to 2017 worlds in bellus
I wasn't trying to find a gym magical
super capitalism they flying cars yeah
what I brought instead was bfr WS right
and I was doing body weight lunges right
I would also put them around my
shoulders and do push-ups it's not
ideally designed to train your pecs but
if everything else fatigues out quickly
there actually a study showing can
induce PEC growth and then I'd get what
I could on the combo racks between
sessions oh nice I made it work yeah and
if i' had this tool in my tool belt back
then I guarantee you I would have done
been doing some some pretty serious
stretching in my hotel room as well yes
I'm going to give two more
recommendations Eric tell me if they're
totally wrong one recommendation is if
you're traveling if a gym that kind of
sucks you can use the accentuated
stretch for an even better uh option
than you otherwise would have thought so
for example two scenarios one is you
only have like a little ledge like a
staircase to do calf races off of that
you're at home you have a couple
dumbbells that's it do you just say okay
well I'm not heavy enough I hold this
dumbbell I still have 50 rep max do I
just do my calf raises regular and just
so I wish I had a machine that did
200 pounds no you don't have to do that
you can actually sit at the bottom
stretch for four whole seconds pulse up
once down for four pulse up once down
for four doing reps like that means your
50 PB dumbbell now was a pretty
awesome stimulator so you're you're
there with that recommendation the only
thing I would say is um this may sound
like oh pause reps are a really really
good idea get a lot of passive tension I
would say that it's unclear at this
stage that the potential negative effect
of those long pauses where you're
actually long getting the muscle on the
concentric portion of it and the overall
stimulus of the exercise
um is positive or negative I don't know
if the tradeoff is worth it I would say
that I agree with you in conditions
where the only external load you have
access to would require ridiculous High
High Reps then yeah you manipulate it
that's that's the only thing I was
saying I agree second thing is if you
just don't know any better no studies no
inferential models and you have two ways
of doing the same exercise one gives you
a perceptive gnarly stretch at the
bottom in the Target muscle and one does
not or one machine does and one does not
your best pick on the average is the one
that get you the stretchy I would agree
unless it you up in some other way
like taking your load down by like 80%
or something yes another way to do it
and if you watch the uh the leg workout
that we filmed yes yes um I only train
CS twice a week right and in this
session that we filmed I did four sets
I'm not concerned about overdoing it
based upon what I've tolerated in the
past yes and systemic fatigue with Cavs
as non so on my very fourth set after I
went to failure I'm not worried about
performance being impeded by stretching
because I can't do anymore yeah so on my
very last Ecentric I hung out in the
bottom for as long as I could tolerate
it maybe what' you say 20 seconds yeah
oh yeah right so now I'm getting a
little bit extra stimulus that's not
negatively impacting anything else yep
might as well post exercise stretching
get off the PE fly machine grab a couple
poles lean through for another 30
seconds it's like a good cherry on top
and for me that extra range of motion
flexibility it also gives you a little
bit better of a pump kind of a roundness
look to your muscles for whatever
 that that holds up with it just
it's it's ASMR feels nice I don't like
to after training I feel kind of tight I
like to stretch a little bit and if it's
that Target muscle right after it even
when you you know you stretch your
biceps for a bit after your last set get
that water back in there the fluids your
pump looks even better it's that little
cherry on top you don't have to do it
but it's a great time to do it very
little fatigue cost and at usually a
little bit of a benefit and can I say
one potential piece of Hope for the
future that may make people consider
doing ridiculous things um
hyperplasia okay we say it doesn't
happen in humans it probably does don't
temp me I've I've put that off in my
mind for forever I mean if it happens in
animals it probably happens in humans
with the right s hum are not animals we
were created never mind so anyway in
these original studies on quailes
chickens Etc because they actually
sacrific them we the muscle and count it
huge amounts of hyperplasia were
observed inre multiplication the number
hypertrophy is take one cell grow it
hyperplasia is you multiply that cell
hyperplasia plus hypertrophy is you get
more cells and they're all bigger
hyperplasia Is the destiny of truly
insane gains yeah at least theoretically
right um that is observed in these
long-term stretching protocols um it
hasn't been observed although we don't
really have the mechanisms to look at it
I would say that there is a very low
probability and I'm being highly
speculative that there could be istic
effects of stretching and resistance
training that if you were a psychotic
bodybuilder like myself and you couldn't
make your calves grow you might decide
to do 12 weeks of boot stretching six
days per week and by the way keep an eye
on PubMed because we submitted this as a
case study oh excellent and I did it on
top of my resistance training and I had
uh an intro period where we didn't have
it where we looked at what my normal
trajectory of change was then we also
measured at the end of the 12 weeks and
then again a week later to make sure it
wasn't just Welling sure cuz I was doing
20 sets plus 6 days a week of an hour of
stretching you really want big cows you
guys have the answer um one benefit
upside to you was that your ability to
dorsy flex your calf ankle Mobility
improved so much that you can sink in
the ballest most deep RP leg presses on
your off day no problem that's an
awesome thing for especially folks that
train like we do like we don't we hate
the ankle Mobility I
want it to be as high as possible and so
you got a big side benefit out of that
that's hung in there for you for a while
yeah one thing I did is that after I
went through this stretching period I
started incorporating not that I wasn't
doing any before but I started
incorporating a lot more uh lengthen
partials um pauses at the bottom of calf
raises stretching at the end of a set
because I damn sure wasn't going to keep
doing the orthotic device yeah but I
didn't want to lose that range of motion
because based upon that women vers men
study I think it makes sense that the
benefit you get will be maintained if
you can maintain that range of motion
you have I have or at least 90% of it
good enough Eric I want to learn more
because I'm a nerd I have no
friends at all I want to go on the
internet have pretend friends I'm tired
of RP I need another company where do I
go you want to go to mass research
review.com if you like this kind of
nerding out conversation I not only
write articles but so does Eric Trexler
yep so does Lauren Ceno simple y so does
Mike zeros and by the way I also do
videos so if you don't want to so if I
sign up for the mass research review but
I'm illiterate correct I can still get
an audio stream and a sexy Captain
America voice out of you also we do
audio summaries of every single one of
the Articles you WR oh NE is it an AI
summary or a robot voice no it's me hey
in my baritone voice reading to you the
highlights of the article I wrote and
then I'm also I don't always do videos
but if our backlog goes all way back to
2017 there are literally hundreds of
videos from the video Department which
is me and my zeros that's a true
educational resource guys give that some
serious thought follow Mr Dr Eric Helms
wherever he is on the many social medias
and we check because I think your Tik
tok's your biggest thing definitely
Instagram Instagram yep Tik Tok is my
biggest thing Helms 3dmj you will not
find me on Tik Tok we do have a 3dmj Tik
Tok but it's not me I can't do it I
can't do it it's tough folks go give the
Chinese government more of your personal
information and we'll see you next time
[Music]