welcome to the house of hypertrophy in
your quest to unlock the next level of
your physique you'll come across certain
popular ideas from the bodybuilding
realm some have been dismantled by the
scientific literature do you still
believe them it's possible as they are
repeated again and again believing them
has the potential to not only hold back
your results but even your training
enjoyments by the end we will have
separated facts from fiction in five key
areas and you'll have some knowledge to
help you along your muscle building
Journey the pump is a temporary increase
in muscle size achieved from lifting
some think of it as a preview of
upcoming solidified gains during intense
muscular contractions a flow of events
involving increased blood volume and
fluid explains the pump some find
immense pleasure in the pump a
satisfying to me as com is some say
maxing the pump maximizes gains in fact
popular bodybuilding coach hany Rambo
devised the fs7 program including
components of higher sets and shorter
rest to maximize the pump the belief
being this stretches out the fascia to
make room for growth multiple highlevel
bodybuilders have trained with this
method luckily this 2023 paper had
trained individuals perform an FST
inspired program for the B BPS and
triceps the volume was super high and
the rest between set short one group
actually stretched between some of the
sets while another rested passively the
result overall arm hypertrophy in both
groups was minimal with multiple
non-statistically significant gains some
even slightly lost size possibly as the
higher volumes led to excessive damage
that oriented the protein synthesis
response to repair rather than growth
now as detailed in some other videos at
the house of hypertrophy higher volumes
can produce respectable hypertrophy but
there's good reason to believe the
pump's relation to hypertrophy is not
strong when researchers have phological
induced reactive hyperemia protein
synthesis isn't improved multiple
training strategies also enhance the
pump but not your gains higher reps
evoke a greater pump but tend to be
similar to lower reps although
Super High Reps can produce a tremendous
pump but inferior gains drop sets
involve performing multiple bouts of
reps def failure with progressively
lighter loads they will produce an
incredible pump but seem to largely be
similar to normal
sets a constant tension technique avoids
locking out the joints and elicits a
great pump but the majority of the
research finds them to be similarly
effective to a normal technique so so
what does this mean for you don't worry
about maxing the pump think of it as a
byproduct of your training not the goal
this is not to say you can't chase the
pump many of the techniques that produce
a greater pump do not compromise gains
so feel free to enjoy that pump if you
[Music]
like time under tension refers to the
duration of one of your sets a longer
time under tension or reaching a desired
Target is often recommended in this case
we find that the time under tension
that's best for building muscle is
around 40 to 60 seconds long take those
15 reps a lot slower than normal to
increase the time under tension the
popular Mike Mena even recommended a
slow 4sec lifting and 4-second lowering
Tempo tension has been identified as
likely the primary initiator of muscle
hypertrophy so you may logically deduce
time under tension is important but what
does the scientific literature say a
recent recent review finds that provided
your training hard and getting two or
near failure slower tempos which involve
higher time under tension largely
produce similar muscle Hy pery to
comparatively faster tempos on top of
this we've already noted how provided
you training hard and getting two on
their failure the research finds a wide
range of rep numbers are similarly
effective for stimulating gains most of
these studies use a 1 to two second
lifting and lowering tempo although reps
naturally slow down as you near failure
either way time under tension is widely
different across this range but gains
are similar so what's going on time
under tension shouldn't be mistaken for
mechanical tension the tension we care
about is optimized by training hard
getting to or close to failure forces
the body to recruit all the fibers we
can and expose them to tension this
kicks off events in all these fibers
that conclude in growth and yes this
means both lower and higher reps can
similarly involve high tension when
people PR long time under tension a lot
of that initial time is very far from
failure accordingly what we may call
time under high tension which is what
matters ends up being similar what all
this means for you is it's absolutely
not essential to prolong or reach a
specific time under tension threshold
you can do it if you like since it's not
inherently detrimental but don't let it
stray you away from the main aim
achieving time under high tension which
is largely no more complicated than
getting two or n failure in that 6 to 35
rep
range this part somewhat links to the
pump a shorter rest time between sets
invariably enhances the pump
additionally it's been known since the
'90s that shter rest between sets
transient ly enhances the elevation of
anabolic hormones like growth hormone
bodybuilders notoriously use shorter
rest between sets this 1987 paper
established a subset of bodybuilders
rested 10 to 90 seconds between sets and
this more recent 2013 analysis found
after surveying 127 competitive
bodybuilders the majority rested one to
2 minutes between sets despite this we
have well-designed papers finding that
resting 2 5 to 3 minutes between sets
actually produces greater hypertrophy
than resting for less time what's going
on well transient anabolic hormonal
elevations do not appear to be strongly
related to the hyper process in general
it's possible that longer rest more
effectively dissipates fatigue that
would otherwise limit your ability to
expose your fibers to tension having
said all this there are not worthy
considerations the majority of the
mentioned research to use programs
heavily including compound exercises
with isolation exercises it's possible
shorter rests are fine moreover if you
are using shorter rests performing extra
sets could compensate for example this
paper found each session with a leg
press around four to five sets with a
minute of rest between sets ultimately
produced similar gains to three sets
with 3 minutes of rest between sets
anyhow the key takeaway is despite the
common practice of bodybuilders shorter
rest between sets are not Superior so if
you need to take your time between sets
particularly between compound exercise
sets rest assured you're likely helping
not hurting your
gains lifting weight causes micro tears
in your muscles your body then repairs
the damage and enlarges the tissue this
is probably the sing single most
frequent explanation for how muscle
growth happens muscle size increases as
a result of the damaged protein fibers
the resulting cycle of damage and repair
eventually makes muscles bigger and
stronger causing micro tears in the
muscle fibers the body naturally repairs
this damage by Ming the torn fibers the
result is a muscle that's larger and
stronger than before a consequence of
this is many may feel muscle soreness is
essential and a valid proxy to know
gains will occur although it's
interesting to know there are multiple
potential causes of s
damage might not just be the only thing
going on nonetheless what does the
literature say about damage and
hypertrophy there are a few cases in the
literature where researchers find that a
program with greater average damage just
ends up producing similar muscle
hypertrophy to a program with lower
average damage furthermore your body
adapts and reduces the damage you see
from training over time but significant
growth still happens finally although
there are speculated pathways through
which damage causes growth there are
strong counterarguments to them none of
this is to say damage plays no role in
hypertrophy although it's possible
researchers end up discovering it has no
role regardless what we do know is it's
not the primary stimulus for growth as
of right now tension is the best
categorized mechanism behind hypotrophy
so the real thing that needs to be torn
apart is the notion that micro tears are
the prim initiator of
[Music]
hypertrophy the term muscle confusion is
thrown about a bit Arnold seems to call
this the shocking principle the idea is
that your muscles can become stale and
to combat this we need to surprise the
muscle by introducing new workout
variables or unusual exercises what does
the current scientific research say this
paper recruited trained subjects one
condition performed the same program
across 8 weeks while another condition
switched in and out different training
variables across every session of the 8
weeks the result hypy was similar
between both groups this second paper
had some trained subjects perform the
same program across 8 weeks while other
trained subjects let a phone app
generate what exercises were to be
trained for each muscle every session
the result Hy pery was largely similar
between both groups to be fair sensible
training variation over the very long
term could be beneficial but we don't
know right now even so it's clear
frequent training variation in the time
frame studied fails to enhance gains for
those who've long believed muscle
confusion is fallacious you may be
surprised it largely wasn't worse but
perhaps it's not too surprising as I
hope this video has portrayed one of the
most crucial things is to train a muscle
hard to expose it to tension there's
more than one way to do this having said
this I still believe there are benefits
to not training in an unpredictable and
excessively varied manner at the end of
the day I think following a consistent
well-designed program is a good idea for
most people amidst all the noise it
certainly can be frustrating and even
timec consuming to craft an effective
program that gets you closer to your
dream physique but the alpha progression
app which is essentially your personal
muscle building assistant in the palm of
your hand can help you unlike other apps
that craft garbage programs the app
intelligently crafts a program that is
actually effective for complete muscular
developments the training variables are
fine-tuned and based on the scientific
literature best of all it is 100%
tailored to what you want let it know
the equipment you have how much you can
train and if you want to preferentially
Target or neglect certain muscles this
can all take you less than a minute and
further modifications to personalize
things even further can be done the app
has extra impressive features during
workouts the app's algorithm carefully
suggests how you make Progressive
overload to help push you to the next
level unlockable achievements reward
your hard work and help you stay
motivated aesthetic graphs automatically
display your long-term progress and
there is a huge EX exerz database of
some of the best muscle building
exercises with straight to Theo videos
and distilled instructions behind each
try out every single one of the premium
features during a free twoe trial
through the link in the comments and
description if you like it and go beyond
the link slashes the price of a
subscription down by 20% the app truly
is exceptional with a numerous reviews
speaking to
[Music]
this
here are the summary points thank you
for watching feel free to check out the
alpha progression app or our recent deep
dive into building the LS