[Applause]
[Music]
I honestly don't think that I did like
it at first I think I hated it but it
kept me away from home so I went into
the gym 3 hours a day eventually I just
liked it and I think without training
without developing the love I did at
such a young age I don't know if I would
be here still my name is Jared feather
and currently I am in grad school for
exercise physiology kinesiology whatever
want to call it it all falls into the
same umbrella during my master's I've
been working with Renaissance Critias
ation as their head physique and
bodybuilding consultant growing up it
was me my siblings and my mom for the
most part it was just us there were six
of us and my mother had a rare tumor
that's hereditary
sometimes our does it take over with
some responsibility for helping my
siblings the town in general really is
like a big sort of drug town like a lot
of cocaine and meth and things of that
nature
we'd have food stamps but there are six
of us sometimes we didn't have enough
food stamps we would all be looking
forward to the first of the month
because that's when we got them and then
it'd be a week of food and then to be
three weeks of hell basically
[Music]
my friend said come after school with me
to weight training but she was the same
way super rough we had met in one of
those housing places that we lived in
together and he's basically say hey come
to a train with me after school one day
so I did I started seeing more muscle
Bill and more muscle build every week
and it kept me motivated to do that it
kept me away from home and it eventually
just fell into the process and fell in
love with the process
it's obviously genetically I just kind
of was more apt to adapt into the type
of training we were doing and I love to
grow the most muscle possible I love
seeing how we can modify variables
through science and mathematics and data
and make good humans great I actually
won my pro card and natural bodybuilding
last year one of the youngest
professional bodybuilders in natural
bodybuilding currently the day before
like my kind of year anniversary of
being a pro I ended up winning a
professional bodybuilding show as well
one day I'm going to be on the Olympia
stage it's going to happen unless I get
hit by a car or I die tomorrow I'm going
to
I had I think ten clients last year who
turned pro which is really cool I love
coaching whenever I sit here and I'm
answering my clients and I'm making new
programs for them I don't feel like I'm
working I feel like I'm having a
conversation with other intellects and
it's awesome
they asked me some of the most amazing
questions that anyone could honestly I
like to talk to people a few my sets I
like to help other people while I'm in
the gym I get down to the nitty-gritty
obviously whenever it's all said and
done I not only get to help other people
become the best but I get to help my
family and that's the ultimate goal with
all this
[Music]
I am Jared feather and I am the
Renaissance difference
[Music]