today we're reacting to the takes about
training and nutrition of the man of the
hour Mike
mener Mike mener jacked bodybuilder in
his own right had a lot of things to say
about training what I want to see today
is whether or not any of it is true from
a sport Science perspective keeping in
mind that a lot of his takes were given
20 to 50 years ago right and so I want
to make sure that I give him some credit
for being a bit of a Pioneer in some
ways however I also want to set the
record stet because a lot of people just
take his advice as someone who's
charismatic to be gospel right things
that are true no matter what he says and
what the actual empirical evidence on
the topic actually says without further
Ado let's review from a sports science
perspective I am going to suggest that
everyone start with what I have
determined through vast personal
experience as a trainer Works quite well
for most you will start by training once
every 4 days on a four workout protocol
so if you start on a Monday that means
you wouldn't train again till Friday
after Friday you wouldn't train again
till Tuesday then Saturday and so forth
once every four days first things first
I don't think you need to train just
basically twice a week on average as a
beginner you can train 3 days a week 4
days a week even 5 days a week as a
beginner provided your session volume
and intensity are properly matched right
the more often you train the easier each
session should be importantly we do have
compelling evidence that training MUSC
group twice a week is going to be
substantially better than training it
just once a week likewise there's some
weaker evidence that training it more
than twice a week may or may not give a
little bit more growth so I don't think
you need to abide by this hard and fast
rule that you can only train every 4
days as a beginner with that being said
with beginners specifically I will often
start them out on say two to four days a
week typically right two at the lower
end and four at the upper end and that's
simply because they don't need quite as
much volume as someone more advanced
likewise if they're new to lifting they
may not be all about going to the gym 5
6 days a week just yet and easing them
into it by having them train a little
bit less frequently can be helpful and
if a scheduling problem arises so that
you can't make it into the gym on day
four take off one more day and train on
day five also once you've been with the
program for 3 weeks or so start
inserting an additional rest day or two
even at
random if you do you should never hit a
sticking point and here's why and this
is where I disagree I think as you
become more trained if anything for most
people the muscle damage the
inflammation and the soreness that they
get from a given session actually
decreases and this is what we call the
repeated bout effect and indeed for
their best gains more advanced training
typically need to do a bit more volume
than beginners and if you have them slow
down on how often they're training that
actually goes directly opposite of what
you want to do for your best Gams
likewise he's attributing causality here
where it's not warranted he's claiming
that if you don't take extra rest days
as you become more advant advaned your
progress will eventually slow and come
to a halt the truth is that is just a
progression curve of any person training
your gains slow down over time no matter
what and in fact if you look at Mike
men's physique he didn't just make
linear gains forever right he made some
of his best Gams when he was younger and
then his gains slowed down in spite of
adopting his philosophy which he's here
claiming will in fact result in
consistent gains over the years as
opposed to a Slowdown because you're not
taking sufficient rest some may want to
have the workout program with the
additional points in their training
journal to take to the gym if so write
down the words day one close to the
upper leftand corner of your paper and
then write the word chest next to it the
number
one exercise number one for the pecs
will be pec deck for six to 10 reps to
failure now from here on you won't have
to write the words to failure as that is
a given and 6 to 10 reps is merely a
suggested guideline there is nothing
magic about the number 10
if you reach 10 but you see you might go
to 13 reps to failure don't stop at 10
go to 13 I agree with that there's
nothing magical about given rep range
and it's more about reaching a specific
proximity to failure on a given set with
that being said I'm not sure what do a
session with PE deck because it's an
isolation exercise and so typically what
you see in the research is the same
muscle group suers sets or pre-
exhausting where you're training a
muscle group with an isolation exercise
first and then a compound doesn't really
lead to more hypertrophy and
theoretically by fatiguing your chest
before taking it into compound exercises
like the barbell bench press you are
limiting growth for example in your
triceps and in your front delts because
your chest will fail prematurely in that
exercise causing your triceps and front
dels to lag behind reps but only four or
five don't stop and reload get four or
five the next time you'll likely get 6
to 10 and if you don't have access to a
pet deck then flat bench dumbbell flies
or cable crosses may be substituted I
agree that you do not need a specific
exercise to see growth right if you
don't have this exercise you can
substitute it for something similar and
you'll still get good growth directly
underneath exercise one write out the
word supet and directly underneath that
the number two exercise number two for
the PEX will be the incline press
preferably on a machine such as the
Smith Hammer I caran or Nautilus if you
don't have any machine for the incline
press you may perform either regular
free weight barbell incline presses or
inclined on Bell presses exercise number
two should be performed for one to three
reps not 6 to 10 one to three reps a few
things I agree with here are one to use
a closer grip but have your elbows flare
out a little bit this might increase
stretch on your chest a little bit
another thing I agree with is the use of
an incline press I think if you're doing
a fly already while you're covering the
lower chest and upper chest reasonably
well you might want a bit of emphasis on
your upper chest that's fair enough 1 to
three reps probably isn't enough I would
go for for at least five reps on any set
whether it's a my rep set a drop set a
super set I would say five reps is a
minimum for any given exposure to
Lifting for hypertrophy is a good idea
all right now write down the word back
still under day one write down the word
back and then the number one itself
exercise number one for the back will be
close grip Palms up pull Downs 6 to 10
repetitions close grip Palms up pull
Downs directly underneath that write
down the number two
which will be regular style not
stiff-legged but regular
deadlifts the regular style deadlift is
a very productive exercise the most
productive exercise of all in fact
because it stimulat so much muscle mass
everything on the backside of the body
from the Achilles tendon to the nape of
the neck the big issue with the claim
that the deadlift toets a lot of muscles
in your body at once there is some truth
to it right it does t up and stimulate
some muscle growth in a variety of
muscle groups however ever it isn't
really the best at stimulating any
single muscle group in fact it's kind of
suboptimal for most muscle groups
involved it doesn't usually get you a
full stretch on your glutes or your
adors usually you can achieve that with
something like a deficit split squat or
something like a deficit deadlift even
likewise it's not ideal for the
hamstrings because you're not getting a
full stretch because you're letting your
knees bent right so in an RDL you're
able to get a full stretch on the
hamstrings by keeping your knees back
the deadlift doesn't get you this
likewise the quadriceps just don't have
to do that much during this exercise
either as far as your upper back goes
like your traps your mid traps your
lower traps your woids they just don't
have that much of a rule yes they hold
on to the bar and they keep the bar in
position but equally they're very
unlikely to be a limiting factor the
most likely limiting factor by far are
going to be the glutes adductors and
hamstrings because those are the ones
that actually involve you picking up the
bar off the ground and making it go
through lock out so while deadlift does
Target a variety of muscle groups it
doesn't really Target any of them that
well and that's why an RDL is often
preferred because it allows you to fully
lengthen the hamstring the glutes and
the adors IT places more tension in El
position and it reduces the amount of
fatigue that other muscles might get
like for example your upper back your
quads by reducing the load involved
however there is a bit of a risk factor
here not seen with most other exercises
so listen carefully squat down in such a
fashion that your hips are at least
slightly lower than your shoulders and
most important of all keep your back
perfectly flat and your head up keep
your back perfectly flat and your head
up you might even pick out a point on
the wall that crevice where the wall
meets the ceiling and keep your
attention trained on that unwaveringly
throughout the idea that you need to
keep your back perfectly flat and your
head up or both just not true right
plenty of people can deadlift with some
flexion in their back without any pain
look at how a lot of power do train a
lot of them don't have any lower back
pain and can deadlift with rounded spine
the other important thing is that just
because your spine or your back looks
straight from the outside doesn't mean
there's no flexion actually going on
when your spine looks visually neutral
or straight from the outside there is
still some flexion and so I would try
not to fall for the fear mongering here
around the flexion of the lower back
likewise because there are no loads
imposed upon the cervical spine AK your
neck how you put your head position
doesn't really impact injury risk all
that much you may find that a certain
head position feels more comfortable or
allows you to maintain a position that
you find stronger or more comfortable in
general like some people find looking up
to promote spinal extension which puts
them in a stronger position or in a
position that doesn't cause them as much
pain on an individual level but again
with regards to your head position it is
not hugely influential and not something
I would worry about too much put the bar
back down reset and do another perform
five to eight reps as close to failure
as you're willing to
go there is no super set here by the way
there will be no super set unless I
specify and where there is no super set
you may rest as long as necessary but no
longer don't over complicate this issue
use your common sense let your breathing
slow down and as soon as you feel ready
to resume training do so do not allow
the workout to degenerate into a race
against the clock and don't minger
either with regards to rest times that's
a really solid piece of device if you
feel ready to perform another hard set
you're not too out of breath you can go
for it and if that set has a similar
performance to the last set that is a
good sign that you rested for
sufficiently long to maximize muscle
growth from that set generally that's
going to be at least 2 minutes between
sets based on the evidence we have but
use your common sense as he says and
just pay attention to Performance if
performance roughly maintains or doesn't
drop too much set to set you're in a
good spot if you have problems with your
lower back shrugs may be substituted and
do six to 10 reps to
failure so I would not use shrugs as a
substitute for deadlifts even if you
have problems with your back there are
usually other ex size that are
reasonably lower back friendly that you
can do that will actually Target the
main muscle groups involved in the
deadlift namely the glutes adductors and
hamstrings the hip extensors for example
you could do a single leg RDL or a
single leg deadlift wherein the load you
use is reduced by so much that all of a
sudden your lower back can often cope
with that demand and that stress however
because you're training one leg at a
time you can still effectively stimulate
muscle growth in the glutes adductors
and hamstrings with shrugs the only
thing you're really targeting are going
to be your forearms but mainly your
upper traps which is only one very small
part of what the deadlift might train
and by the way the deadlift also isn't
ideal for the upper traps so that
substitution doesn't really make
sense that's all on day one just four
total
sets then 96 hours or 4 days later is
day two write down the words day two on
day two you will train legs the first
exercise is leg
extensions super Ed with exercise number
two leg press not really a slight on
like Menor here but I think the leg
extension isn't the best exercise ever
it trains your quads exclusively in the
shortened position with a resistance
curve that is biased towards the
shortened position both things which
probably aren't ideal for hypertrophy
likewise the same comment as for the
first session I wouldn't start your
session with a superet with an isolation
exercise first Follow by compound in
terms of hypertrophy I would rather
someone do a compound first and get good
growth in a variety of muscle groups at
once as opposed to doing leg extensions
first going into leg press and having
their quads fail way before their hip
extensors like their adors and glutes
might you're not going to be doing leg
curls for a while just because an
exercise is done traditionally for a
certain muscle doesn't mean of course
that you are morally or legally bound to
do it all year round one of the first
lessons I learned as a trainer years ago
is that the leg biceps and the biceps of
the upper arm overtrained extremely
easily yeah I don't think we have the
evidence or any evidence really to clear
claim that the biceps and hamstrings
specifically overtrain easily I just
can't think of anything there in fact
when it comes to the biceps specifically
I've been able to train them with some
of the highest volumes in the whole body
without overtraining my performance is
consistent week to we or improving and I
respond sir but that is precisely how
you were training before and that is why
you made no progress and were prompted
to call me for counseling you so burned
yourself out with all those exercises
you dug so deep of a hole your body
never had the opportunity to rec recover
from the merely exhaustive effects of
the exercise let alone grow why not
build a 20-in arm first then worry about
the
details remember the issue of volume in
Anor robic exercise is a negative factor
and that your purpose is not to see how
many sets you can do or how long you can
endure your purpose is to do the precise
amount of exercise required to stimulate
growth then get out of the gym go home
rest and grow the line of reasoning here
isn't incorrect you don't just want to
do more volume for the sake of more
volume however if more volume leads to
more growth and the evidence thus
suggest it does to a relatively high
point of maybe 20 or more sets per week
per muscle group then you want to be
doing more volume because it will grow
more muscle so his reasoning here isn't
wrong but the numbers involved likely
are and that might just be an artifact
of when he was practicing bodybuilding
go drink some water walk around the gym
for a minute or two then finish up quite
simply with a set of standing calf
raises 12 to 20 reps and that is it for
day two day two looks almost certainly
too easy a leg extension super set with
a leg press and then calf raises that is
going to be an extremely quick session
where you could comfortably fit more
exercises in get a bit more volume and
probably see more growth so as far as
session design goes I don't really like
this session first session seemed a bit
odd full body which is fine I guess but
the sequencing of exercises was random
the super set to start the session it
just seemed a bit all over the place and
then the second session is even worse as
far as session design goes
96 hours or 4 days after legs is day
three and by the way 4 days between
sessions is almost certainly Overkill
given the volumes and relative
intensities he's prescribing here in his
second session for example he
effectively did three or four super
cessful quads after delt you'll work
your arms you might write down the word
arms exercise number one for arms is
barbell curls 6 to 10 6 to 10 reps with
barbell curls and that is a straight bar
not an easy curve bar easy curls do not
work the biceps they work the braak Alis
on the outer part of the arm do Straight
Bar Bar Bell curls now the claim that
easy bar curls do not train the biceps
is a really hot take it's just not true
right like if elbow flexion is involved
your biceps will be trained if elbow
flexion is involved all of your elbow
flexors will be trained because guess
what all of them perform elbow flexion
so your bracho radialis your brachialis
and your bis brachi will all get a train
effect when you're performing any sort
of curl so the idea that you need to use
a straight bar to Target the biceps and
an easy bar curl won't do it it's
completely made up that's not to say
that different curl variations may not
preferentially Target certain elbow
flexors a little bit more but that's not
to say that they won't get any training
at all exercise number two for the arms
is tricep press Downs with either a
straight bar or a v bar but do not use a
rope do not use a rope either a straight
bar or a v bar six to 10 Reps for the
tricep push down couple things not a
huge fan of using push Downs Asain
tricep exercise but that's very much
recent length and training prob is
better for hypertrophy the second thing
is I don't like his insistence on
specifically using this piece of
equipment categorically I just think
it's unnecessarily prescriptive when
there was no good reason to be that way
okay 96 hours later is day for legs yes
legs again so based on this he is
training his quads every 8 days which
again based on frequency and all that
stuff not ideal we want to be training
the quads at least twice a week for
maximum muscle growth don't do hack
squats unless absolutely forced to do so
hack squats are not very productive and
they stress the knees inordinately the
good old hack squats and [ __ ] squats
stresses your knees and don't let your
knees go over your toes and all that
it's all on a Continuum how much weight
do you use how long is the mov arm
involved categorically there's nothing
wrong wrong with letting your knees go
over your toes there's nothing wrong
with hack squats if you can tolerate it
and don't get pain do not be afraid of
movements I do like that he included
squats on this day because on the other
day he did leg press so at least there's
some variation involved here but again I
don't like the idea of doing leg
extensions yet again as an inferior
movement and super setting that with
squats it just seems to sacrifice glute
and adoctor stimulus for no apparently
good reason you will hold that position
statically this is called a static hold
rep the weight will be sufficiently
heavy so that you're limited to holding
the straight leg lock knee position for
approximately 10 to 25 seconds there
will come a point during that period of
course when you won't be able to hold it
anymore and you'll say to yourself if I
don't start to lower this thing in the
next moment or two it's going to go
crashing down do not let that happen
when you recognize it's necessary lower
the leg slowly and controll negative
fashion not hypers slow or imperceptibly
slow but under St control all the way
down to the bottom again this was Far
after his time but I think doing an ISO
hold at top of a light extension is
actually going to be worse for growth
you specifically want more tension in
that lengthened stretch position of an
exercise this is the opposite so I would
recommend against it and it's also
essentially a technique to go past
failure in a likelihood I don't know if
that's any good no one can really tell
you if it's any good right now because
we don't have evidence on it yet I don't
know then proceed immediately to the
squat and perform 8 to 15 repure to
failure one thing I will note is that
there's a bit of a lack of consistency
in the program design here on the one
hand when it comes to certain super sets
like some tricep and dip super sets and
some uh fly and incline pressing super
sets he recommends 1 to three or three
to five reps on the second exercise in
this case he's recommending 8 to 15
squats after doing a leg extension set
to failure essentially I'm not sure what
the rationale for these different rep
ranges is I think the 1 to three is
almost certainly too low and this is
probably too high but you know I don't
know I don't know what Mike men was
thinking of whenever I have a super set
listed as with PEC de and incline press
or leg extension leg press or leg
extension squat start the warm up on the
second exercise and please don't change
the sequence of exercises I've listed
everything I've given you here was for a
good reason which is not to say that you
can't periodically change exercises
although I would be hesitant as the
exercises listed are all the best ones
for the muscles involved two things one
I think it's a good idea to warm up on
the second exercise of a superet as well
he is correct there but two I would say
there is nothing magical about the
exercise selected here obviously at a
time he might have thought those are the
best ones based on what he knew but
nowadays with more modern science
essentially we're able to say that ah a
lot of these exercises you picked
probably aren't ideal the pump of course
is only temporary and does not indicate
that growth was stimulated
and if getting sore was necessary I
never would have won a physique title as
I almost literally never got sore
usually only after a
layoff you can only evaluate the success
of any one of these workouts by whether
or not you're stronger the next time you
perform that workout so there are some
fallacies involved here but he does have
some points the fallacy being committed
is assuming that because he didn't get
sore and didn't get much of a pump but
he saw success that these things are
entirely
unimportant right the reality is these
things can play a role and you can still
be successful in spite of them but the
assumption that your nals 1 experience
means that on principle this does not
play a role is a complete fallacy
however when it comes to the evidence on
how the pump relates the hypertrophy and
whether or not you need much soreness to
get much growth the evidence is still
relatively unclear as he says though it
is unlikely that you need to focus
entirely or exclusively on the pump or
the soreness as a metric of how
effective session was that is very
unlikely I would suggest that if you
have been training recently without a
layoff prior to the time you intend to
start this program take a break entirely
from training for two to three weeks
having been overtrained you've made a
deep to deep an inroad into your body's
recovery ability it is important that
this inroad be overcome so that when you
start with a properly conducted
high-intensity routine your body will
have recovered all the biochemical
resources necessary for optimal growth
production so that is the video just to
quickly touch on this final bit of the
video I don't think fatigue is nearly as
big of an issue as you claims here and
you probably don't need to take two to 3
weeks off to recover usually a week is
plenty unless you're truly an
overtraining syndrome which is usually
characterized by a prolonged consistent
decrease in your training performance
lasting several months so if for a
couple months you've consistently seen
your performance drop you may actually
be overtrained and then you may actually
benefit from a longer lay off from
training but for most people a de week
or just a week off hard training will be
plenty to recover from nearly any hard
lifting that's the video I'm going to
give Mike mener a guru out of 10 right
at the time very charismatic right made
some claims that may have been more
defensible at the time nowadays however
a lot of his claims are just easily
falsifiable based on the evidence we
have and outdated some of the basics he
preaches are on point though you know
like taking a set relatively close to
failure generally using appropriate rep
ranges those things are on point but
Mike mener is not someone I would go to
to base my training practices off of and
you shouldn't either that's the video If
you enjoyed this video consider
commenting liking subscribing let me
know down below who else you want me to
react to and evaluate from a sports
science perspective I wish all you guys
a great day and I'll see you next time
peace
that