folks it is the q a we are back dr james
dr mike here to answer your questions
from the youtube dr mike how's it going
it was a really essential introduction i
almost feel like you're posting like
some kind of like midnight hour love
podcast with that introduction remember
remember um dr drew
before he got into like celebrity rehab
and all that stuff yeah like my penis is
bent and it hurts my girlfriend what do
i do dude this one girl called in i was
like 12 years old and i heard this she
called in and she was like every time i
pee i have an orgasm and i think i'm
gonna die
and dr drew's like you're definitely not
gonna die i mean maybe you get hit by a
fucking car or something you're not
gonna die from this
and then and then he was him and who was
it him and uh adam carol
yeah yeah yeah and adam's like that's
the greatest why the fuck are you
calling us
that's the greatest thing that's ever
happened to you shut up about it don't
tell anyone but just enjoy all your
orgasms that was a great mismatch in
like personality types for that show it
just worked so well yeah and of course
like dr drew was like well now don't uh
yeah there could be something wrong and
i understand how it would be unpleasant
to have an orgasm eight times a day or
whatever so you know and in public uh
all the time but like you know uh here's
what you could do and who you can follow
up with and here's what it might be and
that's funny adam curl was like that's
not a problem that's the greatest thing
that's ever happened anymore drinks like
more water more gas seriously good god
um
all right all right i have lists of
names and they have questions
fantastic uh i got it pulled up let's do
this excellent all right so uh
riki maru the hulk
is first
and he says i have a two-part question
about unavoidable use of a muscle when
it's not recovered for context i have a
manual labor job that involves lots of
picking up holding and carrying very
taxing on all the pull muscles i train
back and biceps at the end of the week
so i can recover from that workout
during my days off in the weekend but
since i want to train those groups more
than once a week any earlier sessions
are inevitably followed by days at work
where i'm using my sore muscles my
question is my questions are how
detrimental is this am i merely missing
out on the better gains that proper rest
recovery would provide or something more
negative happening my assessment is
nothing more negative is happening other
than the fact that it's just extra added
fatigue means you won't either be able
to stimulate as well or recover as well
but the as well maybe like 15 difference
on both so you get 85 of the gains you
could have which is to say most of them
like for example
85 gains means if you know over a year
someone gains 10 pounds of muscle you
gain eight and a half like you can
barely tell the difference both guys
look like they gained almost the same
amount of muscle so that's my assessment
there and any advice and suggestions do
you have for those of us in situations
like this thanks for everything
sincerely my uh suggestion james is
gonna have a lot of good stuff here i
think the fact that you're training back
at the end of the week and
letting you recover through the weekend
is probably pretty swell i would also
maybe
um
do something where if you don't want to
feel sore all the time you can train
back a little less volume a bit more
frequently and then you're not really
disrupted much when you know your
muscles are never really going to get
very sore it's going to lead to some
similar hypertrophy and strength gains
you just have to train back a little bit
more often
but i think if you train back just
another time during the week and you
train it with very small amount of axial
loading because that can really catch up
on a manual labor job like you know more
chest supported rows and assisted
pull-ups and pull-ups versus more bent
rows and deadlifts kind of thing and if
you train it like that yeah it's just
not gonna work as well but it should
work just fine and when you're sore
um
and you're moving around at work and
you're like oh my back is sore but i'm
still using it remember that some amount
of use of a muscle when it's sore
actually leads to a faster recovery and
more growth because it pushes blood
through the muscle etc but also if
you're eating very well another thing
you can remember is that your manual
labor job keeps you artificially way
leaner than everybody else because your
energy output is so insane that if you
just tighten up your diet for a few
weeks a lot of times you can lose the
kind of fat with basically almost no
fatigue costs that other people would
consider as like insane and so your
downside is you will never have so long
as you have this job i tell you right
now you'll never have the kind of back
and biceps that uh you want uh relative
to what you're able to get genetically
it'll just never happen however you will
be significantly leaner and cooler
looking than if you had a job where you
just sat around all the time so i would
say that maybe it's something to focus
on to see the situation from a
like it's not that bad kind of light you
know um it's kind of like someone has to
move
to
you know modern mexico for three months
and they're like oh mexico it's a third
world country like not anymore man they
have internet and grocery stores and
everything's great so
yeah it's not like living like in sweden
you would live a little better the crime
rate would be lower et cetera but mexico
is still great you know it's like it's
85 of sweden so to speak so it's not
like you're getting moved to north korea
so that's how i would say the analogy
works here james what do you think yeah
and just to kind of go in a slightly
different direction than dr mike the
good news too is that like
given that this is what you do day in
and day out your muscles um develop a
work capacity for this type of daily
work right so that being said you could
actually train your back and biceps
relatively normally you know like two to
three times per week depending on how
you recover normally um and then you
would just be a little bit more sore all
the time but if if
that's not a huge deal if you don't mind
so like if you want to train your back
and biceps more and don't mind just
being like kind of sore at work
that's perfectly fine so that's your
call if you don't want to be sore all
the time then i think dr mike's
recommendations of maybe either training
more frequently or just just kind of
understanding that you won't be as big
in those areas as you possibly could is
perfectly fine but if that was if i was
in your shoes
i would use the exact same performance
and fatigue indicators that we do for
everything else and just know that you
won't be able to push your back and
biceps quite as hard as some of your
other muscle groups and you are going to
be you know a little bit more sore in
those areas more often than not just
because of your manual labor so um those
things will auto regulate themselves out
where because you have to do so much
manual labor you just won't be able to
put in as much effort on back and biceps
let's say if you were training two to
three times per week um and that would
that would
show up in the normal performance
indicators and you would auto regulate
accordingly so i think either one is
fine it kind of depends on whether or
not you want to feel sore all the time
or if you want to uh just be slightly
bigger so it's your call
next up is giannis
gravada oh boy
god damn
anyway
pursuara
he says hey docs how far can you get
with only your mostly leg extensions for
quad development if you do a lot of
volume and intensity techniques on that
exercise so i have a couple good answers
this one it depends on a lot on how
good the raw stimulus magnitude is for
light extensions for you and your build
and your muscles like for myself or for
jared feather a lot of times like
extensions are like oh gee this isn't
really that stimulative for other folks
james particularly uh leg extensions
really fuck him up so james answers to
this question for himself would be much
better than mike answers the question
for myself for jared another
consideration is you can actually get
really good quad development i would say
maybe 80 to 90 percent of your best quad
development can occur exclusively from
using layer extensions and in various
very creative uh programming
periodization schemes so as to not make
them stale
um i think it can be done uh however the
problem is that a lot of what you
consider your leg mass even if you take
hamstrings and glutes out leg extensions
just don't hit that well one of the
things if you look at what like a
picture of a bodybuilder this is one of
those illusions that occurs in a couple
of different areas in the body there is
a substitution for
um
muscles uh
by
explicit smaller muscle groups and the
substitution presupposes that it takes
care of all of the muscle that area
that's not true so so for example um
your quads people say oh yeah that's the
other part of your leg or the hamstrings
and glutes like that's right that's what
the volume landmarks say we don't have
an adductor section and how to train on
any of our videos the thing is when
you're training your quads through
normal compound leg exercises lunges
squats hack squats leg presses your
adductors take a huge amount of
stress and stimulus and grow a ton
they're also enormous muscles that grow
a lot also if you look visually in
almost any of your favorite pro
bodybuilders their adductors are
enormous and sometimes bigger by volume
seemingly than the quads uh and
sometimes the quad itself if you outline
that muscle in like a picture you're
like oh what the fuck is all this other
shit like that's a fucking adductor like
big romney's got big quads he's got big
adductors too and that's like damn near
half his leg as viewed for many angles
that would be almost completely
untrained and so you would have like
pretty cool quads like they could be
feathered and pretty raised but people
would be like your legs are kind of
skinny looking literally from the front
they would appear thinner because your
quads would be cool but your additives
would be fucking shit out of luck um
a similar thing james i wonder if this
gets to you as much as to me when people
reflexively use lats and back like you
look at this picture it's awful you look
at a picture of brandon curry's back one
of the best backs there is his lats are
like maybe a third of the total surface
area maybe less and his spinal erectors
and his mid traps are fucking enormous
and his rhomboids are huge and it's like
oh wow the lats are just an addition to
the back in this case so just the same
way as if you said hey can i get my
biggest back ever
doing um
the direct analogy of those questions
can i get my can i get a huge back doing
uh
lat prayers right uh
no no you can get pretty good lats not
your best slats but really impressive
lats but the rest of your back would
look skinny your traps would look like
shit your erectors you just kind of like
like you could have a wide back but a
thin back and and you know i was just
trying to imagine my mind how that would
look that would look very yeah
yeah i said the difference between an
olympia competitor's back at a immense
immense physique guys back men's
physique guys can move
they they sort of push their shoulders
out and their lats look wide but then
from the side and from the back you're
like dude you're not that big are you
like no no it all just looks big when i
stand in a certain spot so same for
quads yeah your quads could get hit
pretty well but the rest of your overall
leg mass gee whiz you know not ideal
yeah really great answer there and just
keep in mind too like the leg extensions
like there is regional specific
hypertrophy for certain movements and
the leg extensions really only hit kind
of that like bottom third of the quad
kind of in that teardrop area mostly um
some people can eke a little bit more
out of it like myself but it's really
hitting a very small area compared to
something like a squat which hits a huge
portion of the quads and as mike already
described a whole lot of other
muscles as well you can get a lot out of
like increasing volume and intensity
for a couple mesos you can even squeak
out a few more mesos of like switching
up your rep ranges a little bit uh you
can maybe even squeak out a few more by
using things like myo reps or metabolite
protocols like you can you can milk that
knee extension pretty far the problem is
is that the regional specific fibers
that it hits the amount of stretch the
amount of tension that that you can
actually generate on that particular
movement just has its limits so
i'm just noticing some of the people
kind of had commented below
that
they are kind of pondering the same
issue because of chronic back pain which
is a valid concern
and in that case like i think some
combination of things like knee
extensions or you could even explore the
world of like sissy squats i know that
that's hit or miss for a lot of people
and maybe you might have to work up to
it because it does put so much stress on
the knee joint itself but i think even
that would be a slightly better
alternative to just doing knee
extensions i don't know if you guys uh
follow derek wilcox he's one of our rp
coaches i saw him doing a really
interesting smith machine sissy squat
variation the other day which for um
those of you who struggle with kind of
the awkwardness of the sissy squat might
be a good one they also make a little
sissy squat machine i have one of those
in my house where you just lock your
feet in and kind of sit back into it uh
that's also another good alternative
with a lot less spinal loading so i
would say explore some of those options
before you just say the extension for
life
and then super setting the knee
extensions to body weight squats to
sissy squats and to walking lunges or
even in place lunges is maybe a swell
idea to add even more variation and also
check the boxes a little bit more than
you normally would on your adductors
yeah
definitely all right next up is rain big
boy
bike
he asks or she
uh hey ducks mustachioed man so i'm
gonna see yeah but also is that really
rainbow unlikely
um it's probably like you know if we're
if we're this is awful i don't mean this
rainbow this is just a joke but like i
just kind of sometimes assume that
youtube is composed entirely of like
proto-fascist in cells and this guy's
like well yeah actually this is like the
philosopher who had a lot of great ideas
about fascism before like hitler fucked
them up and i'm just saying like it's
good to read because maybe like our own
society could be improved by having more
fascism or something like that so there
are so many people like that
especially on the internet
yeah if people think there could ever be
like a fascist revolution i'm like i
don't know man i think like 60 of all
people think those are swell ideas
that's not good
there's like a subset of people who who
use that same thing and you can you can
apply any number of different topics
where it's like that's not really what
fascism is have you read
so and so that's really not what
communism is all about or socialism or
marx have you read blah blah blah and
it's like shut up well how does it end
oh like shit every time that's not good
let's not do that yeah uh all right uh
rainberg asks hey docs what are your
thoughts on combining studying for
masters in kinesiology and
simultaneously training hard and also
coaching did you have any trouble in
your school days with combining these
three aspects and do you have any tips
on what to focus on and how to still
adhere to a good diet and still keep
progressing in all three thanks for the
help yeah no problem so
the first thing is like you have to find
out
uh it's much less of can you do all
three of these at the same time it was
much more of a question of how much of
all three can you do at the same time so
like you're studying for the masters is
one block of time that you use per week
that's just not really alterable because
we assume you want to do a good job it's
gonna there's an mrv analogy coming in
here sooner or later guys be prepared
yeah sooner or later
so so then you have like just some
amount of time left in the week and
remember you have to block off and so so
far we've got let's say three three
blocks of time general shit you do any
day like brush your teeth and jack off
like you have to have time for that okay
then there's time to go and go to school
and do your homework and do the masters
thing that's another block of time
another block of time you want to save
at least a few hours every day of just
relaxation and definitely most of your
weekends should be free just relax so so
you can it's not so you can have a great
time in life um it's so you can you know
that also is a result but it's really so
you can refresh to continue that process
for two or three years while you do a
master's if you just grind and work all
the time you're just going to burn out
very likely and it's not going to be
good so now we have all those things
outlined you're going to have a certain
amount of time left over and
based on how long it takes you to do all
those things and how much relaxation you
think you need you need to see okay how
much time do i have for our training and
also coaching and for you hard training
may be something that is uh again set in
stone like for james and i had always
once we never just we never didn't train
during our entire educational career
that was always like that staying in as
full bore hard as ever so for us that
there was another box in there that was
blocked in and then james would look uh
james and i would look at what we had
left and say okay well i have time for
10 clients a week on average or i have
time for 20 clients or five clients or
zero clients so that's how i'd go about
that is block off all the shit you have
see how many hours you have of actually
free time to commit to something like
coaching after you've locked in your
training and everything else
and if for you you're one of these
people because james and i could say
well yeah to us it was fine because we
would go to school we would study for
roughly an hour a week outside of school
or something because we had no problem
understanding what's going on at school
we were already pretty close to being
experts in that and then so for us
school was sitting in class and just
confirming ideas versus like like
especially in our phd programs james and
i didn't go home and like study the
textbook for hours of baffling fuck is
going on like oh no i need to do more
word problems it wasn't that
conventional kind of organic chemistry
studying um so for us we'd have plenty
of time to do other shit because like
just school was pretty easy at that
point in our career not always but for
you you might be in a situation where
like go a master's in east like really i
tried to do the whole bullshit it didn't
work i need to spend like four hours a
day studying and reviewing concepts or
three hours a day well then for you the
answer would be like oh you maybe you
can have five clients or maybe you can
have zero clients whereas for us the
answer was like 20 clients or something
so that that's how you best look at it
is block off everything it has to get
done give it a very charitable amount of
time for each thing just you don't want
to be like oh i only need half an hour a
day for this in terms of an hour and a
half uh be very charitable and then if
you have some stuff left you figure out
okay am i really going to do what i have
to do and then the answer is yes then
you go to it or the answer is well geez
it really is not enough time for me and
then maybe i won't try to burn all the
bridges at the same time james
yeah that was really good um i think the
coaching is the tough one because it
depends on how you're coaching like if
you're just doing private sector stuff
like if you're just doing clients online
then it's kind of like you have a lot of
flexibility to do whatever you want um
if you're doing like what mike and i did
we were working as strength conditioning
coaches like that is heavily dependent
on the athlete's training schedule so
you might feel like oh i want to train
with these athletes all the time but
it's like okay well they only train at
the times when you're otherwise in class
so then it's like okay well now you're
kind of fucked so that one's the one
that is kind of the the wild card for
mike and i like i can speak for myself
more specifically i was fortunate that i
mean like
when we were there getting our education
i just threw myself into that world as
far as i could go i mean i was i started
the men's rugby team i was the assistant
coach sport coach and the strength
conditioning coach for that i worked
with the golf team i worked with the
tennis team i would help out every now
and again with like the weightlifters i
would help out with all the testing that
we did in the lab like i was just all in
and um it
it
definitely wreaked havoc on my personal
life like i had to give up all the other
hobbies that i enjoyed doing i used to
love to play guitar i used to love to go
snowboarding i love to shoot i like to
do a lot of other things and for about
three years i had to give up pretty much
all the other things in my life that
made me happy because i wanted to just
just submerse myself in this world it's
kind of similar like with um
like with learning a language right
where you can you can do like duolingo
or you can do some of these practice
things but the best way to learn if you
want to like speak spanish or thai or
something is just to like go out there
and live in that world and so that's
what i did you know and that's not the
course that everyone can do i was
fortunate that i was able to do that so
you might find that um
studying for your masters and learning
how to train hard and smart
is a huge bang for your buck whereas
like the coaching is like you really
have to force it to make it happen
because it's really inconvenient or it
just doesn't fit your schedule or just
running out of time
so like mike said i would say pick the
things that are probably the most
important to you and to me that seems
like
your education learning how to train and
and do it in a smart way and then see
how much time left over you have for
your own personal life your hobbies your
relationships and the amount of coaching
you can do after that because coaching
it's one thing to show up
as a coach and just show up and go
through the x's and o's of whatever
you're doing that day it's another thing
to actually be like i think a really
good coach where you develop really good
bonds with your athletes you have really
good interpersonal relationships they
trust you you're invested in their
well-being you're invested in their
lives
there's different levels of coaching
right and sometimes you just need to
show up and say hey we're doing five by
five today i'm gonna walk you through it
and sometimes you need to be a surrogate
father to some of these people you
it's it's there's not a right or wrong
answer there it's just different levels
of involvement that you have to decide
what you're going to do
yeah
that's the lock
youth cruise is up next
i don't like that name i don't know why
it's lame
like am i going on a cruise full of
youths that's the last thing i want get
the fuck out of here
dumb ass kids
god damn it so youth cruise says hey
there docs i have long arms and i've
been struggling to add size to my
triceps closer to the shoulder feel
slash looks like tons of tricep neat
then closer to the elbow my arms thin
out i use full ranges of motion and
always experience soreness after heavy
push days or high volume days this is
simply a muscle insertion issue that my
triceps don't connect all the way down
to my elbows well so they do it's just a
a lot of it ends up being very thin
muscle and or tendon uh i say 90 of the
right answer here is that yes your arms
are going to be shaped largely the same
way
um
you see this in some guys that uh
have this kind of genetics but they take
a crap not i'm saying you should take a
crap ton of gear actually be saying the
opposite i've known of guys who've had
this sort of thin arm genetics and take
a ton of gear james it's a lot of times
like white dudes that are tall and have
big ass shoulders big ass chest big back
right there you go and then like well
james you're not even an extreme version
of that but like their triceps and
biceps just they're very proximately
they're approximately oriented in their
muscle distribution so everything is
very proximal distal is just not a lot
going on whereas like i've trained a few
folks and one of them was an iphone pro
um
physique uh lady that we trained on the
channel um she is like basically
considered what was it her nickname is
the the cuban muscle crisis
uh it's a sweet name yeah it's a sweet
name but her her she has the most
distally oriented muscle and certain
insertions of origins i've ever seen
where like her calves are like hanging
off of her and her triceps like she just
sits there and her triceps hang and if
she does this her triceps bulge out at
the bottom there's nothing up here
it makes i mean it's just like unreal
bubble muscle which gives her for
however much she weighs which isn't a
lot she looks 10 times more muscular
just because she has that pop a lot of
people don't have that pop and and you
know youth crews you might be at the
extreme of that
you know is there a way to find out is
there a way that full range of motion
especially at the extreme edges here
actually hypertrophy is more of the
distal end yes that's already true but
you say you trained forearm already
that's probably your biggest weapon can
you train more of the long head if you
find out the long head's the small part
yes but again that only
changes so much at the margins you know
um i'll say that i used to train my long
head and triceps all the time with lots
of overhead work became
insufficiently flexible to do that very
well as i got bigger and also i was
taking so much long had beating from my
pulling work that i just stopped
training you know any overhead tricep
extension stuff all together
multiple years ago and i can't tell you
my triceps have changed in shape since
then i i wouldn't be able to say that
and put money on it maybe subtly but i
can't even tell you which way that
subtlety happened so the shape is so so
genetic within a particular muscle group
that even the regional differences of
various ways of training amount to very
little you're still probably going to be
largely skinnier-ish arms but the rest
of you can get super fucking jacked
james
yeah i feel you my friend i have this
problem too i only recently do my have
my arms actually looked respectable for
a fitness person um the problem when you
have really long arms and legs is just
there's a lot of surface areas to fill
out in order for you to look jacked so
if you don't have like really good half
door bjornsson level uh muscle growth
genetics it's just gonna always kind of
look skinny as mike already said then
you could be actually making really good
gains in size but you actually just
visually it doesn't look like it because
you have a huge amount of space that
that muscle is filling out right so you
could be actually putting on relatively
good gains every year and really not
visualize it as much so that is one of
the problems that you run into and
that's just kind of the luck of the draw
unfortunately
if your tricep training is otherwise
going good keep doing what you're doing
and it's just going to take a long time
for you to really see visual changes in
your arms if your tricep training is not
going so good
um consider using something like myo
reps that's one thing that i have found
to be really helpful in my arm training
whereas before it would just seem like
okay i'm training triceps today i have
to do like 10 fucking sets to get like
any soreness any pump or anything going
on and then um what i found was when i
switched over to mile reps i was able to
get a lot more stimulus a lot bigger
bang for my buck per set especially on
the arms which has always been a tough
area for me specifically
and it seems to be reaping some good
dividends at this point so give that a
try if you're struggling on tricep
training if your tricep training is
otherwise good keep doing what you're
doing
sean patton is up next and sean asks uh
he says greetings gentlemen i'm four
weeks into a cut this week i've broken a
glass and a plate and i'm feeling clumsy
i'm typically not a clumsy person
it is uh is the degradation of
coordination something you've seen
people uh cutting or over training
thanks for the awesome podcast so first
of all
in cutting it's unlikely but it can
happen when you have lower blood glucose
you typically would be aware of the fact
that you did you'd get very hungry um
fantasize about sugary things and start
sweating and stuff like that then you
would also be clumsy so that could be
minor hypoglycemia could be leaving
clumsy four weeks into a cut i don't
suspect you're in that range so i'd say
it's low probability
can overreaching degrade your uh
your athleticism and increase your
clumsiness absolutely it absolutely can
um but uh that wouldn't have much to do
with cutting and have more to do with
training volume now of course if you're
doing eye training while cutting you can
overreach harder so i don't think it's
something um so it says is degradation
of coordination something you've seen
from people when cutting typically no
not in any major way when over training
yes but it it's such a small thing that
i guess you start to remember it and
then when you're in your last week of
training and you're feeling
uncoordinated in the gym you kind of
assume you're also not so coordinated in
real life and you don't try to do
anything super athletic like the
bartender cup toss trick you just stay
away from
a little bit more careful and i think
that's it it's not a major thing but i'd
say at the margins yeah that can be
something you pick up on uh james
yeah so um
something that jacob and i observed when
we were working together at etsu was
that very often when athletes are really
fatigued for a variety of reasons
whether it's just training hard or
dieting
you would think that they're kind of
like
looking clumsy but
through a slightly more careful
observation one of the things that we
kind of concluded was that their
their ability to make good decisions and
their ability to focus their attention
under fatigue conditions was very often
the underlying cause of stupid choices
right like so
very often the athletes would be like
really fatigued either because they were
we were dieting them or they were in a
really hard training block and you would
see them do things in volleyball for
example that
would otherwise be a bad call and then
they would roll their ankle or something
and be like ah right not a huge deal but
i think more often than not especially
when you factor in like diet fatigue
it's more that you're just not as sharp
your attention's not as good and maybe
you're just doing kind of dumb things
that you would not otherwise do rather
and it kind of comes off as being clumsy
and uncoordinated but really it's like
just up here like you're reaching for
something without thinking about it
without looking or you're just not
paying attention to what you're doing as
much so that's just an observation that
that i have made with some of my
colleagues where very often when people
are fatigued they just start making kind
of dumb or less calculated choices in
what they're doing they're just not
paying attention and that often leads to
instances like this where you're just
kind of it seems like you're being
clumsy or you're breaking stuff or you
seem like a doofus and really it's just
because you're mentally not there and
some of that's hypoglycemia some of
that's just like systemic fatigue some
combination of all those things
good luck god don't do anything crazy
like jumping into a wood chipper
um oh god i'm thinking about buying a
wood chipper actually good god that's
disturbing
um so i can't get rid of all the bodies
yeah
iron brown says hi james and mike i feel
like my deload recovery
isn't going together like i expected to
but i can't tell if i'm overdosing or
underneath my dealer plan is there a
maximum rir between which the set is too
easy to be worthwhile deloitte set
should lift or judge this question in
terms of percent of reps instead of r so
um first thing is there is a possibility
that your d-load is too easy
a lot of times it happens for very slow
um
slower twitch muscles you have uh that
have a very fast turnover rate and if
they're not adequately stimulated
relatively heavy pretty often they
actually involute quite rapidly i've
seen this happen with athletes i've been
coaching like one one uh one of my
friends who i used to coach and do every
now and again still
he was a power lifter and we would have
to keep heavy
heavy flat flies into his program as
close to a week before his meet because
if we removed them his packs would
shrink and his bench would go down it
was late and his penis were always yeah
his specs were always small the rest of
his body they were really big but the
rest of it was fucking enormous
and they would always he struggled to
put on peck's eyes and and the pecs
would never overtrain never overreach
they barely ever got sore they just
needed a lot of stimulus because the
turtle was really high that may be the
case and then your d-load needs to be
harder but the way
you're saying is um
my d-load recovery isn't coming together
like expected to um if you're actually
getting
weaker during the deload and you so
here's how you would feel
if this thing was happening to you that
i just described you would feel very
quickly recover during a deload you
would feel great you would get to the
gym on the next week beginning of
accumulation and even though you felt
great the weights would be really heavy
and you're like what the fuck like i
feel recovered my sleep is great and
these feelings i fucking literally lost
muscle size what the fuck
that's how it would feel you would feel
super fucking recovered because you
would be um if you actually don't feel
recovered that's probably much more of a
situation if you're not eating enough
consistently you're not sleepy enough
consistently you're not low stress
enough during your deload and if we had
to air and this is directly answered
your question and somebody already did
bear in a bag that's a funny name um
actually i already answered it quite
well um it's kind of impossible from a
recovery perspective to under due to the
deload like easier is almost always
better up to a really insane point of
doing nothing like if some people that
are ultra fast twitch and ultra have
problems with recovery you can just tell
them hey look like do some bodyweight
squats and push ups midway through this
week sets of five three sets of five of
each and some pulls and you're good
that's all i want you to do and for them
a lot of times that works even better
than an intricate deload where if
they're asked to work harder so in your
case unless you have that situation
happening like i described like you
recover great and then you show up
weaker in which case more is better uh
your case is probably less is better
if anything or
and i have to say this
it might not be anything to do with your
deload programming it could be to do
with your fatigue reduction
you could be spending your g-load
worried like shit about projects at work
you could spend it sleeping so not so
great you could spend it eating not so
great at the end of the day all that
stuff can mean make
your deload work so poorly that you end
up looking and being like what am i
doing wrong in the weight room and the
answer could be like well actually
you're doing nothing wrong and there's
also there's also nothing you could do
right in the weight room this is a
question real quick side tangent james
and i used to get a lot and it was one
of these things we had to answer this
question from a holistic perspective
based on theory so we had to write a few
books before we could answer the
question super well the question is
something like okay if my sleep is
really shitty or my diet is really
shitty what can i do in my training to
make up for it and the fundamental
answer the question is nothing
these things are complementary in a way
that you can't just replace them with
some kind of more intricate training uh
like people actually say like remember
jason's questions
right yeah exactly people would say like
well you know what i can't get as much
sleep as i want how do i modify my
program and we're like we can give you
one modification train less it's how to
right how to survive the week whether a
quarterback progression like well you
can forget about progression just that
shit's off the fucking window uh
basically the minimum amount of stimulus
it would take to have you progress is
exceeding your mrv so good luck right so
for you i would say definitely think
about all the other stuff you could be
doing better on your g-load as far as
training is concerned unless you have
that thing i described you're probably
in the case of where you're doing at
least at least enough and doing more
probably is not the answer james
really good answer i was trying to think
of some uh situ i'm trying to like think
of some other situations that where you
could find yourself in this and i
thought of two as mike was talking so
one way that you could this is
quote-unquote under-doing your d-load
it's not really under-doing your d-load
so much as um
if your training
in the weeks prior to d-load was under
stimulative
and you deloaded and essentially at that
point you're just deconditioning right
that can be a problem where you actually
just weren't really you were basically
doing like maybe mev training or less
during your mesocycle and then you
switch to deload and you're like why do
i feel weak and that's because you're
just you've been under stimulative for
too long that is a potential thing that
can happen
uh another thing that i'm imagining here
in this situation is maybe you were very
much overreached maybe you did very good
hard training
and
you're on like day two of your deload
and you're thinking my delober i don't
feel recovered yet well it's like it
actually might take five six seven maybe
even eight days before you are feeling
recovered depending on how hard you
trained so if you're kind of in that
boat where it's like day two or three
and you're still feeling under recovered
you just have to give it some more time
and you might be somebody who needs to
actually uh take a slightly longer than
one
week deload some people are like that
maybe you gotta take ten days that's
totally fine in the beginning of my
active rest right now
my last heart training session was
sunday today is wednesday i haven't
trained monday or tuesday to be honest
my fatigue feels almost the same as that
today's the first day in which i'm
really starting to notice it's falling a
little bit
what the fuck well that's how activerust
works like it's gonna take me two weeks
to get through all this maybe in that
case as well
yeah so i wouldn't i wouldn't be like
fussing too much about like rrs and
stuff if you're generally doing you know
what i would say reasonable d-load
training you're probably fine it's it's
fairly hard to fuck up a deload in in
these
ways like the only the only way that
you're really fucking it up is if you're
doing mev training or higher at zero ir
during your deload right
it's like okay you've you've you've
unticked the volume and intensity box on
the d-load that's the only way you could
have fucked it so if you're not doing
that you're probably fine
next up is sue roland
sue roland asks hi docs i am
oldish 62
62 years young sue
um relatively new five years lifter
quite quite in the intermediate range i
think james and i would say it
um so you're not allowed to say you're
new if you've done something for five
years can you imagine like you're like
in afghanistan for five years and a new
look recruit comes to join your division
like i'm new here too bro it's been five
years what the fuck really
how long is it gonna take so um and then
she says
i have a hard time differentiating joint
pain uh slash damage from ten ligament
pain from muscle growth um and damage is
there any way to tell the difference
thank you there are a couple ways and
none of them will full proof i'll have a
few and i'm sure james will have a few
one is uh there there are some telltale
signs of shit that really is for sure
probably not muscle and that's like when
it's in the middle of your joint so
there's no muscles in here right so if
that hurts and doing this hurts and it's
not the tricep tendon and it's not the
bicep form flexor tendons then like if
it's in the middle of the joint here
like in between this here somewhere
it's joint pain uh same with the knees
same with the hips if there's not a
clear obvious muscle or tendon structure
next to it it hurts it's not joint it's
it's joint pain it's not uh something
else um as far as connective tissue you
can probably palpate where your muscle
groups start and where the connective
tissue is so like right here for me it's
not triceps it's all tricep tendon now
right here is where the muscle starts if
i'm sore here yeah serve my tendon is
sore too but if i'm
this doesn't hurt but this hurts then
it's the muscle
another point that branches right off
there generally speaking the kind of
muscle pain that's good delayed onset
soreness things like that um they're
typically in the belly of the muscle the
big middle meat of that stuff like
here's where your biceps get sore if
your biceps are sore here
maybe it's your biceps maybe it's your
bicep tendon maybe it's some other stuff
but you know if they get sore here like
it's your biceps for sure so there's
some middle ground of intersection
because like look like right here my
bicep could be sore in the distal area
it could be the tendon it could even be
something in the elbow it would take a
little bit more discrimination to figure
out
um another one real quick is you can try
to figure out if it's stretch based pain
or force generation based pain this is
how i actually um derive the difference
between injuries and just little
bullshit that happens during recovery so
like my quads i'll feel like a line
through my quad that's like oh my god
it's painful when i stretch it a lot
what the fuck did i rip my quad then
what i do is i try to push my leg
through the ground really hard
and it doesn't hurt at all well true
injuries if you trans if there's a lot
of force transition through the muscle
they're gonna fucking hurt you don't
have a quad tear push really hard in the
extent and it's like wow i don't feel it
like you'll feel it so for me i'm like
oh it's just weird connective tissue
crap like on the outside sheath of the
muscle that must be because if it's only
hurting when you stretch it but it
doesn't hurt when you produce a ton of
force in a non-stretched position then
and then it's totally fine it's just
some bullshit so that's another way you
could sort of derive of like is there a
serious thing here uh well but a lot of
it's just like knowing anatomy decently
well to know what's where's the pain is
it in the joint or is it in the muscle
belly there is some of course some gray
area there um uh and another one so so
here's an example
if you think the pain's in the joint uh
put your joint in some way that doesn't
hurt and then flex the fuck out of your
or extend your tricep against resistance
if that doesn't hurt then it wasn't a
tricep tendon problem like if your
tricep tendon hurts it'll hurt in every
single possible position because it
transduces force every time you don't
hurt here it'll hurt here it'll hurt
here
if your elbow is like you know james you
ever get like some clicking in your
elbow it only hurts in this range of
motion like if that's the case and then
you exit that range you flex your biceps
nothing flex your biceps here nothing
you flex them here ow it's the joint
it's not the bicep because if it was the
bicep every point at which the bicep was
active which is the entire range would
hurt and if that's not the case you can
sort of process of elimination your way
to saying i think it's the knee joint
versus a part of my muscle
yeah really good explanation there a
couple other things too is um joint
joint and tendon pain tends to be very
sharp and acute right where you move
around it's like yeah
that hurt whereas muscle pain is kind of
like
it's the classic as like when you've
trained you've done lunges and then you
try to sit down and you're like oh my
buns damn right whereas that joint pain
is like jarring it's like that very
sharp acute pain when you do something
another good differentiating factor too
is like the joint and tendon pain tends
to be kind of all the time at very very
low levels of movement so
walking around or reaching first like if
you're wondering like are my shoulder
shoulders sore or is it like a joint
thing like if it's a joint thing you'll
feel it doing very mundane things like
riding or reaching for something whereas
like if your delts are just sore it
might take you to actually having to
like you know do a big stretch or reach
overhead there's kind of like a
threshold of motor activation before you
kind of notice it as much whereas where
if it's a joint pain it's like anything
you do it's like oh ow out like with
knees another good example like if you
have knee pain that's as a result of
something wrong with the joint from an
injury it hurts all the goddamn time
just moving around walking whereas like
if your quads are sore you might not
really notice your quads are sore when
you're walking around unless they're
really sore but when you sit down or you
try to go up a stair or something you're
like oh my thighs oh my god they're a
little sore so those are some good like
differentiating points too in addition
to what mike said a very good point
um all right veer shah is up next
okay
it's actually a very long question with
uh a not so long answer so vera shaw
says hey docs in the recent back workout
videos posted on an rp youtube channel
you have stated that doing isometric
holds at the peak contraction for rows
might be slightly less stimulative as
you'd be sacrificing some performance
that could otherwise have been used
creating more tension in the stretched
position right uh and james just to clue
you in it's like you know if you if you
choose the barbell row
to pause at the chest for two seconds
every rep you have to you like 185
pounds for if you just do the same high
quality wraps but touch it's 225 and
that stretch position is getting way
less load way less stimulus you also
spend more time at the top fatiguing
yourself to get fewer reps that could
have gone through the stretch position
that's more hypertrophy so in any case
can this rationale be applied to other
exercises as well such as leg curls
later chest flies yes
with a slightly more stimulative
avoiding isometric holds at a fully
short position yes absolutely can be
since also because length tension
relationship muscles are generally
stronger in the mid length and part of
their natural contractile range so you
got to be careful here because stronger
doesn't mean stimulate hypertrophy more
um
you know
muscles at a very extreme and end range
are not very strong but their internal
moment they generate is very high in the
amount of stimulus because this repaired
stretch is insanely high sometimes they
don't even generate very high emgs there
but they get a crap ton of damage and
they get a crap ton of growth as
measured directly by studies so that the
whole
business i'll say this of trying to
maximize hypertrophy by trying to put
muscles in their strongest positions is
already antithetical to where muscles
grow the most in many cases right so we
got to be careful about putting yes it's
good to have avoid positions where the
muscles like almost completely inactive
like if you straighten your arm
completely and try to do a pec fly at
some point your chest is like i'm not
getting you hurt i'm turning off if it's
all the way down here so if you bend it
a little it's like okay fine we got some
work going but generally speaking i
would be careful about getting into the
natural contractile range force
production if you're trying to get
stronger athletes yes then the external
force production is is a good idea
internally a lot of different things are
going on can't be so sure and he says
you can maximize performance
simultaneously spend more time in that
length position again those won't always
intersect spending time in length
position is almost certainly a good idea
instead of spending in the usually less
hypertrophy shorten position or does it
just depend on which tempo gives you the
best sfr so say sfr goes above and
beyond everything so if in theory
stretching causes more growth but it
doesn't give you a big pump of big doms
something else you're doing causes an
insane amount of disruption i'd probably
go with that disruption you know because
a lot of biomechanical theory is very
hard to implement and has 10 counter
counter examples to it like well ideally
the joint would be like this well you
didn't count for the moment of the
triceps from this other angle
biomechanics in real life is ultra
complicated there's a cheat sheet how
are the muscles actually responding like
if your tricep is getting blown up like
crazy on like super pumps insane dom's
insane my muscle and it's been growing
steadily i'm never going to tell you
what you're doing is wrong i don't give
a fuck what the biomechanics say that's
something an insane person would say you
have to worry about so
definitely sfr but you'll notice that a
lot of times your sfr for movements in
which you pause the rows you get a
pretty baller stimulus in the mid-back
the muscles that actually do this but
your lats might not get the best
stimulus because you're like i just the
bottom stretches it's not that
challenging anymore and i'm not getting
as big of a lap pump whereas i would get
a bigger lap pump if i was going all the
way down with heavy weight and just
touching at the top so sfr is muscle
specific at that point so you got to
think what is my target here's overall
back development is it my rhomboids and
mid traps that really are challenged at
the top or is it the whole back which is
challenged mostly through a lengthy
position and then he says you've also
stated previously doing isometrics some
exercises along with concentrics in
eccentric might overall stimulate better
hypertrophy since there are three of
them independent pathways yeah for
signaling hypertrophy yep would love to
hear you guys clear my confusion and
break this down so my best breaking down
um is just follow sfr and understand
that unless the sfrs are really good for
paused rows there's no magical reason to
do them and that remember isometric
contractions also count when you pause
at the bottom for a stretch so you don't
have to just pause at the top to get the
isometric checkbox um so i would say sfr
is king all the time and if a movement
doesn't give you better sfr but requires
you to lose use less weight and spend
less time in the shortened position
sorry less time in length than position
more time in the shortened and it
doesn't increase your sfr
it's probably not a good idea to to
include a lot or at least be second
guessed right
james
really great answer mike and i i feel
like you're going to relate to my point
very well here but something that i have
noticed i think the people who
i think the people who dive into the
biomechanics stuff more often than not
just get total paralysis by analysis and
it's not to dismiss biomechanics because
it's a really awesome and useful field
that does so many great things but in
the world of hypertrophy training
specifically and i would even say in
sport training this is one of those
things where like once you go into these
rabbit holes of like all these different
vectors and trying to do all these like
weird very minut movement things you
can't see the forest for the trees right
at some point you just have to go in
there and do some reasonable training
and that's why we say sfr just like
tosses all this shit away
the person that drives me the most crazy
are the um
i'm gonna make a lot of enemies here but
i'm gonna i'm gonna try and do it in a
nice way
people who study physical therapy
who want to be strength conditioning
coaches and just biomech the living shit
out of everything and and propos and and
propose those ideas as being like really
good strength conditioning practices
really those are practices of like how
to not hurt and do like minimalist
training
the sfr really just wipes all the stuff
away and i'm again i'm not trying to
dismiss biomechanics but what i'm saying
is most people who go down these rabbit
holes
start getting into such minutiae little
details
um like mike was saying like at some
point like you can fuck around with your
bent row technique to your blue in the
face but some other guy who has just
been adding sets adding r you know
making it more challenging week to week
through increases in intensity and you
know rir that person's going to blow you
out of the water in 10 weeks because
you're sitting there fucking with elbow
this elbow that elbow hit pause here
pause there pause at this point get the
fuck out of here um it's not to say that
you shouldn't train intelligently but i
think this is one of those where you
just you go down this rabbit hole and
there's nowhere to go outside of just
doing like reasonable training it it
always comes back to the same thing and
that's why sf are so helpful
okay if i'm going to write that down
because i was meaning to make a video
about it anyway for youtube now i'll
make a whole video
and like not to belabor this but my my
point has always been like are you
training to get better at something or
are you training to not get injured
those are two different things and the
biomec people typically fall into the
like either complete novelty realm or
training not to get injured realm and
they just completely deviate from the
are you trying to get better at
something the specificity realm
right which is where mike and i live
like what do you what do you want do you
want to be a great rugby player do you
want to be jacked like okay now we have
some constraints on the training whereas
these like a lot of the people who go
into this biomec stuff is just like it
just it devolves into kind of like
academic intellectual wankery about like
different positions different force
curves different angles like
i hear you i hear you but why don't you
go fucking train homie
come back tell me how it went
uh so so brilliant stuff james um
i'm actually gonna be doing a video on
this sooner than later because it's very
pressing especially in the state of the
industry right now um the way i see it
is this uh biomechanics should be the
first place you go to to try to develop
exercise technique uh i mean you don't
have to anymore because there's
exercises on the internet you can try
but um which one to pick is just based
on biometric okay the quads extend the
knee so any any extension of the knee is
going to be good and the adductors do
this and that so maybe that'll be lane's
leg press okay your biomec was the first
guess and that's such a superficial
level such a super should be obvious
it's like scratching the surface right
and it may be like more in nuance like
how do i hit the lats a little bit more
with grip position with turning my hands
maybe some nuance that's fine but not at
a time here's the first guess then you
take whatever biomec says hey this is
probably the way you should move
probably you take it you do it in real
life and you assess sfrs then you change
positioning and change the technique to
see which one has the best sfrs and some
of that could be like well which changes
should i make could be uh um
hints could emerge from a second past
biomechanically okay really zoom in
where does the humerus really connect
here okay well i guess i think that
means the pec would do this all right
then we try that in every one of those
cases biomech is the first and former
sfr is the final adjudicator sfr is
fucking king
if you're not getting pumped or sore or
some shit's not happening to your tricep
i don't give a fuck what biomec this guy
guy says technically it's you're
activating your long head my lung has
not motherfucker it's not tired it
doesn't get sore i haven't been seeing
size improvements go fuck yourself so at
the end of the day sfr is the king
biomech
i'll tell you this and this is like the
ghost of jared feather talking through
me it doesn't take a lot of biomech to
figure out how to do shit remotely right
and sfr just following the sfr snake
gets you the rest of the way anyway um
you'll be able to intuit like if i put
my legs this way and this way it my
quads feel more or less stimulated my
knees feel more or less better
they don't even need biomechanics for
that that's just trial and error
biomechanics is like
dropping you into a neighborhood as a
paratrooper you got to do the rest by
yourself like reassessing where you were
dropped it's like yeah this neighborhood
now it's all new sfr is your guidance to
the street with your little gps thing
like a lot of guys get it backwards and
say well biomechanically this should be
the best exercise for your lats like
i've done and it sucks and they're like
well it can't suck biomechanics never
lies like your assessment of
biomechanics is not what's happening in
the body and if we look at it like oh i
guess the chairs major was compensating
i didn't think of that yeah you did you
know how complex that system's problem
is and biomechanics outside the realm of
currently any computer to be able to do
there is no fully integrated human model
of muscle mechanics and bone mechanics
as soon as they make that they'll be
able to make a robot that walks just as
fluid as a human that problem is just
now starting to be solved i assure you
it's an insanely complex problem you
won't be able to first principles your
way into guaranteeing this is going to
hit the lat exactly how you want you
won't be able to do it you'll be able to
first principles biomechanics your way
and having a good guess and then it's
sfr at the end of the road
and like kind of like what you're saying
like does it pass sanity checks in the
real world because you can do
intellectual wankery all you want but
it's like okay well this should work and
you do it and you're like well this
didn't work at all
now what now what do you think another
one
i'm sorry
um all right next up is
oh i think it's
uh
[Music]
han bang
sweet name which is either a sweet
korean name or somebody fucking around i
hope it's c han bang
see han bang because it's like
see han bank see hong kong
sweet
behind take a nap afterwards yeah
cigarette sandwich snap in that order
all right um
uh seihan says hey docs is it reasonable
to count sets separately for different
parts of your back for your lats mid
back traps if so would be the average
amy vm rv range b would it be smaller
than when you count sets for your back
in a more general sense thanks so a few
things it would be smaller than sets for
your general back in almost every case
um what would the mvv more v range you'd
have to figure that out yourself i have
no fucking clue it would be so different
for people on a such a minute separation
of the back this this answers some
combination of impossible to find out
uninteresting to me in its entirety uh
you know what i mean like jesus christ
you find this out yourself no problem
just training yeah
and then
uh uh so yes it can be done and i i warn
you about the following you could get
into a
a wormhole of most of the exercises you
choose will be affecting
more than one of these at a time
first of all secondly how are you gonna
count that volume and then you get in a
fractional set counting and other bits
of insanity james and i would probably
just tell you to do this
are you getting hit in all the areas of
your back that you want to be
like stimulated thoroughly is it pushing
close to recovery like are your erectors
getting sore do they take long enough to
cover the by the next time you train
erectors they're just barely recovered
if that's not the case do more exercises
more sets of those with more erector
volume and you can auto regulate that to
fill all the gaps like it's not rocket
science you need to count anything
you'll be like i i did five sets of rows
which i know hit by erectors a lot i did
five sets of pull-ups which i know hit
my lats a lot as well but not my rectors
and it looks like my lats are getting
really fried but my erectors need more
work what do i need to do well you know
pick another exercise to add into the
mix or just do more sets of rows until
your erectors have had enough and then
maybe because your rows also hit your
lats you increase the amount of rowing
to six sets and decrease the amount of
vertical pulling to four now your lats
are just as bright as ever just more of
it comes from rowing less vertical pull
and in addition your erectors are good
to go it's really just it all happens so
much more seamlessly if you look at it
from a what am i feeling how fast am i
recovering in the areas of the back
perspective
versus even the more formal counting
perspective of you have to start cutting
fractional sets jesus christ if you want
to do that sort of thing it's great but
you know any
small amount of perception mind muscle
awareness is going to get you there way
faster james
yeah and to your point like i can only
think of two exercises off the top of my
head which you are actually truly
isolating a part of the back i've lat
prayers and shrugs come to mind that's
the only ones i can think of everything
else is going to be hitting a very large
portion of your back and um and mike has
talked about this for years and years
and years that's why it's a good idea to
have kind of an emphasis
uh portion of your back training where
you might have kind of like a lat
emphasized day and a you know mid back
or row emphasized day because it makes
tracking all this nonsense a lot easier
so you know that for your lat emphasis
day like yeah uh maybe i'm not counting
you know fractional sets or anything
like that but i know i needed like eight
sets to kind of get a good workout that
day and on my row day it's more like
five or six sets whatever it doesn't
matter what it is but you know that
they're a little bit different and you
can't completely separate them out it's
just not worth the fuss
yeah that's why we say most back
uh sessions or most back training
attempts should be a lot of compound
vertical pulling a lot of compound
rowing and the kinds of vertical pulling
kinds of rowing you pick and also the
kinds of lat prayers and or
things like flexion rose peak hold rows
that kind of stuff you sprinkle in as
needed to fill out the rest of whatever
it is you're not getting it's almost
like you put a big old turkey leg on
your plate and a big old thing of rice
that's vertical poles and rose and do
you want some chips with that do you
want some fruit with that do you want
some juice with that that's easy to fill
in uh but you know you don't make a meal
without a big ass turkey leg and a
fucking big thing of rice like that that
has to be there and if it's not there
and you try to like
you know
fruit cup your way into making a regular
meal like well i'm gonna do one set of
this for this part of the back one set
of that for that part of the back first
of all your enjoyment of training is
going straight to fucking hell second of
all
the compound overhead
or vertical work
and compound rowing that you're going to
be doing is so high in raw stimulus
magnitude it's the easiest one-shot kill
ever it's the the analogy of doing
squats and leg presses for your quads
versus just like extensions and just the
adductor machine like there's something
missing there man you don't want to
train like that yeah which is funny
because doug doug bergnoli says you got
to train everything in isolation
like that's his big thing
he had a debate
yeah
i mean i like getting actually jacked i
don't know
again it's like one of those
intellectual wankery things where it's
like does that theoretically make sense
like can you make
equally good gains like yeah maybe but
then when you actually look at the real
world how people actually train it's
like yeah that doesn't make any sense
or they not really there's something
missing there there's something there's
more there's a missing piece between
that theory and what happens in reality
yeah like you know you could do a few
sets of squats
or you could worry about okay i need
quads i need adductor magnus uh additive
brevis i need sartorius i need all these
you gonna do an exercise for all that
shit yeah fuck out of here like no
you're not just a medium stance squat
hits almost your entire leg minus your
hamstrings like now we're rolling now
we're fucking wrong and a huge raw
stimulus magnitude too well that's what
i was gonna say is actually like more
often than not doing things in a
compound fashion just allows you to get
a bigger raw stimulus magnitude bigger
than the sum of the individual parts
so yes it's like how many leg extensions
that's what i need to do to get what
four squats that's get me and it's like
there may be no answer to that question
maybe in
huge fatigue way before you could even
provide that level of stimulus or level
series would be like well eight sets
like fuck that eight sets of leg
extensions plus i have to do all my
adductor work all my sartorius work like
what fuck that like wait so what do i
actually do like well just five sets of
of squats will get all that right well
jesus christ count me in and more
reliably stimulate it too
and
sorry this is where we're we're going
off on a tangent on this one but i i can
imagine that when you train everything
in isolation you're more likely to have
kind of a weakest link problem where at
some point like you've done so much like
gracilis training that you just can't
really move anymore
you know what i mean where it's just
like i actually this my legs hurt so
badly at this point like i can't do
anything else yeah yeah
and that becomes a limiting factor to
your training right versus like doing
something like a squat
for sure for sure uh all right next up
and left is clark kant
so
yep so simultaneously superman's given
earth name and immanuel kant of
philosopher blended together
perfect
for our for our european proto-fascist
insult well you know you know emmanuel
kanto really have a lot of good ideas
and we should look at some so maybe
what's going on and wouldn't it be funny
if he was superman anyway um all right
uh clark kant says uh hi docs i have a
question about emg data many popular
fitness articles um
[Music]
in many popular fitness articles emg
data is used as a measure of how much an
exercise stimulates a given muscle group
the higher the activation the more
muscle is worked however no precise
definition is ever given of what working
muscle more means don't worry that's
because they don't know it um many lay
readers seem to translate what i said
into informal notion of rsm the higher
the activation shown the higher they are
some of them exercise this seems to be
untrue essay tricep kickbacks have way
higher tricep activation than close grip
bench uh but it is evident too many that
the rsm would appropriately loaded
close-knit bench is much higher same
idea in hamstring curls versus uh uh
stiff-legged deadlifts stephanie
deadlifts have a lower emg profile on
average there's one head of the
hamstrings in which that's not the case
but mostly it's the average is way lower
but you know you say hey you can either
do four sets of leg curls and or four
sets of definitely deadlifts for for ten
which one's gonna get you more sore like
what i i may never walk again after four
ten stuff like that left like right like
in the pump and the burn if it's just
nonsense and i look at power lifters
that do lots of stuff like that lifts
and their hamstrings have like like
watching ben pollock these stuff like a
deadlifts in real life i was like
motherfucker you got eight hamsters the
fuck is going on back there he had up to
that point in his life maybe done like
10 leg curls total like
how the fuck is the hamstring that big
like well g wins i think this actually
uh works um so then he finishes off and
says
it seems to be untrue oh sorry uh closer
bench versus tricep kickbacks but it's
evident to many that the rsm would
probably loaded closer benches much
higher so what does emg data tell us how
do we use it to inform our exercise
selection as always thank you for the
informative content so
uh emg is just a real big part of the
picture uh oh sorry real small part of a
big picture and the emg tells you what
muscle uh parts of the muscle are
generally going to be active
active is not the same thing as
stimulating a muscle activity eventually
ends up stimulating by in the proper
ways
generating tension and exposing the
muscle to other forms of tension which
is called passive tension so emg proxies
active tension decently well though not
perfectly it doesn't proxy passive
tension very well at all for example the
lunge exercise um
the emg crushes it in glute flexion at
the very top uh like if you do a hip
thrust at the very top emg for glutes is
super high in the lunge exercise the mg
for glutes is never really as high as
you would think except lunges fuck up
your glutes more on how much damage they
do percent basis and also some of the
data showing that lunges are probably at
least as hypertrophic as bloop bridges
and may be set for set even more so and
this is something like like you do glute
bridges for the first time you might get
a little bit of peripheral glute
soreness you do lunges the first time
you're not walking for a few days your
ass is on fire 100 of the time it's got
to tell us that rsm for lunch is higher
like it almost certainly is one of the
things is emg has many many uh
problems as a measurement tool and it's
only ever meant to be a super general
measurement tool and it's meant to tell
you muscle activity is active uh
activity in the motor unit sampled when
you put the emg leads onto where you
want to put them there's tons of uh
crossover there's tons of all kinds of
noise and the emg ends up being
the emg answers questions for you
that you may not be able to intuit just
from rsm stuff like that uh stimulus
proxies maybe you could intuit them but
you just want a good guess so for
example there's emg data on does closer
stance work or wider stance work seem to
activate the glutes more the answer is
based on most dmg studies the wider
stance
targets the glutes better but that's not
good enough to just go and be like okay
wide stance everything you have to
confirm that with when you do wide
stance squatting and sumo stuff are your
glutes getting popped are they getting
sore do they feel like they're really
getting tired because if not the emg
is a hint at what's going on but it's
not a holistic hint whatsoever and
especially the mg can't detect stretch
under load
uh
mediated hypertrophy and things like
that so like tricep kickbacks at the
very top your triceps are fully active
doing this of course the mg is going to
be really high but this part of the
skull crusher or whatever is what
actually grows your triceps the most and
that emg generally tends to stay pretty
like yeah there's activity but it's
nothing to write home about this ignores
all that passive tension um and then you
know that you're left with seeing emg
stuff that's very discordant so emg is
not the same as rsm
but robust emg data showing this is
really what's active is a hint just like
biomechanics to us that maybe there's
gonna be higher stimulus magnitude doing
this kind of movement or position and if
it doesn't turn out to be that that way
then we know the emg data was limited
james really good um couple other things
about emg that are worth noting so it's
really only kind of
giving you an indication of the surface
level electrical activity going on at
that given site wherever they put it on
there so there's a lot of potential for
user error crossover effects like mike
already said but one thing that i have
found to be very notable with emg is
that different conditions and different
users are a huge confounder so one thing
you'll find with emg is you could have
just as an example if you have somebody
uh do a barbell squat with two feet on
the floor in a very just normal position
you can measure the amg right
and then you have them do
a barbell squat
on bosu balls and do the same
measurement what you'll actually find is
that their quad activity went up
according to the emg why is that well
it's because there's just more activity
of the quad during that unstable task
well why is that well it's because
you're actually having to stabilize
yourself the whole time so you're
getting a constant like negative and
positive feedback loops going
trying to hold you in the proper
position
is that
force
actually being used to summate big
forces to do the muscle action that
you're trying to do in the squat no it's
being used for stabilization task
another thing when you look at like uh
the tricep kickback for example
uh i don't know about you mike but
everyone i've ever tried to do tricep
kickbacks with is awkward as fuck the
first couple times until you unless
you've been for a while whereas like a
close grip bench most people can kind of
figure out or have done before
reasonably so you kind of get into the
same problem where if you're measuring
an activity that is awkward for somebody
or their technique's not very good
you're going to get a lot of muscle
activation just as a result of it being
an uncoordinated movement so for them
it's like i don't really know what i'm
doing so you're going to see tons and
tons and tons of muscle activity versus
when you actually are really well
trained at a movement
very often you'll actually see a huge
consolidation of the actual muscles used
to do the movement because your
technique has become so smooth and
efficient at it so very often you can
actually see some of these kind of weird
errors where you're using like a a
unstable condition or a novel exercise
or an exercise that somebody's just kind
of awkward at where you can see these
like disproportionately high emg
activities even though again in the real
world it doesn't seem to add up so in my
personal opinion i've only seen one uh
or two emg studies that i thought
actually made sense and were worthwhile
and then i've never bothered looking at
emg again and that was one where they
compared different calf exercises under
straight knee and bent knee conditions
that was really the only one where i was
like yep that was actually helpful thank
you very much all other the biomechanics
supports it because the the flexed
gastric menis is like passively
insufficient and then daw
right we didn't really need emg to tell
us that but like
that
calf emg and that caf biomechanics
lead to the same
uh suggestion as like okay yeah maybe
maybe you can try some bent calf raises
and also realize
something's getting pumped but it's not
the main meat and belly of my calf okay
well that's all the three things we need
i remember when i was doing my
dissertation so for those of you who
don't know i uh i did a whole bunch of
sled pushing stuff and i think i don't
want to stroke my own ego here too much
i think i was one of the first people to
do
sled push research
little little wank for myself right
there but i remember people were trying
to get me to do emg for it and i was
like
guys
have you pushed the sled do you we we
all know what you're gonna fall off like
also yeah
not only that but it was just like
we're doing knee extension and hip
extension it's the same shit different
day like we don't need to do like go
push the sled and tell me what muscles
you feel that good we're good we got it
we don't need emg to do this
let me finish this off by reading um
something
directly from pubmed which is unusual
oh
so here is the article
it is titled
the
[Music]
um
it's published by a.l hoff which is
really funny um a little maybe a cousin
of james's so it says it's titled the
relationship between electromyogram and
muscle force it was published as long
ago this is why this stuff is not new to
us it's published in 1997. okay
some guidelines are this is the abstract
some guidelines are given for
interpretation of electromyogram
of the electromyogram in static
isometric contractions there is usually
a linear relationship between muscle
force and smooth rectified emg
which is a smooth rectified emg as sre
it's that's the kind of emg stuff you
see reported in the literature for the
most part especially when regular
coaches are talking about it's always
something rectified because otherwise if
it's not smooth and rectified it looks
like pure nonsense and it's in isometric
conditions which are much easier to okay
so here's the beginning it should be
considered however that most of the time
several muscles are active
simultaneously around a joint that they
include several muscle heads by the way
this finding implies that the
relationship between sre of a single
muscle and joint total moment
needs not be linear during movements the
force length velocity relationship and
the elastic properties muscle should be
taken into account again that can change
things in a huge way
also emgs during concentric movements
are larger than those measured during
isometric actions and we have literature
since then to show that eccentric emgs
are also not as profound but remember
the eccentric contraction forms at least
50 percent of the impetus for muscle
growth possibly more probably more maybe
like 60 or something so if you're what
emg tells you really well is
in a concentric movement is that muscle
really active
yeah is it producing plenty of force yes
it's not showing you it's producing
maximal force it's not showing you that
most of the muscle is being recruited
and in isometric and eccentric actions
you could have very very different stuff
so how does the lunge fuck you up well
the eccentric loading of the glute in
the front leg as you go down that's the
big ticket for lunges that's what makes
me grows your glutes so much that is
entirely almost missing from peak emg
stuff and you would say oh lunge isn't
that great where where do we see you
know in the hip thrust that's a small
short range concentric contraction of
course we're going to see great emg data
but that might not tell us everything we
need to know so again a lot of that
stuff specifically eccentric stuff
specifically longer muscle links
specifically with passive tension that
stuff the emg either purposefully picks
up or or doesn't pick up at all and then
we have a situation where the emg again
gives us these general overall hints
that aren't so super useful so if
someone says well emg data shows that
xyz is better exercise for your tricep
than this other exercise try them both
see what your stimulus to fatigue ratio
is see what your raw stimulus magnesium
is like on the proxies if one of them
just fucks you up completely and the
other one's like meh then you know the
right one the tricep kickback everyone's
done it's a dog shit exercise you have
to use an infinity amount of them to get
remotely sore you can barely get a pump
it kind of hurts your elbow a little bit
it feels fucking weird
like oh my god it's hard to hold your
shoulder up than it is to do the
extension itself that's like the
isometric insufficiency like it's harder
to do this than it is to this so you
might as well drop it down and do this
with a cable so it tries to kick back
stuff for all those great great emg but
you can clearly tell if you do that
versus a skull pressure which one is
staying which one's leading
yeah absolutely and fun fact guys i uh
they also do an intrafusal emg most of
the emg studies you look at will just be
surface electrodes but they actually do
have a fancy one where they actually
stick a wire into the muscle fiber
itself which is uh kind of fucked up and
weird also i was just thinking about
that study where they were looking at
the glute activation with the the hip
thrusts like those fuck that the pi in
that lab the audacity pull your pants
down so i can put these uh emg
electrodes on your butt cheeks you
fucking love it you fucking purple we
all know what was going on here go get
that shit man use science to see smash
that's my touch some ass
curvy shit
i love it
um all right that's all we got
all right
folks thank you so much for your
questions i am working on the rp secret
project which is shaving years off of my
life i'm also working on editing my book
my buddy steve is brutalizing me with
his edits so i'm just getting just
getting fucked left and right on all
these projects so i'm not feeling my
best but things are moving along dr mike
what do you got going on
everything's secret i gotta shut up a
lot so
then shut up what's up what are you
doing god
uh youtube channel's going good thanks
for uh got some positive feedback on my
training video uh by the way
some of you were hating on my tank top
that tank top was meant to be a joke did
you notice that it says i heart margz on
it
and i i also got it for free at my local
liquor store it was in a basket oh
amazing tank tops i was like this is
like a women's medium i'm like i'm
taking it yeah some of the installs got
very upset at the tank top i know i was
like i'm not trying i'm not wearing it
to look more buff i thought it was funny
because it's a stupid tank top what
remember no one would ever tell you that
in real life to your face
behind that screen i love it yeah uh
that's it for this q a guys thanks for
joining us make sure you subscribe
there's all sorts of fun videos in the
works there's always good training
videos good dr mike videos and we will
see you next time