this is exactly how hard you should
trade to maximize muscle growth earlier
into a session stay a bit further away
from failure getting tired from going to
failure too early into a session could
reduce hypertrophy as per some more
preliminary evidence from ref following
colies later into a session however you
can likely go closer to failure and see
more hypertrophy as per a matter
aggression from last year by Robinson
and colleagues finding that The Closer a
set is taken to failure the more
hypertrophy it causes additionally if
you're doing multiple exercises for the
same muscle group in a given session
stay a bit further from failure earlier
into the session and then for the last
exercise for that muscle group go all
the way to failure for the last few sets
putting all that together here my
recommendations take most exercises from
three reps in reserve on the first set
to about one rep in reserve on the last
set if this is the last exercise you're
doing for a given muscle on a given day
instead take the first set to about two
reps in reserve and the last set to
failure by doing this you mitigate the
fatigue generated by going too close to
failure but you also get the benefits
from training pretty close to failure
most of the time and going all the way
to failure for at least a few sets each
session that's why