[Applause]
[Music]
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
[Music]
looks like we're rollin we roll in
alright folks welcome back sorry for
being a little off schedule that this
week that was my bad
I forgot to bring it up last time when I
asked Mike hey what are you doing next
week we good I forgot that I was
actually traveling so my bad
number two apologies sorry if I'm
digitizing or if the quality is not
great this week because I am using the
Wi-Fi and my headphones I depend on that
so it's gonna be a little lower quality
than usual this week so sorry advanced
and by that he means the quality of the
questions and answers is gonna be worse
intellectually it's true alright folks
so big housekeeping item we are doing a
tiny bit of restructure and here is the
deal we are going to be collecting
questions from rp+
and we are going to be answering them on
this webinar every week just like normal
we are going to be posting those answers
to rp+ every single time in the webinar
section but a few additions we'll also
be posting these on YouTube on the
Renaissance period ization YouTube
channel so you could say the sports
scientists podcast a sorta back but in
the form of just webinar stuff for rp+
and we're going to take approximately
three questions per week off of the
YouTube channel so as soon as the first
video goes up if you watch this and
you're a Youtube subscriber to our P
shoot a question right into that
description and then the next week we'll
try to get three questions answered
we're gonna do them just like we do the
rp+ questions super in-depth super
awesome here's the thing go until and
unless it takes us longer than like two
hours to do these things we're gonna
answer every single rp+ question for
sure and we're only gonna ask for three
YouTube questions a week which is to say
very low percentage of the YouTube
question so if you want your questions
answered rp+
is the way to go and if you get
frustrated that you've been asking
questions on YouTube and no one's
answering you have a straight line to
the answer for ten dollars a month
listen James and I have nasty drug and
hooker habits please give us money but
in any case now suddenly the true addict
we have to get this ready to have money
mom there is a potential down the road
that the rp+ webinars become SuperDuper
popular but I don't know how likely that
is if we get in excess of about 17
questions depending on how long they are
from our rp+ members we're still gonna
do three YouTube questions every week
but we might cap it at around 17
questions per week from the rp+ members
and then we are going to change the
Terms of Service and conditions for
people us and you could continue to
subscribe if you like and if you really
hate the following then you just
unsubscribe don't worry we love you
anyway the Terms of Service will then be
this is not the case yet it may never
become the case but just a heads up that
if your rp+ membership gets you the
forum's it gets you all the videos every
week of our G+ it gets you access to all
this stuff and it gives you the highest
possible probability the James that I
will answer your question right but some
questions we might have to pair down or
eliminate because we want to get to all
the best questions so we might just take
the top 17 questions every week so might
be the case that rp+ is popular enough
did we get 25 questions on our B+ every
week that means we're gonna answer 17 of
them and the rest we're gonna pair out
now here's the categorization and James
might have an addition to this we are
gonna take questions that do not fit the
following categories have not been asked
before an excessive number of times not
that there's anything wrong with that
it's just like if it's been asked a
bunch of webinars just watch the old
ones and you'll get them if it's a
question that is brutally fucking
obvious you could Google like how many
grams of protein do I need per day a lot
of God a question that is incredibly
personalized programming advice that we
usually don't answer anyway but we'll do
not even address the question because
will usually say hey you know you know
whatever your nickname is on here you
know a
you know dildo guy 46 question it's a
good question but we don't have because
you know people will ask the question
like here's exactly my program to the
letter no I'm interested no theoretical
guidance of what to do next I'm
interested in exact specifics do I do
four sets or five cents next week
that's a coaching question to answer
really well we'd have to coach and RP
has a coaching service there's plenty of
other great coaching companies three dmj
tons of other great stuff to hire coach
so those kinds of questions might not
see the light of day as much um and I
think lastly questions that are sort of
easily verifiable through other RP
products like our books etc now if you
ask a question about a concept in the
book oh my god will answer it if you ask
a deep intellectual question about a
concept that you haven't read in the
book that exists in the book or that's
not any books we'd love to solve it but
if it's like hey what's your guys
thoughts on nutrient timing well very
published very public so use it easy
Google look if it's an easy google we're
probably just not going to answer it if
it's incredibly in-depth personal
probably not gonna answer it and if it's
been asked a bunch before we might give
lip service to it and then sort of go on
or might not answer at all like it might
even not make the selection for now
we're answering all questions but that
may be the situation later so you think
all a lot of hell am I still paying for
rp+ because you know your chances of
getting our peoples question answered
especially if it's a good question it's
gonna be like unlike ninety-nine percent
or ninety five percent your chances of
getting answered on YouTube is gonna be
well you know three questions out of the
probably hundreds of comments we'll get
on the videos after a few months so not
great James yeah no I think you know
that I'm leaning toward as if I have a
microphone that's just how I'm used to
doing this um III think that like with
the YouTube page let me say that a lot
of your interviews also it might be one
of those things where it's like a zero
to three questions because a lot of the
questions I'm assuming we get on YouTube
are the same categories as things that
might be prescribed so I should I do
this they're like you know and so here's
some examples of things you might not
answer anymore it's like them what books
do you recommend what do you do to be
productive what kind of stuff should I
know about grad school those are things
you might just not really answer anymore
because you've answered them a bunch
right other questions like should I add
and
city or volume that's a good question
but we've beaten it to death on previous
webinars right so we might kind of glaze
over some of those other hands where you
get into more meat media like good
thoughtful questions then we might pick
a few of those out every week but um
we're not gonna take shitty questions
from YouTube over good questions from
our site great point
absolutely so zero to three weekly
questions from YouTube and if I you're
on YouTube and you're like oh you do
only ask two questions why did I get
mine answered well because your
questions sucked and probably you suck
I'm just kidding we love everyone give
us your money you may want to just for
total house fancy why are we doing this
um because it provides the same or very
similar levels service to our wonderful
pre plus people but it makes our an
electoral advice like sort of public and
it lets other people see it which is a
great service because uh I think a lot
of people maybe many of you watch the
webinar even if you don't ask questions
because it's just a lot of wisdom that
we pour out here and whatever wisdom
bullshit that we make up on the spot
that's a lot um yeah a lot of actual
work is just on doesn't see the light of
day and through YouTube it'll be super
public which is great but it still
conserves the rp+ payment structure to
be like super worth your time if you
want to pay us so that's the situation
and Yahoo if you don't want your
questions out in public either write
down a fake name or don't ask us private
questions in rp+
so just a quick reminder there's no
there never was an expectation of
privacy by the way it's never in the
contract but for sure not now yeah
that's a good point too and there's also
a forum if you want to ask questions but
you don't want us to like announce that
you made this question there's a forum
that you can go on as well yep yep all
right all right spurt forum right let's
do it
thanks for your time and the
housekeeping guys let's get to business
I will read off the screen as long as
you pull it up perfect there's Daniel
hacker first yeah all right so also
hello YouTube I guess we should say that
if you're confused about what this is
James and I are sports scientists and we
answer questions about sports science so
we're gonna do this every week as long
as we're not dead all right we're gonna
be that long we're not might not be that
long if there's a
ability distribution about that number
it's not almost got taken out a gaggle
of wild turkeys today I'm gonna be a
terrible way to go
they were fucking huge I was driving
down the highway
that's a flashback from Lowe's Becca
Stoney Wars yes real quick before before
you even the questions what is the UN
like panel of eight countries like that
like meeting room when Turkey and Lowe's
Becca Stan are in the same all changes
are running high the meldova and
candidates just like walk out but they
can't deal with the tension it's true
the representative from Hassan is a good
mediator
he did that awkward pose for the picture
where both parties are sort of smiling
yeah all right Daniel hacker a man that
exclusively penetrates deep secure
Internet networks because he's a hacker
I was I was holding I was gonna nervous
there for a second I was like oh man she
started with penetrate was enough start
yeah totally he says is there any
utility in fighters doing spinal flexion
slash direct abdominal train yes
especially weighted because a ton of
ticking is abdominal II uh limited when
you do a lot of teacher to there's a lot
of stuff where you use your abs to both
pull your knees toward you rapidly and
to pull yourself up to your opponent
rapidly there's a bunch of sitting up
sweeps so that you can do so yes there's
tons of utility James I think I think
even more so for like and then a worse
there there's the cage involved and you
can actually use the cage to like push
yourself up or to try and shirk your
opponent off there's a lot of good
advantages to using that spinal flexion
with the cage but I mean it's like
anything else like it's not that you
should do it necessarily it's that there
needs to be a need for you to do it and
that's a sport where I think you can
make a strong case that there is a need
or
and missus you know similar question
Chad and I think you guys to question
mark have talked about having twisting
movements as a staple and a fighters
strength conditioning program can you
list some awesome twisting movement
streams um I don't really use a ton of
twisting movements a lot of the twisting
you get comes from the training you do
like if you I should probably switch the
screen back every now and again a a lot
of the training you get just comes from
like throwing kicks throwing punches
doing like your judo your grappling
throws you get a lot of training
students from that when you go into
resistance training really there's only
a couple that I recommend and that's
some form of like a cable twist like
arms extended horizontal position cable
I should probably put it on myself here
there we go you know arms out cable
twist kind of thing just against
resistance nothing too crazy just do it
both both sides per sets up between like
10 and 20 if you're just trying to
strengthen those muscles up nothing
fancy and then once you move into more
of your power explosive training you
might do some like ball throws yeah I'm
with you with the ball throws is a lot
of people focus too much on the shoulder
and the arm portion and they're
traveling right we've got to get used to
pivoting with your hips and your trunk
so you get a lot of hip a lot of trunk
that's okay you want to minimize the arm
the arms just there to hold the ball and
eventually always yeah that's the worst
is when people turn technical twisting
movements into rap cardio it's just a
terrible way to do cardio and you're
just like you training your biceps in a
movie anyway yeah and the thing too is
like the twisting movements put a lot of
surprising stress on like your back
muscles and okay I've noticed is you've
got it when you're doing the kicks when
you're doing adding twist training
you'll notice that your back would be
one of the first things that start is
from the limiting factor which is not a
good yeah
all right next question from Daniel is
if you're not competing in justice James
has aptly named to the professional what
do you think about keeping a cap on your
top and weight during mass phase just
trying to reach that weight at a crisper
and crisper look each time you mass so
you've reached a certain top-end weight
18 percent body fat maybe next time you
try to get through at 16 back seven
fourteen rough numerical estimates but
you see my point I think it's a great
idea until and unless you decide do you
want more mass or you want it faster
there's some point your top-end of mass
is like 10 to 12 percent and that means
you're cutting out almost the entire
productive 10 to 17 percent out so at
some point you're gonna be really lean
at the body weight you want and your
mass is gonna be a joke so then you need
to expand it back up so I think it's
great especially if you're like you know
it's not many genetic cards for me
slashing would take everything for me to
get up to 250 so all I'm gonna do is get
up to 240 cut down to 220 get up to 240
comes out of 220 to get up to 240 cut
down to 224 and then eventually I'll be
like 230 super fucking lean and my mass
phases will just be like a relaxed
eating time when I'm up closer to 240 I
think that's totally cool but you just
have to understand that if you have any
aspirations to really push the limits
this is not a compatible thing yeah and
just to add on top of that so in that
case your your instead of having them
and making gains in body weight over
time it's not a linear thing but just
for the sake of discussion it's more of
a linear thing like over time in this
case that strategy immediately causes an
asymptote right where you're basically
capping your gains off at some point and
then the games would really start having
diminishing returns deliberately which
is fine that's a completely fine
trade-off it's just something you should
be aware of so it's not one of those
things where each mass fades you're
going to be gaining tons and tons of
weight as Mike said because you're not
taking advantage of the time you're just
going to be cutting it shorter and
shorter and shorter each time making
less and less progress that's fine if
you don't if you're if it's not a huge
priority not a big deal
yep alright what is next
William Reed sounds like a motherfucker
in the Revolutionary War some ships like
William Reed I can script you to serve
in our Continental Army that's the
different adult film star alright
William Lee says hey guys I'm on
antipsychotic meds and they make me
unbelievably psychotic I'm just kidding
they're not working hey guys product
meds and they make me unbelievably
hungry I have a very hard time losing
weight because of it
I just tried a mini cut after six weeks
of massing and I had to stop less than a
weekend from hunger going nuts because I
have hard time dieting on these meds and
thinking of getting slower longer masses
gave me 25 pounds a week and then slower
longer cutting phases losing more than 1
pounds a week would this be a good idea
is there a better way I think that would
be a great start to an idea another
thing is if you haven't checked out the
anti-hunger strategies there's a bunch
of lectures on YouTube where I talk
about them for free but if you want to
pick up the RP diet book there's an
adapter on hunger management and you
could integrate all of that stuff more
aggressively and more quickly into your
diet than normally would happen and you
can really get ahead of that stuff and
just make sure you're not so there's two
factors how much weight they lose total
over the stretch of your cut and how
fast you try to lose it
so if you go easy on both of those then
you're in in a good spot James yeah it
might be such that you could probably
run your mass phases pretty normally and
I think what you're basically saying
it's like running a pretty normal mass
but my only point thing you wouldn't
have to necessarily draw the mass phases
out longer unless you're just Jobling
out every single time yeah that rebound
hunger but I think drawing the cut faces
out like you described in what Mike
already described was definitely did I
do yeah
all right the great Anthony drought NOLA
says hey guys I mentioned wherever
possible is an excuse for pretty much
everything much of the last 18 months
have seen me slowly dropping weight due
to several injuries and lifestyle time
constraints as in my lowest weigh-in six
weeks ago I was down about 25 pounds
compared to February 2017 I started
giving away my things because I don't
think I'm gonna make it for long I'm
just kidding
definitely some lean mass lost but also
a fair amount of fat I've been able to
squeeze in a few good training muscles
over those period to regain some lost
muscle and I'm now at least noticeably
leaner than I have been in many years I
also haven't done any specific cardio
training at all during that time I lost
my place
okay but during a check-up with my
doctor six weeks ago my vitals came back
as resting heart rate at fifty-five
beats per minute nice loss greater 122
over 70 notice will be better than in
2017 what I also wasn't doing any cardio
losing weight clearly has tremendous
health benefits a hundred thousand
percent
the reason we wrote that book about that
as long as enough muscle mass is
retained for health which probably isn't
that much no it's not but to what extent
would these effects be expected if to be
a result of specifically losing fat
which is quite simply lose weight in
general I suspect it's the latter
given how powerful this change has been
if I had to just a real real cursory
estimate of what would be the result if
the study was directly done I think
probably losing weight is 60 to 70
percent of the health benefit and losing
pure fat versus muscle is another 30 to
40 percent benefit so what I would say
is if someone said hey I lost a bunch of
weight and they like it turns out they
lost some muscle and you know they lost
some fat but you know just lost a lot of
weight in general I would expect their
health to be very very significantly
improved but if someone loses all
predominantly or exclusively fat and
loses almost as much weight but not
quite they actually turn out even
healthier but not by this insane margin
so a lot of times in this is coming from
a lot of reading to literature but also
working with a bunch of people who have
either lost a lot of fat but not a lot
of weight or someone sometimes will
simultaneous lost the game which really
sort of magnifies the weight versus fat
question and some people who have just
lost a lot of weight and that means fat
and muscle and what I will say is people
who lose more weight win almost every
time but they don't win by a huge margin
and if you just lost fat it didn't lose
a lot of weight you do get healthier but
it's not night day crazy like losing
weight of course the best way to get
healthier is to lose the maximum amount
of weight and gain / maintain all of
your muscle and then you just turn into
like a heart rate 40 fucking kind of
like blood pressure 100 over 60 kind of
person so Yahoo
that sounds spot-on to me I was trying
to think of a scenario and I ended up
live getting too lost in a daydream
rouse thinking about somebody who was
maintaining their weight but losing like
all muscle and gaining fat but to
maintaining their weight and I was like
these not trained okay beating stop
training yeah I'm with you I think it's
more I think it's more heavily biased on
the weight rather than the
outside but in fact certainly has this
place as well yeah okay what's really
amazing to me is the carryover this
improved cardio conditioning is provided
away training my fourth week of a mass
phase and recovery from high volumes in
a way I haven't since well the last time
I was this light back when I actually
did do regular cardio I'm clearly far
better condition now that I have been
for some time as I'm able to take far
shore arrests and let the reps trough
off like mike recommends without gassing
out or taking my recovery at the Calgary
seminar I mentioned how I have to do
specific cardio to prepare myself for
high Vaughn led training but also get
headaches from exertion this is no
longer the case at all in fact the
difference is so stark that it is
unavoidably evident that I simply wasn't
appropriately conditioned for our trophy
training over the last four years
ironically the reason I cut cardio in
the first place risottos interfering
with my masses and my weight shot off as
soon as I dropped it but it didn't occur
to me that I'd lose the conditioning and
then need to get back to some later
point
maybe I wasn't a fat piece of shit on
the outside but I clearly wasn't fat
piece of shit on the inside in my heart
we're literally actually you're either
do a cardiac scan like you're a fat
piece of shit right there where it
really is gonna get you nah doc you
really invested my chops here no really
look at this cardiograms fat in there
you're gonna die so the important
question now is how can I retain this
newfound conditioning now that I'm going
to slowly mask my way back up to
previous body meat you can't that's the
short answer
we'll get to that later is it possible
community conditioning by keeping up as
higher density show our us training with
additional cardio tomorrow we're at some
point am I going to need to keep adding
cardio back in even if physically during
maintenance periods and any cuts maybe
not necessarily maybe not
should I gradually begin to reintroduce
cardio once I find the shorter us have
been taking are becoming increasingly
difficult or they're better indicators
they're get indicators which you may not
want to add in cardio let's just say
that let me finish this real quick and
I'll just say what I have to say I
release these your basic questions
around team sport perspective but
they're obviously something I never
considered for my portrayed perspective
I just want to make sure I don't make
the same obvious mistakes again just
like how it didn't occur to me that I
could be insufficiently conditioned for
massing but I absolutely was so so
here's the thing Tony it's one of the
situations where
there are a variety of things that there
are problems that come along with any
intervention and then there is a list of
mitigators you can impose but almost all
those mitigators have limits and they
have costs so there's a certain amount
of mitigation that you're just not gonna
want to do because it's gonna be sort of
fighting the other way so I think you
know massing means you're gonna get to
worse shape it doesn't mean you have to
get in there kind of shape that you
can't train the first mitigator is mass
slower and take more maintenance breaks
and take more mini cuts okay like if you
put on five pounds of muscle a year
that's really great that means
technically speaking at most the most
you'd ever have to gain in any one
stretch of the year maybe seven pounds
at a time and then you can lose three or
four and then gain another seven or lose
three or four you'll gain five pounds of
muscle that year but going up seven
pounds is not the same thing as going up
20 but it still leads to great muscle
gains um doing it slower letting
yourself adjust cardio I think I'd take
James's view on this like to heart is
like it keeps you healthy if you do a
little bit of it it keeps you in good
shape
but in doing anymore cardio to really
chase the ability to Train is shooting
yourself in the foot as to what you're
getting out of that training if you're
converting fibers to slow twitch great
now you can do a lot of squats for no
good reason at all and just notice the
hypertrophy signaling is just lower so
in some sense you just gotta fight that
fucking dragon man amassing means
throwing up between sets of squats
massing slower means you don't have to
do it so it's a good thing that's my
biggest recommendation Jam oh yeah that
was great I think you just got to
remember the specificity of training
right why are you doing what you're
doing well you're trying to gain muscle
mass you're not trying to get better
intermittent recovery between sets right
that's just like doing intermittent
cardio at that point so it's a good
thought process of like oh I want to
maintain my shape you are maintaining
your credit intrinsic abilities that's
the good news so you're not actually
getting worse you're just getting
heavier right we're challenged you're
less efficient if you pay more mass
right that's really the issue so but the
idea here is not to get better at cardio
via the idea is to get better at is to
gain muscle mass right so yeah you start
training more cardio now you're starting
to split the difference between the
outcomes so yeah what my sense was Bob
very very cool it's kind of a gift of
the curse you know I'm like
just it's a part of the job they ask hi
green ones you know like so a couple you
a couple years back guys five to ten
years back he had gotten over 300 for
the first time in his life this is
before he became great right this is on
his way to greatness right and they're
like how do you feel at 300 he's like
I'm Lani I don't feel terrible on the
other hand I tried doing a handstand for
the first time since I was 300 and I
broke several bones in my hand it just
has to be done and then of course he
stopped onstage at 275 right like took
second at the Olympia bunch of times and
wanted about ten shows like he's a
legend because he did what he had to do
there's everyone every bodybuilder has
ever been north of whatever body weight
he liked says it sucks but you know
mattoni it's just part of the process
like you watch the videos of Charlie Jon
like vomiting between sets of everything
like that's just what it takes yeah and
just just to rely on beating the hearts
dead here just to reiterate just because
you're gaining weight doesn't mean
you're losing that conditioning that you
have it just means that your is heavier
and shitty and less efficient you're
just expending more energy to do the
same task so it's kind of a misnomer
when people say like I lost conditioning
it's like I'm just heavier right it just
costs you more to do the same thing yeah
yeah when you see someone running uphill
with a backpack and they're huffing and
puffing you're like that guy's in shitty
shape like no he's a backpack on yeah
same idea exactly yeah which is just
real quick to say that like strongmen at
a high level are so impressive because
they weigh 400 pounds they're running
around with casually oh my god how many
people weighed 400 can move that's
insane and not just like blow their
Achilles off Jesus all right Christian
Whisman liceman do the correct you know
figure he has to like be looking with
the beta looking very German spelling so
I couldn't do the figure but I did it
the American Way
it's like Christian Whisman that's like
to me it sounds like a world war ii
german admiral very respected by the
british like all he's dangerous he was
like a Red Baron exactly but not on as
many snack foods
that's it's so funny like you know you
like shoot a bunch of people down you
died for your country and your like
teleport you for in time they like do
people remember my greatness like yeah
you have a line of popcorn named after
you now it's like what's popcorn like
yeah you don't want to know and pizza
frozen pizza did I get to see you like
yeah that's right the year is 2581 and
everyone eats half - tiny crab cakes god
damn it
oh really that's my legacy people
stopped you in the airport at the
spaceport they like James Hoffman you're
like yep I got brought back to life like
I love your crab cakes like that my crab
no RP damn it like RP died during the
renaissance wars in 2084 you like hot
shit I knew it I knew Nick Shaw was
gonna get greedy but that goddamn
octopus the ironically named Renaissance
Wars right we lost the Renaissance war
all right two topics number one injury
prevention I injured my triceps tendon
on my elbow this spring and got treated
with extracorporeal shock wave therapy
holy robots it sounds like a ghost
treatment literature corporeal yeah it's
like now you might see some shit don't
worry the ghost for safe I think all
right rehab and some anti-inflammatories
my physio doc told me that I can't
really do anything to prevent this but I
really have a hard time believing that
okay how would you recommend to prehab
my tendons / joints to avoid injuries a
lot of people think rehabs not a thing
we'll get to that in a second I know I
didn't always warm up properly interest
maybe change taking it more serious
anything besides that so I have a couple
points from James probably has more
pertinent points wanna take your warmup
seriously so for example when I do skull
Crusher's um I often begin with a
compound movement first
even if triceps are my priority because
if I do heavy shoulder pressing or heavy
dips my elbows warm up it's if attention
in a way that like no amount of Skaal
Krush warm up can do for like I'd have
to do 10 sets or something once I'm done
over I'm pressing my elbows are real
good then I take like three or four
warm-up sets for my heavy laden skull
Crusher's and I
very careful another thing is technique
there's a variety of ways you can move
your elbow can you can you point a
camera at me for a sec James it'sit's
your webcam it's my man oh sorry I see
person yeah so like if you did an
overhead extension and you go back this
way sometimes that trends in the living
shit out of your elbows but where you
might break forward first see how my
elbow comes forward first and then you
go back like for me that feels totally
great okay so I break and then go but if
you just start up here and you just go
back that's similar to when you're
squatting just it's like not bending in
your hips just bend me straight at your
knees like you'll just shred your shit
off so point point one is warm-up point
two is figure out ways of training your
triceps that really feel good
this shouldn't be a thing where you're
like oh like I know guys who just wrap
up their elbows and schemes and there
I'm trying to Train triceps it's been
cold out a lot so it's like yeah just
just a good idea just to train stuff
that hurts all the time so that kind of
stuff making sure your technique is good
so that it feels good and then going
super slow in progress with volume in
intensity and always paying attention to
when to when stuff is hurting James yeah
those are really good suggestions the
only ones I would add on top of what
Mike said was you might choose exercises
that favor a little bit more range in
motion overload so for example not just
doing like super super heavy skull
crushers which people tend to load up
pretty heavy because it can do a lot
maybe do like a really good full range
of motion cable press down which you can
go all the way up like palm to face heat
contraction on the way down or sometimes
even like the overhead barbell movements
just because it's a little more awkward
for Peter Bell skull crushers dumbbells
yeah you just can't use as much weight
cuz it's awkward right so and you get a
nice full range of motion something
along those lines even at JM pres you
can't use nearly as much weight as if
you just did a row of like skull crusher
in a lot of cases so I would say pick
ones where you get a really good range
of motion and it limits the load
inherently and then also favor the
higher rep ranges for now until you can
have like three to four mesocycles pain
free not just one right three to four
pain three and that pain free and use
10 to 20 20 to 30 rep ranges more yeah
great and great and just lastly I think
I sort of implied this but just to make
it very explicit if an exercise hurts
your elbows just fucking do it just
don't fucking do it just go away from
doing and try it in a year or try it
never people will say to me like you
know I love close grips I love skull
crushers I love extensions but I can't
do tips they hurt my elbows what should
I do and like is there some kind of
driving force in your life that's
leading you towards tips like you like
we're daydreaming while you're driving
your car and you just like ran into like
the dips purchasing store works like dip
stands free and you're like oh how the
hell am i hearing your wife calls just
like where are you like I'm I missed a
dip store again honey just the third
time this month are you having the
dreams again like who the hell needs
dips there's a trillion different try
some exercises just lose the ones that
are cool I think like a lot of people
like I'll post a video where I do dips
or something right you skull Crusher's
and inevitably I guess subconsciously
called man I got to start trying those
who do you really like and if you do
maybe they're great but maybe they hurt
your elbows maybe they bother them like
I literally have another kind of common
but it's man I tried it dips gonna
triceps or any idea and then if you try
them again try them with persistence and
try them in a bunch of different hand
positions and shoulder positions to make
it that they don't hurt and if you spend
two or two weeks trying a bunch of stuff
and they still hurt
just don't ever do a man there's a bunch
exercise I don't ever do that hurt like
I just wasn't dumb to do why the hell
would I do them don't do them so make
sure you just it you all you need for
big triceps is for one tricep exercise
and you can do following the test any
manipulation to get huge triceps right
if you have three or four amazing you
have anything you need
there's like 12 good try some exercises
you don't need to do all especially like
if you're not a high level bodybuilder a
lot of depressing movements you get so
much into regular biceps minute if
you're dealing with injury you can just
envy your triceps just by doing press
work and you're basically good to go if
you're somebody like Mike size that
might not be the case if you're somebody
like my size you might be able to get
away I'm stumped okay alright number two
coming back after a long 10 weeks or
more layoffs I have been out of the gym
for almost 10 weeks now do they ever
mention a jury I thought of my starting
full-body template five days not a good
idea we'll tell you about a sec I liked
it a lot additionally to
to go two or three times to maybe today
class to get back in the groove please
give me some do's and don'ts general
advice to not get injured again due to
overdoing it thanks in advance always
enjoy watching the Q & A regards Chris
so Chris check this out um I would start
for about two or three weeks only doing
two and a split or sorry two weeks lit
do full body Monday full body Thursday
and then I would do a full body split
that's three days a week like Monday
Wednesday Friday for Bobby - Bobby -
Bobby and then only after two or three
months of that when I go to a four-day
and I would do a four-day for several
months and then do a product game for
jujitsu I would do a whole month of
weight training and not even danger
Jitsu for a month and then I would come
back to doing two classes of mostly
technique in - very little of any
rolling for another several for another
month maybe then go to 2 to 3 classes
and slowly start rolling you easing in
means easing in five-day week training
coming back is a monstrously ridiculous
idea that's gonna fucking get you hurt
if you're unlucky if you're lucky you'll
be fine but I wouldn't design programs
based on Locker
yeah I'm told I keep forgetting to
switch the screen back I'm totally with
Mike on that I think maybe I might be a
little bit more aggressive on the
jujitsu only in the sense of like I
think you could probably do 1 to 2 times
probably more like 1 if you if you are
able to go and just do the technique and
not get tempted into drilling and
rolling which is it hard admittedly
that's a hard sell to say like just go
for the 30 minutes of technique and
don't stay for the drilling and rolling
like that no one's gonna do that so in
that case if you and Matt both then take
Mike's advice and just don't go for you
know a month or two until you have the
conditioning from the weight training
you got some cardio you got some some
local and you're able to tolerate that a
little bit better but I think if you
were able to do the little bit of the
ego check and just go there and just to
get some basic conditioning basic skill
work back in jujitsu I think you could
probably throw at it
I've been using the RP diet to fill my
weightlifting performance for years and
our piece simple science-based approach
has been instrumental to my success with
the new RP diet app following our P's
principles is as easy as entering my
goals and schedule and choosing my
favorite foods the app builds a diet to
my exact needs reminds me to eat my
meals and adapts to my body's changes
every single day and week the RP diet
app is a huge help in my quest to become
the best athlete I can be and if your
goal is to be your best it will help you
okay okay Mircea Bulai as we call them
America says hi dogs first of all think
to all the information of the last
webinar I'll start training cabs at mvs
dr. James suggests Andy there's more
weight for lower ups with short rest
periods to stock to my suggests would it
also be beneficial to add blood flow
restriction to the mix to get a
metabolite in fact yes yeah because then
it would really reduce the actual load
on your foot
but with this training modality be
counterproductive to high higher weight
low rep D training I think it's great I
think what you might do is just do that
V training for a while without it's and
just see how you're feeling and then
when you start expanding your volumes
make a couple of days a week one or two
of them VFR days so that it can take
some stress off your foot and that might
be really really productive for you
yeah toe and that's probably one of the
better instances of using VFR or
hypertrophy is injury management type
stuff so told a boy who this validates
my bias so I like it in reply to a PS
and reply to Tony's question I train
camps with Nike mat cons various
training shoes and barefoot barefoot was
probably the most uncomfortable for me
shazam barefoot training is not it is
great to develop the musculature and the
strength of your feet but a big it is
great because it is overloading to your
feet so if someone is experiencing
plantar fasciitis or any of that kind of
symptomology barefoot is not the answer
it is the problem you need to restrict
the movement of the foot as soon as the
person is not symptomatic anymore when
you have broken the inflammatory cycle
potentially using barefoot training to
strengthen the areas to build up more
capacity in the area is a good idea
but it's one of those that the
medication and the rebuilding is two
different things right like when they
tell you like hey you know after you get
done being sick if you start working out
you'll get sick less that doesn't mean
the doctor puts your dumb ass on a
treadmill when you're in the hospital
with the flu like the best thing to do
when you have the flu is shut the fuck
up and sit down and eat as much as you
can and drink best thing to do when you
don't have the flu to prevent the flu is
to become strong and fit and that
involves challenging yourself to
different things at different times
James yeah I think you nailed us I'm
good nicely done
sweet alright by the way my last name
spelled wrong in the docs it's been a
yawn not been I yuan oh damn damn
getting correct Oh correcting yeah it's
just the you and yo miss that's problem
just my fault yeah yeah that's probably
my fault you're gonna get the mummys
gonna visit you j-mo alright hey doc
shit so he saw cab in I says hey Doc's I
noticed that on my stiff-legged deadlift
it's not my hamstrings about my lower
back that's limiting the number of reps
I can perform even though I'm crazy sore
after doing those is that a problem it
is a problem well if you're getting
crazy somewhere it's not a fucking
problem so you're good to go
but potentially it can be later if you
have trouble getting your hamstring sore
so I saying as long as your hamstrings
any glass then totally I think for most
people like I've seen very few SL deals
where the hamstrings reach failure you
know mostly it's a lower back like if
you're keeping it tight lower back that
just taxes or lower back and at some
point you're gonna start to round
usually start to round before your
hamstrings go which is one of the
reasons why the SL deal is such a
challenging exercise and is one of the
few exercises which taking to failure is
a terrible idea because it almost always
because of that limiting factor being
your back technical breakdown occurs
away the way before the point of target
hamstring muscle failure so it's not a
problem at all it could be a problem if
you like such bad shape that your lower
back is like rir of zero while your
hamstrings are in are ar-10 but then you
wouldn't be getting sore on your
hamstrings so I think it's not a problem
in this case
yeah I think like what Mike said it
could potentially be a problem if it's
limiting your ability to do hamstring
training and clearly it's not in this
case but just as food for thought if it
was I think you could make a case that
knew your back might not have the
strength and/or work capacity to really
benefit from that exercise and you might
be better off just doing more deadlifts
or deficit Dennis Roady being yeah yeah
roast and that just
my back strength until you can actually
utilize the SL DL you guys more of an
effect good hamstring training tool but
it sounds like you watch so yeah yeah it
also if you were in that ball a
situation you could still do SL deals by
doing a pre-exhaust of lying or seated
hamstring curls before you do the three
to three to five sets of hamstring curls
close to failure s LD else is gonna be
like every rep is gonna be like
hamstring hamstring hamstring and you'll
never even notice you had a lower back
but during that same time cuz then
you're making a lower back even weaker
during that same time you want to do a
James says and blast the deadlifts and
all that other stuff so that your lower
back is getting strong while your
hamstring still getting hit then
eventually you might not have to create
sauce anymore yeah that's one of those
things like I think just with training
age kind of works itself out like you
rarely run into intermediate or advanced
lifters who have that problem just
because the baskets are strong so I'm
right also I was practice yeah also I
was wondering to do you practice Yom
Kippur Mike if that's the case have a
good fast I guess thanks in advance I do
not practice Yom Kippur my mom fasted
but I don't have an amicable
relationship with God so to speak so I
don't fast I get asked very similar
questions because people think I'm
Jewish yes we should only Jewish in a
financial sense alright oh hey me again
for more question please during last few
days I've been watching Chinese Olympic
weightlifters and I notice they don't
pay a lot of attention to breathing like
they don't race their core during their
lifts or anything like that and you're
experienced guys do you think that for
bodybuilding powerlifting is better to
brace during lift as opposed to exhale
not paying much attention to your
breathing technique thanks in advance I
think that I'm bracing stuff pays huge
dividends when you're powerlifting
because here the loads are so great that
your core strength is a huge limiting
factor in weightlifting a lot of people
you'll see they're like they'll start
pulling a snatch gonna go like as they
pull they'll breathe in or they'll
breathe out because they're like you're
rock limit strength is usually
to issue anymore its speed and technique
some of them do do quite a bit of
bracing at the bottom of the front squat
before they stand up and stuff like that
but they're not gonna race the entire
time
there's thinking about racing usually
means you're not thinking about
technique power lifting movements are
super easy they're technically weight
lifting movements are not in addition to
that you can't bear down brace you can't
maintain super neutral spine like this
well when you're weightlifting because
in order to have good leverage is you
actually have to get an extreme low
doses at the bottom of the Sachin clean
so that's one of the reasons why bracing
would actually be counterproductive to
the technique so there's something some
bracing of course everyone tightens
their hands a little bit tightens their
core but they don't do this over
exaggerated bracing and they usually
don't even do it when they squat
sittings probably not super specific to
move in another way to think about it
does the high bar back slot done bra
usually bracing is not even a limiting
factor for it like your leg strength is
a little factor for it like your core
could feel just fine just watch just
don't move anymore for low bar squatting
power lifting style Racing's a big deal
so I think that for bodybuilding doing
too much bracing is a giant fucking
waste of your time also for reps if you
brace between every replicate success in
some sense embracing but other than to
her up in the squat you just end up
icily a ton of psychic as well as
physical energy bracing and then it's
like what about your quads you gotta
just turn into sort of like a pump rut
machine we keep a nice arched or
straight lower back and you breathe in
tighten your abs come up breathe in
tight your abs come up so the elements
of racing are still there anything for
four for bodybuilding but the or the
over-exaggerated stuff power lifter
steam for excellent purposes for them
definitely not needed in bodybuilding
and probably not in weightlifting and I
think it's maybe maybe a little misnomer
to say that they don't really focus on
their breathing and of racing and
weightlifting cuz what ends up happening
is they are braced and taking usually a
deep breath on the first floor it's
usually that when they hit the second
pull they just exhale that's powered of
that movement right it's so it's not
that they're not focusing on the
breathing it's just they're making that
big maximal effort that usually requires
a little bit of an excavation and I'm
with Mike on the for bodybuilding
purposes here's the other thing where do
you get the most benefit out of doing
that brace technique in the squat
or you know external loads it's usually
in reps that are like five or less
that's why I'm getting the most benefit
of it how much time he really do that in
bodybuilding almost never don't
recommend that you do it you should
usually be going six to ten on the heavy
side and if you drop below six it's
probably time for down sets so it's
really just not a good use of your time
to really focus on all that bracing what
that would mean to me as you're favoring
intensity too much and spending too much
like over and I say this but just
putting too much effort into your
technique after the cost of how much
actual stuff you could be doing if you
tried to do really heavy sets of six
like four sets of six and trying to
brace each time wholly by the time
you've done that you could have actually
just added like three sets of eight
without you know what I mean they have a
human not more volume so I think you
know what actually really really
Illustrated this point for me is
actually if you guys watch Chad Wesley
Smith do high reps squats he doesn't
fucking waste any time in between those
reps right he's just like they look good
they look and they look amazing any
somebody I remember somebody asked him
on a video like Chad why don't you brace
more in between those reps and she's
like cuz I get fucking exhausted I just
want to go up and down and be done with
it as fast as I can it's like boom
that's it
I'm sorry totally agree great great
points all right Nina gang says hi dogs
hope you're well and jumping on the
plantar fasciitis train last week
everyone's like epidemic it rp+ last
week in response to Tony saying his calf
exercises keep his plantar fasciitis at
bay and it flares up if he doesn't do
them for a month Mike said it was
because of the fiber type conversion can
you please explain that more yes
absolutely
so when you don't do things for a while
the pertinent musculature tends to
revert to a faster twitch variant which
means it becomes very very poorly
resistant to fatigue and fundamentally
plantar fasciitis in one way or another
is an excess amount of fatigue locally
so if you consistently train an area
then it becomes more converted to a
variety of things have it - it makes it
more endurance and more quickly
recoverable one of them is fiber
conversion to a slower twitch variant or
average slower twitch fiber
behavior and that allows the fibers
you really like a lab recover super
quick super quick super quick so to
illustrate this to compare two fibers
the muscle fibers in your forearm many
of them are very slow twitch because it
requires you to fucking do stuff all the
time if you start typing for the first
time and especially if you're a bigger
more muscular person you start typing a
lot a lot of people get pumps in their
forearms and literally get lactate
accumulation in their hands and forearms
James never had that during tests when
you're writing back in school just like
oh yeah AC T's awful awful but if you
become more practiced at writing and
more type practice typing that tends to
go away a lot one of the ways is through
fiber conversion so I think a lot of
times when people have fatigue related
maladies a good thing to do is to get in
shape which is to say train the area a
relatively regularly and not get D train
yeah and I think if we want to use like
our sports science kind of terms you can
you can literally say like you don't
have enough work capacity in those
tissues to tolerate the loads that
they're doing right and so as Mike said
it's good to do some kind of more basal
exercise to build up the endurance of
that tissue because the penultimate
problem the thing that you can't avoid
is that whatever the load you're placing
on those tissues is greater than its
capacity to tolerate load right that's
really a big issue so you have to build
it up by developing more capacity and
then you can move on to doing more
training yep okay all right Benjamin
Conrad says oh hi James and Harry muscle
daddy no Instagram seeping him number
one last week when discussing volume
from strength now as those James
mentioned when starting a strength block
after hypertrophy black thing you know
effective volume for that first mezzo
would be particularly low Chad Wesley
Smith in his program design manual
recommends starting a strength mezzo
after hypertrophy mezzo with around the
same number of sets that the hypertrophy
muscle ended at or perhaps 10% less does
this mean you disagree I thought the
reasoning for starting a higher volume
post hypertrophy would be to make use of
a very high level of fitness award
capacity so you have a specific workout
your general work capacity is very high
after I purchased reblock which are
specific work past
for very low rep sets might not be as
good so I think that if you start with
the same number of sets that's good but
you gotta remember that's like half the
mathematical volume because you're
cutting the reps by each factor as a
matter of fact a lot of hypertrophy work
occurs in a 6 to 10 rep range a lot of
strength work occurs in the 3 to 5 rep
range that's basically half the volume
and it's just a slight increase in
intensity maybe 16% and then Chad says
10% less that's right on the money so
there is an argument that when you it
really depends on how heavy you go in
that first rank block if it's just one
strength like you're gonna be doing you
won pretty heavy right off the bat I
would say start on the lower end of the
volumes because you're just not used
about it weights that heavy um if you're
starting at the higher ends of the oh
sorry if you're starting to lower ends
of the intensity range I think it's fine
to do a very similar number of sets that
you started your last muscle cycle back
for hypertrophy so for example you know
an average of 8 rep sets for your
hypertrophy phase you have sort of two
options when you stop and go to a
strange phase one is an average of six
rep sets restraint phase that's kind of
an in-between strength and I virtually
kind of transitional things or you can
go right to an average of 4 reps like
sets of 3 to 5 if you go right to 4 I
would say the number of sets should be
lower because it's real shocking but
also you don't need much more capacity
for that kind of stuff and then in
addition to that if you do say sets of
success or sorry a sets of an average of
6 reps I think it's totally fine to
transition to a relatively similar
number of sets although I would be
erring on the side of taking chance of
bicep 10% lower yeah so I think there
might be a little confusion and what we
were talking about red so what we were
talking about was the MeV on the first
mesocycle coming off of hypertrophy so
what we were saying is because you are
probably making some substantial
exercise changes and some load changes
the MeV goes down what we also said is
that it's going to come up that's
probably going to be one of the only
times that you see an actual increase in
the volume of the programming after
those first couple weeks so the idea
here is not that you have built up a ton
of work capacity and now you need to
train at really really high strength
lawyers the
is that you don't have to remember we're
saying the MeV right the minimum
effective Lawton we're not saying the m
AV or the MRP we're saying the amount
you need to get going on a strength
phase is very low and so you can take
advantage of that by starting low and
then taking a very modest volume
progression up after a week or two and
then you're basically in your nav range
right which is pretty low now I don't
agree on the notion that you can go tit
for tat with what you were doing on a
hypertrophy phase for example let's just
take a very run-of-the-mill like a kind
of mezzo to type hypertrophy mesocycle
what kind of stuff might you be doing
feel free if you think this is a stretch
or obnoxious but let's say you had a
quad day you might do something like ten
sets of quads that kind of at the end
and maybe six maybe six sets of those
were squats maybe four sets were
something else are you gonna tell me
that when you transition immediately
into strength that you're gonna start
doing six sets of 5 10 sets of 5 yeah
I'm being generous saying we'll go tit
for tat on the squats but not even the
whole quad line right quad one would be
10 sets of 5 that's right that's a 5 on
the squats still too much so what we're
saying is you might only have to do the
resets of 5 to get a good strength
stimulus because of the novelty of the
load and maybe the exercise changes if
you're doing close stance squats and I
your high by squat a high bar narrow bar
whatever right you might only need like
3 2 to 3 sets and then you might have to
ramp it up a little bit but what we were
saying before is that from that point on
you probably won't do any volume
progressions and then from that point
you're probably very close to those
Chad's recommendations of 90% once you
have done that initial lampost so just
keep in mind the nav and the MeV or two
different things we're saying in that
first couple weeks in that transition
you don't need to do a lot you can
benefit from very little booms ok number
two when discussing volume from
strengths mezzos last week you seem to
be suggesting at least in your examples
doing sets of 5 reps for the entire
first mezzo and then assuming decreasing
perhaps in 2 to 3 as a strength law
progresses ie period as in the rep
ranges across the block I've always
strength measures themselves to progress
from five to six down to two to three
within the mezzo making intensity jumps
each week before snow decrease do you
think there's a preferable option much
love Benjamin so one of the things
that's constrained by your time course
like how long do you have until you meet
but I think if you optimally you would
take two to three strengths mesocycles
before a peaking mesocyclones I'm a huge
fan of starting in the 4 to 6 rep range
or even G in the 5 to 7 rep range you're
a mezzo next mezzo in the 4 to 6 range
and then the mezzo after that in the 3
to 5 range right and then you know that
3 to 5 or is the last muscle strength
after that it's peaking you can go you
know 2 to 4 range of them it's really
close to sort of pinking so I would say
that that you know it really lets you
milk out each phase and build a ton of
basic strain I think that within a
strength mezzo you can go from sets of
six down to sets of three um one thing
is that it's a little bit of a it's not
a violation of director annotation but
it doesn't meal get out as much as it
can like lots of sets a month of sets of
5 does wonders for strength development
because it really lets you groove into
sets of 5 I'll get the fuck out and -
sometimes the intensity increases going
from sets of 6 all the way down to sets
of three especially if you're pretty
strong for someone like Charlie John you
know Chad Wesley Smith sets up six two
sets of three is like a hundred or two
hundred pounds difference yes it's a lot
you know I don't even know what that
looks like week to week as far as
increases there are times like that but
those are my dad and my charlie
intention labels sort of transition as
incentives like that's transitioning
from strength to peaking that's not a
lot of times strength um there is a way
to do it with sort of like a ton a DVD
type of thing where you know Mondays you
do sets of seven or just an example
Wednesday you just sets a 5 Friday such
as 3 I think that's totally cool
but then the next block you might do you
know 642 in the next block you might do
four three two like then still over the
blocks it gets a little heavier and even
though there's heavy days and moderate
days like days if every week you're you
snip them happening every week but if
you do like you know first week six six
six next week
Phi Phi Phi's next week for fall for
next week 3 3 3 D load that's a really
aggressive and I think it's fine
I think it's good I don't think it's
optimal and I think it's a little risky
and doesn't allow direct adaptation to
occur as cook for as long as I'd like
team agree with all those points I would
love to add that going from like six
reps T to a two to three reps as Mike
set for strong people might be the
difference of over a hundred pounds so
you might be thinking so what right but
this is huge implications for your
message cycle because that's gonna
impact how much volume you can tolerate
or how much if you're gonna do a volume
progression at all you might actually be
doing a volume regression which is kind
of weird and on the other note that
might actually affect your frequency of
training so now we actually have two
huge variables right if you're squatting
the hundred pounds more than you usually
do you might not be able to squat every
week you might have to swap the day of
the program it's a good time every two
weeks
exactly so you know you have a
completely different program basically
because the mauryans changing the
frequencies changing the intensity is
changing it's too many things changing
at once to actually track and program
and to me what is a meaningful way so I
agree with everything that might set and
then you also run into programming and
tracking nightmares for just like am I
actually making progress or am I just
changing the rep ranges across these
weeks you know I actually have no idea
at this point so I'm not a huge fan I
think it's okay I think you can get by
doing that but I'm more I guess this
would be more of a traditional strength
and conditioning approach where you kind
of have a target rep goal if that's an
average of four you know he's three to
five as a range say my average example
that's been shooting and more in favor
of doing that than going across to
changing I know just done last note
because I almost done an emotional or
psychological note I think a lot of the
way that people end up designing
training locks like that or not
designing as a charitable term end up
running into training much like that is
the the sort of like oh I'm in a
straight walk
let's get to two's real quickly you know
you're a peaking block now and there's a
lot of people don't even differentiate
between strengths you like straight that
means one hour ends right it's until he
doesn't um one of the reasons that the
programs based around five are so good
and so it may delivery you know strong
less 5x5 Grippit toes three by five
there's something real magical about
spending months at a similar range just
milking that shit like I've seen people
do squats with five hundred pounds four
sets of five and then just in sets of
three two five four three months and now
they're doing your fucking sets of five
you're like oh my god what is there one
Duramax up like a lot but if you do five
three two one peak it's like okay like I
don't know how much strength you
actually built a lot of the energy
there's two fro transitioning and
remember your technique with sets of
five is very different than sets of two
you might have bracing the number of
steps you take out from the rack it's
huge
and you might end up not getting the
best kind of training because look at
this way you're set up to that you're
gonna do how you used two sets of two
are you but you're not at all last week
you distance before the week before you
did sets of six so what would you really
have to do to get a great double is for
a month you have to do roughly sets of
two now the first week's gonna suck the
second weeks you figure it out just
don't like you see the fucking gradient
was the key had huge PR for doubles
because you are doubles at that point
you know everything there's no about
doing doubles you notice everybody you
know how to breathe you know to step out
of the rack you know to set up your
hands for the deadlift but you know if
you transition super quick like that it
basically is is a directed on a patient
violation to some extent it's not all
yeah
Liam browning um hey docs new rt+ member
here exclamation mark in parentheses and
I plan on competing my first body when
we shown about eighteen months for a bit
of background I'm twenty and have been
lifting with moderate volume for four
years with a focus on powerless keep
specific training for the past two years
at the moment I have about twelve to
fifteen percent body fat and 170 pounds
I'm currently in the midst of a strength
Mazzone
since I'm eight weeks out from
powerlifting meet and I plan on massing
for a few months after that however not
exactly sure how the best situate myself
following months before the start of
contests properly late next year do you
guys have any advice creating a roadmap
to a show when you're this far out any
who would be appreciative I have great
advice what I think you should do is
after the meet do your mass for you so
on and so forth then do as long of a
cutting phase as it takes to get down to
around ten percent fat as long as it's
not more than like three or four months
and I think you're well within that
range once you've done that cutting
phase take like three to four months of
my of maintenance same body weight train
to the first two or three months of that
good hypertrophy training targeting your
weak points and then will the last month
should be like some combination of low
volume slash active rest and then at the
end of that process
you're right around 10% body fat maybe a
little higher but you quickly lose a
bunch of fat when you start training
hard again and you're ready to start
your show diet a right around ten
percent body fat in your super fat in
your used you for the last month of the
either active resting for some weeks or
training with low volumes now you're
ready to start with any V volumes slowly
ramp them up or not even let the diet
hit you and you'll be ready for your
first show so I think that's how to
approach that one that's rock-solid
you don't know how to read
I don't yeah um
Carl VG wouldn't be hilarious if his
name was Carl edia I was thinking the
same thing I was like Carl vagina
gynecomastia your vagina has died no sir
I don't have whatever you're taking is
terrible um you know what I was actually
asking my wife this and we didn't know
offhand is venereal disease is that term
venereal literally a throwback to the
Venusian like Venus goddess of love is
that is that what that is because ice
names death especially and I think
that's probably the closest thing to
anything has made sense that I've ever
heard you know like for a while they
don't use that medicine anymore
apparently no and actually like STDs I
guess was not like a PC thing to say
anymore Nestea
ize sti's yeah I was corrected a while
ago I don't remember what the context
was but somebody was like no you don't
say that anymore no I say that you can
say when I was talking on okay whatever
you know I was about to I was much give
other examples of things that are not PC
to say anymore but I'm gonna bite my
tongue let's shut the fuck off - it'll
be a new episode called examples or shit
not to say it'll be a lot of quiet
number one what would generally be the
minimum amount oh actually just for the
YouTube announcement I think every now
and again we'll have Marcus Rodriguez on
air dual-sport scientist reunion and
that won't be a very informative episode
at all that'll just be a form of making
fun of all of you a lot of that number
one would generally what would you know
would be the minimum amount of
cardiovascular work biking walking a 10
car treadmill one could do to get the
most of the health benefits without
doing too much work which would impede
systemic recovery and leg training which
intensity of most men efficacious for
improving the lipid panel so the lipid
panel intensity is an easy question the
harder you train the more it improves
and up to a point of incredible
overtraining the more you train the
better a lipid panel improves so that's
easy but I would say that for many
people any more than four sessions of
relatively low intensity cardio max
heartrate of 124 sessions of 45 minutes
per week is I think in the realm of many
people to recover from great and maybe
even see some enhancements in some areas
and definitely great for health what
I've seen in my experience people push
it beyond four sessions a 45 minutes in
length of that kind of cardio or do
harder cardio they start paying real
live decrements in their life training
James yeah and so the question kind of
revolved around the minimum I think that
he was saying and so if you look at like
the ACS my fuck I am so the maximum
gives us a good thing to talk about
because if you look at what the ACSM
guidelines they've actually shown that
what it's like 10 minutes two times a
week is actually like a minimum
threshold it's gonna register yeah and
if you're somebody who basically doesn't
move around outside of lifting four sets
of five yeah there's two times ten
minutes of incline walking is gonna be
great it's gonna be a tangibly different
thing for ya but for most people who do
like hypertrophy training I would say
probably more like two times twenty
minutes per session per week minimum
yeah and I'll also say like I think if
you're serious about improving your
health three times thirty minutes per
week is like don't fiddle around with
anything much less than that is you go
to your doctor again six months later it
was okay your lipids are okay but they
could be better and you could be like
well I guess I should have just gotten
serious you know don't fuck around with
this kind of stuff yeah and sometimes
they'll get meaner yeah so sometimes I
was gonna say the lipids could be
genetic or just body fat related like it
might not be a cardio think it might be
it you just need to take drugs because
you have chronic you know lipid problems
to tone we're just genetics oh yeah who
knows Oh get that one okay mm-hmm
regular curling variations barbell easy
mark Rosen even came across some extent
have become very stale for me and
especially Barbra curls have started
irritating my biceps a little in a bad
way preacher curls and incline cable
curls feel amazing and have great uh
safar's for me which sticking to only
preacher curls and inclined cable curls
for one to two massive muscles be a good
idea oh yes yeah but you guys recommend
always doing traditional curling
variations sometimes no fuck no oh
magical about those shits dude you could
even do like incline dumbbell curls or
Bayesian curls or bunch of those bunch
of shit just do this somehow fucking
move your arm in a way that activates
your bicep is good enough yeah and I
think the take-home point here is that
SFR is not a blanket thing that applies
to everybody meaning like these are you
can't just say like barbell curls are a
higher self are exercised necessarily
right it's always on an individual basis
based on how the person responds their
technique their limb lengths or my
muscle all those things so if you have
high ass or exercises use them and don't
use the ones that cause you pain hundred
percent I forgot the person I think
someone asked us on here or maybe they
asked us on Instagram I don't remember
but I got a question relatively recently
when they over there asked you know Mike
are you when are you gonna are you gonna
publish a list of exercises ranked by
SFR
and I said that that list is never
coming because theoretically I'm ten
there is no such list like I can tell
you line crosses Empire so far for me
but leg extensions my narrow actually
was on here cuz James talked about like
extensions for you have a great semester
fatigue ratio for me there's total dog
show so there is no list like that it's
all individual now there's generally
speaking compound basics of higher s
afar's then just trash movements that
are fucking awful like good technique
and stuff but outside of that it's
really it's really up to the individual
and another thing is like we could
publish averages of our safar's but they
would have so many outliers and just be
a huge disservice it's almost like I'm
publishing a list of like must eat
restaurants in Toronto or something
they're good restaurants but also many
people are gonna go there be like the
sucks right like we're there's the
actual list of good restaurants is a
thousand deep you can't just pick ten
you know yeah I was gonna say listing
these are the top movies you need to see
same idea what it's like yeah what are
the best movies that's a great yes for
us come and discussion done moving on
okay so gonna give some examples here
programming would look something like
this for the upcoming mezzos day one pre
sure easy barrels recession 10 or up
stay tuned inclined cable tender 20 day
for picture easy barrels 10 for 20 to 5
inclined cable 20 to 30 less fucking
great yeah that's good I would say you
might benefit from having another
variation like maybe do like a dumbbell
preacher instead but that's as written
it's also great super great number three
are glute/ham raises generally a good
movement for hamstrings in a massive
mezzo I personally get a very deep
stretch with a crazy attraction of a top
I'm just looking for opinion guys since
I haven't heard you sneak on the much I
think they're super great you have to
learn how to do them properly so maybe
I'll clock up that exercise I don't even
know how to do it properly so I never do
it um although we're gonna have a list
oh we already filmed a list of exercises
that are RP approved cheered feather is
doing the glute hand raises and they're
doing them super right you basically
Bend almost exclusively at the knee and
it's a great movement
just make sure technique is good and
standardized it and I think it's good to
go
yeah I think if the 45 degree back raise
is a good movement morning then the gh
are generally will also be one because
it's mostly the same movement just with
different leveraging
if the 45 is like one that's just always
been trashed for you it's probably gonna
be trash for you as well so you could
just move on to something else but again
it's a mess up our thing like what are
you just dogshit yeah like you know if
you like it you like all right Robert
Gillis really Robert takes his ancestry
from Georgia not hey George man but the
Soviet former Republic of Georgia I love
that you know it's a spicy name
yee-hee-hee seems like everyone in
Georgia is there a world champion
weightlifter arm wrestler or actual
wrestler yeah I was gonna say a game of
Thrones person yeah easy the country of
Georgia has the greatest wrestling team
and reference to their population so
they'll usually have several people
medal at the Olympics but I think the
entire country of Georgia has like six
million people it doesn't make any
goddamn sense yeah
just like because they're all like they
they make me look hairless like they're
all hairy's fuck and just to wrestle
ever since the three amazing yeah if you
want to go so you think you're good
wrestler go to Georgia and go to like a
kids wrestling camp just get to luck oh
my god did you watch the last UFC event
no okay one of the fighters on there his
name was Othman I forgot his first name
I remember his last name is like ah come
on or something like that dude was like
just covered in hair he had like a hair
tramp stamp on his back he had like
shaved his neck down because it was like
he would have just been this man had he
have done something this guy's a hairy
beast it was funny how'd he do I was so
taken aback all right what's the what is
Roberts say okay
would there be any benefit slash
advantages to back off sense the
residence streets that's for hypertrophy
also is there a number of sets of one
exercise which we'd better that are
often lead to a different one
or a number which you no longer be
getting ideal tension due to going to
life for straight shots for example
getting great stimulus on a five by ten
bench press but not needing to go too
late in order to complete six by ten so
the thing is like the range of
acceptable stimulus for intensity is so
big it's done about 30 percent of your
max then that's not gonna be usually
what stops you here mind muscle
connection and the ability to do good
technique usually degrades in our
observation of RP and the observations
of many people and something far north
of five sets so you can do squats for
five sets you can do that for six seven
and eight sets I've seen a very few
people do more than eight sets of squats
and still report a good mind muscle
connection a good pump at a good
technique in set number line down sets
can help because a lot of times when you
reduce the load you have a potentiation
effect and you can focus much more on
the technique in the my muscle
connection so a four by ten squat
followed by a 4 by 10 squat at 20
percent less can make both very
effective but because are usually unless
you train in your garage you have a lot
of different variations I don't like to
program more than you know uh five to
eight sets per exercise and when you
think about optimal hypertrophy occurs
at most between 10 to 15 sets per
session if you have two exercises in a
session each one is 7 to 8 sets that's
it that's all year that's all you're
ever gonna need to do in a single
session so that's why we James and I
people ask like how many exercises you
do per session per muscle group the
answer is 1 2 3 because you know usually
three exercises means potentially 5 sets
of each 15 total sets motherfucker what
you're doing after that recession I love
when people like 20 sets today for chest
like shut up like what is it that you
had after set 15 you're joking yourself
right just go home relax and come home
come back to the gym a couple of days
earlier so I would say play it by ear
feel out the SFR how good are your pumps
my muscle connection I'm good at your
technique and be prepared that after
somewhere after five to eight sets of
the same exercise shit might go south
for you so I would program
advanced knowing that so we'd start like
back day could be you know let's say
it's all rowing that day you could do
barbell rows first to to you know two to
three sets and cable rows for two to
three sets and then sort of increase
both of them as you need to keep going
until you're doing twelve total sets
six-inch or whatever five and seven
James so I think kind of as Mike already
explained since the hyper true range is
so large like the difference between the
load you use between five by ten and six
by ten is kind of not a huge deal but a
kind of more important point is the
relative intensity that you use in those
zones so the thing is like in order to
maintain six by ten that means you're
probably gonna be like five six I are on
that first set and my straight guys are
kind of stupid anywhere right and so
what you're missing out it's not so much
that the absolute intensity is too low
then you're not getting robust growth
except the relative intensity is too low
in order for you to maintain a straight
six by ten that's the bigger problem
there and then also kind of get into a
nice point when people start having like
three exercises per muscle group per
session they start to wonder like you
know maybe you aren't actually getting a
good SFR on the exercises that you're
choosing so for me like it 1 to 2 is
kind of a sweet spot like if you can use
one and just grunt like for me I can do
a cambered bar bench that's my chest day
for one of my moves that's that's it
that's it right now there's definitely a
need for more advanced guys I think
prefer because they're usually they're
lifting loads that are so crazy or
they're just so in tune with everything
that they get two or three sets and then
it's like okay these are gonna break
something's gonna break
I gotta move on something else right do
this for two or three sets okay
something else is going to break that's
fine right for the intermediate lifters
more than to exercise when you do it
like three by three sets of five per
muscle group of three exercises five
sets each per muscle group I start to
give the little wonky eye on that one
like are you actually doing a good job
on those exercises or are you just
filling things up to kind of kill time
or kill energy I think you might be
better off just doing one or two pick
some heavy-hitters and then be done with
it otherwise it just seems like you're
just wasting time yeah I understand
well well well my friend I think that's
it for this week to the live no life
Josh T Brad has been with us basically
the whole time but he's the only only
one I think cuz we did the alternate
schedule yeah that's right
I bad so just to reiterate before we
wrap things up guys first off my bad for
being on Thursday this week I was
traveling I forgot to mention it last
time second sorry if the audio and the
video quality on land wasn't very good
I'm using let's go here okay right
three we are going to be switching
formats a little bit rp+ you just keep
doing the same things you normally do
keep sending in questions we might start
funneling them a little bit if it gets
really lengthy we're also going to be
entertaining some YouTube questions from
now on because we're gonna post a lot of
these videos not all of them to YouTube
as well and if we see some really
thoughtful insightful comments on
YouTube we might take 0 to 3 of them but
rp+
is going to be the main place if you
want to have your questions answered
just keep doing what you're doing and if
you're on youtube and you send a good
question and you say hey I really like
what they're doing
check out rp+ then you can always get
your questions answered as well alright
okay so I'm gonna shoot myself in the
foot by saying I think we're on again
there's normal time normal channel for
next week but I think let's see we go to
Ireland on Thursday so we're that's
right check it out guys are in the
dumpling if you guys are in John one
next week we're gonna be there live the
details are on the rp+ website there's a
seminars page you can check out the
details there so if you want to check us
out there in the UK
we'll be in Dublin next week so yeah
same time for the webinar at the Tuesday
7:30 to time 4:30 California time I
think yes alright these homies later you
next time