[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
priorization and I want to ask you a
question how long is the perfect program
in other words how long including your
accumulation phase several weeks of
making your training harder over time
plus the D Lo that in total the
mesocycle length how long should that be
to give you your best
results let's dive in nerd style so
program is a messa cycle accumulation
week plus D
Lo
first and and just just to put this in
context of where we're rough timelines
so you can play around with ideas in
your head it's like three to four all
the way up to seven or eight weeks like
imagine five weeks of harder training
one week of D Lo that's six weeks total
we're talking about that range but
that's a big range three weeks all the
way to nine weeks
maybe that's a a hell of a lot of
difference that's actually you know a
multiple of three where in there is the
perfect program well let's set up
a couple of ideas and the first thing as
I often do or try to do intellectually
is when you have to answer a question
that seems a little nebulous try to
break that question down intellectually
by reminding yourself what the goal of
training is right don't just think oh
what's the perfect Messa cycle what's
all what what sort of stuff are we
trying to accomplish in training and I
can think of at least three things
first you want to make sure that your
training Mesa cycle starts easy enough
to not overreach you at the start if you
start your training m a cycle close to
your maximum recoverable volume the most
volume you can recover for in one week
and go all sets completely to failure
like not Dorian Yates low volume high
intensity not Kevin levone high volume
lower intensity both high volume high
intensity if you do that you'll be
training for like a week and a half
you'll be like Mr Potato Head your arm
will fall off and then you'll Del Lo for
another week and that's a kind of a
weird way to train doesn't seem optimal
so first you want to start your me mes
cycle a little bit
easy at least lower on the volume maybe
lower on the relative effort at least
some combination of
both next goal in order to get good
results you can just stay easy that's
ridiculous you would never get jacked so
goal number two is to progress from week
to week to week so that every workout
isn't overload from the last one it's
got to be challenging it has to be
challenging but we don't want to
progress so fast that we just Skyrock at
the fatigue so if you did 10 reps with
100 pounds last week this week maybe
it's 11 reps with 105 pounds but you
don't want to be like man I feel great
you do 15 reps with 13 your pet comes
off the bone and you're like H that was
that so there is a fine line to play
there with balancing to make things
harder than last time how's that coach
Greg yeah go in any case we all have an
in coach Greg comes out every not
again harder than last time but not so
hard that it's like the end of the world
and you can't prog ress any
further lastly ideally before your Messa
cycle ends in that last accumulation
week you want to come pretty close to
hitting two theoretical ideas one is to
have about zero reps in reserve so take
every set to failure or really really
close because you have to beg the
question if you're still progressing in
load and Reps and you end your Mesa
cycle potentially having been able to go
even further Beyond why did you stop
your last week should be pretty fucking
hard almost all the training you'll see
on our channel on Mondays when we put up
our training is last weeks or simulated
last weeks of training and people that
come on the channel were like hey this
is a peak week style that's what it
should look like so your goal at the end
of a training program should be go hard
if you set up your progression in such a
way that you're like up time to De load
and someone's like could you have worked
harder this last week like yeah
absolutely I got in a couple more weeks
than me it begs the question of why you
de the second thing you you want to do
is get pretty close to your maximum
recoverable volume intellectually this
makes a lot of sense just on Theory like
if you could have recovered from more
training volume which you could have
almost certainly benefited from
hypertrophy wise you got another week of
de lo after that to relax and recover
and bring fatigue down why didn't you at
least get close to your maximum recover
volume if someone's like hey like how
many sets of back are you doing this
last week of your training you're like
eight oh wow how many can you recover
from you're 16 okay it's like uh why
don't you just do like at least 12 today
your body can be challenged and recover
and grow during de lo you're like I
don't want to work that hard that's how
I train I'm a lazy piece of shit you
don't want to train like me though you
want effective stuff so essentially
we're asking three things we want our
meso to start early enough so that it uh
sorry when when when our meso starts we
want to start easy so we have room to
progress want to be able to progress and
we want to be able to end at our limits
at pretty close to failure with most of
the sets and also very close to our
maximum recover volume such that our
performance in that last week of
training can't be replicated if someone
cancelled your DLo and said can you make
even more PRS next week you should come
in the gym next week and be like nope
not happening that's how you know your
training is really good so translated
into more mathematical terms we want to
start our meso at 3 rir and me minimum
effective volume the Mesa cycle should
end at around zero R and close to mrv
and the next question is how do we
progress from the easy 3 r R and me over
the weeks to zero R and mrv how fast do
we want to get there because that really
does determine the length of our program
in a really large
sense now there are at least three
options these aren't the only three
options but they paint the ends of a
spectrum through the spectrum is all
kinds of options as to how fast to
progress how aggressively to progress
week to week to week be it reps be it
load be it sets I'm going to give you
guys three ends of a spectum spum a very
conservative end an intermediate end and
a very aggressive end and we'll talk
about which one of these has its uh
trade-offs uh upsides and downsides okay
so first the slower
method if you progress with this method
you're going to be able to train for
longer before you need to D Lo and it's
going to take you longer to deserve a D
Lo so to speak like you're not going to
be really fatigued until maybe six or
seven weeks or eight weeks in doing this
what is this first you hold your reps
and reserve the same every other week
week one three reps and Reserve week two
three reps and Reserve week three two
reps and Reserve week four two reps in
reserve again and one for two weeks and
zero and so on like technically if you
make it to zero reps in reserve for two
weeks straight somehow that's an 8we
accumulation that's a 9we mesocycle wow
holy crap and you only add a
set when it's Ultra compelling to do so
like if you're getting remotely decent
pumps remotely good soreness anything
you just keep the volume the same you
only add a set here and there to
whichever exercise or muscle group is
like we're just really honestly just not
doing anything like you do two sets of
bicep curls and someone's like you feel
anything you're like bro I need like six
sets at this point to feel fucking
anything and I was like okay okay fine
go to three sets very conservative very
conservative next the moderate approach
in the moderate approach Sorry by the
way real quick have to mention how do
you progress in rir you don't actually
do that you have to adjust your reps and
your load to do so so if it's three R
last week three R again this week you
might be able to add like five pounds to
a few lifts two and a half to some
others you might be able to squeeze in
an extra rep but a lot of times you'll
just repeat the same week same goal last
time I benched 100 for sets of 10 this
time I bench 100 for sets of 10 it's
still an overload because it's close
enough to your window of adaptation uh
to your limits of ability that it will
stimulate some muscle growth but
conservative amount so notice in an
accumulation in which we go slow each
week doesn't cause a lot of muscle
growth stimulus but there are tons of
sequential weeks which cause muscle
growth stimulus added up in a row and
the later weeks absolutely start to
cause a ton of stimulus because G is you
know they're actually pretty hard
moderate approach is you reduce rir by
one each week 4 3 2 1 zero sorry 3 2 1
zero good God starting at 10 R that's
how I train
unless you can add one rep or five
pounds to an exercise from last time and
still match the other side of that so
let's say you did sets of 10 with 100 lb
that was three
rir you go and you do sets of 11 with
100 lb if that's still three Rs you
perceive it you take it don't go any
harder if you do 105 pounds for sets of
10 and you actually manage to make that
performance and that's actually feeling
like three R
again totally cool but if it feels like
two no big deal because the progression
is part of the point so if we can take
easy progress and not have to reduce our
we take as you guys can tell some weeks
you're going to be able to do that some
weeks you can't some weeks accumulative
fatigue Rises more some weeks it doesn't
and then this mesocycle style ends up
being something that will lead us to
about six weeks until we have to hit
zero R and the fatigue really starts to
creep up and to that end on the sets
stuff for this moderate approach we add
a set when Auto regulation via pump
soreness Etc tells you to do so in in a
in a very middle of the road manner not
a bad way to
go lastly is the faster approach the
aggressive approach the most aggressive
of these
first your goal is to reduce rir by one
every week even if that means adding a
lot more reps or a lot more load to the
next set so for example you've done leg
press 300 lb for sets of 10 next next
week you come in your warm us feel
fucking easy bro your first
set you hit 305 pounds you think it's
going to be for set of 10 you get to 10
and you're like I'm at like Infinity R
so you end up doing like 12 you added
two reps and then next set you're like
dude that still wasn't that hard I'm
going to go up to 310 or even 315 and
then hit some more sets of 10 or some
more sets of 12 so this progression you
have to follow R every is
R 3 2 1 Zer and if between two and one
it takes you to add 20 pounds and two
reps to every set in order to really go
from two to one R because you're
adapting so fast shit go to town go to
town whatever it takes stick to those RS
as fast as possible progression there
and this is again interesting move but
your auto regulation for set Edition how
to decide if you need more volume is
basically like you add a set when you
remotely suspect that you could recover
from it you're like I think I can
recover from this for next week add it
and if you really feel like you're under
training sometimes you had two sets so
you can go from bent rowing for three
sets and then pull Downs for four to
Bent rowing for five sets the next week
and pull Downs four six if it really was
just super under trining you okay very
aggressive
so what sets these things apart is
really three things how they handle
three variables one is the load
progression you can go from adding the
same load there zero load added every
week same load but better technique or
whatever adding 2 and 12b 5 lb 10 lb or
15 plus pounds to the bar every single
time and and higher if you need adding
reps you could just try the same reps on
a very considerable approach or adding
one rep two reps or two
plus and of course adding sets where one
is you don't add you basically by
default add zero sets and it's really
compelled to do so telling yourself I'm
only adding one set at a time per muscle
group per week or going two and more
sets that's what deter detes how
aggressive your progression
is now here's the
thing the big Revelation on if we try a
bunch of those different progressions
and see which one
happens is that first of all any
individual that is training can just
choose to progress with one of those or
another of those it's a choice that you
make which gives you some wiggle
room and your genetics and or
environment and or training history
will let you know if there's upper or
lower bounds on that for example for
some
people progressing too slow is just like
a massive opportunity wasted to grow
you're like this training is too easy
nothing is happening this is stupid
whereas for other people going really
really fast just completely beats them
up and leads to skyrocketing fatigue and
they're like I'm just outpacing myself
it's like trying to run on a treadmill
when the treadmill is geared to beyond
your top speed like you're going to
you're going to fall off the things
sooner or
later so the question comes back up is
the central question of this video what
is better going slower going faster well
hold on a sec some more insights if you
go a little slower your progress is
slower but you're training quality each
set the technique the imposition of
fatigue systemically not being there so
you can really feel all the fibers that
is higher and your fatigue accumulation
is lower and slower so you can train
steadily for longer and see more
momentum and progress and also at any
given time through the program your risk
of injury is notably though by a small
margin
lower interesting if you go more
aggressively you do make faster gains
faster progress but for shorter time it
doesn't last as long that's for you
that's for you nighttime sexy time in
the bed Champions out there your boy
going at it for 27 seconds you feel me
that bitch you going to remember every
27 seconds of that shit that's like a
tornado they used to call me in high
school a tornado nobody ever spoke to me
in high school in any case you don't get
as long of a run because the fatigue
really bunches up really fast the injury
risk is a little bit elevated so all
that stuff has to be taken
consideration the result of all of this
and I know this is going to sound
clickbaity as fuck so I'm sorry but I
promise I'll have more insight in
addition to
that Mesa Cycles anywhere from about 4
weeks long a 3:1 Paradigm three
accumulation One D Lo all the way to
about 8 weeks which is a 7 to1 Paradigm
seven accumulation one we D Lo generate
roughly the same outcome and the debate
about which one is better is nuanced and
more individually based than it is
generally I get a lot of questions like
hey I'm running a 4 to1 split like or
sorry 4:1 Paradigm is that okay or 5:1
or 6 to1 whatever and I'm never in a
situation or hardly ever where I'm like
well yeah no that's just stupid don't do
that there more individual stuff has to
be taken into
account a couple other thoughts first
you could say okay hold on a sec if I
train for three weeks and then take one
week of D Lo I don't really grow much in
that D Lo week or at least don't
stimulate a lot of
growth a seven to one is like if you run
that through a whole training year
you're d loing double the time like two
times the amount of essentially not
stimulating growth yes
however if you get a whole week of
resensitization every four weeks your
muscles are always a bit more sensitive
to growth and that training quality
within those three weeks is high let me
paint another picture for you if you
train for six weeks on end week six
might be like yeah you're technically
progressing but you're so exhausted it
might have been better for you just to
de lo and have another high quality five
weeks instead of going out to
six what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now in the end between about 48 weeks
the accumul accumulation to D Lo
Paradigm probably autoc cancel
because the shorter paradigms don't give
you as much chance to stimulate but the
quality of the stimulus might be better
so it cancels out to really have uh a
lot of General equivalence however
here's where the real meat and potatoes
is some people will have limits and what
is needed for them may be different than
what it is for
others if you are a beginner and I put
you in a 3:1 Paradigm you're going to be
de loading when you have like zero
fatigue and you're going to be like this
is just look like a missed opportunity
to grow this week I would have to say
yes for beginners and people that heal
really fast often times females the 3:1
Paradigm G in many cases it's just
objectively suboptimal you could have
trained for longer it's like uh imagine
going to the club with your friends and
like everyone's Peak Club hour having
fun and you've been there for like an
hour and a half and the club doesn't
close for another hour and a half and
everyone's like just just coming up I
don't mean on Molly but also Molly and
it's just like that time where you're
like yeah
it's fucking weird one of your friends
is like all right guys like let's get
out and go to the diner that we always
go to after the club together and you're
like ah yeah the diner's fun but like
we're just getting into this shit we
could just still be here longer and then
go to the diner later similar if you're
a beginner or someone who heals fast a
de week when you don't need it is some
shit that you get when you don't need
it's like no
thanks on the other hand for the slow
healing especially for the very Advanced
huge enormous muscular
people that are towards the end of their
training careers older and age
chronologically for example they're not
making it to 7 to one if they started a
paradigm that they were trying to get
seven consecutive weeks of hard training
the first week would have to be like six
rir and like below their minimum
effective volume which is to say a
maintenance week why why would you do a
week of Maintenance unless it's a
maintenance phase if they train at their
me minimum effective volume or above is
the first week just at their M and just
at three reps in reserve their
progressions all the way to zero reps in
reserve and mrv is only going to take
like three or four weeks just the
minimum progression they conservative
end when we talked about those three the
slower moderate and faster progressions
their slower progression will take four
or five weeks their average will take
three or four and they're fast they
can't even do fast because it would be
two to one so for those people seven is
completely out of the question so as you
can tell if you're a beginner if you
heal fast you can train for longer
before de
loading if you are Advanced and you heal
slow you need you cannot train as long
before you deal you need to deal it
sooner for everyone else the trade-offs
in between are pretty
even somewhere between four to8 weeks
works well for everyone else in order to
make sure you're doing the program
that's the right length for you you have
to get in the trenches which you're
already in lob a grenade over put on
your World War I gas mask and
try for yourself to modulate the
accumulation and D Lo Paradigm by one
week at a time to see what happens try
you let's say you normally do four to
one paradigms four weeks of accumulation
and one week of de lo try a five to one
see how it goes try it two times in a
row try a three to one see how it goes
how's your training quality how's your
progression how's your muscularity over
time and you can modulate these
variables as long as you hit the
following check marks in every program
you write and that you do almost
everyone first you start around three
reps in Reserve at least you start
around your minimum effect of volume
something that gives you a disruption a
pump a bit of fatigue nothing too easy
you have to progress in load and Reps in
some way on most if not all
weeks doing the same week back toback
too many times in a program strains the
imagination if you have a clear sign
that you were under trining you have to
reduce the volume or not progress it at
least oh sorry good God that backwards
if you have a sign that you're under
trining that you're not doing enough
then you have to make
sure that you add a little bit of volume
you can't be doing like two sets of leg
curls or whatever and someone's like
sore no pump no feel anything in your
hamstrings eh okay that's not how gains
are made on the other hand if there are
clear signs of you
overreaching and Recovery is barely
occurring don't add volume do not
progress any further on volume because
you will add so much you won't be able
to recover cover and you'll have to take
a d if you take
these
constructive elements into your
program you can play around with faster
and slower paradigms within that
constraint see which one you like best
what's going to happen is your body will
find a paradigm that it likes the best
for you if you listen to your body well
enough recovery performance physique rep
strength after a while you'll be like
you know man I have my best training at
a 4:1 Paradigm or 3:1 or six to one and
over time it can even change I used to
be able to run five to ones then I got
bigger and stronger and older and now
I'm good with four to ones and even
three to ones are back really really
good for me your stuff will change it'll
be different over the course of your
career it'll probably decline somewhat
but that just means you're being smart
getting as much as you can out of your
system and getting the best results
possible folks if you like nerdy stuff
like this we have a members section in
which for just a little bit more money
through YouTube every month you get
extra videos that almost always nerdier
than the videos you will see here more
in-depth Sports sciency type stuff give
that a thought if you have questions for
me personally you want to get into a
great community and get a bunch of
training programs so you can be well on
your way the team foron forum is
something that we do we got gez we got
uh a thousand members nowadays that's
pretty sweet what's up members hey hey
team foram say something in the comments
I'm saying rep rep the set or whatever
Squad
up anyway I'll get into gangster rap
next
time