maybe you've heard some things about how
soreness is bad or irrelevant to gains
so people will say like stimulate
don't annihilate soreness is just a
symptom of novelty so soreness can be
useful and here's how if you never get
sore let's say you train your side
adults and never gets sore you might
actually be growing as fast as possible
however
if you don't ever get sore and your
pumps of that muscle are met your local
fatigue is met like you train your side
adults with five sets and someone's like
really really fried they're tired you're
like I don't know they should feel
normal they feel the same and if your
muscle growth in that muscle hasn't been
really progressing you will probably
under stimulating and a part of that
evidence for under stimulation can be
the fact that you never or rarely or not
much get sore thus doing a bit more is
likely to help