okay what's going on guys in this video
I'm going to be taking you through six
exercises that Target the back and
biceps you can put together into a
complete pull workout or you can pick
and choose the movements you'd like to
add to your own training split all right
so as usual we're starting the workout
with a quick five minute General warm up
on the treadmill or StairMaster and then
doing a few quick dynamic stretches to
get the joints nice and loose from there
we're jumping into three sets of 12 to
15 reps on the one arm half kneeling lat
pull down so for these you want to take
a half kneeling stance bracing your
non-working hand against the knee of the
same leg having this more stable base of
support will direct tension more
efficiently onto the lats where you want
it as you pull try to keep the cable in
your forearm in a straight line if you
notice that your forearm is meeting the
cable at a different angle you may have
the cable set too high or too low or you
could be pulling the weight back too far
with these you should stop the range of
motion at the midline since the lats
lose all of their leverage once the arm
goes back behind the Torso now some of
you guys may remember that I used to do
sideways facing lap pull ends to kick
off my pull workouts where you pull the
cable in toward your body from out to
the side so the one arm lap pull in
Target slots through biomechanical
shoulder adduction whereas the one arm
lap pulled down to the front targets the
lats through biomechanical shoulder
extension and both will hit the lats
effectively however over the last couple
of years I found that some people feel a
better mind muscle connection with their
lats by pulling down to the front rather
than pulling in from the side that could
be because the Terrace muscles overpower
the lats for some people with the
pull-in but both the tariffs and the
lats perform both biomechanical
functions so I suspect this is mainly
just an individual thing I can
personally feel my lats firing on both
so I still use both periodically
although I have been favoring the pull
down over the pull in lately and as of
now until we get a direct hypertrophy
study comparing the two which doesn't
exist yet I'd say to just roll with
whatever one you feel hitting your lats
harder or if you feel them both equally
well you can periodically rotate them in
and out okay after that we're doing one
all-out am wrap set for as many reps as
possible on the pull-up now normally on
a pull day I do multiple sets for
pull-ups however since we already
smashed our lats on the cables I figured
we'd just do one all-out set here also I
found that while calisthenic enthusiasts
love pull-ups a lot of bodybuilders
don't seem to like them as much and
while I do think it's important that
your training is enjoyable I also think
pull-ups are a great exercise worth
including that you shouldn't avoid just
because they're harder than lap pull
Downs so here's my compromise you only
have to do one set but it has to be all
out I think that's fair so as an amrap
set each week you should try to at least
match or ideally beat the number of reps
you got the week before while
maintaining the same consistent form if
you're bulking just matching the number
of reps should be enough to present an
overloading stimulus because as you gain
weight you're adding resistance but if
you're cutting you should try to add at
least one rep each week because as you
lose weight you'll be lowering the
resistance technique wise take a 1.5
times shoulder width grip lift your
chest up and think about pulling your
elbows down and in until they're as
close to your sides as you can get them
comfortably assuming it's a straight bar
you should at least try to get your chin
up over the bar or at least try to get
your chest the same level as your hands
also if you can't do body weight
pull-ups you can use an assisted pull-up
machine or you can add assistance using
a band just wrap the band around the bar
hook your your foot into the bottom of
the band and it'll provide some
assistance as you do your reps all right
up next we're doing three sets of 10 to
12 reps on the Croc row now a Croc row
is essentially just a more loose
dumbbell route with a slightly more
upright posture and a little more
controlled cheating it's named after a
world record holding power lifter Janae
crocsoleski one thing I've noticed over
the years is that some science-based
lifters have a tendency to be more
strict with their form and I think they
really need to be sometimes this is
great because it allows for consistent
progression tracking but sometimes it
can hold you back if you're severely
limiting the loads you're capable of
using in the name of perfect technique I
think that as a beginner yes you should
try to be as strict and consistent as
you can as you learn the proper
technique but once you've mastered the
technique Basics I don't think there's
anything wrong with using a little
controlled Body English on select
movements especially if it allows you to
overload the target muscle more
effectively plus most of the best
bodybuilders I know aren't super stiff
when they lift they allow their body to
move and sway naturally but the most
important thing being that you're always
in control of the weight especially on
the negative now of course if you don't
feel comfortable you using some momentum
on these it's okay to do them with
stricter form and lighter weights
however the downside of only ever using
Ultra strict form with the back in
particular is that the strength curve of
most back exercises is actually very
unique in that it's super easy at the
bottom and then much harder at the top
so if you stop at the first sign of any
technique loss let's just say you can't
get that full squeeze at the top so you
terminate the set you may be stopping
well shy of the point of where your back
is fully stimulated so just using a
little bit of momentum at the bottom can
help your back approach that point of
true exhaustion much more effectively
obviously I wouldn't use cheating on
every exercise but from time to time I
think it can be useful as an intensity
technique okay after that we're doing
three sets of 10 to 12 reps on the cable
shrugging These are nice because you
don't need to load up any plates so
they're a quick and convenient upper
trap option also the orientation of the
cables tend to line up better with the
orientation of the upper trap fibers
which don't run nearly as vertically as
many people think but actually fan out
more horizontally so shrugging both up
and in is likely best for hitting as
many of those upper trap fibers as
possible that's also why I generally
recommend a slightly wider grip when
doing barbell shrugs as it'll force you
to shrug up and in not just straight up
and down all right up next we're doing
three sets of 10 to 12 reps on the
reverse pec deck I'm going to use the
main thing to focus on is sweeping the
weight out and back not just back this
will help you target the rear delts more
than the muscles of the mid back which
can easily take over if you aren't being
intentional with your form if you just
pull the weight back you're going to
shift a lot of the emphasis onto the mid
traps which isn't a big deal if that's
what you're going for but we've already
smashed the mid traps with pull-ups and
Croc rows so I'd much rather isolate the
rear delts here since they are usually
overpowered by the bigger back muscles
in those compound movements another
thing you can try is varying your grip
position from set to set so you can
start with your palms facing one another
for set one then put your palms facing
down for set two and then if your
shoulders allow it internally rotate a
bit on set three I personally feel the
best mind muscle connection with my rear
adults by using the second or third hand
position however there seems to be a lot
of individual variability with this the
2013 study from Brad schoenfeld and
colleagues found that on average EMG
readings were higher for the rear adults
with a neutral or Palms in hand position
than with the pronated or Palms downhand
position however if you dig into the
individual data you'll see that there
was substantial variation some subjects
displayed greater activity with internal
rotation others with neutral rotation
and in some cases the differences were
pretty big of course all the usual
caveats about EMG research apply but at
the very least I think this shows us
that if you've only ever used one hand
position on the reverse pec deck it's
definitely worth playing around with the
others as you could be leaving some rear
Del canes on the table okay and to
finish off the workout we're doing three
sets of 10 to 12 reps on the overhead
cable bicep curl for this one you want
to kneel down and crawl with your arm
out to the side and up overhead now I
don't often do overhead curls because
I've always found them to be a bit
awkward but I recently saw a natural Pro
bodybuilders Alberto Nunez and Brian
Miner doing these at the N1 training lab
where they were comparing two different
shoulder positions on bicep curls one
with the arm down and one with the arm
up and they found that for both Alberto
and Brian there seemed to be a bias for
or the long head of the biceps when the
arm was held up overhead as opposed to
down to the side now just as a quick
refresher the long head of the biceps is
the outside part and is what contributes
more to that elusive bicep peak that so
many people try to Target now obviously
I don't want to overstate the findings
here they're already a lot of
limitations with EMG data and as we
already discussed from the schoenfeld
paper muscle activation patterns are
highly individual however I did find it
interesting enough to start playing
around with overhead curls again myself
especially since bicep peak has always
been a weak point for me so at the very
least I think it's one of those things
worth experimenting with for yourself
this is usually the only bicep movement
I do on this day but if you feel like
you need a little more extra direct
volume for Progress feel free to include
another couple sets of curls where the
arm is more down to the side or
stretched back behind the Torso now if
you'd like to have all these workouts
laid out in one place and organized into
a progressive 12-week training program
you can check out my ultimate push-pull
legs hypertrophy system over on
jeffnipper.com the workouts I've been
doing in this series come from phase one
of the program which lasts for the first
six weeks and then after that are two
entirely different phases designed to
build on one another and keep things
progressing and if you'd like to learn
more about that program and see if it's
right for you and your goals you can
check out the first link in the
description box down below alright
that's it for this one guys thank you so
much for watching don't forget to leave
me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one