if you want to save more of your muscle
mass or even build some muscle mass as
you fast consider having protein only or
mostly protein meals once or twice in
the fasting period so let's say you
break your fast at 700 p.m. and you eat
up until 900 p.m. and then you go to bed
at like 10 or 11: that means the rest of
the day you're not eating that means you
are in a position where your muscles are
not exposed to the amino acids which are
breakdown products of protein and your
probability of muscle loss is decent and
your probability of muscle growth is
really low cuz there's no ROM materials
but what about this instead of totally
pure fasting when you wake up in the
morning after a few hours have some
Greek yogurt it's mostly protein anyway
or have a protein shake and maybe have
another one later on or have some very
lean meat with some vegetables it's
almost fasting is very few calories but
it once or twice during that early part
of the day if you get a decent chunk of
protein in it can keep your muscle on
your body and it can even help you grow
a little bit of
muscle