let's talk about some basics of what
makes a program a specialized program as
opposed to just a regular program well
first is specificity you're going to
choose your exercises and the modalities
like my Reps versus straight sets and
your rep ranges to preferentially
stimulate the target muscle so for
example when you choose exercises for
your back but you want wide lats you're
going to do a lot more vertical pulling
than you are horizontal rolling because
horizontal rowing just not as good
especially for the upper outer lats as
is vertical pulling next is the idea of
prioritization you're going to train
exercises that really Target your upper
lats and outer lats often as the first
exercise or group of exercises in a
bunch of the days through the week
another higher frequency works better
than lower frequency especially to bring
up a lagging muscle