hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization
the last video in a little mini series
within a mini series
of
getting
the raw stimulus magnitude as high as
possible understanding how to train as
hard as possible detecting and
perfecting
this time muscle disruption sounds scary
so again the raw stimulus magnitude is
just a proxy idea of how much muscle
growth stimulus are we causing in our
sessions and it doesn't factor in
fatigue that's the stimulus to fatigue
ratio
but the
raw stimulus magnitude is composed of
the mind muscle connection which is
tension and
the amount of burn you have in the
target muscle the pump which we covered
last week tension and burn recover the
week before and the disruption here's
the disruption the way in rp that we
sort of catalog disruption is in kind of
three different subcategories
you can say a muscle is disrupted
from and during the training process
while trying to train for hypertrophy if
it experiences the following in any
combination
strength loss
perturbation which we'll talk will
define that just a sec don't worry about
that and soreness again in the target
muscle so you're trying to train your
pecs but your front delts got sore
that's not exactly a win
so
disruption
let's talk about each one of the things
strength loss perturbation and soreness
separately so we can really really
catalog them to find them and then
figure out how to perfect them
strength loss it's not doesn't sound
like a good thing like wait a minute i'm
trying to get weaker no
but if you were training hard and really
stimulating the muscle you're asking a
lot of the muscle the muscle is giving a
lot of itself it is burning through its
metabolites it's
causing damage to itself and it is not
going to be able to contract as hard
after you have stimulated it so really
interesting way to assess if a session
went well for the target muscle is how
much weaker is that target muscle so for
example
if you can curl like 100 pounds or 60
pounds let's say for a set of 10
and after a gnarly bicep workout
if you pick up 60 pound barbell if you
can curl it for like a set of eight come
on man a whole gnarly bicep workout
later you only lost two reps a really
good bicep workout is if you can curl 60
at the beginning and at the end
someone's like you're 60 and you're like
you get like two reps and you're like
holy shit i don't have biceps anymore
they're dead now you may be recovering
wrong your genetics might suck your food
might be awful your sleep might be
terrible that's why you're not growing
but you're probably
not not growing because of the fact that
you can't stimulate the muscle hard in a
workout if your strength drop off is
that gnarly
right and this works for every exercise
and it works across exercises so for
example if you really messed up your
back doing pull-ups and dumbbell rows
after the workout if you try to do a
machine row and hit a pr and you succeed
man you were joking that wasn't a
stimulative workout that was a warm-up
but if you try to get the machine roll
you put on your usual thing you could do
15 reps with you do five and a half and
you're like nope that's it i can't do
this anymore my arms don't work my back
doesn't work
that's generally a good sign so
basically you want strength loss
real strength loss means you're trying
as hard as you can but your muscle is
much weaker which means you can check at
least one of the boxes of disruption
which means you can check at least one
of the boxes of probably causing growth
next is perturbation
perturbation is our sort of little slang
term
for what happens at a more perceptive
experiential level to the muscle it's
not a measured reduction in performance
it's how that muscle feels
first of all that means the muscle can
feel weak
when you do a crazy psycho quad workout
that's super effective and stimulates a
ton of growth and you try to walk down a
flight of stairs it's not just that you
are weak and it's hard to walk down the
stairs you feel weak you try to touch
that first step and you're like holy
shit i don't know if my leg's going to
collapse or not
like it's not that
when you come up and try to curl the 60
for 10 and you curl it for two that you
realize oh interesting that's two reps
and that's not ten i'm weaker great
that's the stimulus when you grab the
bar
even when you just do this to try to get
into like a little warm up for the bar
you're like oh man like
my arm my own arm is heavy what the hell
is going on here you feel the weakness
that's generally a good sign in the
target muscle if you feel general
overall weakness that's systemic you
might have been training like shit and
not even hit the target muscle and just
get tired right like if you spend you
know an hour getting beat up in mma
class that doesn't mean your quads grew
you're gonna feel weak but the quads
might not grow at all however if your
quads feel weak that's a pretty good
sign that at least you stimulated very
hard
in addition to that you can notice some
other signs
trouble coordinating try doing a couple
of these things careful after a really
hard bicep workout or front delt workout
shaving your face brushing your teeth
you guys ever do that when you did maybe
your first bicep workout in high school
when you try to come home and brush your
teeth before you go to sleep and you're
like
what the hell's going on they can't
brush my own teeth fuck you know you
stay in the bathroom for five minutes
and you're like mom and then mom brushes
your teeth i mean that's how it happened
for me i'm just kidding what if i wasn't
kidding when they fucking weird
throwing a ball
i used to
play basketball
at the jewish community center of
metropolitan detroit there were two of
them the rich people won and the not
rich people won i was at the not rich
people one not a source of pride just
statement of fact and i like to play
basketball there
the jewish community center basketball
scene was unreal competitive uh and i
also like to lift weights there i was 15
years old by the way
and i would play basketball first and
then lift weights after
and some of my friends there are like
don't you
want to be stronger and bigger and i'm
like yes and they're like why are you
getting tired playing basketball first
and then training and i had a very apt
response i said well i have tried
training first and then playing
basketball but i can't make any shots or
dribble the ball because i'm so
uncoordinated after my muscles are super
fucked up and they're like ah touche
later as you could tell by my
insufficient
height athleticism and can comment on
interest in basketball i just clearly
want the weight training route but i
noticed early that if i was training my
ability to coordinate my muscles was
really far off especially if i trained
like my upper body if i tried my lower
body i was just kind of slow on my feet
but i could still do the shit with my
hands
if i trained my upper body especially my
biceps or triceps oh my god
i couldn't play any background
basketball you barely grab the fucking
ball
another one is like
not just the weakness but the
coordination of walking down the stairs
after you fucked up your quads
you're like wait a minute i forgot how
to walk down the fucking stairs what the
hell is going on with me
that's not the best sign in the world
that you're you know you have the best
workout ever it's not a guarantee but
you whiz if you're worried man did i
really hit my quads hard enough you have
trouble walking down the stairs
coordinating yourself the answer is
probably yes
and lastly
weird muscle perturbation can also cause
things like fasciculations or cramps
fasciculations are when your muscles
contract without your sort of conscious
um
approval so if your biceps are really
fucked up you sort of try to like
scratch your face you do this and your
biceps
what the fuck is going on right and if
you get away easy it's just a
fasciculation
uh i've had uh many many times jesus one
of them was last week after a crazy quad
workout or just normal periodized quad
workout which tends to get crazy towards
the latter weeks i was doing a whole
bunch of work
i got up from my chair very slowly and i
was like oh thank god because i get up
slowly on purpose because i know i'm
going to cramp if i get up fast and then
i took my first step and i got like a
mini pre-cramp or the quads are just
they're fucking warning you they're like
ah and i'm like
my wife's like you're coming up don't
say anything
you guys remember that one time i was uh
talking shit about bill gates and then
he cramped my ass with the kova vaccine
or whatever
i shouldn't man scott can you believe it
i'm still talking shit
easy bill
we're all friends
so in any case we're not trying to cramp
we're not working out with the goal of
man if i could fucking cramp that's
great
working out with a goal of
scientifically
inserting as much stimulus as possible
into the equation
that we can recover from and benefit
from
but if we're worried about not getting
enough stimulus but we're regularly
cramping after our workouts gee whiz and
if we're super tired and we have very
low strength we don't have to train
harder that's not the answer it's a box
that we have checked
lastly the last checkbox in this list is
soreness again we don't have to get sore
from training but if you're asking
yourself if you're going hard enough and
you're regularly getting sore as fuck
going harder is not the answer
recovering more having better nutrition
etc may be the answer but going harder
in the gym at any one session is not the
answer
soreness does not mean just delayed
onset muscle soreness it means something
the target muscle is maybe just a bit
stiff in a few hours after training you
train biceps they never get sore but a
few hours after training you're like oh
yeah i can definitely feel i train them
they don't feel normal that's a type of
soreness
massive doms
days later peak doms 36 hours after like
you know you do a huge quad workout
they're just super tired for a day you
wake up the next morning like ah i'm not
sore fuck you quads and then as you go
through that second day you're like oh
god and then you wake up the third day
in the morning and you can't move your
legs you're like oh shit i'm gonna be
sore for a week and a half what the fuck
right so anywhere between is all right
answer so to speak as far as did i do
enough now did i do enough might stretch
all the way to i did too much totally
possible but at the very least if you're
getting regularly sore even in such a
way as just like you just feel it for a
few hours after
that's all really good stuff if you're
not feeling any of that if you go
through a whole stimulative workout
you're just as strong at the beginning
of the workout or pretty close as when
you uh began you no perturbation nothing
nothing feels weird nothing like that
and you don't get remotely sore or tight
or anything
could you train harder yeah probably and
that'll probably cause more muscle
growth
now how do you perfect disruption or at
least make sure you're doing enough
the first goal is you want to be well
practiced and how to detect target
muscle disruption and especially
strength loss and perturbation within
the session before it ends because you
don't want to go too far and you want to
know that you're on the right track if
you're doing like trying a leg extension
machine you're doing five sets and
someone's like hey pretty fucked up you
flex your quad extend your quad squat up
and down with your body weight if you're
like no then fuck man either change the
exercise change technique or change
something because it's clearly not
working but if it is really working
awesome
and if after five sets of leg extensions
you try to squat down and you fall
because your legs can't support you
maybe it's time to go home and train
quads another time because they probably
had their fill
goal number two
is to optimize optimize your technique
and effort for any given regular
exercise that you do
to do as much disruption as you can
given a certain number of sets
any fucking idiot with the worst squat
technique in the world
can get sore quads from doing 20 sets of
squats in one session your technique
really just doesn't matter at that point
if you're bending the knee at all 20
steps of knee bends at any degree will
probably fuck up your quads
but show me someone who has such good
technique that with only three or four
sets of squats can fuck their quads
completely up now that's a person that
knows how to train right that is a very
good thing and it's grounded in good
technique a lot of times
the reason people aren't getting sore or
disrupted from squats or leg presses or
any other exercise is that their
technique sucks you fix their technique
you get them to go lower spread their
knees apart stay upright and all of a
sudden they're like oh shit
i am perturbed
i my quads don't work normally and
that's a very very good thing and
another one it's a relative effort how
hard you train matters if you you know
doing three sets of ten leg press and
you're like yeah i'm not getting a sore
from this man i don't get sore from leg
presses like really you don't get sore
from black press like nah okay well try
this and you get good technique going
with them and then you push them one
more rep and one more rep and one more
app and again you guys have seen the
training videos they get off that first
set of leg press and they're like oh my
god they're like feeling uh anything in
your quads like i don't even feel my
quads man i don't even know the fuck's
going on they try to run away but they
can't because their quads don't work
anymore right so that's a good sign
a good lifter remember every set you do
to some extent adds fatigue and can do
some wear and tear on your joints within
reason if you are so good at causing
disruption that it takes you very few
sets to cause a ton of it to the muscle
not the joint not the system you're
winning in every possible way
goal number three
is to be able to cause and detect a
robust disruption in pretty much all
sessions every session for every muscle
group that you're doing you're fucking
up the muscles not too much not a ton
but enough to know that you're going to
heal on time you can also
know a rough amount of strength loss a
rough amount of perturbation the
soreness is something you detect later
that you can cap your sessions and stop
them
when you know you've had enough so for
example and this is actually really
common people will do a given quad
workout and let's say they plan to do
ten sets of quads but after set number
seven they're having trouble walking
man it's probably time to go home but if
they plan to do five sets of quads and
after five sets they still have spring
in their step keep fucking training so a
lot of times when you get really really
good at detecting what's going on
you can auto regulate your training to
say hey
i'm already fucked up and i know last
week i got more fucked up than this and
i took way too long to recover i'm going
to cap it right here right now and
that's how it's going to work you
essentially turn into like a finely
tuned training machine knowing exactly
how much effort or volume you're going
to need
to heal right on time for the next
session to stack the sessions on top of
each other and get good long-term
hypertrophy
in addition to that of course you're
going to be paying attention to your
soreness not during the session but in
the days between so that you have an
idea that
how you alter the stimulus for next time
how you alter the volumes for next time
can do a couple of things
based on your
strength loss and perturbation you know
how to cap the session you know when
it's time to be done or because there's
not a ton of strength loss or
perturbation yet you're like nah now we
need to keep i need to do another few
sets of quads before i get out of here
you can alter your volumes based on
previous history of soreness to to know
roughly how sore you're going to get so
if last week you did five sets of quads
and you got sore for two days and you
train every three or four days for quads
perfect this week you know it's maybe
six sets is the answer if someone's like
hey you want to do my 12-set quad
workout with me and get the fuck out of
here man i will never heal from that or
they're like hey just two sets of quads
you'll be
like you know dying you'll never heal
like get out of here man i did five last
week i did them really hard i healed on
time i think this week is five or six
it's not going to be 12 but it's not
going to be two right
and the pump can be instructive here as
well so not only if your quads are ultra
pumped and they're super perturbed and
super weak and you know last week they
felt like this and it took you a normal
amount of time to finish healing up from
soreness
all these sort of pieces of information
come together where someone's like oh
god i lost my voice for a reason if
someone's like hey do you want to do
another set or two of quads you can be
like hey man honestly intelligently all
ego aside no
i've had my film or they're like hey man
we're done right you're like nope i need
a couple more sets of quads until i get
the pump that i need until i get the
disruption that i need based on my
history of soreness and based on how
perturbed i am right now and how weak i
know i need a bit more to get going once
you have all these systems working in
your favor and look this takes years to
really come close to perfecting you know
a lot of shit
now one last story for you guys before i
fuck off um the first time i really
figured out how to hip hinge properly
arch my lower back and keep my knees
back in the stiff legged deadlift was
like
a few times into doing it i did like 185
for a few sets of eight and then a few
weeks later i finally figured out how to
hip hinge and i was like oh boy here we
go
and i will never forget this workout i
did three sets of twelve
stiff legged deadlift good range of
motion with 205 pounds and i was like
two 210 pounds at the time natty and
shit it was pretty jacked very strong
already a power lifter
and
the first set of 12 i got a fucking
gnarly pump
and enough disruption and perturbation
that i was like walking weird
i was like well you know
i was young i didn't know any better
ideally i was just stopped and been sore
for four or five days and i've been like
wow just one sec
i did another scent of also 12. and at
that point you're learning a new
exercise the neural efficiency goes up
so fast literally between sets that you
can just repeat perform 12 12 12.
after the second set
i tried to touch my uh heel to my ass
and i couldn't do it i was like oh okay
and i was like i'm not gonna do two sets
for hamstrings like flex magazine says
four sets of twelve so i'll do three at
least
i did three sets of twelve
i didn't hit peak soreness until three
days later and i had a job at the time i
was working for like um
a psychology psychiatric clinic as like
a database designer and i was walking
through the halls of that job and people
were like are you okay and i was like i
had to explain what's going on
my gait i wasn't pretending it wasn't
like for sure my walking gait was off
for one and a half weeks
i was maximum sore for one week straight
and then a small bit of soreness for
another half week i was ready to train
again two weeks later
fuck
i wish i had known the shit because as
soon as once that would have been done
i've been like oh and i'm out i should
have done that i didn't did i grow
muscle from that
i don't know man i probably lost muscle
to be honest like there's muscle loss
models of damage when they fuck up the
animals and training so much they
actually lose muscle because it's too
much to recover from i'd say two two and
a half weeks to recover
that's a bit much so take it from me in
my painful journey i think it was funny
the whole time but i never did that shit
again uh use these indicators try to
make sure that you're using the mind
muscle connection using the pump using
muscle disruption all intelligently and
here's the big one with no ego you're
there to do a specific job and you have
these tools to detect when that job is
well on its way how to alter that job to
be better and when that job has been
done you can sign off on it and fuck off
this whole idea of like come on man
another set of fucking curls get on my
face bro guy i gotta go home and eat
sleep and get fucking jacked see you
guys next time
you