hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization fun video for you today
the inside track
on what charlie jung my friend training
partner and head of full rom apparel you
all may know him as charlton banks on
instagram not his real name believe it
or not
inside track
on his most recent as of the filming of
this video in oh
late august 2021
his most recent contest prep
a lot of questions have been asked about
what he did what he ate how much cardio
what was the periodization
how was the training
and charlie typically doesn't answer
such questions on instagram because the
problem with instagram is if you answer
the question once in ultra-real depth
one person becomes happy and then the
next time you post anything another
person asks and they're not going to
scroll back 10 posts so
it kind of gets lost here's the deal
what did charlie do he's this is her
first bodybuilding show ever and he won
the super heavies and the overall he
started the diet in january of 2021 and
he stepped on stage i believe it was
late april early may some total of 20
weeks of prep i'll explain why in a bit
here are the details of his prep now if
you want to know about special sports
supplements they are illegal in the
united states of america where this
video is being filmed so we are not
comfortable talking about them
uh hopefully charlie moves to the united
kingdom at some point where personal use
is something you can discuss and then
you could get him in the uk couldn't you
oh yeah yeah it's my awful british
accent folks from the united kingdom you
generally have an awesome sense of humor
so you won't get offended uh i was gonna
say don't get offended but you really
just never do all right the charlie plan
first of all the periodization
charlie and i thought he was cutting for
a show and then covet hit
so it ended up being just kind of an
experimental play with peaking kind of
diet that lasted uh about i think 12 to
14 weeks it's not like 13 and change
weeks long depending on if you include
the taper to the peak and stuff like
that
then
he masked for 20 weeks and in the middle
of 20 weeks
was one mini cut that was two to three
weeks in duration to lower some of the
training stress
make him more sensitive to volume and
i'll burn off some fat to give a little
bit more runway for further muscle gain
and then after that mass phase he was
very very tired so he took two weeks of
active rest very little lifting if any
lots of vacation lots of sleep any kind
of food he wanted to eat as long as that
a protein in it and good to go
and then
20 weeks or so
of hypocaloric diet
why 20 weeks and then show time of
course why 20 weeks because we honestly
have never prepped charlie for a
bodybuilding show and we wanted him to
be very lean striated glutes the whole
thing
we just had no idea how long it was
going to take and here's the cardinal
rule of bodybuilding contest prep
timelines is it's always better to be
early than late
if you're four weeks out of a show and
you're stripped up diced up that's not a
bad problem to have you don't want to be
eight weeks out of a show and diced
because then you're in a really low body
fat situation it's not great for
sustainability but if you're two or four
weeks early then you could introduce a
ton of high carb days go straight into
the show feel great it'll be super
awesome if you're late you gotta slash
calories more do more cardio pay a huge
fatigue price things can go wrong you
can get hurt so generally speaking we
suspected it wasn't going to take him
more than 12 to 16 weeks to get in
really good shape but because we didn't
know how his body was gonna respond uh
we took 20 weeks no big deal and he was
in very good shape four weeks out so
luckily we did well with that all right
next his training during prep first the
theory and then what he actually did
so training theory during his prep his
20 weeks of uh
hypocaloric
dieting and training for that
bodybuilding contest
of course training as always goes for
minimum effective volume to maximum
recoverable
but your maximum recoverable volume
during prep tends to fall the entire
time or most of it so it kind of comes
to you so instead of ramping the volume
like crazy up to here you ramp the
volume a little bit as needed and mrv
comes and meets you every time and then
you deload and it expands and then med
goes up mrv goes down and it's sort of
like yes it is amy heat mrv but not a
ton of volume is added during that
entire time because the mrv
goes down quite rapidly especially as
the hypochlor condition really
intensifies which you'll see it does
later in the prep
we used very conservative volume
increases we only increased the number
of sets when it was blatantly apparent
that the workout was under stimulative
so if he did bicep curls you know for
four sets and he got a really good pump
and really good tightness in his muscles
that was it we didn't go for five or six
um if he did three sets of bicep curls
and he was literally like see i don't
have any pump i feel like i'm still
warming up no stimulus was really
received then we would say okay let's
add a fourth set and see how it goes
from there very very conservative on the
volume
we wanted to make sure he wasn't losing
muscle and one of the best ways to tell
that is if you're stable in strength or
even mildly progressing from
neurological adaptations you get better
at the technique your muscles get
recruited better by your nervous system
so we focused on hitting tiny prs in
reps and load what does this mean this
means that charlie who leg presses like
a gazillion
was sometimes adding five pounds per
week to his leg press the guy's leg
press is like 700 800 pounds he's adding
two and a half to each side which is
comical to see somebody do but
nonetheless when your technique is good
and everything's really close to failure
a five pound addition if you can keep
the reps the same shows that you're
probably at least not losing muscle and
sometimes he would add a rep here and
there almost never adding two reps early
in his uh actual preparation he was
adding pretty aggressively and then he
hit this plateau he actually had a phone
call about it where he was accumulating
so much fatigue from just the shock of
the psychic arousal of just getting
amped for sets and driving hard and hard
pr's
when you're on the enhanced side of the
sport you can just get stronger all the
way to very close to your show and
that's that's a genie if you let really
far out of the bottle he gets all the
wishes taken care of and then he punches
you right in the face your quads come
off you get hurt you get crazy amount of
fatigue it interferes with everything
else so really the name of the game is
muscle preservation so we still want to
hit pr's but really small ones we don't
want to drive a ton of psychological
effort so to that point the small
increases in reps and load were
introduced about halfway through the
prep he got much
less fatigue
all the same amount of muscle he
probably grew on muscle into his prep
and his reps in reserve were very well
controlled and emotions were down and
the first part of prep he got really
amped hit a ton of pr's he was getting
stronger really fast
he was like dude i can't survive this
the fatigue is insane i was like why
have you been doing this to begin with
and well you know we all try very hard
and charlie tries hard on the rest of us
so we cooled it off and just hit these
little mini pr's right if you hit you
know two rar 700 for sets of 10 in the
leg press last week it's 705 for 10 this
week 7 10 the week after 7 15 the week
after when you deload like if you like
press 7 15 for sets of 10 and you
started with 700 during that time you
successfully pull all that off at
roughly the same rir uh yeah g-whiz
you're definitely not losing muscle
almost certainly not so it's a really
good insurance policy whatever we need
to keep the muscle on the body so it's
hard training but not excessive right
the focus was on whole body that doesn't
mean he was doing whole body workouts
that means over the course of the week
every muscle group was hit enough so
that it got a really good stimulus but
not so much that we were trying to shoot
it up above all the other specialization
during pre-contest is usually a bad idea
because you're saying okay i'm going to
really bring up my chest during
pre-contest
but you're in a hypochloric environment
and fatigue is really high so you're not
growth prone anyway the best you can
hope for is generally just keeping your
muscle on your body sometimes you can
get all around improvements those
generally tend to be better than
improvements in a specific muscle group
if you want to ask the question of okay
but when do i bring up my chest if it's
weak off season that's what off season
four and sometimes people like to call
it improvement season and they're not
wrong uh off scenes is when you make the
gains pre-contest you really just
generally want to train everything so
that you can put yourself on stage and
be as good as you can all over you
definitely don't want to back up on
anything because you just say oh i don't
train with calves pre-contest you may
have had pretty big calves in the
off-season pre-contests they're much
smaller you get dinged for that so you
want to make sure you train everything
roughly evenly and that's what we did
during the prep especially during the
prep
we kept a stimulus to fatigue ratios
really high in exercises and techniques
lots of pauses and things like that and
the raw stimulus magnitudes we didn't
care about nearly as much raw stimulus
magnitude is really important when
you're just trying to grow
forget fatigue forget everything else
you just want stimulus for everything
it's worth just getting bigger think
deadlifts for the back like if you have
done a high rep deadlift program and
your back didn't grow your back's
probably not going to grow it's probably
a lost cause do deadlifts come with a
ton of fatigue yes but they also come
with a crapload of stimulus that's that
raw stimulus magnitude stimulus to
fatigue ratio is maybe more like an
assisted pull-up amazing amount of
stimulus for how little fatigue you get
not a ton of stimulus not as good as
probably regular pull-ups or a bunch of
other exercises but nonetheless you just
don't generate a ton of fatigue why why
is this our concern why is so far so
much better during pre-contest because
fatigue is such a huge limiting factor
when we're in the off season when we're
eating a ton of food you can drive high
rsm high raw stimulus magnitude
exercises a ton
because the cost of fatigue isn't really
a big deal because you sleep nine hours
a night you eat a crap load of food you
can recover from a ton of stuff
pre-contest your recovery really is such
a huge limiting factor with as much
stimulus for as little fatigue as
possible so it's not the stimulus we're
going after as much as the low fatigue
now what was this split his split is
right here in front of you i hope to
where i'm pointing right now so
uh feel free to pause the video take a
look at that nothing magical most muscle
groups are trained oh two to three times
per week sometimes maybe four and that's
the deal a lot of am and pm sessions um
yeah i still don't have a lot to say
about that if you're confused as to why
some of it is the way it is please ask
some questions in the comments uh or
watch a ton of our other videos like
hypertrophy made simple that whole
series we'll explain this pretty damn
well
all right
diet
here's where the fun stuff happens
charlie had two types of days in his
diet
he had high days and he had low days
and we used a certain number of them
during each mesocycle during each month
of the prep
and we raised and lowered them based on
what sort of conditioning he needed to
attain versus how far he'd already uh
come and how much metabolic adaptation
he'd actually had to that point so a
high day was around 250 grams of protein
550 grams of carbs yes that's a diet for
charlie and 60 grams of fats totaling
about uh 3750
kilocalories okay
he had to hit 8 000 steps on those days
and for proper salt balance and making
sure he didn't get too dry one half of
the week and two blow to the other we
fed him a little less salt five grams
total of sodium which may not which may
sound like a lot but for someone who
sweats as much as charlie and who's
really enormous and has a ton of
physical activity five grams of sodium
seems to do him just fine
though it also allows you to flavor your
food and make it not the worst thing in
the world so that's cool too his low
days still 250 grams of protein 300
grams of carbs and for those of you at
home i know 300 grams of carbs is a hell
of a low day but charlie's enormous uh
during most of this diet he was between
235 and 250 pounds when you're that big
yeah actually 300 grams of carbs feels
low and it really does suck and then
still 60 grams of fat to keep that fat
minimum in there for all those hormonal
functions and things like that 2 750
calories so one of the days had a
thousand calories more than the other
10 000 daily steps in the low days you
think well wait shouldn't the steps be
on the high days no the low days are
designed to drive fat loss hard but
unsustainably and when they start to
extinguish themselves when it's like i
can't do these low days anymore my
fatigue is getting crazy we introduce a
few high days to get the fatigue down
and then you know bring everything a
little bit more back to normal at the
end of the day the fatigue lowers a
little bit but then it rises over the
course of the entire metacycle and even
macrocycle because for the love of god
it's fat loss phase it sucks anyway but
we minimize the fatigue with the high
days and that's why they actually have
fewer stops on them
more carbohydrates less activity your
glycogen refills you feel a lot better
you get better sleep fatigue falls a
little and then you go back into another
string of low days this high low high
type of approach has been pretty
standard in bodybuilding for i would say
it's been a feature in bodybuilding for
30 years it's been very standard with a
lot of the folks not all but a lot of
the top pros for some time because it
makes sense and it actually makes
physiological sense as well from a
training science perspective there are
times to push really hard just like in
your training and there's times to back
off now training is a really slow
adapting situation so you can push for
four or five weeks and back off for one
and it works well with dieting
especially hardcore dieting it's
probably better to push for a week half
a week and then pull back for a week
half a week and that seem that time
course seems to be better do i wish the
training and time courses were the same
like wouldn't it be cool if you just
introduced more food only during the
deload and during the entire fat loss
phase uh meso cycle weeks one through
five of heart training you could just
lower the calories and keep them low yes
and you can do that i don't think it
works that well it seems that
nutritionally the timelines are a little
bit shorter so you have to act more
quickly i'm not 100 sure on that but uh
give it some thought and see what you
think and maybe play around with
yourself so 10 grams of sodium on those
days by the way low days and that was
just to keep his weight a little bit
more stable uh and allow him to squash
his hunger with more sodium and more
fluid which tends to kind of do the
trick
also i think he was eating like
some like
far at home pho type soups
and you know those have a little bit of
salt in them i've been told i only eat
you know my dr mike meals and you've
seen those prepared you know how how
high-ranking my chef skills are i don't
even i don't even have to tell you how
good i am but i'm doing it anyway
because i care about you
his schedule
meal schedule here's the deal all of
january remember he died in january
february march and april
and gee i guess a part of may somewhere
in there was 20 weeks
and what ended up happening was
january more or less the entire time he
never did a single low day why because
he came off of active rest after mass
phase
and 3750 calories like a real legit
deficit for him so he just lost pounds
and pounds of weight
the entire time through january because
uh the the high days were already
hypocaloric no need for low days
in
february we turned the heat up a little
bit we started to really pull some
calories so we would do three low days
in a row generally monday tuesday
wednesday and then thursday friday
saturday sunday were high days kind of
cool that the high days correspond to a
weekend you really can sort of mix and
match both relaxation from a
psychological and work effort and
nutritional perspective like it's nice
to have a saturday where you get to eat
more food and hang out and chill versus
a saturday that you get to hang out and
chill and suffer when you're dying from
super low food
so three to four ratio three low four
high
and then in march we
ticked off one high day and replaced it
with low day shitty thing to do monday
tuesday wednesday thursday low friday
saturday sunday high
then charlie started to get really
fatigued but also very lean and look
we're introducing more of these low days
because as we get closer to show
the body in general becomes more
resistant to fat loss and we kind of
need to push the pace a little bit
harder
if we push the pace hard super early
we'd have kind of burned his metabolism
out a little bit i mean that's just
colloquial term he would have generated
more diet fatigue and it would have been
like why why are we doing this if we
don't have to be in really good shape
until very close to the show
april
we
just thought okay we got to bring him in
as good of conditioning as possible
we're not playing any games so five low
days monday through friday and then
saturday sunday were high this was a
terrible terrible time tons of fatigue
accumulated but his glutes started to
get like all the weird feathering all
the good stuff started to happen the
second to last week before the show
all the days were low
i saw him that whole week because he
came and that's when he filmed the whole
series which hopefully will link for you
guys of charlie trains and that was a
whole week of training he was in a
really bad way at that point super
cheery but just not a lot of emotion
left in his body but not a lot of body
fat either i think those two kind of
correlate to some extent
what about the peak okay
saturday sunday monday tuesday where
next saturday is a show
he did 300 grams of protein 50 grams of
carbs depletion protocol written by um
his uh one of his coaches i was the
other uh broderick uh chavez team evil
gsp on instagram
and 150 grams of fat this is literally
just to reduce glycogen storage in the
muscles so that you get a super
compensatory effect once you reintroduce
a high carbohydrate diet this was paired
with high fluids to get the body to be
uh very diuretic uh peeing off a lot of
fluids you don't want the body to hold
on to fluids and then a relatively high
amount of sodium to get the body to be
used to excreting a high amount of
sodium also makes consuming the high
fluids very easy
wednesday
thursday and friday he consumed about
250 grams of protein per day over a
thousand grams of carbs on the average
day some of that towards the end we
played by ear
and about 80 fats per day the fluids
were lowered and the sodium was lowered
as well
no magic but you can see how this would
result in on average the muscles getting
bigger from glycogen and the
subcutaneous water leaving a little bit
from the lowered fluid intake and
lowered sodium and then voila saturday
he looked very damn good can we make
this freaking protocol better yes we
already have some directions we're
probably going to make it shorter
because he honestly looked unbelievable
on friday morning and it looked pretty
good saturday uh not his best still one
because holy crap guys like charlie
don't just show up to your average local
amateur show uh but next time we'll
probably shorten the peak but in any
case this is fine peak was my
recommendation if you want to try
something like this i would just start
carb loading like uh if you have a show
saturday i'd wake up nice and early
friday and just eat a ton of carbs uh
drink only as much water as make sure
you're not super thirsty and eat very
small amounts of sodium uh and then
you'll wake up in all likelihood so
towards the end of the day stop eating a
whole bunch of food high high volume
foods so that you can poop a few times
and then sleep a good night and your
waste can come down because if you eat
super late at night you wake up your
waist is still
kind of just bloated from having food in
it and then you wake up saturday morning
and all chances that your muscles are
going to look fuller you're going to be
drier and your waist is going to look
small so it's a good good look kind of
what we're
interested in
as far as food choices folks remember
that specific food choices just don't
matter that much in in the whole scheme
you know bodybuilders don't get jacked
because they like you know as soon as
you people regular people especially see
a bodybuilder eating or just see that
they're jacked like what is this a lot
of egg whites huh a lot of fish like
it's not it's it's 250 grams of protein
that's what it is where it comes from is
so much more of my new point that we
don't want to get too caught up in it
but you know we'll tell you what charlie
ate there's no mystery it's a bit
underwhelming actually um he a bunch of
chicken a bunch of egg whites chicken
sausages that have tons of sodium in
them so we only eat them on some of the
days or manage to fit them in and a lot
of sweet potatoes low carb bread
547 bread if you have it in your area
especially in the east coast you're
incredibly lucky it's unbelievable uh
it's super filling and super ginormous
with very low nutrients if you don't
have it you're like me now i don't have
in michigan and i cry every day
i cry every day anyway because i think
it's good for the soul but part of that
crying is definitely 647 bread's not
around and plenty of veggies lots of
water and other fluids uh diet soda was
used
we used a lot of diet soda for this prep
sounds like a drug or something like
that uh and that's it uh so he basically
met his macros in a a healthy way
because it was a very healthy diet and
it was a pretty hunger suppressing way
because a lot of these foods are really
high volume not overly delicious you're
not like man i can't wait to crush this
chicken and egg white meal with rice
like really okay that's what gets you
out of bed so uh it's a good idea to
kind of eat this way especially as your
hunger tends to come up so could he have
i fymed it more sure i'm sure he could
have but uh and i think at one point for
a while he was eating um enlightened ice
cream probably like every night and
lightning ice cream is amazing uh full
disclosure i do know the founders uh one
of them personally he's great um
actually an olympic weightlifter himself
uh but i don't make any money off
enlightened last i checked i sure as
hell don't
so uh it's amazing ice cream you're like
does it taste like ben jerry's no
because it has like a fourth literally
one fourth for calories uh for the same
volume but does it taste really good for
how many calories it doesn't have yes
yes i i recommend you give it a shot i
would say his personal opinion as of you
know 2021 august enlightens better than
halo top as far as i can tell taste wise
for me by a long shot you may not agree
give it a shot if you've never heard of
enlightened all i do is plug shit that
i'll make money off of no wonder i don't
have a lamborgh i mean no wonder i have
10 lamborghinis
thought your boy is playing with you
i got to build new garages shit is so
heavy out here all right
after that he did a show he won a show
what do we do after the show i didn't
want to leave you guys hanging on that
charlie took two weeks of active rest
because shows really do beat you up well
okay sort of a lie he did like a week
and a half a half of hard training and
tons of food just for cool photo shoot
stuff which he did
and after that a little rebound then he
did two weeks of active rest
and then he did 12 weeks of massing
uh which actually just recently uh i was
coming to an end this week as of this
filming late august and he's doing like
one week of active rest
and then he's about to embark on about
13 to 15 weeks depending on how it falls
out of another hypochloric pre-contest
prep
for nationals in december of 2021
hopefully charlie is successful and
he'll probably be adding a lot of muscle
and looking super lean and making his
way to see if he can do really well in
bodybuilding so that's all i have for
today um if you guys want to know more
ask some questions in the comments and
maybe that'll generate ideas for new
videos and if you don't ask any
questions i won't have any more videos
to make we'll stop making youtube videos
no one's going to be happy no one's
having any more fun and it's your fault
that it happened folks
ttyl
peace
you