is a standing over her press an
underrated shoulder Builder the overhead
press has been at the hardest and
controversy lately specifically Dr Mike
Israel and Omar esoph have been going
back and forth about whether or not the
overhead press is a good movement for
shoulder growth Dr Mike Israel said that
the overhead press excessively targets
the front delts Omar on the other hand
argued that the side doubts are actually
still involved in the overhead press
who's right well I think both had a
point I do think the overhead press
Stories the side outs pretty effectively
based on how the humerus moves during
the movement however I do also think the
standing bottle of head press isn't as
great as some other options because
standing up as opposed to sitting down
does nothing to further hypertrophy but
it does require a lot of muscle groups
to act as stabilizers causes more
fatigue makes a lot less stable and so
forth well what's your best option a
seeded Donald overhead press or a
machine overhead press may be your best
option the reason why machines and
dumbbells might have a slight Edge over
the water version is because there's
slightly more time efficient maximizing
muscle growth is not the only goal for
most people in the gym enjoyment is
still a factor the overhead press
remains a really fun lift that is still
very good for shoulder growth