[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of the science applied series in this
episode we're gonna be covering my full
and complete upper and lower body
warm-up routines
now first any warm-up is gonna serve two
main purposes the first is to reduce the
risk of injury when lifting and to
increase your actual strength
performance in the gym which may
actually yield better size gains over
time as well now in the injury side a
systematic review from Fradkin and
colleagues looked at the impact of
warming up on injury reduction in five
different studies and found that three
of five did show a reduced risk of
injury from warming up and the two that
showed no benefit tended to focus the
warm up more heavily on stretching
rather than just raising core body
temperature implying that literally
warming your body up probably is the
most important factor in an effective
warm-up routine and those guys who spend
half their time in the gym getting quote
warmed up with all kinds of crazy
mobility drills may not actually be
doing much extra for preventing injury
so on the performance side of paper from
McGowan and colleagues outlined all of
the established benefits of having a
higher body temperature including
increased muscle metabolism better
phosphocreatine and ETP utilization
leading to better power output there's
also the psychological aspect of warming
up where you're probably gonna feel much
more primed to lift if you take the time
to rehearse the workout in your head
before lifting and think about a few of
the cues for the muscle you're about to
hit ahead of time so we're gonna break
the warm-up up into three separate
sections the general warmup
the specific warmup and progressive
pyramid loading so we'll start with the
general warmup we're basically the goal
is just to get the blood flowing and
increase core body temperature now the
literature recommends a heart rate of 55
to 65 percent of max heart rate so for
most young active folks something around
100 to 120 beats per minute is probably
your target zone but my main guide is to
just get to the point of breaking a
light sweat if you work at a moderate
pace on an incline treadmill or
Stairmaster you can usually get to that
point in five or ten minutes especially
if you wear a baggy hoodie which I
definitely recommend for anyone training
in a colder climate if you're naturally
colder or if you train early in the
morning when core body temperature
we'll be at its lowest you can also
bring the general warmup time down by
using moderate intensity interval
training or you can go at a more
assertive pace for twenty to thirty
seconds and at a low pace for a minute
or so and then repeat until you feel a
light sweat coming on now once you reach
that point you should stop since the
goal here isn't to burn calories or have
this count as formal cardio that's just
to get you primed for the heavy lifting
and you should do this before every
session now you're gonna feel a lot
better you're gonna have a more clear
head and you'll probably perform better
and be much less likely to hurt yourself
with absolutely no downside and the
general warmup should take you about
five to ten minutes the second phase is
the specific warm-up which is going to
be different for upper body and lower
body here are the goal is to loosen up
the muscles and take the joints through
the full range of motion that they're
about to perform in the actual training
itself so let's just start with the
lower body first so I'll start with a
quick two to three minute foam roll
focusing on tight active muscles if you
guys saw my full video on foam rolling
which I'll link below you know that
while I do think it's a bit overhyped it
has been shown to reduce soreness and
improve range of motion without
hindering strength performance so when a
modality has a potential benefit with no
obvious downside and you notice some
positive effects when including it and I
think it makes sense to do it as long as
you have the time so personally I'll
spend about 15 to 20 seconds or so on my
quads and I'll roll out my upper back
and lower back with flexed abs so you
don't want to allow your lower back to
just loosely hyper extend over the foam
roller but if you keep your abs tight I
find this helps get the entire back
feeling nice and loosened up and then
I'll roll out my inner thighs and
adductors and I'll cross my leg over my
knee to stretch out the glutes and
piriformis muscle and then roll that out
and if you really have tight hamstrings
or glutes and you can use a lacrosse
ball to really work out those areas as
well
after that I'll jump into a dynamic
stretching routine which has been shown
to improve performance in several
studies
unlike static stretching which has been
associated with performance detriments
however static stretching probably isn't
as bad as we used to think the negative
impact only seems to matter if you're
holding pretty intense stretches for
longer than 30 seconds or so per muscle
so for dynamic work I'll start with a
few light walking lunges then I'll do 10
to 12 leg swings front to back to
stretch out the hamstrings then I'll do
10 to 12 at leg swings side to side to
open up the hip
adductors and groin area I'll do 10 to
12 step throughs with a slight one to
two second pause the knee really brought
forward to stretch up the glutes
there are a few other stretches like the
Scorpion stretch and the knee drive
rotating squat you can include here if
you're feeling especially tight that day
now some people have specific areas that
are going to need extra work on specific
days because of flexibility issues or
tightness so we're going to go through a
few of them here for example on days
that I sumo deadlift I'll do a squat and
reach stretch to open up my hips and
adductors so I can get into that wide
sumo stance comfortably so you want to
grab your toes with a slight knee bend
and then squat down and really lift your
chest up until you feel a strong stretch
in your inner thighs and hamstrings and
then hold that stretch for 10 to 15
seconds Cossack squats can also be great
for this where you're basically
squatting down to one side really
stretching out your adductors in the
process and if you find it hard to keep
your balance on these you can start with
your hands on the floor or by grabbing
something in front of you until you get
the full movement down other people
really struggle to hit depth on squats
because of tight ankles or calves so
simply doing some slow eccentric calf
raises while really focusing on
stretching the calves at the bottom
should get them nice and loosened up for
squats if that's an issue so depending
on just how many of these drills you
include you should be able to get
through this phase in about 3 or 4
minutes now so up next is the third
phase which is the progressive pyramid
loading phase where you're going to
pyramid your way up and wait until you
get to your working weight for that day
so for example let's take week six day
one of my new upper/lower program which
calls for three sets of six reps on the
squat with seventy seven point five
percent of your one rep max so for me
that comes up to three sets of six with
three hundred and thirty pounds so I'll
first do the bar for only ten or twelve
reps I'll rest for thirty seconds or so
then I'll do one thirty five for four or
five reps and 225 for three or four reps
275 for one or two reps and then begin
my three working sets with three hundred
and thirty pounds for six reps usually
for most sets in the four to ten rep
range working your way up with three to
four pyramid sets gradually building on
each other will be enough you also want
to make sure that you're decreasing the
reps across pyramid sets so that you're
not exhausting yourself and the idea is
to get yourself psychologically and
physically prepared for the weight
you're about to put on your back not to
actually fatigue your muscles in any way
and it should only take another five
I've maybe 10 minutes or so depending on
just how heavy the way it is that you're
building up to and you really only need
a full progressive pyramid like this for
main heavy compound lifts so you should
be able to just jump into most of the
other exercises planned without a full
pyramid warm now personally I think that
that time investment is worth the
performance increase in reduced injury
risk but I can see how some people might
think it's a bit excessive so there are
a few ways that you can cut down on your
total warmup time such as by skipping
the foam rolling since it isn't
mandatory and using exercises that don't
require the same extensive pyramid
warm-ups such as Bulgarian split squats
or lunges
now my upper body dynamic warmup is a
bit shorter so running through the same
basic sequence after the general warmup
cardio I'll jump into dynamic stretching
where I'll do 10 to 12 small arm circles
into big arm circles I'll do 10 to 12
the side-to-side arm swings and then
I'll do 15 or so band pull apart which
is great for preventing shoulder pain
while benching in my experience and then
I'll do some banded external rotations
and some bandha - face pulls to really
get the rotator cuff nice and warmed up
and usually that's about it for me if
you find your shoulder mobility is
really lagging you can do some wall
slides as a prehab drill where you're
basically pinning your elbows against a
wall while lifting your arms up overhead
in the overhead dumbbell side Bend can
also be great for helping walk your arms
out overhead on any vertical pressing in
your program and then I'll usually skip
foam rolling on upper-body days but
sometimes before bench pressing I'll
roll up my thoracic spine and my hip
flexors which can't actually go a pretty
long way and improving your positioning
on the bench press
since the arch is going to be much
easier to set up and you'll be able to
get your feet set further back without
risking pulling your hip flexor and from
there I'm going to jump into my
progressive loading pyramid for my main
exercise since the working weight is
usually lighter on upper body movements
and I can get away with just two or
three pyramid sets before jumping into
the working sets and if you're starting
with an exercise like a row or a pull-up
you may need to only do one or two
pyramid sets before hopping right into
the meat of the workout so for
upper-body you're looking at about 10 to
15 minutes total warm-up before jumping
into it which again I think is well
worth the reduced injury risk and
improve performance that you'll see so
guys that is my full warm-up routine for
my upper and lower body they're always
more drills that you can add for
specific scenarios but I think
if you just focus on increasing your
body temperature taking the joints that
are going to be active through their
full range of motion and progressively
working your way up to your working
weight you've got plenty I would say
most of your bases covered so hopefully
you guys found the video to be helpful
if you did please leave it a thumbs up
make sure you check out my new upper
lower size and strength program which
I'll put a button to over here next to
my head subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next video