I think there's three videos now of you
trying to do my fucking accents that are
floating on the internet well and they
get progressively worse
that's because you're living in Vegas
too long and your accent starts to sound
like one of these fucking Casino addict
meth Nets motherfucker listen you tell
us who's got a better Flex accent me
Flex Lewis or him Lex Lewis which ones
which maybe I got me a shave no more in
there lost a bit but muscle put this on
a little pet we'll pencil in the beard
but maybe but maybe
[Laughter]
Mike
Jared
PhD ifbb Pro
and then it's Jimmy for no no
bicycle no human no car no bus bigger
house I knew it was a common object that
you would see in a neighborhood but
large and in fact Jimmy is really large
it's really intimidating to stand next
to him for a few reasons I'll tell you
why
first of all look at them ears happened
ears man some kind of childhood accident
fell off a bike in a really weird way on
both ears radiation yeah excellent fell
off a bike into a pool of radiation but
as he floated through the pool of
radiation he got a ton of training in
Jiu Jitsu and was awarded various belt
ranks he is actually a black belt in
Brazilian Jiu Jitsu the real deal he has
205 pounds currently roughly thereabouts
and the most
I won't swear yet messed up Thing
YouTube algorithm the most messed up
thing about this
is that to my incredible ego pain this
gentleman is drug free
740 pound deadlifter black belt black
belt yikes and so usually what I do in
my head is like I'm like I have to be
better than everyone I meet literally
like you know like alpha male shit so I
give myself all sorts of excuses like
but hold up but he's running more gear
than me right so he's a drug addict he's
gonna die soon none of that which is
bullshit before I go to the bathroom
cathartically cry and masturbate to make
everything feel okay Christopher
Chrysler bait it's a thing you guys know
about it a lot of you do it I know you
do uh before we do that we are gonna
hook Jimmy up with an unbelievable back
workout because his back is big
RP style we'll be doing pull-ups we'll
be doing pull Downs hey shit damn shit
we're not going to be doing we're gonna
do every single exercise in the gym tune
in this workout video be four hours long
hit it
[Music]
here's the exercise folks
Jimmy is going to be doing
Pull-Ups of various Heights
the first thing he's going to be doing
is pull-ups that touch right to the
chest so you're going to require more of
a back arch each rep counts when his
chest touches the bar when he's no
longer able to do that the onus switches
to getting the pull-ups to go right
around mid-neck a clear chin way over
the bar when he's no longer able to do
those in the same set it's a mechanical
drop set he is going to just barely get
his chin to touch the bar by reaching
pull-ups pull-ups Pull-Ups the depth
expands the good thing is that big super
crazy bottom stretch that does much of
the growing is in place every single
time anyway the height to where you pull
changes it's just about honesty to when
to transition to the next style of
pull-ups if you're really good at
pull-ups we looked around for a dip belt
we didn't find one so if you're really
fucking strong like him you do
progressively easier pull-ups as the
more difficult ones become impossible
sounds good
[Music]
perfect one more
one more we've got this all day Jimmy
great
oh that's it all right now to the next
check okay that chin clearly Over the
Bar okay
easy one holy Centric slowly yes deep
stretch up
beautiful nice one more
stretch great now just touch your chin
to the bar big time
there it is three more control on the
way down come on slow there we go better
slow makes it harder we're here for
harder Jimmy oh that's it rack yes sir
that's good dude good stuff those are
tough yeah that was super tough I've
never done that before that's not
excellent excellent that's awesome
rest and then we'll do another side yes
sir sounds good I can't wait for the
comments but are you ever planning on
going to the dark side or no honestly no
I mean not like as of right now unless
it was like obviously in the future and
qrt became appropriate but I don't see
right now currently I need to I've been
lifting since I was five so it's kind of
a there's kind of like a
a desire to find out where my true
potential is and I haven't slowed down
at all uh in strength or even physique
so it's kind of one of those things
where I'd really like to get close to
that if I see some testosterone decline
then make the call from there whatever
it is but do you know your test levels I
haven't been tested before now no like
as far as that goes I can tell
motherfucker
get out of here
[Music]
good one
two one more Jimmy
[Applause]
[Music]
sacrifice my teeth good stuff I'm gonna
eat that bar I know good shit man that
was really good thanks guys that's
awesome pull up Sir pull-ups are one of
those things where
if you think you're too good at pull-ups
and you need to use weight try some
pull-ups to the chest yeah and you're
gonna be like oh I can do like four of
these and then all of a sudden what you
just did like 10 pull-ups and that was
hard it was a set to failure yeah just
like because with your upper body
strength shit if you were doing bro
pull-ups you could be like yeah I do 50
cans every day
PS on a side note I love love love when
guys make claims for how many pull-ups
they can do and you're just like you've
been around Fitness long enough you're
like I know you're lying but I don't
know if you're lying on purpose and you
know you're lying or if you just don't
know what a proper pull-up is and that's
why you're lying
uh actually I have a question come here
from your guys's technical perspective
somebody comments on like lack of back
engagement with the protraction at the
bottom
and then with the excess not excessive
but the actual range of motion at the
top
what what would you say to describe how
that's more beneficial for back
development yes Jared would you like a
shout out this one or should I take it
Jared has all sorts of feelings yeah I
mean I yeah I'm a little more angry
about stuff like this than Mike is
nice Jared when you go all the way down
and stretch you are stretching your lats
under load which is hugely hugely
hypertrophic it causes tons of muscle
growth so that one's easy to solve the
idea that you have to maintain constant
tension on your back is an idea that
it's like a what I would call like a
notion people say it but then you ask
them why they actually can't answer you
so why is constant tension better than
intermittent tension why don't you do
just one set in the gym that is a drop
set for 50 minutes and then leave why to
even take breaks between sets doesn't it
fuck up your back no you take breaks
between reps and between sets each rep
is thus more full range of motion or
more quality
so it's totally okay if you unload
completely between each rep at the end
you'll get as close to failure as with
constant tension your muscles will be
pushed even harder because you have
little rest breaks between the Reps so
at the very worst it's the same effect
and it probably is a slightly better
effect
as far as coming up really high
do your lats disengage when you clear to
here no because your lats are now
pulling this way because the lats are
still involved in the first part of a
dip in the first part of a muscle up so
your lats actually pull down and then
your latch turn your humerus this way
that is active function of the lats so
if you get to here that still laughs
first of all second of all if your lats
can't do it other muscles in your back
have to do it imagine you have a really
well developed back just kidding you
only have all developed lats you kind of
look kind of fucking weird
perfect
great chin to the bar now sir
oh yeah beautiful one one yeah let's go
slow control that's it
great
it's good stuff good that's great I'm
definitely taking that one home thanks
guys hold Downs excellent all right
[Music]
people always ask folks like us he's a
black belt on brown belt what is the
real benefit of Jiu Jitsu because you go
meet up with your friends yours get all
fucked up what's the upside right
there's a guy right now who has two more
sets left on the pull down but we need
it Jimmy
Handler
get him out
let me just right to seated guard the
guy's like he just goes back to doing
pull-downs you're like I know
it's like you're supposed to be
intimidated but now we are going to do
pull Downs for extra volume for vertical
pulling
probably go for some kind of neutral
grip just to vary the grip slightly
different angle gonna be doing another
four sets of oh you know 10 to 20 15 to
20 reps slightly higher rep range and
then after that we'll talk about doing
some rows let's go get it done
four one more
awesome slow stretch
and wrap
good stop very good very good very good
so folks one thing you'll notice is
we're going to be reducing Jimmy's
working weight a little bit each time
maybe every other time and that's just
to keep him in that 15 to 20 rep range
we have already done the 10 to 15 rep
range of pull-ups we want something a
little bit higher more of a metabolite
stimulus his muscles are more tired now
so that real fast twitch super strong
stuff has already got out the window now
it's time for more reps with that said
should I pull as if I still have the
explosively a fast concentric okay fast
concentric control decentric okay yeah
yeah oh shit my man
two more
good
control
Big Stretch
[Music]
[Applause]
that was intense yeah that was a good
one thank you yeah actually since
performing a lot of the pulling
movements like you guys do
um I assume there's a correlation but I
feel like my shoulder Mobility is
probably drastically from it honestly
yeah uh four range of motion in general
improves Mobility like people don't
understand that I guess but so they'll
be like how do I improve my flexibility
Mobility I'm like are you doing full
range of motion straight like deadlifts
right and you see them and they're
stopping like right here yeah I have
friends that like like I can't get into
a back double anymore because they get
really really big I like Mike or myself
have really ever had that problem
because we're always in that deep
position here so I think it just helps
I'm starting to get it a little bit yeah
but I think a combination for me is like
I'm just getting older and possibility
decreases with age also like there's
only so much muscle like a human being
it's how they physically have shit back
there I can't touch my own shit Mike's
always too big for stuff I usually have
to coach for people but he's actually
just doing a great job already when they
go from the end of The Eccentric into
the concentric they kind of snap back
into the concentric face he's doing a
really good job of controlling when he
gets to his end range of motion here
he's immediately controlling the instant
trick the entire way a lot of people
have an issue with that but he's just
natural
one more sir
oh yeah
here to hold that stretch good stuff
that's it
[Music]
thank you for just finishing excellent
with the finishing body positioning
if you are getting full length out of
the lat am I basically vertical here or
do I have okay vertical's fine okay
either way it's very close Okay okay got
it cool thank you bet Rose
we've done pull-ups we've done pull
Downs the lats are pretty fried vertical
pulling is great now it's four sets of
barbell rows to get the rest of the back
the mid back the Erectors the rhomboids
the terras the middle traps lower traps
for sure even upper traps bent row
trains at all
sets of
we'll see 10 to 15 reps here and a lot
of technique learning for Jimmy to get
done this is a really trippy way to do
bent rows most people don't do them like
this but because we are
bending over with the lordotic posture
and only the arms are moving and the
scaps are coming forward at the bottom
of the Big Stretch notice the chest is
still up and then touching with the
scaps back it's an amazing pull back
stimulus no legs no Heating and hoeing
no bullshit let's do it
chest up yes just like that struggle to
keep your chest up the whole time
good
good one more give me
good stuff we'll take the weight down
excellent technique thank you excellent
technique I appreciate it deeper good
really put that stretch on it amazing
Jimmy keep going
great touch that tummy each time good
big chest
excellent
excellent strict
good one more strict control The
Eccentric control control control
stretch and let it down
[Music]
good stuff yeah tough yeah yeah
definitely feel it back there in that
upper back region yeah a lot of things
to think about it once and like for sure
yeah for sure for sure do you think my
grip should be a little bit wider maybe
your grip looked great to me but if you
want like one inch wider that's totally
cool okay I got a special surgery to
make my shit one inch wider
your boy is like a fucking pop record
baby I got that I got that soda can shit
[Music]
two more
good one more
oh hell yeah hell yeah Big Stretch hold
it
right that's amazing though like
how difficult is even with 95 when
you're like just really that's awesome
because the reason I think for me
personally I never do barbell rows I
think it's the mixture of ego I feel
like I need to go to a certain weight
but then at the same time knowing that
I'm not really doing shit
so that I just stayed away from it all
together Jared and I really like to
standardize the movement so that ego
gets completely like expelled like there
is no ego when there's a clearly defined
you don't swing you touch your tummy and
you touch the ground every time and then
it's like well it's just like bench
press starts here and ends here this is
something you can try for a mesocycle
all of the musculature involved in here
can make you look super fucking thick
and super fucking wide if you fill it
out
and one way to hit this is it hits when
your scaps are retracted and your elbows
are way back here so we're gonna have Mr
Jimmy do is he is gonna do rows with
just the bar where he holds the top
position to his tummy for two seconds in
a row you will feel a deep searing
burning sensation in your back that is
exactly what we're after give this a
shot if you guys want at the end of your
back workout to really get that shit
back there popping that's science right
there let's get in here do some science
hold good down again
hold
good down
again home hold down keep going
hold hold down and one more
hold down
[Music]
ever been humble like that by one bar
not at all no
and I thought it was bad when I tried
the curls your way too but Rose that's
even worse dude that's fucking sweet
speaking of curls let's do it we're
gonna die we're gonna do some some Jerry
I love I love those ones that I saw in
the video yeah good
a little bonus round some arms at the
end some Jared feather style Jerry curls
for one of our users on the channel
thank you for the recommendation for
that name
you guys are going to see a lot of
cueing in for the elbows to come in for
the arms to be outstretched in a super
focus on the bicep it's gonna be a big
deal Jimmy has enormous arms it's really
unfair
vitamin vitamins vitamin curl that shit
down slow slow control one more before
we quit we got a little rest break after
this
vitamins yes
too slow doubles in
down from there oh yeah I'm in front of
you oh yeah
and relax relax Rock don't go anywhere
rest break don't go anywhere folks if
you want to do something quick after
back get your biceps Zapped a little bit
Maya reps are perfect five to ten
seconds rest about four total sets time
to start Jimmy hit it again
[Music]
big ass arms Jimmy let's work there it
is
shoulders back elbows forward
each other come on
back
[Music]
rest yep
[Music]
camera people
notice how much weight we have on that
shit
70 fucking much not world fucking hero
type shit
it just does not take much weight to
train your biceps properly if you're
curling 150s and your arms are one-fifth
the size of Jimmy's which they probably
are you got a technique issue
[Music]
come on
ah
rack rest one left one set left doing
great stretch those biceps out
that was in immediately let's go vitamin
yes
[Music]
to March forward
[Music]
make it the hardest rep come on
[Music]
oh sorry for my bitching all right thank
you fan noises I know Matt where'd you
go
can't lift my arms all right that was
great thanks guys I was gonna say you
have a t-shirt but I realized you
couldn't throw a vacation to your face
all right folks Jimmy's gonna sit down
because he worked really hard
what'd you think man that was
my ability for a little bit in high
school obviously I've never been
compared to this
that was that implementation of full
range of motion but how that applies per
exercise I think the one that I took
away the most was the barbell rail given
I used to never do them at home because
I never really thought I was getting
anything out of it but with the form
Corrections from Mike and Jared I've
never had as much upper back activation
as I had the day with that barbell
variation so it goes to show maybe even
with the bar or 95 pounds somebody like
me about 205 pounds power lifter Jiu
Jitsu black belt can be pushed and
pushed to an extreme and those curls are
just a whole nother thing my my chest is
still super tight so guys thank you so
much I appreciate it it's our pleasure
you did amazing thank you folks Jimmy's
got his own YouTube he's got his own
instantly he's got us on Tick Tock he's
got his own fuck swipe he's our only
chance only feet team full stroke we'll
catch you next time give him a follow
peace thanks guys
hey boys do you like only fans
yeah yeah you like that you guys are
sick