today is my last day in Tampa heading to
Vegas in about 2 hours first I'm just
here at IHOP it's like 11:30 a.m. and I
haven't had breakfast yet getting these
for sure then I need some kind of
protein so I'm probably actually going
to get I'm going to get this I'm really
hungry I'm going to get the simple and
fit vegetable omelet here is the uh
breakfast so white chocolate raspberry
pancakes and then I got the simple and
fit veggie omelette with some fruit so
this is just like egg whites with Swiss
cheese inside and then a bunch of
veggies on Top This is where I'm
finishing off so I'd say maybe maybe
half like I don't know 38 something like
that and the orange
juice how much damage I did and I'm
leaving a little bit of fruit too uh but
I definitely ate all the egg whites but
I just eat until I feel roughly full and
then I stop wherever I'm done so that
happens to be
here fall in
love I am true Roman
drapes
[Music]
open does this thing not work or
what part of the reason why I Wai in a
little bit heavier this morning is
because last night really late I ordered
room service uh so you're seeing the
remains of it here but yeah it was a
chicken burger and sweet potato fries
and it was like really quite high
calorie um so I think I'm a couple
pounds heavier today but I'll just tone
it back a little bit now today and be
active and eat kind of more normally but
this is our view you can see the Orleans
Arena just straight over here which is
where the Olympia is being hosted hold
on focus on my [ __ ] okay yeah so this is
the Orleans Arena this is the room so
it's a little bit lived in right now uh
but yeah so this is the the bed oh and
we're staying at the ARA by the
way this is my new preworkout it's
actually just a pump product but this is
uh this is actually really really good I
actually recommend this one this is
where Pat is sleeping and this is the
bathroom I don't know how to turn on the
light here
but anyway this is the walk-in shower
with the bath probably not going to use
that and yeah another mirror here and
and then this
is stupid thing and then this is the I
guess toilet room uh so yeah that's
pretty much the hotel room um it's
pretty sweet like uh everything is
controlled by the pad here so like you
can order uh room service or whatever
and open the drapes I guess I'm just
going to finish up a bit of work that I
had to do on the computer then we're
going to go get breakfast I think at
Denny's because eating breakfast here
would probably be ridiculously expensive
but we don't don't really have we don't
have the weekend planned out really at
all uh so we'll just play it by ear and
see how it
[Music]
works 15 minute wait at Den we're still
it's 15 minutes really
crowded so it's
11:32 pretty late for breakfast especi
I'm feel like I'm still used to the East
Coast time anyway um what I got very big
breakfast I was feeling pretty hungry um
egg whites which I'm going to dab with a
ton of napkins cuz they're super greasy
hash browns turkey bacon and twoy
pancakes and I've got grits on the way
okay I forgot to get
fruit like the most gray looking
breakfast of all time it's like no
nothing healthy okay I'm going to show
you guys just how much
napkins I use here
okay that's one
napkin that's napkin number two number
three number
four it's still like soaking all the way
through oh my God bro that's number five
too number five that's that's napkin
number six six
napkins the preor situation D coffee and
PP AF preo
you see it's like a very like 80s type
feel to it here but I always love
training here a lots of different routin
we're going to be hting a shoulder and
arm workout today let's get ready into
it okay so I'm back to take you guys
through this full shoulder and arm
workout what I want to do here is
basically just take you guys through the
full workout and then touch on any
studies that I think are relevant along
the way we kicked off the workout with
an incline barbell bench press and there
are a few things that I want to talk
about here you would have seen in my
push Day science video if you watched it
uh that I discussed the effect of
changing the bench angle on upper PEC
activation in this video I want to
address the same question but for
deltoid muscle activity and there are
three studies that I want to look into
the first and main one is Barnett atal
1995 which looked at four different
angles so 8° or decline press press 0°
or a horizontal press 40° or incline
then 90° so a vertical press or military
press and what they found was that delt
activation and this is anterior front
delt activation was the greatest with
the incline and Vertical Press compared
to the flat and decline press and on
these movements the wide grip tended to
produce more activation than a narrower
grip and it's also worth noting that
there was a trend toward vertical
pressing resulting in slightly higher
activation than the 40° incline however
when you consider just how much more
active both the sternocostal and
clavicular heads of the pecs are with
the incline press this movement gives
you a little bit more bang for your buck
so to speak so based on this study I
think that an incline press with roughly
a 40° angle and a wide grip defined in
the study as Two Times by a chromal
distance will give you the highest level
of activation for the delts and then
unlike the strict Vertical Press you
also get a high level of activation for
the pecs so the other studies are trebal
2010 which was the one that I discussed
at length in the last video but they
also found that inclines were better
than flat for activating the delt and La
ital 2015 found pretty much the same
thing I guess people who've been
following my training for a while now
probably know that I'm not much of a
minimalist when it comes to my
programming and what I mean by that is
even if I think that the returns will be
diminishing if doing more work will
yield slightly more progress for me then
I'm going to want to do that extra work
and of course this is a simplified
version of my view on on volume um but I
think that it's in line with my general
approach to my current training so with
that said after the incline press we
moved on to a machine shoulder press and
here I'd like to quickly touch on what
the difference is between free weight
movements and machine exercises when it
comes specifically to delt activation
now of course you can always do both
varieties if you like but not everyone
is able to do both or wants to do both
or both might not make sense within the
context of their program so I think it
is important to know the differences
between the two if there are any so
there are three papers that I want to
cover here the first is shik 2010 where
they compared the flat bench press with
the Smith machine bench press and they
found no difference in anterior deltoid
activation between the two however what
they were calling medial or lateral delt
activation was higher with the freee
exercise compared to the Smith machine
presumably because of an increased
stabilization role of the lateral
deltoid the next year in 2011 there was
another study done by Sater back in Nal
and they found essentially the same
result no difference between the machine
and the free weight press however in
contrast uh a much earlier 1994 paper by
MAA ital found that Delta activity was
much higher for a freeweight press when
compared to a machine press and I think
it's worth noting that this was the only
paper of the three that looked at a
Vertical Press as opposed to a
horizontal press which might be
important and then also when 60% of ones
1 RM was used free weights were found to
be better in so far as they led to more
activation um when 80% % of the 1rm was
used there was no difference in
activation between the machine and the
free weights so what the author
speculated basically was that since the
anterior deltoid tends to resist lateral
rotation of the humoris and the lateral
deltoid resists adduction of the humoris
The increased activity in these muscles
May reflect their contribution to
stabilizing the shoulder and so to me
while there doesn't seem to be anything
particularly special about free weight
exercises except for a potential and
small increase due to stabilization
demands I think it makes most sense to
use a combination or to Simply use what
makes most sense for you individually
within the context of your entire
routine I personally like to use a
combination and I tend to use the free
weight movement earlier on in the
session when I'm fresh and able to um
exert more Force after that we did some
one arm dumbbell upright rows you'll see
that I periodically swap these in and
out for rope upright rows and while I
find the movements to be similar I do
find that I have more degrees of freedom
with the dumbbell and this allows me to
shift some of the emphasis away from my
traps and external rotators into my side
delts simply just by initiating the
movement like I would a lateral raay and
speaking of which a dumbbell lateral
raise was up next and I think we did
these for four sets of 12 to 15 reps
just for some extra side delt volume and
then finally we did finish off with arms
we did a machine preacher curl and a
standing dumbbell curl here I want to
comment on a 2009 paper by olaria aile
which compared biceps activation with
the preacher curl and standing curl and
essentially what they found was that
these two exercises complement each
other quite nicely and that bicep
activation was highest for the pre-ra
curl in the bottom third of the movement
and then activation dropped off
throughout the rest of the range of the
motion conversely with the standing curl
it was the opposite activation levels
were low during the first third and then
they increased throughout the remainder
of the range of motion yeah we combined
the two of these uh got the most biceps
activation that we could probably out of
two different exercises and then that's
going to finish off the workout so guys
thank you once again for listening to
this commentary thanks a ton for all the
the great feedback on these I really
appreciate it and I'm extremely happy to
hear that you guys are enjoying them and
some of you guys are finding them useful
I really appreciate all of that feedback
so thank you so much and uh I hope you
guys enjoy the rest of the
[Music]
Vlog so we just finished up at the Expo
I didn't bother getting any footage
today I'll probably get some tomorrow we
just there very briefly but I wanted to
show you guys the hotel lobby here real
quick um so this is the ARA and this is
when you walk in this is where I checked
in last night I was really tired so I
didn't film any of that and then this is
like a I don't know I guess like a kind
of like a art thing uh pumpkin thing in
the main lobby and then over here is the
casino area so I probably won't be using
that too much and yeah we're just going
to go back up to the room now and not
sure what we're planning for the rest of
the night probably go get something to
eat now we're here at Lemongrass
restaurant so this is like uh a Thai
restaurant and I'm just trying to figure
out exactly what I'm going to get here
uh probably going to either go with the
red curry chicken sounds really good um
or um pad tie I don't know this is what
I ended up getting it's the chicken pad
tii and this actually looks so delicious
so yeah can't wait to dig in and
[Music]
beautiful beautiful