he started with leg extensions move down
to leg press and then moved down to
squats imagine reverse in the order
let's do a thought exercise together
cbum instead does squats first then leg
press then leg extension how does that
affect the quadriceps well positively
the quads are the freshest and strongest
when they're put in the compound
movement and then they're a little more
tired they get put into more isolation
movement but still quite compound and
then lastly leg extensions the quads are
cooked so from a raw stimulus magnitude
perspective Superior way to train
stimulus magnitude is not the only thing
we're concerned with we're concerned
about fatigue and about mitigating
injury risk the the probability that you
get hurt with six plates on a side is
like yeah like it's a chance what is the
probability that you're going to get
hurt relative to that six plates hurt
for three plates on a side I mean fuck
fuck that's that's half the load it's
almost zero by Chris doing leg
extensions then leg presses then squats
magnifies his ability to reduce injury
probability and minimizes the systemic
axial and total fatigue but still allows
a crap load of crazy quad stimulation