hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I have a question for you
and hopefully you can let me answer let
me answer good good start out on off
great don't edit this Scott I want all
the mistakes
in help me answer a question should you
be rounding your lower back when you're
trying to train for results getting
stronger getting more muscular but
minimizing injury risk good question and
you will hear two opposing sides that
are quite vociferous in this debate so
to speak also I want to introduce you to
some technical nomenclature in the field
so that you know how to say these things
properly in real life I'm going to teach
you a few words in Jewish that's right
not Hebrew Jewish and you may call it
lower back but actually it's pronounced
just like something you would do to a
pie oh there's a lot of roads I could go
down there wouldn't end
well bake he my bake that's how you say
it so when I say bake later I'm not
saying bake a cake I'm
saying the lower part of your body which
gets height what is height uh it's hurt
it's when you get injured yes there's a
whole world here you may not know of if
you ever unfortunately travel to
Brooklyn then you can learn to you will
already know how to speak the native
tongue and you'll be welcomed with open
arms um we're just going to get
cancelled sooner or later here for this
shit in any case first side and these
people really do think they're correct
which is totally cool maybe they are are
the folks that think that rounding your
back puts it into an anatomically very
highrisk position for posterior
discarnation and as you can remember
from basic spy Anatomy the introvert ke
discs sit H and the nerves of the spine
sit me and the herniation back me that
way really can hurt your bank and you're
doing deadlifts and you round over
you're like o and you feel some shooting
pain down the leg oh my legs I'll never
walk again I know it cuz remember 15th
rule of Judaism is you always knew shit
was going to go downhill for you it was
just a matter of time and if you worried
enough you were going to instantiate it
into real life so that's an interesting
opinion and may have some validity to it
and thus because a rounding of the back
can multiply the probability of a
posterior and the symptomatic
discarnation causing pain dysfunction
Etc then this school of thought will say
that you should stay in neutral spine or
even a forced lordotic Arch spine so
that like look lordosis arguably can
cause anterior disc herniations where
the discs shoot forward but the anterior
collateral ligament that sits in front
of your spine like you can probably
shoot a gun at it and nothing would
happen to it your disc sure as fuck
won't poke through that and even if they
did it's all just guts in there there's
no nerve roots or anything there's no
loss of function and a bunch of people
have uh like you right now probably have
a ton of herniations you just don't know
about because the vast majority of disc
herniations are actually asmp atic so
that kind of gels really well with like
look just arch your back minimizes the
probability that you get posterior
herniation and thus a symptomatic one
though not all posterior herniations by
long shot are symptomatic but if you get
some anterior ones who gives a shit so
neutral spine or even better yet lower
doses that's what these people will say
and let's say this is especially true
with heavy aely loaded lifting loading
through the spine like squats and
deadlifts like when shit gets heavy you
better fucking like just get some
fucking get some bracing going and Arch
up very well there is another side and
opposite side and do side this is like
werewolves versus vampires except was it
gotot Team Edward and Team
Jacob is that his name Team Jacob team
wow you knew that
you're the G
word yeah side number two the you know
the first side is the vampire side we'll
call this the werewolf side the werewolf
side thinks this that oh hey scottt can
we get a thumbnail where it's like
vampire versus werewolf and it's like
the rounding one has the arched back one
has the rounded back in any case I'm
just going to shut the fuck up they
think that you build resiliency and
strength through exposure to all
positions that the human body has to
offer in their school of thought there
is no such thing as the wrong position
and they don't believe that the analysis
of the evidence or Theory reveals that
there's anything really compelling about
rounding the back from an injury
probability perspective like yeah like
whatever like round Arch neutral like
it's all kind of same same and there's
no compelling reason for us to think
that one of those positions specifically
the rounded one is uh somehow
theoretically or empirically just more
likely to cause injury and they will
also say very many times that you should
be rounding your back regularly in
training and that will make you stronger
in that backgrounded position decreasing
your probability of getting hurt in that
position interesting stuff definitely
compelling stuff so what is my
assessment I sound like like fucking
Derek more plates more dates but does he
have a last name does anyone know what
his last name is just kind of wanted to
find out where he shops and just sort of
like just this be in the be in the
peanut butter and jelly aisle when he
goes through and be like hey dere watch
your
videos I bet he's
tall
oo I'm still straight I'm still straight
still straight in any case my analysis
is as follows I think that from
a base perspective from a prima fasy
argument knowing not a ton of the
intricacies it does seem compelling that
probabilistically a posterior herniation
which is via H pretty straightforward
biomechanics more likely if you round
your back is probably more likely to be
symptomatic and delarius than an
anterior herniation if you sort of
overarch your back and probably
herniation poten itial is lowest when
you spread the forces evenly through
invertebral discs so neutral spine is
likely best so in really high load
exercises uh limit you know 5 RM or
lower or 5 RM or heavier squats
deadlifts things like that I think
neutral spine is probably a good default
position knowing what the current state
of the evidence and conjecture is on hip
hinge movements where your targets are
the hamstrings good mornings stiff
legged deadlifts Etc I actually think
it's good idea to go actively into
lordosis arch your entire back
especially your lower back as much as
possible because that pre-stretches the
hamstrings and allows you to have to
move through a smaller range of motion
in order to get a awesome stretch and
the pump of your life and a huge
hypertrophic yield so it's not like a
safety thing in that uh particular
example it's more of a we actually Arch
our back in order to expose the muscle
more like one of the reasons you retract
your shoulder blades for bench pressing
as a bodybuilder is to keep your
shoulder joints safe but that's again
not so compelling with what you really
are doing is you're pre-stretching your
pecs right and so same idea here with
rounding or sorry arching to lower
back training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same and in addition to that however so
so so far I sound like you know one of
the camp number one type of guys
straight backs only straight not backs
Marines bunch bunch of soldiers standing
in neutral spine how they should be
godam D it this is America I do
subscribe to a very large part of that
second school of thought I do think you
should be training your back through
positions of full flexion and because I
think just by a small margin the face
value probability of getting quite hurt
is uh a little bit higher in a rounded
back situation than it is in a neutral
spine a really arched Lord doic spine I
think you should at least start training
your lower back through spinal flexion
and extension dynamically training your
spine um with lighter work sets of 10 to
30 repetitions 30 is a lot but like yeah
10 to 20 for sure even 20 to 30 if
that's your jam in exercises like the
barbell flexion Rob cable flexion robe
Jefferson curl that's like where you do
the world's ugliest deadlift and just
exclusively question mark style round
your back if you do those movements and
you build up your strength over time
your lower back first of all gets super
super muscular super super strong
and can develop a ton of stability in a
variety of movements so that not only
are you practicing very stable neutral
spine safe lifting when it's Ultra heavy
squats and deadlift but all of us shift
a little bit at least outside of that
best range hypothetically best range
when we are under very heavy loads or
going close to failure and then because
you've been training your back through
dynamic range of motion actually loaded
flexion and extension through flexion
rows barbell flexion rows cable flexion
rows all kinds of flexion rows hey you
what's your name nope it's flexion row
now Jeffers and curls Etc once we are
able to do that and we've built up a lot
of movement competence strength and
muscularity if we just so happen to
round over in the deadlift we're not
like instantly shitting a fucking inter
disc out of our ass and being you know
permanently wheelchair bound for forever
we are much more likely to withstand
that and not get hurt because yes there
are probably more and less injurious
ways to lift weights but also at least
in a higher rep setting working up over
time to get heavier you should be
building resiliency in the very likely
chance that you get off center and off
balance a little bit in some of your
lifts you don't want to Silo yourself
into being like okay if my technique is
perfect everything's great but if my
technique goes a little bit disaster
strikes you want to have some buffer
zone and making your strong making your
lower back your spinal Erectors big and
strong and gnarly prevents injury and
the probability of you getting some kind
of nasty spinal injury while doing sets
of 10 to 20 to 30 in the fucking flexion
row is so goddamn tiny and if it happens
man you kind of you know I'm saying you
were going to hurt your back one way or
another and on that incredibly positive
note I leave you with my best wishes
best of luck go out there and get a
strong back for the love of God and uh
you know as Jordan Peterson says stand
up straight why wouldn't you stand up
straight it's a terrible J Peter I'll
see you guys
[Music]
later
[Music]
he