his coaches needed to come up with a
resistance training program that Jason
could do in as little time as possible
while still packing enough punch to turn
him into the sexiest Fish translator out
there oh my God
I'm straight I'm straight I'm straight
it's working
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I am also a professor of
exercise and sports science at Lehman
College in the Bronx in the United
States and I am going to review Jason
momoa's Hollywood Diet and training
program plan approach method Madness Mr
Jason Momoa
let's see how you died and trained
how much do you bitch how much do you
squat
nothing I do not like lifting I don't
touch a weight unless they're paying me
to do it damn respect so he doesn't like
training
but he does have the manliest voice ever
and I've for years my therapist and I
have been telling me that I'm definitely
straight and I'm not into guys
I remember that I have to say that a few
times to myself during the day Jason
Momoa I'm in love with you
beautiful beyond words where can I meet
you and I mean m-e-a-t
let's just get to the video I don't
enjoy lifting weight I don't like going
into a gym okay so honestly like I love
I respect the kind of people that are
just straight up honest it's cool to be
like hey like I don't really like
lifting but if I need to get in shape
for a roll your boys are not doing that
shit there's all kinds of stuff I hate
doing
leaving the house for any reason
whatsoever brushing my teeth
going to the doctor's office
paying taxes
yeah but I do that I do that anyway
that's what I'm trying to say don't skip
on your taxes and don't skip on your
weight training if it's a part of your
job yeah that's just genetically
Hawaiian nice damn it's cool to be
genetically Hawaiian now notice
something the interviewer lady has said
nice and then she closed her eyes while
smiling what do you think she's
imagining
Jason if you're listening to me forget
all these interviewer beautiful women
look at this face yes it's an ugly face
misshapen you might even say but it's a
face that loves you
just like one of my DMs bro you don't
even have to say anything oh I got even
one better I know you're a busy guy just
left me on scene I just want to be seen
by you Jason
ideally in the nude
honestly we're just supposed to skip
let's Mike let's get to reviewing this
already all right enough enough how many
calories when you're Aquaman and what's
your workout like split look like when
you're Aquaman not the character the
actual superheroes I know I think I eat
fish no wait you wouldn't eat fish you
can talk to them can you imagine that
shit Aquaman's trying to eat some like
seafood place and the fish was like
don't kill me Aquaman he's like uh they
like sushi he's like uh-uh I don't know
anything else vegetarian I guess you
could probably eat land animals and not
give do you guys think the cows can talk
to Aquaman the fish is like hey Aquaman
he's like hey fish just walks by the
cow's like hey Aquaman he's like
I got nothing bang eats the cow instant
Burger uh I'm really bad at this he has
no idea he has no clue what he does
that's the trainer's job he said yeah
like what's your split what's your diet
what's your training he's like that's
some other guys paid to tell me what to
do I'm really good I'm really good at
just working hard and doing what I need
to do so my trainers are generally like
they just they make all that
they format everything that's fucking
sweet again I'm loving it honesty just
tell me what to do and I'm gonna do it I
don't have to be in love with it I have
to endorse some bullshit I don't believe
in slash like Jason Momoa I was gonna
say you're finding your way into my
heart but you've been in my heart for
some time
and other places in my body
that's very it's very challenging for me
to to work out for vanity it's very
challenging for me to work out for
vanity yeah motherfucker I looked like
you I'd say some shit like that
damn it you were born Hawaiian how dare
I say perfect I was born Ashkenazi Jew
fill in the blanks I had to work for
this beautiful body now I can even hide
in my muscles
but uh God damn dude yeah it's your
shirt off for half the film yeah but I
just it's I'd rather like set my because
I love climbing and surfing so it's like
uh climbing and surfing those are fun
things yeah climbing and surfing I'd
dare to say on for the population level
on average are objectively more
enjoyable than lifting weights can you
imagine like hey climbing like you get
to like surmount these obstacles and get
this crazy View and it's a challenge and
it's scary you're like okay yeah I love
it like surfing you're fucking the man
and up and down and using your balance
there's water and babes and bikinis
you're like I love it what else you like
lifting weights they're like okay like
it's metal and it's heavy and it's
boring and everyone smells
it's the same week to week but
what do you get when PhD Sports
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders
the most effective muscle growth
training app ever made
[Music]
get yours now
yeah the Opera hypertrophy app can tell
you how to train and make it a little
bit more fun and more organized but it's
hard to compete against actual fun
activities I I feel you and look almost
all of us watching this video we love
training with weights but he's got a
point like to speaking to regular people
that's it's relative if I really need to
get to climb a really hard route I'll
have to diet and I'll have to like train
really hard so that I just try to wrap
my head around like how it works for me
oh cool so he's kind of relating like if
he gets into better shape his climbing
gets better which is how he use uh use
that to kind of inspire and motivate
himself a bit that's dope that's respect
um and I really love beer so it's a lot
of people like beer most of them don't
look like Jason Momoa I will not eat a
carb all day long I won't eat carbs and
this is probably the healthiest thing
it's not the healthiest thing not eating
healthy carbohydrate to save up for beer
look every now and again it's totally
fine
daily
yeah you might have some issues but you
gotta remember I'm like I'm away from my
wife away from my kids
he has a wife and kids
foreign
divorce happens kids grow up I'm still
here for you Mr Mamoa I'll always be
here for you
[Applause]
I'm eating no carbs I'm on some crazy
diet not exactly no carbs motherfucker
what do you think beer is made of I have
to work out in between busting my ass
and doing stunts yeah busting my ass and
doing stunts guys Jason momoa's job is
hard he's an actor I'm being a dick I
gotta rasm a little this is what the
pickup artist Community calls negging
you do a little bit stop the video guys
no stranger that shit you you get at a
motherfucker in this case in other cases
uh most cases and a little bit razzm a
little bit and they get all defensive
and then you give them a little cobbler
and they're like it's a little push and
pull I'd have a little push and pull for
I'm done I'm done I'm not going to get
into the literal mechanics of
intercourse
right now
hey guys if you liked all that there's
more on the extended version but not all
of it is PG but that's where you gotta
sign up to be a member to see it so give
that a thought if you're into some weird
stuff so I was really depleted and we we
took we had water all the time and then
the last 24 hours it's just like a
couple ice cubes so you're just trying
to Peak for one day right it's like a
bodybuilder that's cool I'm really happy
to know that they do this for Hollywood
because like in those shirtless scenes
in Aquaman uh there's a huge premium
frame looking his best luckily they have
some folks in there that like will dry
them out carb them up and it'll
temporarily make his muscles look really
full temporarily make his skin look a
little thinner that's all really good
stuff I'm glad they're doing this this
definitely enhances the Hollywood effect
that's right so I was doing that whole
thing and my body wasn't showing up and
it wasn't happening and I go to my
trainer at the time I go give me a
Guinness like give me a Guinness and so
right before we did the underwater thing
I cracked two Guinness pounded them and
my body's like
my whole thing my whole body can see
like my veins were like I like the whole
I don't want to offend anybody but
Guinness is a fucking disgusting beer
for people I don't like to ever talk
about because I'm not a big fan of them
the Irish I'm kidding Irish people you
guys always take a joke really well
Scott the video guy is dare I say mostly
Irish and entirely a degenerate beer
drinking just he's just not it's not a
good guy Guinness is awful Scott you
have anything to say for yourself let's
Guinness specifically
inexcusable Guinness but yes uh a higher
volume of fluid and carbohydrate and I
will say the parasympathetic inducing
relaxation nervous system response of
having some alcohol can absolutely get
your muscles nice and big in your blood
vessels nice and veiny and give that
last little peek not the best way to do
a peek but it can definitely work
especially if you like beer I hate it
this wouldn't work that well for me but
if you like beer then pick something
better than Guinness yes
what's your favorite beer actually why
don't you hit us up in the comments tell
us your favorite beer and the winner
will get alcoholism
Jason Momoa hates working out but he was
still able to get ripped for Aquaman by
using this unique workout hack unique
workout hack Color Me interested since
Jason despises the gym his coaches
needed to come up with a resistance
training program that Jason could do in
as little time as possible because he's
so strapped for time while still packing
enough punch to turn him into the
sexiest Fish translator out there oh my
God
I'm straight I I'm straight
Street
it's working
so they had Jason use accelerator result
7 which is a circuit-based training
program what where you take four
compound movements and perform seven
sets of seven reps with seven seconds
rest in between each movement oh my God
that's a lot of work that's accelerated
so once you completed all the sets you
take some rest and do the same but with
sixes on everything and then again with
fives on everything this is a little
goofy but I guess it worked oh my God I
love that review the guy himself said
it's a little fucking goofy here's the
thing if you give people a lot of Highly
Effective exercises compound heavy
Basics multi-joint multi-muscle
movements to economize that effort so
like for example if you do a close grip
bench you get a lot of triceps and chest
stimulus in one exercise so you don't
have to be there for wide grip bench and
push Downs respectively have is the time
of the work
you do slightly higher reps you do very
short rest breaks and ideally you do
antagonist muscle supersets so for
example some close grip bench then some
underhand pull-ups then some close grip
bench with very short rest breaks you
can train a crap load of the body get
people amazing results in very short
amount of time sometimes 30 minutes in
the gym three or four times a week and
it's a huge total body workout the exact
protocol here is wacky of course 765
whatever that's totally arbitrary I put
my scientific Integrity on that but even
though it's arbitrary it's still well
within the range of things that work so
this is actually a fairly good way to do
things because remember most these
Hollywood folks they train question mark
question mark question mark and they
also a series of question marks and then
for like 12 weeks before movie role
they'll really lock down their eating in
the lockdown they're training 12v so
this kind of training can transform a
ton of physiques so I highly support it
again Mr memoa isn't exactly saying the
right stuff but it's so close to the
right he gets a pass on my book
there's a lot of other stuff in my book
about Jason Momoa mostly Doodles on the
margins of how I think is um genitals
look what
did I say that out loud
ooh a Jason Momoa sample workout plan
first round San Francisco seven reps
seven seconds rest of each exercise the
sevens are arbitrary six three five if
you really want to go to the extremes
the way Aquaman did not Jason Momoa the
actor Aquaman the actual hero
you can perform these routines up to
three times a day don't do that don't do
that folks once a day is good see if he
hates working out with a fuck is he
doing it three times a day Jesus Christ
we should also mention that mimo
reportedly did 100 push-ups and 100
squats as a warm-up for his chest
workout
folks if you follow our Channel and if
you don't welcome please subscribe you
will realize that 100 proper push-ups is
the fucking chest workout and a half
so I can guarantee you his push-ups
sucked
I think James wants me really Slim and
so I get like two and a half months of
just doing like fight choreography that
sounds fun and then you know indoor
climbing
probably just climb a lot whoa he jumped
up onto the thing he's so beautiful and
his hair is like sort of black but sort
of blonde and he says I don't know what
in this man voice who cares what he's
saying my God what the hell is this
video about anyway
so like your body is constantly working
climbing's good climbing is good for
Fitness
um it's uh not whole body but it's close
way biasing the pulling musculature but
having big shoulders biceps forearms and
a big back it's a good start to an
excellent male physique you combine that
with a bit of pushing work and some
tricep shit you got yourself a great
physique for Hollywood so climbing uh I
can't hate on it then this is
some meat he had a container of wrapped
turkey
in his gigantic homeless guy coat
what the fuck is going on I said I ran
out of my house and just threw some meat
in my pocket
there are a number of jokes I could say
now so many of them in my head I don't
know which one to say first I was just
gonna go with the classic hey Jason I've
got some meat in my pocket for you as
well but it's not turkey oh no
I always have meat in my pockets oh my
my god oh Jason
can you show us what your workout looks
like what I like to do
is I sit here and I just try to move all
these with my mind like that was
standing up once and then they were in
order and and that one was over there
and that was up there but I'm just like
this is the answer I would give an
interview like that the Men's Health
guys are like yes that's funny hahaha we
have an article right in a video to make
just start answering it for real I
really just sit and relax
that's about the extent of huh he's
drinking a beer I love it he you know
what I'm not gonna talk shit I was gonna
say he's taking Men's Health exactly as
seriously as they should be taken but uh
all love and respect folks all jokes my
workouts nice I love the guy's response
nice
kettlebells have been really huge in my
life I travel kettlebell swings build
explosive power you know what would be
unfortunate if you spend a lot of time
building not explosive power
is that even it's a redundancy explosion
and power the same thing in sport
training but Men's Health is so
authoritative and now such on that
really love bands so I'll just do band
work
kettlebells and bands the two least
effective tools in the gym kettlebells
are okay dumbbells are generally more
versatile bands uh don't load the
stretched part of the muscle which is
the one that grows you more so bands are
generally inferior to training with
cables machines or weights okay stupid
bear crawl bullshit with dumbbells is a
fun waste of time it's a way to spend
energy I don't know what it does when
it's uh very unclear what muscle is
being trained and your outcome is
physique because that's the only thing
that they care for actors is how they
look
um it's probably not a good sign so if
you have to look at something for like a
little while and try to figure out what
they're trying to train not good news
sort of back those dumbbells are
preposterously light for his back he
can't even get a big stretch because
he's in a half push-up position it tires
out his chest shoulders and triceps but
the contraction for them is largely
isometric so not very stimulative of
growth
file
first of all that's a techno Gym machine
techno gym is fucking total trash
second of all he really could benefit
from a slower control on the way down
from a deep painful stretch that hang
and from coming up as high as he can all
the way up to chest level it'd be better
for his climbing better for his physique
but it's more challenging most of us can
only do a few pull-ups like that those
are real real pull-ups and they have
real good dividends that they pay
oh wow he transitioned from pull-ups
right into rear doubt flies
odd pairing I can't tell if this is sped
up I don't even know what that's
training
triceps ish
he's doing some underhand pull-ups again
not going all the way down not even
close I would say this is a major
downside at this point this is him like
in the early phase of trying to get in
shape because he's looking a little
rotund this is a
my official day and let it work out
oh is this official first hard workout
after six weeks post hernia surgery okay
I was being a dick it looks great I was
trying to surgery then again he looks
great all the time in my eyes depending
on the type of hernia you have and the
type of surgery they have you can return
to working out very hard as uh in as
little as three to four weeks you can
return to working out easy in as little
as two especially if you have like an
umbilical hernia it's mild and they have
a mesh repair a lot of times if it's
laparoscopic only they it's really quite
easy for you to come back within just a
few weeks or start coming back in a few
weeks for most hernia surgeries six
weeks later realistically there's
nothing you're going to do to the
incision site or anything like that
modern surgical techniques are really
really impressive so I think he's
totally good to train like that um you
know maybe something to ease into for a
few more weeks after is like really
heavy intra-abdominal pressure type
exercises really heavy squats really
heavy deadlift really heavy leg pressing
ax wow where you breathe in and generate
a ton of interabinomial pressure he was
doing essentially all pulling movements
which you can do with zero and terminal
pressure just as effectively so I think
he's totally cool on that regard so for
coming back from a hernia surgery I give
that workout a 10 out of 10 for
everything else in which we wait rate
workouts on this channel as to how
effective they offer hypertrophy and how
scientifically based they are I would
give Jason momoa's entire approach a 6
out of ten uh because you know it's in
the right sphere to things just not all
the right ingredients but for his
Carefree attitude about training and
diet I give him a 10 out of 10 and for
his manliness and sexiness and infinity
out of zero think about it it's all
Jason my whole world Mr Jason Momoa
listen I know I'm nobody but if you
could find it in your heart to uh
me at least once I'll think of you at
least all the time
see you guys next time
[Music]