in this video i'm going to explain how
to make gains at every level of training
experience now in this other video over
here i explained the theory of muscle
growth in five levels so in this video i
want to focus on the practical side of
things what do you need to do in the gym
as a beginner intermediate and advanced
level lifter to keep driving progress
forward
wait a minute
[Music]
whoa are you jeff nippard how did you
get here
well i was uh just filming this video
hey since you're here how about we work
on a video together my channel
picturefit just passed a million
subscribers so maybe you actually collab
with me now well i mean uh since i'm
here and everything um
what if i need to get back
uh it depends but here you can use this
i haven't used it in seven years all
right thanks um so the video is about
making gains at every training level you
want to kick things off with a quick
overview of nutrition first sure thing
my qe loving friend so regardless of
your training level the fundamental
nutritional factors will be much the
same with the most important factor
being total daily caloric intake yeah
exactly so if you're trying to maximize
your muscle gains you'll ideally want to
be in a caloric surplus generally eating
something around 10 to 20 percent above
the calories you'd need to maintain your
weight will drive muscle gain without
excessive fat gain now if you're really
trying to limit fat gain as much as
possible putting your calories at around
maintenance while optimizing your
training will often result in body
recomposition where you build muscle
while losing fat simultaneously however
this does tend to work best for people
in the beginner to early intermediate
category and does get harder the more
advanced you get and then if your
primary goal is to lose fat you will
need to be in a caloric deficit this
time around 10 to 20 percent below
maintenance is best and again while
muscle gain is possible in a deficit it
does become less feasible the more
advanced you get great and the other
major factor is daily protein intake the
best evidence here suggests that being
in the range of 1.6 to 2.2 grams of
protein per kilo of body weight per day
and those are pretty much the basics for
nutrition training however is a bit more
complicated as you get more years under
your belt the way you structure your
training will need to be modified in
order to keep driving progress so jeff
how about you kick things off with the
beginner level sure so in your first
year or two of lifting assuming you do
most things right and without steroids
most people should be able to put on
something around 10 to 25 pounds or 4.5
to 11 kilos of muscle as a male and 6 to
15 pounds or three to seven kilos as a
female these ranges are pretty wide
because there's a lot of genetic
variation between individuals however to
ensure that you're maximizing on your
so-called newbie gains as a beginner
you'll want to focus on three main
things the first is technique it's very
important to learn proper technique on a
variety of different machines and free
weight exercises so you can properly
apply tension to the target muscles this
means using an appropriate range of
motion so the target muscle goes through
a reasonably full stretch and reasonably
full contraction controlling the
negative and properly breathing and
bracing on exercises that require it now
generally i recommend inhaling on the
negative and exhaling on the positive
but as you get some experience you
should consider bracing with the
so-called valsalva maneuver on heavier
compound exercises like squats where you
breathe in before each rep and hold your
breath throughout the negative and
positive releasing the breath at the top
second as a beginner it's important to
focus on linear strength progression as
the main method of progressive overload
this means picking a handful of
so-called primary exercises and simply
aiming to add some amount of weight to
them each and every week at the same rep
count generally in the range of around
6-12 reps for example on the bench press
you can start with the empty bar and add
just 5 pounds every week for 6 reps just
doing this alone most people should be
able to bench their body weight for a
one rep max before the end of their
first year of training
thirdly as a beginner you want to start
thinking about your proximity to failure
and once you've got the technique
sufficiently understood start learning
what failure on various exercises
actually feels like this is important to
set you up for success in the later
stages because even though you don't
need to go to failure to make progress
if you don't know what it means to push
yourself you won't know how to judge
your own effort at all and then you risk
training at too low of an intensity
especially as you move into the
intermediate level okay so sometime in
between the one to five year mark of
your training you should find yourself
in the ever common intermediate stage of
training experience again assuming you
do most things right with your training
and nutrition you should be able to put
on something around another 10 to 20
pounds of muscle as a male and 6 to 12
pounds as a female throughout your
intermediate years combined and to make
sure you're maximizing on this potential
you'll want to make sure you're focusing
on three main things the first thing is
still progressive overload however it
won't be quite as simple as when you
were a beginner you'll quickly learn
that after a year or two maybe even
sooner you can't simply add weight to
the bar or the machine each and every
workout anymore without compromising
technique now you should still aim to
add weight over time it just won't be as
linear or as frequent because of this
you can start implementing rep overload
this is when you use a rep range rather
than a fixed rep target and add one rep
each week rather than increasing the
weight for example let's say you're
doing easy bar bicep curls in the six to
eight rep range you'll keep the weight
fixed at 60 pounds and do that for six
reps in week one in week two you'll do
the same weight but for seven reps in
week three you'll do it for eight reps
once you reach that top end of the range
you can go back to six reps but this
time add a little bit of weight now if
after several weeks you're still not
able to increase the weight or the reps
without form breakdown you do have the
final option of adding an extra set so
let's say you're doing three sets of six
to eight reps before now you'll do four
sets of six to eight reps granted
because increasing the number of sets
you do will increase the volume very
suddenly i do recommend saving this form
of overload as a sort of last straw
since it will take a bigger toll on
recovery than adding weight or reps in
any case the name of the game at this
stage is to find the volume sweet spot
for you not just increase volume to
infinity usually 10 to 20 sets per body
part per week is optimal so if you start
to get well above this range it might be
time to stop increasing the number of
sets and do an exercise swap and on that
note the second thing you should focus
on as an intermediate is periodically
rotating exercises the reason i say
periodically rotating is that if you
just constantly haphazardly switch
exercises in and out you actually make
it harder to make progress on those
exercises instead it's a lot smarter to
stick with any single exercise for one
to two months and increase the weights
reps and maybe sets on that exercise and
then switch it out for a different
exercise i mainly do this for isolation
exercises for example for the side delts
you can start with a standing dumbbell
lateral raise and progress on that for a
month or two then swap for a lean away
egyptian cable lateral raise for a month
or two then do a chest supported
inclined lateral raise and then do a
machine lateral raise and thirdly as an
intermediate it's very important to
start fine-tuning your proximity to
failure in your first year or two of
training you should have learned what
true failure feels like and now in your
intermediate years it's important to get
very good at judging what one two or
three reps in the tank feels like this
is because for recovery purposes it
isn't always best to take every set all
the way to failure but you do need to be
sufficiently close as a general rule you
want to be one to three reps shy of
failure on most compound movements like
squats presses etc and zero to two reps
shy of failure on most isolation
exercises and i'd suggest taking the
last set of isolation exercises all the
way to failure just as a steady reminder
of what it really feels like to actually
go there okay so after four to five
years of serious dedicated training most
people should find themselves at the
advanced level at this point assuming
things have already been reasonably
optimized for four to five years you
should be able to put on something
around one to two pounds of muscle per
year as a male and 0.5 to 1 pounds per
year as a female although at a certain
point you may need to get more
aggressive with your caloric surplus in
order to build any more new muscle
naturally still to make sure you're
maximizing on your potential as an
advanced lifter you'll want to focus on
three advanced strategies jeff all right
so first you should consider doing
so-called specialization phases this is
when you dedicate one to two months of
training to developing just one or two
body parts by blasting them with more
volume than usual depending on just how
much volume you hit them with you may
need to put the volume for some of your
other muscles at maintenance to make
sure you're still recovering globally so
for example let's say you really want to
bring up your chest assuming you've
already done all the other stuff we've
talked about i'd suggest taking your
current chest volume and bumping it up
by about 20 to 40 percent so let's say
you were doing 12 hard sets per week for
your chest before now you'll do 15 to 17
sets for your chest per week for your
specialization phase now if you find
recovery to be an issue you might want
to slash some of your delt or tricep
isolation work to promote overall
recovery second as an advanced trainee
it might be a good idea to experiment
with some advanced intensity techniques
especially on stubborn body parts here
we're talking about stuff like drop sets
milo wraps and eccentric accentuated
reps drop sets are where you extend a
set beyond failure by dropping the
weight back and doing even more reps
mile reps are when you extend a step
beyond failure by doing short mini rests
for three or four seconds after reaching
failure which allow you to crank out a
few more so called effective reps with
the same weight and eccentric
accentuated reps are when you find a way
to overload the negative more than the
positive by for example slowing down the
negative or having someone apply extra
resistance to the eccentric and i think
these techniques can all be worth
periodically including on the last set
of isolation exercises especially on
machine exercises for stubborn muscles
just be careful not to overdo them as
they do have a greater recovery cost
than a standard set and third i think
that as an advanced trainee it's smart
to experiment with different training
frequencies the general consensus from
the scientific community is that while
hitting each muscle twice per week is
usually enough on average to maximize
growth it is still clear from the
literature that the optimal frequency
varies from person to person for this
reason if you've been training each body
part just once a week for a long time i
definitely try hitting each body part
twice a week and if you've been at twice
a week for a long time consider
something higher frequency such as a
high frequency full body split from my
experience not everyone will respond
better to higher frequencies per se but
at worst it is equal to more moderate
frequencies and for some people higher
frequency training really does seem to
work quite a lot better so in the
advanced stage it's definitely a factor
worth playing around with
and that's it for this one that was
amazing we should totally do it again uh
yeah it sounds good to me um you know
we'll uh we'll see heck why not just do
it now we'll hang out your place this
time uh sure why not
wait that's a wrong button
[Music]
you