[Music]
go finish finish finish
[Music]
finish question when you guys go
somewhere you go alone I don't I only go
places with my European bodyguards and
yeah they both have phds doctor Sport
Science doctor Sport Science me I'm Dr
Mike Isel from Renaissance criation this
is
Milo this is pack they are sports
scientists and researchers for real
researchers not like me they are here to
do some working out illustrating the
value of partial ranges of motion what
the hell am I saying bizarre world is
tful ROM dead find out more uh right
now well my PhD is actually on range of
motion oh that's right we found that
doing partial repetitions in a
lengthened position so in the stretch
position like the very bottom of a row
when your shoulder blades being pulled
all the way forward that seems to be as
good or likely better for hypertrophy
than a full range of motion at the very
least something to try out for
hypotrophy so in this session we'll be
taking you through some length and work
different techniques to emphasize that
stretch in your session right because
I've seen studies and I've seen smart
people like you motherfuckers talk about
lengthened bias partials but I'm always
like how does that really look in real
training like can somebody do some
fucking sets to show me how that looks
and maybe give me some good tips and
techniques cuz lengthen bias for the
back might look different than for the
triceps than for the chest and for
whatever so you guys ready to show me
some love for sure and people seem to to
think that it's quite difficult to
integrate partials in your training but
in reality as you'll see now it's super
super yeah but you're Greek and
everything you say sounds smart as fck
so maybe you're just smarter than
everybody if you don't have a PhD you
can't do the shit I'm sorry a figure uh
a figes only if you're not making eight
figures just sign out get out of my DMs
get out of in general let's get to work
let's do
it first exercise Prime row this machine
actually allows you to load different
ranges if you put it on top it loads
that lengthen that stretch position the
most so what we'll do we'll do full
range of motion here but we'll use these
loading pins to emphasize that stretch
so if you have a similar machine you
don't have to do partials you can do a
full range of motion and still get the
most out of it by simply emphasizing
that lengthen position in this case
typically what I'll do is load maybe 20
to 30% of the weight in the mid-range on
the middle pin and load the rest of the
weight in that lengthen position so you
get kind of the opposite effect of a
traditional row where it's really hard
and at Peak contraction which likely
isn't ideal for growth in this case you
get the opposite which means more muscle
growth we're going to go for literally
as many reps as we
can until f failure are you guys still
Opa too
yep we say in Russia go go go yeah you
can finish that rep finish up at the
[Music]
top oh now we're talking last one let's
go all the
[Applause]
[Music]
way and that's what true failure looks
like but was it failure Greek failure so
ask like why not all in the top one the
way this machine is designed it's weird
cuz then it's zero load at the top so
you get to the very top and you're like
you can technically take your fingertips
and push the handles back and then catch
them again we want some kind of
something in the back there so that
weight really works like a counterweight
but at the top it's quite easy and then
at the bottom as you go down it's weird
because you're used to a stretch but as
you go down in this machine with the
pins loaded as they are your stretch is
exponential essentially what happens is
because it's so easy at the Top If you
really try and explode out of that
lengthen position and produce lots of
force in that stretch
position it just makes the machine fly
yes essentially and you have to slow
down on purpose exactly so you have to
slow down on purpose and for lengthen
work we really want to spend as much
time as possible and as much effort as
possible produce as much force as
possible in that length position so if
you don't have any weight in that
contract position it makes you kind of
throttle the contraction and we don't
want that so we want some resistance
still in the midrange and shorten
position but just a heavy emphasis on
that length position the three people
that own this machine are like nice
finally wow yes if you were to not be on
this machine and you were on a similar
chest supported row you could literally
and I'll do my set as well you could
literally get a big stretch and stop the
movement somewhere here yep and that
would be plenty and we'll have other
exercises to illustrate that with
[Music]
later
two other ways to emphasize that length
position generally control the Ecentric
the most when you reach into that
stretch pause at the very bottom in that
stretch and then contract forcefully out
of it the second way is if you're going
relatively close to failure or to
failure even try and end the set when
you fail in the legin position so if you
can still get reps in the shorten
position through full range motion keep
going maybe some partials at the end of
your set that's a really good option as
well nice
go
[Music]
yes try one
more p p p p p p
p one
more good shit so what Milo was saying
is when you are here and you're
squatting let's see squat leg press hack
squat barbell squat whatever when you're
doing doing your
Cadence it's okay to go quickly from
here to here it's all right but slow
down at roughly the halfway point and
milk it out to accentuate the Ecentric
so pause consider pausing Rock It Up
finish the rep slow and then if you're
doing partials come up to just where it
gets a little easier slow back down a
lot of people can do the partial but
they don't want do is right here you're
tired and your quads are pumped and
everything sucks slow back down is
brutal and it blows and then when you
want to do really take it to the Limit
and fail at the length in position that
means if you can only come up to here
you just do squats
until you can't move and you fall over
and you probably die yeah and then
Life's good and then you know there yeah
as far as the Centric length goes if
you're doing like a full 4 seconds or so
uh you're probably more than covered as
far as that goes yeah great Point yeah
just just for the the viewers to be like
okay how much how long yes it could
always be
longer we can move on to Dumbo pullovers
dumb pull o brilliant brilliant great
exerise choice let's do
that we shall do an AM R and see who
gets most reps So lately Milo and I Milo
and N Milo and I anyways our
training our training has been um sort
of more Auto regulated because we've
been traveling but a great way for the
intensity to be up and for us to
actually push ourselves is to just
constantly compete on stuff as we will
now so I propose we go heavier which I'm
not sure about Milo said that this will
be plenty I propose we get married
that's already covered
unfortunately
[Music]
same thing again don't brush it pause at
the bottom beautiful go yes so another
way to emphasize that stretch is to pick
certain movements over other movements
in this case if you did a cable pullover
like a cable lat prayer you would get a
great stimulus you know it's a full
range of motion for the lats a lot of
shoulder extension but the resistance
curve is relatively even you're still
training the shorten position and that's
all well and good that's your goal
however with certain movements like the
dumbbell pullover by design it is
already a lengthen partial even if you
wanted to if you go past here there's no
more resistance so you're only training
in that stretch lengthen position even
more than that the hardest part of the
lift the place where you have to produce
the most tension in your lats is in that
bottom position at long muscle lengths
and then it gets easier and easier
linearly until you get to that top
position so both in terms of range of
motion and in terms of resistance curve
really solid option for hypertrophy and
we're doing exclusively partials here so
we're not going to be doing the tall
pend correct yeah you're an inch from
touching the ground want that extra
R oh yeah go go go go go go go go go go
[Music]
yep go finish finish finish
finish
health and safety am I right he has
Botho the way to manage failure on this
exercise is
twofold you can go to to Really what is
true failure on this in two ways one if
you just can't get it up you just gently
go back to your end ROM and just do this
your arms are sufficiently clear of your
head no one's standing around you the
weight drops a couple inches no big deal
the second way to do it is what he did
which is if you realize that at this
point with straight arms you are at
concentric failure you bring the weight
closer to you just by little bending
your elbows while bringing it up not
only do you go for sure to failure
because you're like well I can't do this
with straight arms but you use
accommodating leverages in order to do a
mini mechanical drop set on that last
repetition so it's both safe and mega
effective and you know you went to
failure so it's like checking all the
[Applause]
box at least two more let's
go great one more let's go Le one more
Super for elbow straight slow control
pause pause and
explode that's it another thing I really
like about the Dumbo pull as opposed to
Cable pullover is that it's quite stable
and so reaching failure engaging failure
becomes very easy personally with a l
prayer sometimes it's like ah did I just
shift my hips a little bit did I do
something here it's pretty obvious when
you when you fail especially if you're
reaching your arms out and your elbows
are relatively close to lock out you
know like for pack on his last set you
actually had an upward you had an ascent
and then a mini descent and he bent his
elbows and fish finish that rep like
there's no way that if he could have
stay out stretched they would have
gotten another rep that's for real
failure that's that's what we call this
failure in training really is technical
failure without good technique uh
continuing he could not have continued
to do it so it's really really good
shall we move
on so on this exercise we'll be doing
integrated partials integrated partials
fancy term really just meaning you do a
full range of motion rep and then you do
one two three partials and then you do
another range of motion rep and you just
continue in the cycle for the whole set
the reason we do this is twofold one on
certain exercises like the barbell squat
just doing length and partials or just
the bottom half isn't very safe cuz for
that last rep when you're really close
to failure you may try and get a full
rep to be able to reack it afterwards
but you may fail and so for those
exercises just doing L partials isn't
advised however if we just did partials
at the end of the set you'd get maybe
one to three partials you wouldn't get
that many partial reps and thus the
emphasis of the set wouldn't really be
on the stretch anymore it would still
just be basically a 4 in of motion set
by sandwiching in a 4 in motion rep some
partials a 4 in motion rep some partials
what we're able to do is accumulate more
length and partials and get a greater
emphasis on that stretch position let's
go good
technique elbows to the sky and then
slow keep your chest up the whole time
don't swing you got for sure two
partials yep chest up the whole time
let's go one more partial at least
[Music]
go fuck yeah that's it
woo awesome oh you got
more halfway yep another one
halfway yep full round let's do this
Milo up up up up up that's
it one partial for the road
nice good stuff that was good that was
really good very nice machine awesome
machine awesome machine yeah like it
it's so smooth smooth how do they do it
I don't know how and it already feels
like it's emphasizing that stretch
position Rel yeah relative to most
machines I've
[Music]
used
beautiful stay up right the whole
time there you
go oh failure out here is really a
defeated
looking far as standardization goes cuz
I see that comment being made U by
people who I guess you know are new to
partials and long L line training as you
can see some there was some variation
between some reps but it wasn't anything
too crazy and after you do that for a
few times it's pretty easy to set
certain points for reference as well
pack has a little bit less experience
with partials than I do and this is our
first I'm using the
machine at least based on my
experience performance week to we is
very stable which kind of implies that
range of motion is similar unless I'm
just fooling myself into hitting the
same numbers over and over again but
based on some of the reliability that we
have from studies based on my own
experience and client's experiences it
is reasonably reliable so just make sure
you pay some attention to the range of
motion and you should be in good
shape go finish finish finish Y and then
slow you got two more
[Music]
partials
JK I ain't got shit good stuff hit a
shoulder pose as well there we go woo he
big all right curls curls for the
girls what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever made
get yours
[Music]
now the uh freemotion machine is what I
believe God actually uses to train on
and so typically you would have the curl
situation look like this which is dope
but if you want to try this out you
actually start at the bottom of stretch
of a
fly everything's open this will stretch
the fuck out of your chest so if you do
chest and biceps on the same day is kind
of helpful but if you're doing this on a
day in which you don't train chest it's
actually nice stretch out your chest a
little bit a little blood flow and then
what you do is you simply from Full
extension
curl full extension and curl and the way
the angles work with the machine is here
you get crazy stretch crazy tension but
as you come through here it's actually
very easy so it's already uh a l
lengthened bias exercise which is pretty
dope you have a name ooh it's going to
be called the double DDO curve how could
it be called anything else it's a new
thing where people name exercises after
themselves I mean they've been doing
that for years but like you'll see slide
modification in an ex and it's like the
do p c uh this is the Dr idiot curl no
wait yeah that's how I'm known in most
places of the world so we're about to do
some partials on this whenever you're
talking about emphasizing the stretch a
variety ways to do it on the prime row
loading like lengthen position on the
pullover by Design hardest in length
position and it's already Leng partial
on the later raise incorporating
integrated partials if you really want
to emphasize the lengthen position
especially in exercises where you're not
really challenging that lengthen
position very
well what you can do to make it more
challenging and get more work in in that
stretch position is to simply just do
the partial range of motion in the
stretch position that way the whole set
is spent at those productive muscl
and you get a lot of tension a lot of
stimulus in a stress
position let's go finish couple
more slow big
pause yep
yep
beautiful oh I got the other one nice
that was a nice exercise man thank you
that really
good two you got
this three let's go at least one
[Music]
more go God damn it finish that's
it nice that was
awesome beautiful deep stretch pause and
explode at least one more let's go
control control control full pause and
explode in work let's
go last one let's
go control control control pause and Arc
out that's
it yep you did it right the first time
there you go let's go big brain big
brain pack who is that on your shit is
that uh Juggernaut or some shit Thanos
here so it's Thanos Dr Doom and Bane
oh is this all bald people you look up
to yes Tom Hardy the CGI guy
and oh are you serious whatever fuck
looks like a blowjob as I'm saying do it
bearded Caucasian men di a dozen some
people say but I got special ones and
with tattoos where the fuck are your
tattoos man sorry bro I'm 12 holy shit
so anyway Milo's needs to stop giving
him growth hormone cuz 12 holy shit pack
over here I'm 13 we didn't well the
Greek 13 really you need slightly more
hair on your face chain smoker and a
truck driver the pass and you get out of
my face fly the tracksuit shit is very
Greek I like it you're like on the
Olympic team maybe sort of yeah you're
the guy that hangs around with a guy
that hangs around with a guy that hangs
around with a guy who's on the Olympic
team that's all of Grease by the way
also we didn't train chest what the hell
happened to your shit um it got pum from
the bicep stretch whatever we did the
pullovers boom any words of wisdom on
this uh lengthened partial situation and
uh I'd say as as we briefly mentioned
during the video you out the door rep
quality control the Ecentric make sure
that you are getting that deep stretch
and that's it it's not that complicated
it's the equivalent of train hard with a
bit of a sauce on top bit of spice I'd
say main things remain volume intensity
good technique overall but a bit more
range of motion is always welcome every
little bit counts every little inch oo
every little inch counts folks you think
about what that means in your spare time
we'll see you next time peace
[Music]
peace