hey folks i'm dr mike for renaissance
periodization weekly tip number five if
you're keeping track
how to use veggies to control your
hunger just a few things so here's the
deal in hunger management veggies have a
few interesting insights and few
interesting sort of
uh effects that we can capitalize on
they have lots of fiber which is super
super filling they have very few
calories which means you get full while
eating very few calories they have lots
of volume in general a lot of times from
the sort of uh interaction of the fiber
and the fluid volume which means again
they fill you up a ton and reduce your
hunger and they don't taste all that
great sorry if i triggered anyone
broccoli lovers or something in the
comments but they don't taste amazing in
the sense that you just keep wanting to
eat more you ever heard someone say oh
my god i just can't stop eating broccoli
like what the f what what's wrong with
you right pringles i get it sorry if
that's your favorite chip but in any
case
it's
the thing with veggies is that because
of all these things they kind of do two
things one they were they fill you up a
lot and reduce your hunger and two
didn't really help you increase your
cravings which is awesome
because
this can be a huge superpower when your
fat loss dieting so when your fat loss
diet gets harder you start to get really
ravenous eat more veggies and slightly
less other carbs especially raw veggies
and unflavored veggies so we're not
talking about taking broccoli and
dipping into cheese sauce
just regular broccoli and a lot of times
if you get a real bad weight don't even
steam it raw i know it's crazy it's
terrible if you eat at the beginning of
a meal and then eat the rest of your
meal then after you're done with the
rest of you can be like oh i'm really
full and i don't really want to eat
anymore and that's perfect for a fat
loss diet because then you're not
psychotic for the next three hours just
waiting for your next meal and having it
ruin your life
on the other hand a little extra tip
when eating gets really hard on a muscle
gain phase and you can't stand any more
food
reduce the amount of veggies that you're
eating you don't go to zero because
that's really unhealthy but really
reduces substantially and if you do eat
veggies or you should be the ones you
still eat on a massing phase preferably
eat them cooked and very well flavored
and part of a meal that makes a lot of
sense that way you're not cramming down
the same amount of chicken broccoli rice
hating yourself and you can't gain
weight so essentially when we're deep
into a fat loss phase we make the
veggies taste not so good we eat more of
them fewer of the other starchy carbs
and fruit and then we're in a mass
gaining phase we more start your carbs
and fruit and stuff like that especially
with starchy carbs fewer veggies and we
make the veggies that we do eat a part
of our meal really tasty that way we get
the best of both worlds the hunger
matches the goal and then you have a
better diet less stress better results
you're leaner people talk to you finally
you get promoted at work you meet your
future wife and your life's perfect see
you next time for next week's tip