all right well good morning everyone it
is it is Saturday October the 15th and
today I'm actually headed to the
University of Tampa to get a DEXA scan
done my good friend Chris Barrett cut
was nice enough to offer to do this for
me so I'm really excited I've never had
my body fat tested at all I've never had
caliper measurements done or a DEXA scan
done or anything so he offered to do the
DEXA scan for me and then also
potentially I'm an ultrasound which will
not only give me my just body
composition overall but a good idea of
how my sort of muscles are distributed
I'm not supposed to eat or drink
anything the morning of the exam that
can kind of throw the measurements off
so what I've got for myself for
breakfast is just just some boiled water
and a tablespoon of espresso tip he said
like four to six fluid ounces of water
he said was fine but anything more than
that I might throw things off
as very strong because an eighth of a
cup doesn't shock
so I just put on my snapchat or I put it
a call for people to guess what my body
fat percentages and so far I've had
responses ranging from 0 to 11 12 I
personally think I've had like 8 to 10
I guess 7 to 8 but the way that my body
fat is stored just in my own experience
assessing my own physique is
predominantly lower body so my upper
body will stay really leaning until I
pass a certain threshold like I won't
accrue hardly any body fat on my upper
body until I get into like 170 pounds so
I can stay beach lean relatively easily
however to get stage Li and I have to
dig really hard because my upper body
will lean out really easily but then for
my lower body to really really dig
sup bro meet you too man finally gonna
go off yeah how's everything good man
can't complain comes jack thank guys
were here in sure I could call this
D'Souza like she can't or water this
part of the Suez lab in the University
of Tampa like I said so this is what the
lab looks like just really briefly so it
basically to me looks like a gym and
then over here you kind of have all of
the testing equipments so this is the
DEXA machine right here honestly we
didn't know if we were going to be able
to film or not so we already did the
test so I'm just going to show you guys
the results of the test but basically
you just lie down here my body fat
percentage was right here so 8.4 which
is a lot leaner than I expected it to be
and then this is here basically shows
you obviously all the blue is bone mass
all the red is muscle and there's very
thin yellow lines of subcutaneous fat
around the outside that you could barely
see because Jeff is pretty darn mean
right now I'm surprised to see like a
bit more orange like around my shoulders
and trap area like I would have thought
that's my leanest and then on the lower
body there isn't quite as much as I
would have expected but much cool yeah
like that I feel like a lot of guys
overestimate how much fat they need to
put on submit
it just ends up hurting you because when
you die you have to do like a year-long
diet I feel like if you stay leaner you
should be able to get away with a
shorter prep yeah when I said it is
always better to have too much than too
little of course but yeah I feel like
you have guys first of all who just put
on too much body fat and then have to
prep for too long as a result of it but
then you have guys who are like really
lean in their offseason they still do
30b prep yeah right it's like what's the
point of saying that lean if you're
gonna prep that long anyway I like to
like drink and eat now yeah the other
side crunches very clip there's another
crunch that's crazy but you've been out
like that time I've been in every oh
yeah oh yes I don't get those
kinesiology no you get them how ice
machine I like to hoist lat pulldown a
lot I actually love that what it feels
good memory I might put the devil again
I was the back we didn't really like I
like it
everything else is like why why my right
now so we can do the doctor sound there
where is that it's right here right here
oh this small arc shape see at the
bottom is actually the humerus and then
we measure muscle thickness from bone so
right where the adipose tissue starts in
the skin stretching so I could tell like
it's a I had an imbalance from like left
to right you could tell one bicep was
thicker than the other or quad
everything look that would be really I'd
love to do that because I know I have
some amounts as that wanna so now we're
doing in all four sounds were basically
testing the muscle thickness of my bicep
and comparing the right and left that
right go looking for a fetal heart rate
yeah you're just stay relaxed for me I
am okay this is the humerus
this is the brachialis and then from
here to here it's by separate by and
then flexed and you can see movement
right right over here that's the theme
this distinct white line separates the
brachialis from the bicep Breaka and
then from here to here is by separate
got this small piece of tissue you see
is subcutaneous fat and skin and then
this substance over here is just the
ultrasound gel
yeah the DEXA scan is the gold standard
for bone mineral density but not
necessarily that's what it was designed
for but it kind of just like made its
way into yeah I think it's that the
number two for body faster shopping in
terms of like an all-in-one machine it's
almost you can consider it the gold
standard if the reason our professor is
so against claiming that it is is
because it doesn't give you any water
component so doesn't give you any more
like how what percentage of your body is
water does the bod pod do that that's
the point no but what is is a bat
massively nuts sighs so that's why the
is it until you right how does that get
passed here you oh that is what is under
the same conditions it's consistent they
consistently underestimates oh is that
right yeah so it's good to charges so we
just did altra sound on both my biceps
we got a measurement of thickness muscle
thickness of 4.1 2 centimeters on my
right and then four points what was it
one one six for the left so it's like
0.04 of a centum so form that four
millimeters and difference between the
two I would have expected just based on
age like visually looking at it that my
left was a lot bigger it was quite a bit
bigger than my right like maybe a
centimeter but I guess that that would
be like total area including humerus and
everything so just the muscle itself is
pretty even between the two well thanks
guys I really appreciate it
rayray so I'm trying to get
right right right
and are you squeezing your shoulder
blades together okay
okay i'ma get you have a look at me
doing those since we think it's a
basically depress the shoulder blade
just punched out if it works it around
take a few steps back
smart with your
plus good punch down
so you should feel more attention at
this portion of the range than you did
just wring that
Hey
I've never seen that before I think your
wife yeah
[ __ ] [ __ ] man keep it low
yeah so basically
I want to bread my skin your elbow
at first I was doing them like this so
just my elbows back the idea is that
reflects your shoulder so bring your
arms a little bit more forward that kind
of turns on your bicep already doing
curl from this position is the way
I'm felt by the way
I'm sorry
oh my god sorry
my back was when I was just over and I
felt something tighten up in my upper
back
and the muscle spasms really hard it was
hard
a really hard I had to get Russians in
like in a way it was like just rock art
couldn't and then
back up better over time
okay that it was like I had to squat
high bars in a world are kind of thing
that feels it was gotten better so I
don't feel it here I was dead lifting
again because I kind of gave up
powerlifting after this the same basic
sensation like walking up but it was a
little bit higher it was probably lower
sorry it was probably look around here
now what's going on is lower still
almost right down in my life
like very very like sharp pain if I do
anything that's like not supported like
I can feel it like through the day how
are you getting out of the car
picking up my bag feels like it's like
right literally in my tailbone but
around the middle if I had like I tried
to do a bodyweight squat refrain legs
body was not barbells literally just I'm
I'm gonna do it right now but like SWAT
it down and like my passenger
yep in there yes and then right in the
middle like that
there I feel like I get a hangover yet
it's not bad I can feel it minor pelvic
rotation yeah so if you can see here
light but if you look at is medial
malleolus ankle one's a little higher up
than the other right so I can use a
muscle energy technique to kind of just
rotate your pelvis back to neutral that
might help a lot which is how your back
feels it seems like where you're
pointing your pain is more l5 s1 and it
could be more like of an SI joint is
pathology so supplies a little bit
summation small
why
and down
the relaxing muscle relax
we got Jack I received
he's on that juicy sauce you know orange
juice
be from Russia
I'd like to be able to do overhead crap
why doesn't that like a corporation my
program
like
they have their place
yeah you like [ __ ] off you feel
discomfort very luxury you might feel
discomfort in your elbow
your chest
there's a technique it's called a
shotgun for your hips your pubic
symphysis cracks so it feels
uncomfortable for one second
I imagine feels amazing afterwards feel
like like a new man basically I feel
like he may be interested in I'll show
them a video of it so he doesn't so he
knows what to expect
competitive breed is that you're
coaching yes my coaching business I
mainly deal with some editors but I do
will deal with gen-pop as well
your abductors three different times
three different positions and then
you're going to contract your adductors
time that's when you're going to get
that whew this is kind of rough
we're going to do abduction contractions
from here from here and then from here
after that third one I'm going to put my
hands here and you're going to squeeze
this together okay and you should feel a
snap right in your push out against me
three stuck in contractions one two
great good push out one two three good
wider push out one
good question quick quick I don't think
so but like I felt in my groin and
you're saying you're supposed to do it
like a media okay gonna find a game yeah
take two he hesitated right he's like
[ __ ] I don't want I don't know you got
to contract the same exact way you're
doing it Ava doctors the same force on
your right we just won't blow his life
the shop
just don't be a [ __ ] about it
now
and
you're going to feel it on the back way
if you can't wrap your glue you're going
to get a very discussion my favorite
blue stretch is yoga pose
I usually hold everything how frequently
would you recommend me do that I'll do
it every night yeah and if you do that
night will get crazy
I like this too but like a muscle
lastly answers
are you just yet
to cash our dog
I really appreciate it man great advice
thank thank you absolutely