hey folks it's me Dr Mike for
Renaissance periodization and today we
are going to venture into forearm
specialization training well why
wouldn't we folks this continues our
series on specializing and targeting
every muscle group of the human body to
try to make it more jacked so what if
you want to specialize on forearm
training well first of all why would you
want to specialize in anything at all
and there's just a couple of sort of big
hitter points there
it's easier to specialize in a Time
constrained environment if you only have
five hours a week to train once you
become intermediate Advanced you can't
really do due diligence to your whole
body in that time so you shift some
priorities around really prioritize
something deprioritize something else
another thing is just pure aesthetic
reasons like having big forearms is kind
of fucking cool you know maybe look like
Popeye worst worst case that's not a bad
worst case uh best cases you know like
anytime you have short sleeve anything
or even like sleeves that end here
people are like damn are you a mechanic
or are you Riddick from the Riddick
movies which would be amazing and lastly
yeah you can buy prioritizing and
reducing the involvement of other muscle
groups and limiting how much other
training you're doing you can get some
muscles to grow bigger than they would
normally be or faster than they would
normally grow by really focusing a ton
of effort on them and of course what
whenever you talk about prioritization
people ask how many muscles can I
prioritize at the same time the answer
is how many however many you can do due
diligence to training them from for
their local specific minimum effective
volumes all the way up to maximum
recoverable without being impeded by
systemic fatigue so as you can train
your chest and biceps and back and blah
blah blah blah all in one week and they
feel totally great and you could do that
for a meso and whatever what ends up
limiting you for your back is the fact
that your back is physically too tired
to keep going and starts down to recover
it's not like your whole body is demand
for other exercise really brought down
your your systemic abilities and you
ideally you would have more ability to
train your back but you're so goddamn
tired all around you can't do it however
many quality muscles you can throw in
there it's great beginners can
prioritize everything intermediates is
when it starts to be like well if I go
ham on seven of the eight major muscle
groups the eighth has to be something I
do on maintenance volume because if I
try to do it full on the systemic
fatigue Rises so much faster than the
local fatigues of all the muscles and
having really shitty training over and
over and over again
it's kind of like if someone was like if
you think you could learn one language
at a time yeah probably do that what
about two languages you're like uh I
don't know that's pretty hard what about
10 like well look just the amount of
hours that I have to put in to learn 10
languages means I would never sleep
which means I can learn zero languages
just as well as I can learn 10. so at
some point the systemic fatigue is
overwhelming you have to consolidate and
realize what you can train so the answer
to how many muscles you can prioritize
for yourself is really
well try to see how many muscles you can
prioritize and if it's too many to do
and systemic fatigue is way too high and
local fatigue isn't high enough then you
have your answer and at that point you
say okay I'm going to take out one or
two muscle groups and see how it goes at
some point you're going to find your
equilibrium of how many muscles you can
train and remember this is different
answers for different muscles it's not
all replaceable categories so for
example you can't take out forearms do
prioritize forearms and put in quads
because quads do so much more systemic
fatigue summation than your forearms do
that you it's not a one-to-one ratio so
you may have to produce calves and
forearms and traps all the way to
maintenance volume to make room for
quads things like that all right
so when we say specialization we mean
putting more focus on something to make
it grow more what does that mean we're
actually doing as far as program design
is concerned first of all we have to
check the box of specificity that means
that we choose exercises and modalities
like straight sets down sets drop sets
Etc
repetition ranges that preferentially
stimulate the target muscle we're not
trying to do B plus or C Plus answers
we're trying to do A and A Plus answers
so you say well you know for my forearms
I actually do really well with a lot of
gripper work
but I don't really have a gripper so
whatever look if you're serious about
getting it as big a forms as possible
save some money for a little bit and get
a good gripper because if you've worked
with one in the past their forms really
blew up you're going to want to put all
of your best tools forward right that's
definitely a thing the next thing is
prioritization
especially with Forum training this is a
little strange of a concept but I
promise it works you gotta train at
least once during the week preferably
multiple times
you have to train your target muscle
that you are specializing on first or
very early in each session
a lot of the things and this is muscles
like forearms traps calves
rear delts typically suffer because
um almost sociologically
culturally they're just put in the back
burner at the very end of a program
nobody comes in and starts training
traps that's nonsense traps are
something you do after back or after
shoulders but if you really wanted
bigger traps why the hell would you
train them only when you're super tired
just the same way with forearms I will
be recommending here that you train
forms first in most sessions after which
you will train other muscle groups don't
worry we'll have ways of getting around
the fatigue problem there where you
can't grip anything right anymore but it
has to be a thing you recognize
objectively if I want a bigger muscle I
gotta train a little earlier so it has
more energy with which to be trained and
gets better results
frequency almost always slightly higher
frequencies favor short-term hypertrophy
results better than slightly lower ones
so yeah you could train your forms once
a week and get pretty good results but
you'd get better results with two
sessions and probably better results
even with three so anytime you're trying
to prioritize on any muscle forms
included a slightly higher frequency is
absolutely something to keep as kind of
a Mainstay of your intervention like
this is definitely something that works
almost every time right it's kind of
like you know when you decide to bulk up
you eat more food that's one of the big
check boxes this is a similar one a
similar in power
now how much should you reduce
the non-specialized training to make
room for recovery
well
this can be a big deal because if the
rest of your program heavily taxes your
forms for example
you may have such tired forums all the
time that you're
maximum recoverable volume for form
specific training could actually be
quite low I see damn my forms get a lot
of work from all the other stuff I do
well is it quality work or is it just
you get tired for example if you're
doing pull downs and you're doing a High
Reps or whatever but your lats are what
fails on every rep that you fail on okay
last just couldn't pull but my grip is
still solid because your grip was very
far away from failure
every single one of those sets that
means every single one of those sets is
technically junk volume for your grip so
that you know it makes your grip tired
for when you have to do forearm training
later but at the same time it's not
enough of a stimulus to make it grow
much it's that dead zone of just like
crap right which sucks now
can we say that look
what you should really be doing is like
doing less back work and shoulder work
to let your grip be fresh for forearm
stuff
that's a big trade-off those are big
muscle groups can you reduce their
volume slightly when you're in a forearm
prioritization phase yes can you not
touch them at all and just use like
Versa grips instead to grab those bars
yes you can and that's probably the best
way forward luckily forms be like that
where you can almost completely take
them out of the equation all right
so
frequency
when you're constructing your
specialized plan for forms
my recommendation here is to train
forearms
three four even five times per week
forms tend to recover very quickly
if you can recover quickly to perform at
your best or better again you should
train again with forums it doesn't
happen once every week usually doesn't
even happen twice every week three four
or five times per week your forms can
recover very very fast
ideally
what you do is
when you're looking at frequency of when
to train them you say okay I need to
train my forums four times a week
but I got like back to train and
shoulder to train how the fuck am I
supposed to train forearms you already
said that prioritization means form
should be trained first so how the hell
do I train my forms first and still have
good high quality shoulder or back
workout even if it's back burner workout
no problem get yourself a pair of Versa
grips versus grips does not sponsor us
at RP or me personally unfortunately
Versa grips come on just kidding it's an
amazing product
it's basically uh a lifting strap
it has just one Loop and it's made of
this weird sci-fi material that as soon
as you put it over a bar and you just
touch your fingers to the top of it your
arm will get fucking ripped out of its
socket before that versus grip let's go
in most cases and that means with
minimum effort you can take your grip
completely or almost completely out of
all training so if you do is you train
forms first like hard four times a week
or whatever and then the workouts that
come after shoulders or biceps or
whatever have you
because you use the Versa grips
especially for shoulders and back
pulling movements it's really not going
to make hardly any difference at all
right
it's actually a good idea to do these
after shoulders or sorry do forearms
before shoulders or before back
because then you have a good pulsatility
to how you exposure forms if you train
forearms three times a week for example
Monday Wednesday Friday you train forums
first and then you train shoulders and
or back
the main pulling movements for the week
when it's not forearm back shoulder
training Tuesday Thursday Saturday let's
say it's push training or leg training
or something your forearms aren't
getting just a little bit of a hit from
some back and shoulder training you
could be doing which would always keep
the fatigue pretty level and really
tired out over the long term this gives
a chance for forearms to really heal
their fatigue hit again really hard on a
Wednesday really heal through Thursday
hit really hard on Friday really heal
through Saturday Sunday and come back
around so in this way it actually is a
good idea to train because you could
totally train your Farms before push or
before legs and then save them all for
your shoulders and your back just to be
fresh you could do that which really
really prioritizing forms it's probably
better to do them on the same day they
just for your main pulling work of you
know shoulder stuff and back stuff and
then that way you get a huge stimulus
from The Forum training no big stimulus
from that shoulder or back training
because you're using Versa grips and
then great recovery times in between
as far as exercises
you can include a core of various wrist
curls cables barbells dumbbells Etc and
I would recommend the captains of crush
series grippers they're the company that
makes the most high quality gripper you
have no affiliation but I've used their
ship for a long time and they make a
really good fine gradation of gripper
strength because you don't need like the
one gripper you can close one so then
let go you need a gripper that you can
close for like sets of 10 to 20 reps
hypertrophy range and do that and
that'll really blow up your forearms
you'll notice that nowhere in this guide
are we talking about the form extensor
muscles
one of the reasons we don't is because
through most shoulder training you get a
shitload of forearm extensor anyway
second of all it's just not a muscle
that gets really gigantic or impressive
and it's kind of like the tibialis
anterior of the arm
like every person that asks for tibialis
anterior hypertrophy guide I assume is
either joking or deeply involuntarily in
salary uh
good God I was trying to get an insult
going I had to stop is this right to say
yeah fuck it off
deeply deeply
deeply involuntarily celibate or joking
I there's never as far as I can tell
there's never been a serious request for
a human being that has sex with other
people for a fucking tibialis anterior
hypertrophy guide I'm gonna assume
that's the case with the top of the a
form uh if you guys correct me and
really convince me that's not the case
I'll put on a fucking how to do this
forearm guide whatever in any case
foreign you know wrist flexion is the
primary movement wrist and finger
flexion extension I'm Gonna Leave to you
guys to figure out on yourselves
um set numbers just like everything
start with two to six working sets uh a
forums per session whatever get you know
you feel a bit of a decent pump from
gets you a good workout and then loading
in reps is really just for the best sfrs
people respond really differently in
forums some people like if they use a
gripper sets of five repetitions blow
their shit up like none other for some
folks it's higher reps generally
speaking because the amplitude of
movement for any kind of gripping is
small the amount of time the muscle
spends Contracting is not that large per
rep and unless you need more repetitions
to get enough time generating tension to
have a good stimulus fundamentally why
sets of you know four three two and one
Reps don't stimulate as much hypertrophy
set per set of sets of 10 and 20 is
because they don't get to experience
enough time generating tension to really
summate that really solid stimulus so
what I would say in that case is
definitely experiment but most people
will prefer sets of 10 to 20 and even 20
to 30 in forearm training and that will
be the best for most folks so just know
that uh you know up ahead and of course
earlier in the week is when you do your
heavier stuff later in the week is when
you do your lighter stuff a few days off
at the end of the week recycle repeat
everything is super good
of course as usual we progress with sets
as needed so if you are clearly
recovering way early for example you do
your Forum training on Monday and it's
time to get to do it on Wednesday and on
Monday yours nothing happens you don't
get sore you're not tired you come back
on Wednesday you just smash PR as you
get even stronger you feel fresh
someone's like hey your forearm's tired
for Monday like I don't even can't even
tell it to work on Monday you could
probably benefit from another set uh
next week on that Monday workout because
it wasn't even remotely challenging once
it's challenging and a little bit tough
to recover but you still recover on time
don't change anything that's the great
number of sets and if it's so
challenging that you can't recover on
time you need to work back in the number
of sets to make sure that essentially
you're getting hit really hard
stimulated and by the time you train
again next everything is healed so you
can hit it again that's how you pick a
good because you already picked a
frequency let's say three times a week
then you adjust set numbers to make sure
everything heals on time it's it's not
overly complicated
rars you know everything's pretty normal
for Forum training again it's one of our
big philosophies that we like to sort of
put forward on this channel is that if
you're trying to hypertrophy a muscle
generally speaking most muscle
hypertrophy in similar ways so people
talk about how do I get more muscular
ABS you train your abs like any other
muscle like sets of 10 to 15 reps with
compound heavy Basics and mind muscle
connection and all that shit people are
weird I thought it was just planks like
do you fucking plank for your legs oh
how the fuck would you play for your abs
same idea on forearms and that's one of
the reasons why grip holds didn't make
the cut for this sample program you can
do them if you get a lot of them but
typically speaking isometrics don't work
as well as isometric plus concentric
plus eccentric so we're trying to do a
full range of motion good movements here
all that other good stuff
start around three reps in reserve for
this stuff increase the load and or reps
adding two and a half to five pounds on
uh whatever dumbbell or whatever
Implement you're using each week and or
add one to two reps sometimes we need a
gripper and you can do a set of ten next
time you do a set of 11 next time you do
a set of 12 so on and so forth you keep
going up because you can't really change
the resistance the gripper and it's
basically like every other training so
it gets progressively harder until you
have to deload and then repeat now
here is a sample plan for Forum training
this is something you would do every
Monday Tuesday Thursday and Saturday
before back under shoulder training
ideally and really you could do it
before anything else
first thing you do in your plan so
Monday you walk in you do barbell Rush
curls with a top pause which means your
current chop pause for a second you
crawl back and you curl right and you do
that for three sets of 10 to 20 reps
three reps in reserve do whatever reps
you can write it down Suite Tuesday
captains of crush gripper reps right my
best advice to you is to count the Reps
very conservatively so you get the
gripper in your hand and you close the
gripper completely metal on metal hold
for a second relax
hold for a second consent or eccentric
control eccentric hold for a second
control The Eccentric I wouldn't do this
thing where like click oh I got it and
click and I got it because you know some
it's pretty easy to miss reps and then
you know you're missing reps but I would
say it's convincing closing so you have
convincing repetitions that's basically
a good technique it's all work all the
same there's no you know nobody in the
sky is if even if God's real if he's up
there he's not counting him any fucking
reps you did nobody cares so impressing
anyone with captains of crush gripper is
an insane ID to begin with so make those
reps convincing is my best approach so
that you have good technique and good
reps to follow up with so you can be
confident like yes I did do 20 reps
because I wasn't sandbagging the
technique or anything like that
Thursday barbell brush curls again this
time in a higher rep range same
technique as Monday there's not that
many ways to train your forearms so
sometimes we have to be conservative
with exercise selection and be a little
bit knowing we don't have that many
variants to choose from it's okay that
the same exercise is repeated twice in
one week as long as it's a different rep
range it's totally fine and then of
course on Saturday one arm bench wrist
curl Off the Bench three sets of 10 to
20 reps all very good what does that
look like if we progress through our
home as a cycle what is the hardest week
look like for that well you look at that
our barbarell wrist curls went from
three sets of 10 to 20 reps at three RAR
all the way to zero IR seven sets all
right so from three sets to seven sets
that's a big increase captions of crush
gripper went from three to six barbell
wrist curls on Thursday went to eight
and a lot of these you don't have to
rest very long between sets generally
speaking once the burn is gone and you
feel pretty strong again go again and
it's okay if your reps drop off a bunch
of sets close to failure you can get a
lot of high quality work done in like
two or three total minutes you can do
like four or five sets no problem
because each set maybe takes 20 seconds
10 second break between sets and you're
good to go again you don't have to take
two to three minutes between these I
can't imagine doing wrist curls and take
two or three minutes between each one
eight sets you might actually have not
have a pump at the end of all that and
just be like annoyed that you spent 30
fucking minutes doing that stupid shit
when our bench press curls up to six
it's a lot of volume and I'm using the
scare quotes because G is just Forum
volume it's really not that big of a
deal
what I do want you guys to do is use the
feedback your body's giving you and
understand that if it's giving you a
huge pump it's getting a little bit sore
getting you nice and tired for next time
it's more than enough volume
but if it's not getting you those things
more volume is a good idea and sometimes
it says eight sets of barbell wrist
curls like well isn't that too much well
are you healing on time for Saturday or
oh yeah do you get sore like a little
bit but then it goes away or I get a
pump but then it'll even get sore then
you're totally good to go and remember
this is a workout for a whole muscle
group so your forearms are one muscle if
you do eight sets for them don't you do
eight sets per session for your pecs and
your quads and your hamstrings and your
biceps and your shoulders oh yeah you do
all that stuff so don't be afraid you
will also notice that it's one exercise
at a time here
mostly because
we're trying to conserve exercise
variations so we're okay with doing more
sets with just one exercise so we don't
have to use many other exercises if you
could train forearms or you did two or
even three exercises for each forearm
workout
but if you have three form workouts per
week and you have a total of nine
exercises that you even have to use
that that's that's nine all nine of your
exercises in one mesocycle so what
happens two or three Muslims later where
some of the exercises become stale
their sfrs drop off and then what are
you supposed to do when you ran out of
exercises so I really do recommend a
forearm workout is almost always just
one form of exercise
all right last sort of question here is
how long to specialize for on forums the
ideally you do a training block which is
three mesocycles in a row take a
resensitization or an active rest you
can come right back into prioritizing
forms or you can put them on the back
burner it really is dealer's Choice here
as you progress from mezzer to meso to
meso within a block you can prioritize
more High repetition stuff try to
experiment with even higher frequencies
to see which one you survive the best or
which one gives you the best stuff
definitely try new exercises
it's real easy to burn through a bunch
of variation and forearm training so
make sure that you have some new
exercises to try and a lot of times it's
the same exercise but like one mesocycle
you did barbell risk curls here another
muscle cycle you do them wide that
almost nominal change in exercise really
does help break it up at least
psychologically keep you progressing and
keep you excited
lastly
if all this stuff sounds really good to
you but you need a little bit more help
constructing your plan or making your
prioritized plan we have some really
really good stuff so these are all links
that are below
exercise video library find almost all
the exercises we use video format with
Jared feather as the person doing them
and myself as the person talking about
their technique we have a muscle group
training guide that is a guide to all
muscle Group Training by itself and it's
got all the breakdowns of everything and
it's way more complex than any video I
could make all in one article space it's
really awesome
if some of the stuff stimulus to fatigue
ratio mrv Mev is like what the hell no
worries
we have hypertrophy Made Simple video
series that you can take like
it's I think 16 videos and each one's
like an average of five to ten minutes
long you can crank through these through
those no problem if you want and then
you'll know all the terminology and
everything will make a ton of sense if
you want a deeper dive not free is a
hypertrophy book but it's quite cheap
basically a textbook about how to train
for hypertrophy the theoretical
underpinnings and then practical stuff
it's really good stuff
and of course if you want to build a
custom Training plan for yourself to
specialize in whatever muscle group you
want maybe even forms you can always use
our custom Training templates and those
are linked below and they are not free
but they're awesome which is almost as
good as free possibly even better folks
thanks for tuning in like subscribe to
YouTube things and I'll see you next
time