set your rear foot at a 90 degree angle
your front foot's heel should be against
the middle of your rear foot and
pointing out about 45 degrees
lock out your knees and hips to
accentuate quadriceps and glute
definition
tuck your thumbs into your hands and
make a fist bend your rear arm to 90
degrees and reach across the body to the
middle of your torso or abs
bend your front arm slightly and pull it
out to the side to stretch out your pec
twist your torso around slightly to
maximize v-taper without twisting your
hips make sure your shoulders elbows and
wrists are leveled
exhale all the air in your core and flex
your abs maintain this positioning by
taking frequent shallow nasal breaths
don't tense so hard that you start
shaking excessively or cramping finally
look straight ahead and don't forget to
smile