if you're bulking too fast you could be
gaining fat five times faster than you
need to how fast should you be walking
by the end of this video you'll know the
answer
welcome back Milo wolf wolf coaching
here soon to be a doctor by the way
today we're talking about bulking you
asked for it you got it clearly I've
been walking a bit too fast for me I
mean look at the ship what's going on
there but how fast is too fast let's
break down the science today there are
four studies I want to discuss first I
want to discuss a met analysis on the
effects of being in a deficit on lean
mass gains or muscle mass games
essentially and on strength I'll give
you the cliff notes here being in a
deficit and losing weight is not good
news for muscle growth and in fact in
order to prevent lean mass loss
completely on average people could only
handle about a 500 calorie deficit per
day importantly this figure was not
scaled to body weight and so for people
who say 300 pounds you might be able to
handle closer to a thousand calorie
deficit and for people who for example
100 pounds you might be able to handle
closer to say a 300 calorie deficit
without losing muscle mass the authors
also performed an analysis comparing
being in a very slight surplus of about
100 calories or around maintenance to
being in a deficit and here's what they
found being in a deficit impeded strange
gains by a small amount but impeded
muscle mass gains or lean mass gains at
a greater amount and so in other words
how many calories you're eating per day
may be a bit more important for muscle
growth than it is for strength that's
the paper now this was just to set a
background of how calories per day can
influence muscle hypertrophy and muscle
strength but now let's talk about three
studies that actually directly compared
different rates of weight gain when
given a certain program and how that
influences how much muscle participants
gained and how much strength leaking it
let me start with the most recent paper
and in fact this hasn't even been
published yet that's how fresh this is
by the time you're seeing this video
it'll have been like a month since it
was first released to the internet this
was a study by Eric Helms and colleagues
what they did is they exposed
participants to a standardized
resistance training program three days a
week where they did some squash AIDS and
bench and they did some hypertrophy work
for the rest of their body the three
groups were either up maintenance
calories where they were aiming to
maintain our body weight in a five
percent calorie Surplus so whatever the
maintenance was they ate five percent
more calories per day or in a 15 calorie
Surplus wherein they ate 15 more
calories compared to their maintenance
for context for a lot of people assuming
your maintenance calories are about 3
000 if you're highly active Etc at five
percent Surplus would be about 150
calorie Surplus and a 15 Surplus would
be about a 450 calorie Surplus these
were trained lifters and the study
lasted eight weeks they measured
hypertrophy of the biceps triceps and
quad muscles and they measured strength
via 100 Max of the squat and bench press
exercises here are the results there
were no major differences in the growth
of the triceps or the quads and there
were no major differences in squat
strength with that being said here are
the two findings that did occur number
one there was a notable benefit to a
five percent Surplus for bench press one
at max strength number two there was a
potential slight benefit in favor of
gaining weight for bicep size but not
for tricep UPS or for Quad size
importantly overall maintaining led to
great games and so maintaining like just
not gaining weight or losing weight
seems to be a pretty solid approach for
getting solid gains with that being said
bulking slowly could potentially
increase both size and strength a little
bit and based on this study you're best
off with about a five percent calorie
Surplus or about five percent above your
maintenance calories now you might be
asking why did the biceps grow more well
it potentially could be because the
biceps were actually trained the most
effectively out of any muscle group in
that study the highest volume was
performed for the biceps out of any
muscle group and so therefore it might
be the case that for muscle groups that
you train very effectively and that had
a lot of potential to grow a lot of
potential to increase in muscle size
that's where the Surplus could be most
beneficial so that was the study by
Helms and colleagues now let's talk
about a paper by Garth and colleagues
this study lasted for about 8-12 weeks
and involved Elite athletes from a
variety of sports they separated these
athletes into one of two groups both
groups were given the same exact
training program but one group gained
about 1.2 kilograms of body weight over
the study and the other group gained
about 2.7 kilograms of body weight
across the study the slower ball group
gained about 0.75 percent of body weight
per month on average the faster ball
group gained about two percent of body
weight per month so the slower bulk
groups seemed to be in a surplus of on
average about 150 calories similar to
the home study and the faster block
group seemed to be in a surplus of about
350 calories again similar ish to the
Helms group well we know they both
gained weight but were the results as
far as lean body mass fat mass and
strength go if you only look at the
numbers the faster ball group did gain a
bit more muscle 1.7 versus 1.2 kilograms
of lean mass however this was not a
significant difference and importantly
when you're looking at numbers you'll
keep in mind that just because one
number is high or low in the other
doesn't mean there was a substantial and
meaningful difference there this
difference could have been the result of
just random variance noise or a number
of other factors and that's why it was
not deemed significant because the
effect was too small relative to the
amount of variants there was that being
said though just looking at the numbers
it looks like the faster block group
gained a bit more lean body mass
potentially however here's the big
caveat the faster bulk group also gained
about five times the fat Mass while the
slower ball group gained about 200 grams
or 0.2 kilograms of fat Mass over the
course of the study on average the
faster ball group gained about 1.1
kilograms of fatness or about five times
as much fat during the study so overall
in terms of hypertrophy slightly better
hypertrophy potentially at the cost of
about five times as much fat gain across
the study for most people this probably
isn't a trade-off worth making
importantly this was at two percent of
body weight gain per month now imagine
if you went to three or four or five
percent per month the trade-off of how
much more muscle you gain to how much
more fat you gain is likely to only get
worse and you know how I mentioned
earlier based on the meth analysis that
it likely makes less of a difference how
many calories you're consuming for
strength than for muscle mass well that
seemed to be the case here as well for
strength there were essentially no
differences between the slower and the
faster walking group the authors also
provided individual data so that we
could see how each person and each group
progressed in terms of lean body mass
from before the study to after the study
and here's the interesting thing bulking
faster gaining about two percent per
month versus about 0.75 per month didn't
stop some people from just not getting
lean body mass across the study so the
common advice of just walk faster bro if
you're not making progress just doesn't
pan out in all likelihood you're not
going to gain much more muscle by
bolting faster and you're just gonna get
fatter and sadder because no one likes
being fat some people do I am one of
them I mean clearly look at me happy and
fat feeling so we've discussed two
studies on bulking now let's discuss the
final study there is comparing different
rates of weight gain this study by
smitten colleagues is the one paper that
somewhat supports faster rates of weight
gain in this study participants with at
least six months of training experience
were given a protein and carb supplement
to overall increase their calories and
make them gain weight this study lasted
six weeks participants were given a
standardized training program that was
the same for everyone then their results
in terms of strength improvements and in
terms of muscle mass improvements were
analyzed as a function of how much
weight they gained interestingly the
growth results as far as the muscle
thicknesses go are somewhat inconsistent
there's no clear benefit to gaining more
weight in contrast the strength results
generally favored gaining body weight
however gaining more body weight was
associated with gaining more fat-free
Mass which is a rough measure of overall
muscle mass that being said the faster
you gain weight the less lean your gains
were as well in other words while you
gain more muscle you also gain a lot
more fat interestingly and this is where
to be contentious when they analyze this
data they also found that when
participants gained two percent of body
weight per month all of their games were
supposedly fat-free Mass they didn't
gain any fat Mass now if you've been
paying attention or if you've ever tried
walking for that matter and you've
gained two percent per month you'll
realize that that doesn't really happen
very much in the real world like when
you're getting two percent per month not
all of it is going to be Factory Mass
you're not just going to get bigger and
leaner by gaining two percent per month
for infinity and this is a limitation of
running something called a meta
regression with small sample sizes
because you don't have enough data
points you can arrive at some
interesting conclusions importantly even
if this was true as a mean as an average
recommendation of gaining two percent
per month preventing fat mask gains it
is still the case that because of
variants not everyone will see great
games and only lean gains at two percent
for some people it might be closer to
1.5 for some people it might be closer
to 2.5 per month so overall this study
by smithing colleagues supports rates of
weight gain of about one to two percent
per month for all three of these studies
there is an important limitation we're
talking about relatively small sample
sizes of about 20 to 40 people and we're
talking about relatively small durations
of the studies however when you combine
the findings from these three studies
plus the previous meta-analysis I
mentioned earlier by Murphy and
colleagues here's what you find takeaway
number one you can make great games
while just maintaining body weight so if
you're afraid of gaining weight or you
don't want to gain weight you can make
great gains you can even make games
while being in a deficit takeaway number
two if you're cutting your deficit
probably shouldn't exceed three to eight
hundred calories per day 300 calories is
more appropriate for people who are say
about 100 pounds and maybe 800 calories
is more appropriate for people who are
say between two and three hundred pounds
if you go faster than this you may start
to risk muscle loss at least a little
bit takeaway number three for bulking
recommendations for lean gains you
should probably keep your rate of body
weight gain per month to about one
percent per month for potentially not so
lean gains you can go all the way up to
about two percent per month in terms of
how much body weight you gain in the
longer term over months and years you
can argue about whether or not a slower
or faster rate of weight gain is better
with a slower rate of weight gain you
may not need to cut as frequently which
means you can bulk for longer periods
uninterrupted with a faster rate of
weight gain you may gain a little bit
more muscle but you will have to cut
more frequently overall I think it's
roughly a wash as long as you're getting
about one to two percent of body a month
closer to one for people who don't want
to get as much fat and closer to two for
people who are willing to get a bit of
fat in addition to muscle I think you're
in red ballpark next takeaway both
muscle growth and strength gains benefit
from a surplus although muscle growth
might potentially benefit more so from a
surplus and the final takeaway if you're
in a good position to put on muscle like
for example if you're new to lifting if
you're on steroids if you have great
sleep low stress really effective
training you have enough time to train
you may be able to walk a little bit
faster and benefit from it without
gaining much additional fat or any
additional fat however if you've been
Lifting for say 10 years you have kids
you have bad sleep you have high stress
in the case where you can't gain much
muscle or you're unlikely to generally
limiting your weight of weight gain to
about a percent or even slightly less
per month is likely slightly better
anyways that is the video a lot of
research went through this one literally
talk about all the evidence on bulking
and how fast you should be walking and
muscle growth so if you like the video
please comment like subscribe if you
want to see any other videos leave a
comment down below telling me what you
want to see and I'll see you guys in
that next one peace
it is like 7 P.M on a Wednesday I hope
you feel me we are here grinding though
you know