if you're doing High rep bodybuilding
training and your 1 rm's went up holy
crap you almost definitely gain size
right because you're not even training
for strength but you got stronger
training for size you must because you
gained almost no neural abilities you
must have just gained so much raw mass
that even your 1 rm's went up if they're
not going up maybe you're gaining size
but I color me skeptical and if they're
going up by Leaps and Bounds if you're
just getting ton stronger man
you're probably putting on size unless
you're training like a powerlifter
specifically for neural adaptation but
if you train with lots of volume lots of
sets plenty of reps and you're still
getting stronger in your 1rm man you
almost certainly putting on some muscle
size