I'm Dr Mike G of Renaissance
periodization this is ktina eats kilos
of ktina eats kilos I'm about to be the
first person ever to try their 28 in
Pizza as a challenge oh this is good she
is a competitive eater and we are going
to be training chest and triceps and
maybe I'll show her what real power is
when I smash her competitive eating
aspirations into
Rubble I actually have a this is a lot
man Rubble
CA let's go
[Music]
slow on the way
down slow control big chest pause press
go go
go hell yes hell yes we even got some
ribbets out of
there oh my gosh wow are you ever in an
Olive Garden and you see well let's call
them kons but they're big uhhuh and and
are you ever like intimidated like I'm
supposed to be able to eat a lot but
there's levels to this and some people
have their own gravitational field
detectable by modern equipment actually
the the heavier you are the more fat you
have around your stomach the least like
the less your stomach can expand it's
called the belt of fat Theory a lot of
professional eaters are are relatively
lean show us your biggest stomach
expansion look at that this is like my
second trimester right here yeah it's
like four months is this Dr Mike's love
child are you ready to see how many
levels there are to this uh yes your
child in my world oh my gosh is it
kicking one more at
[Music]
least slow chest up go go go
go we descended into madness quickly on
that one that was beautiful what was
that four last reps on the second set
I'm a slacker okay I'm glad I'm doing
this honestly people say all the time
when their reps drop off um they sort of
kind of intimate a sense of
disappointment but people whose Reps
don't drop off tend to be a combination
of three things one slower twitch fiber
composition which means you're not very
talented for getting jacked and strong
two is they are not that big and not
that strong so their muscles recover
very quickly or three they're just not
trying very hard so they try a little
hard on the first set on the second set
I'll do 11 reps again they try a little
harder and then the third set they try
really hard and 11 11 11 so when you're
dropping off really quickly especially
if by the time you're doing your next
set you're not out of breath you don't
feel weak you feel pretty strong but you
have a big drop off that generally
indicates your training very hard and
you're probably better than average
talent for getting bigger and stronger
so if you're dropping off a lot that's
actually just not a terrible thing as
long as you're trying
okay
control up
go one
[Music]
more
trest
[Music]
presso that was really good yep I think
I saw Jesus from minut it there that was
crazy yes yes do you recommend if I want
to eat a lot in one meal do I need to
like not eat for that whole day or is
there kind of like a potentiating meal
you take like 5 hours before to get the
juices flowing what's up with that shit
I like the way you worded that
potentiating meal is a good one yeah
just a little bit of food in there I
like to eat a little bit so that I'm not
hangry like get your stomach going I
like to have the energy so that I can do
like some walking to potentiate more
hunger later so like this morning I had
like a couple of waffles some granola
some scrambled eggs called it a morning
did a bunch of walking think I'm at like
7300 steps that's really good which is
good for like the early part of the day
and then now we're doing this getting
hungrier and then we're going to go and
eat if you're going to train train
though day before is how you train eat
your big big meal about 24 hours in
advance fill out with some water so that
your stomach is like mhm then it
recycles and the stomach's like do I get
more of this yeah yeah so you you should
be like starving when you wake up
because you stretched out so much the
night before perfect incline dumbbell
press sure let's do
[Music]
it finish one last
one chest up go deep
press yes finish finish
finish rack good very good that was odd
that was lovely I have like a really
weak left arm that's really funny it's
like very behind my right arm if you
want to eat a lot when sitting you pace
yourself while you're there let's say
it's not a Time challenge like
Thanksgiving dinner B's going to be
there for three fucking hours do you
want to push it in quick push it in
quick for sure no way yeah that that
whole like stomach catching up to the
brain thing is a real thing so you have
about 20 minutes in which to put in the
most of your the bulk of your food get
the fuck out yeah 20 minutes like that's
like right when and you'll watch it so
you can watch hundreds of food challenge
type videos and you'll see everybody
will start to slow down right at about
the 20 minute Mark and so that's where
you really want to cram like all of your
effort into so your first 20 minutes are
your glory minutes and then beyond that
is like I'm typically used to three
minutes being my glory minutes cramming
yeah cramming is not impressive it's
usually 30
[Music]
seconds arm just get stuck got it yeah
that was weird SL disappointing my right
arm is like still ready should I do like
the one punch man like one arm push-up
thing no and I'll tell you why if you
have one arm that fails way before the
other that's okay because that means the
weak arm that fails first gets closer to
failure on the set this arm's like three
reps in reserve which means the weak arm
gets the bigger stimulus which means
over time it should even out
considerably so it's a self self-solving
problem what's the most calories you've
ever eaten in one sitting I don't know
exactly but I know that I put a like
probably ate 95% of a 15,000 calorie uh
cookie challenge uh the owner did the
math on how much calories was in this
cookie Challenge and it was 15,000 I
failed uh by I think two cookies I did a
10 10,000 calorie day once and I was
really diet fatigued coming into it like
I was just craving food and the day
after I ate 1,000 calories of just
protein I couldn't eat anymore and then
I just permanently just just just took
the whole diet's worth of diet fatigue
and ended it yeah in one fucking day it
can do that yeah you'll feel pretty
miserable after your first time but then
the weird thing is though you can get
used to it so I was when I started my
channel it was a mixture of food
challenges and then like calorie
challenges so like cheat days and stuff
like that and so 10,000 was kind of
tough at first and then after filming I
think four or five I tried a 15,000
calorie and I think I failed my first
15,000 I hit like 14 uh and then 15,000
eventually became kind of easy
and so then I tried 20,000 and I never
made 20,000 like I think my Max was like
16 or 17,000 beyond that is like I my
body just can't process it I so push
down time yeah yeah let's do that cuz
that's like a two-handed thing so my
right arm can just take over just like
help out
[Music]
yeah one more push finish slow you got
one more Mike yes
good go
yeah fuck yeah slow slow slow and
rap dude that was good you got some
fucking triceps on you bro trying to
trying to grow them did they come
naturally to you or did you have to
really like um I've been Lifting for 11
years now I can tell I started lifting
when I was like 21 um but only training
seriously really since like
2016 uh when I started RP no way like
with Dr and stuff so fuck out of here
yeah that was like when I really into it
[Applause]
[Music]
yeah go God damn it oh there it is slow
slow slow slow slow slow slow and
rock hello it's like me oh yeah oh that
was fun that was really good that was
fun look at them arms man can you do
this favor huh just hit a most muscular
hands clasped yeah oh yeah when you fail
a challenge and you say I just can't do
it anymore when are you like cash me out
uh when it's about to reshow up if you
get what I'm saying wow yeah if it's
about to to exit the building that's
what I call it I don't like to get ill
so uh unless I'm on the cusp of winning
I have pushed like so say I win a
challenge in 5959 out of 60 that is
usually like I am one bite away from
showing the crowd my food all over again
those are always really tough very very
miserable and painful but like the cool
thing is when people come out to like
say hello to us though it's like
distracting afterwards so you don't have
time to feel sorry for yourself you're
like I always have time taking photos
and trying to smile and stuff and you're
like showing off the food baby and like
all right let me set up for some
[Music]
deficits slightly longer pause at the
bottom
slow
that changes things it
does go and knees to your knees
continue oh pausing
sorry and then up fast wow okay and then
down slow one
[Music]
more and up fast go go go go go go go go
go and rack good that's it that was a
cute good stuff that was really good
Mercy okay what do you think of
thumbnail title for this uh RP gets CA
on her knees yeah that one's great yeah
and then it's just me with a bread
stick have you ever tried to take like
enough laxatives and have
like I don't want to call it a tube
let's just call it a tube
uhhuh and you're at the restaurant and
you have like like a blossomy bag yeah
but not like out of here uhhuh just in
the butthole that sounds lucrative I
feel like that could be worthwhile I
feel like that would save some calories
too like there wouldn't be time for it
to process you know there's no time for
like nutrition suckage right anyway it's
just an invention I have I'll talk to
you about it later should I just start
from the knees this time or should I
start I mean we're used to it here now
look I'm hanging out here like I'm God
oh my God yeah uh start from the toes
start from the toes
[Music]
okay
[Music]
up up oh that was ugly knees knees knees
knees rest for a
second
fast go come on go you're done
Jesus the weird thing is it doesn't even
it's not even that sore it just stops
yeah that's muscular failure we know
you're pushing it post-workout meal
we're going to go eat eating challenge
we're going to do all you can eat pasta
if you guys are into shit that's
relatable click off the video now yeah
cuz Kina can eat a lot but me I'm at a
fucking different level altogether roll
camera I'll take the all you can eat
pasta challenge so this is a lot of
fiber it's going to be really filling
this was not a good strategy but are you
ready oh yeah Bowl One Bowl One we're
sending it all right let's do it let's
get it
oh here comes round two Dr Mike Perfect
all right nice work just dump it on top
yeah yeah
[Music]
yeah really yes nor this is a lot man
I'm on a significant amount of
pharmacology that directly contradicts
my ability to eat a lot ah oh yes on By
Design as a matter of fact that's that's
unfortunate for this challenge
specifically
okay this is actually going to be kind
of gross I hate eating just sauce oh
that's terrible I hate doing this come
on Kina all day did you just make an
airplane noise to yourself wow when I
really have to convince myself I need
some
[Music]
tricks second to last round this should
be delicious we've got some healthy
mushrooms in
here I mean there's some
Greenery I'm having a Diet Coke life is
good um when people do the all you can
eat pasta what's the average number of
plates they'll get honestly the average
one is not being able to make it through
the first one most of the time I try to
talk to people out I'm super hungry I
getting final bite by the way all of
this pasta is in my left tricep
specifically it's huge your triceps W
very impressive compared to eight plates
of pasta they're not even an honorable
mention H it was a good time though I
mean it's a pile it was I think we did I
think we did
well ohina yeah
you're a World Champ thank you
incredibly impressive thank you for the
assist of course I always I thought I
did great you did amazing then again I
have no shortage of self-esteem that was
amazing for the amount of broccoli you
consumed legendary yes thank you to
Brighton Michigan's Olive Garden
beautiful thank you to Bruce the server
Bru if you show up to Bright Michigan's
Olive Garden ask for Bruce he's the man
and uh it was a huge pleasure having you
in for the workout thank you having you
in for the eating challenge next time
I'm going to train up for this girl yeah
so legit no joke I rechallenge you okay
there's a bug attacking me did you see
that I I saw it I I rechallenge you
officially okay well I got did my BG get
you yeah I did and this time I'm going
to be off the diet okay I'm going to be
hungry waiting okay merciless I want to
see next time we see you're just
drooling I can't wait to like an
uncontrollable animal honestly next time
I predict I think I can smash six I
think yeah I feel like six is doable for
the average hungry Joe I'm not an
average hungry Joe girl check this out
be above average seven okay let's do it
keep you keep you to it I should have
freaking stick shifted you
again see you guys next
[Music]
time