shorter rest periods result in Greater
increases in serum hormone levels so
what
s up everyone soon to be Dr Milo wolfier
from Wolf coaching for a long time rest
time recommendations for muscle growth
were made based on the post-exercise
increases in hormones that you saw some
of these hormones like growth hormone or
testosterone have been linked to
anabolism and muscle growth since the
biggest increases in post-exercise
hormones were seen with short rest
periods the recommendation to rest for
less than a minute between sets was
often made however a systematic review
from 2017 by gerdrick and colleagues
found that actually a direct
contradiction with acute hormone
responses to training resting for less
than one minute in trading participants
appear to decrease muscle hypertrophy
well there you go just rest for 61
seconds between sets and you have
optimized the growth you could be
getting from your trading let's pack
your stopwatch and let's go train or is
there more to those first why would
longer rest times over a minute be
better than shorter rest times under a
minute to begin with it may have to do
with tension as you may recall from
previous videos there are three main
categories of mechanisms that have been
hypothesized to lead to hypertrophy the
first one is mechanical tension the
second one is metabolite accumulation
and finally the third potentially is
muscle damage so let's hit metabolite
accumulation first shorter rest times
may actually give your body less time to
get rid of some of the metabolites that
you may be producing during exercise
however metabolite production is also
tightly linked to overall workload an
overall workload tends to be maximized
when you take relatively longer rest
durations between sets so by resting
less time between sets you will be
having more trouble getting rid of the
metabolites you're producing but you
will also be producing fewer metabolites
to begin with because you are impeding
performance and this leads me to my next
Point short rest times likely negatively
influence hypertrophy through impeding
performance but don't take my word for
it let's let's just look at this 2022
study in this study they tried to find
out why longer rest periods are better
from our purchase fee to do so they
created a study with four conditions
each lower body limb or each leg was
assigned to one of these four conditions
these four conditions were number one in
this condition they rested for one
minute between sets number two in this
condition they arrested for three
minutes presets number three in this
condition they rested for one minute
between sets just like for condition
number one but they matched the overall
workload with condition number two so in
order to get the same overall workload
across the session wait time sets times
reps they did more sets to eventually
equate with the workload performed in
condition number two the longer rest
time intervals and finally condition
number four had the long arrest times of
three minutes but also equated their
workload to condition number one the
condition that trained with one minute
rest intervals in other words the
workload of conditions two and three was
the same and the workload of conditions
one and four was also the same what did
they find well they found that the
longer rest time condition to Mission 2
did seem more aperture than condition
one the shorter rest time period in
other words resting for three minutes
did seem to lead to more hypertrophy
than resting for one minute just like
previous literature suggested three to
five minutes of rest between sets does
seem to lead to more hypertrophy than
say one or two minutes of rust however
when equating for volume load like they
did for condition 1 and condition four
and between condition two and three the
same hypertrophy was seen in those
comparisons in other words it seems like
the rest period you take between sets
does mostly influence hypertrophy
through how it impacts overall
performance and the overall workload
that you can accumulate during a given
session so it looks like the effects of
rest time between sets on hypertrophy is
likely tension mediated in other words
if you cut your rest times too short you
will likely negatively impact your
performance in each of those sets which
will then lead to less workload across
the session and workload is essentially
a proxy for overall tension and tension
leads to hypertrophy so by reducing
workload you're reducing the amount of
tension being exposed to your muscles
which is in turn reducing the stimulus
for hypertrophy as an aside that's also
why I recommend mostly taking the last
set of an exercise to failure but
keeping a wrapper 2 in the tank on the
earlier sets of an exercise or towards
the start of a session by going to
failure too early into a session you may
very well negatively impact performance
for the rest of that session in turn
reducing overall workload which that in
turn reduces overall tension being
exposed to your muscles and finally that
could lead to us hypertrophy as opposed
to training a bit more sub maximally
earlier into the session and for the
first few sets of a given exercise and
then finally taking that last set of
failure so get your stopwatch back out
set it to three to five minutes rest for
that time do your next set and you'll
optimize your growth that simple right
several studies have actually shown that
by self-selecting rest intervals and
sensing when to go for that next set
when you feel ready you can wind up in a
pretty similar place as precisely timing
your rest intervals in other words you
can probably let go of the stopwatch and
just go for your next set when you feel
ready to do so especially if you're
somewhat mindful of the right ballpark
estimates of what the evidence says or
good times to rest between sets let me
finish this video by giving you some
broad recommendations on how long to
rest for if you don't want to use a
timer or if you do want to use a timer
but want to have a bit more precision
and how long to set your stopwatch for
generally go for your next set when you
think you can achieve a performance
roughly the same or slightly below your
last set you shouldn't feel too out of
breath anymore and you should feel like
you're ready to go again if it feels
like you end sets because you're out of
breath or because you weren't fully
ready to go when you started the set
your rest time is likely too short and
this could be leading to less
opportunity what we have in between we
have one minute rest
for most isolation exercises your rest
time should probably be around one to
three minutes between sets for most
compound exercises your rest time should
probably be around two to four minutes
between sets for upper body compounds
and about three to eight minutes between
sets for lower body compound exercises
importantly you can likely still
optimize hypertrophy even if you have a
preference for longer or shorter
Restorations if you have a preference
for shoulder Restorations you may need
to do some additional sets to overall
accumulate a sufficient workload across
the session if you have a preference for
longer Restorations you may need to do
fewer sets compared to if you're
arresting say one or two minutes
princess finally it's relatively unclear
if longer or shorter respirations are
actually better overall in other words
if you do 20 short restoration sets per
week could you do 20 longer restoration
sets per week and still recover and get
more hypertrophy we don't quite know
that the important thing is that you
accumulate a sufficient workload across
the whole session that's the video If
you enjoyed the video please comment
like subscribe donate PayPal my cat
keeps appearing in these videos she
needs food I haven't been feeding her
she is on a diet she's a bit chunky like
me anyways I'll see you guys in that
next one peace
cat check what you doing
you don't like short rest times do you