hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
puration I have a question for you how
do you stay motivated as a natural
lifter I wouldn't know oh wa I would
know cuz I was natural for a really
really really long time and shit out
here is hard fellas because tons of your
favorite influencers are on
drugs which means that it begs the
question is how you're supposed to stay
motivated if you're natural if you're
drug-free
look at all these some combination of
Juiced up monsters who you know are on
drugs and some combination of people you
look up to because you love their look
they don't look crazy but maybe they got
their look with drugs and then maybe
your use of them as an influencer or
someone to motivate you is a little bit
misplaced because it's elcer after
all there are a couple of things to say
about this one really big one but a lot
of times people will take take this
little offramp I think to nowhere and
I'm going to give it what I think is a
good argument that it's to nowhere and
where the real freeway heads in to a
really awesome place by which you can
motivate yourself and that offramp is
people saying hold on a sec hold on okay
why don't we just follow only natural
people if we're
natties and just use them to motivate us
then that's problem solved but that
actually isn't getting to the real core
of the problem and here's the
thing natural
influencers almost always have
phenomenal genetics and if you think
about it the way drugs work on your body
is they just make some genes work faster
and some genes work slower the genes
that add mus add muscle work faster the
genes are are more of the protein is
transcribed off of them and uh there is
you know a fat gains genes various genes
associated with gaining fat or turned
down and that's largely or at least one
of the main ways in which a lot of drugs
actually work is modifying how your
genes are
expressed and so in essence drugs make
it seem kind of that the phenotype what
you present as has a better genotype
behind it it's like the illusion of
really good genetics that's why when you
have to see when you see a jack guy or
Jack girl in any gym uh thought that may
go through your head is like does that
guy like on drugs or or what or do they
just have amazing genetics so in a sense
having amazing genetics is much like
having you know somebody be on
drugs and the operative situation here
is that if you have average genetics and
you look to someone who is on drugs the
retort there is well don't look to them
you'll never look like that you're not
on drugs you're never going to relate
agreed but if you have average genetics
and most of us do by literal definition
and you look to someone who is Elite
genetically
gifted drug-free Fitness figure
bodybuilder whatever kind of person that
we look up
to the same retort
applies actually you know you can't
relate to that person because they have
such good genetics they're as far away
from you
as the drug person in many cases or if
you're here with your genetics and
ability being this jacked and lean The
Natty person's over here the drug
person's over here this Chasm is still
enormous if if you are on foot and
someone's like hey you want to come over
my party you live let's say you live in
the same metropolitan area and you're
like wellow I don't have a car my
parents took a car so I'm just sitting
it home like hey you want to come over
to my party whether the party is 25
miles away from your house which is the
natural lifter with great genetics or 40
miles away from your house which is the
drugged uplifter with whatever let's say
also good genetics it doesn't
matter you're still not walking in that
fucking party the relatability of an
elite Natty person is still outside the
rol of all of us and why do I say this
because I've seen literal first of all
heard people talk and seen a crapload of
social media comments something to the
effect of oh man I love xyz's physique
cuz it's natural and then I click on
their profile look at their physique and
I'm like holy fuck like I've been around
Sports and coaching and bodybuilding
long enough to be like there's almost
zero chance that person where they're
starting out from being that they're
already it says in you know their
profile been Lifting for five years here
are my lifts I'm like you're never going
to get to that drug-free Elite level so
why is it more
valid to take inspiration or Draw
inspiration from that or rather draw
some motivation from that some
relatability and it's only on the
margins different but not in a
consequential way so let me rephrase
again with that whole party is 25 or 40
miles away analogy if the party is 25
miles away is way closer than the party
that's 40 mil away from you if you're
just on foot you don't even have a
bicycle you just have to walk there it's
way for 15 fucking miles is a lot of
miles just like guy who's on drugs is
way more jacked than the best Natty
right for sure I'm not saying that's not
the case but 25 miles is really too far
to walk for a fucking
party yeah 40s further but who gives a
shit at that point when you're favorite
Natty influencer is a person with a
physique you would never dream of Natty
aren't you setting yourself up for the
same lack of you're going to buy their
programs their training templates their
diet stuff you're going to hire them as
a coach you're going to do this you're
going to do that and then four years
later you're not even anywhere close to
where they were and now they're even
better because they've been training
naturally this whole time and you've
never even they've opened the Gap not
even closed
it so I think the offramp to saying well
just follow natural people is uh not the
right way to go I think it's not the
right way to go because there is a
better way well two things one It
suffers from the same problems of
relatability but two there is a much
better way to go and here it
is I think the way forward to draw
inspiration as a natural lifter and even
as an any kind of other lifter is to to
let your favorite influencers inspire
you rather than you comparing yourself
to them this way it's just Good Vibes
all around instead of nasty comparison
Vibes what I mean by inspire you is you
look at these folks you look at their
bodies let's say I'm looking at pictures
of Mr Jeff nippert who is drug- free I
look at
Jeff and
I don't think man I really want that
body to be my body that's not a good way
to look at it because muscle shapes are
different insertions are different
various sizes of muscles are different
genetically different heights different
colors of hair Jeff's adorable I'm
fucking awful looking it just I can't
transpose myself onto another human
being this is not fucking possible
people say like oh I want triceps like
Kevin Levon like what all you can hope
for is the biggest best version of your
triceps so when I look at Jeff nippard I
don't think oh fuck I want to look like
that I say wow he looks so great his
pecs look awesome his delts his arms his
abs and that face my God
adorable but I don't want to look like
Jeff Nipper no no no that is a logically
meaningless statement because it's
impossible I want to see Jeff Nipper and
be like damn that's fucking sweet
what can I do for myself to make me look
like my best version of me because Jeff
nippard is a person who puts in the time
he trains hard as fuck he diets all the
time he's always thinking about his
physique and making all the changes it's
a work in progress Jeff nippard and
every other natural and not natural
influencer is a piece of art and a piece
of art is like in this sense the truest
expression of something becoming what it
could be a butterfly out of a fucking
cocoon I'm not going to become that
butterfly but your boy is trying to do
them lateral races to get my own
butterfly wings so that I can fucking
get eaten by a snake right off the
branch when I fly out that's not what
happens I want to become the best
version of myself and me seeing other
people at their best in ways that think
that I think look cool I got all the
Time in the World to be inspired about
that I follow a bunch of weird pages on
on social media I follow a bunch of uh
break dancing pages like B boys and shit
like that I can't break dance to save my
life actually I have one break dance
move I try to dance and something breaks
for sure I can do that but I don't know
dick all about fucking break dancing I
just know it's two things fucking cool
and these are the people that fucking
put in the work to get amazing at their
craft that Excellence that Supremacy
that's what I want to draw inspiration
from him and if that guy can fucking
break dance like that I can make my own
little ripples in my own little world I
can change my physique to be better and
then better and then better and then
sooner or later I might have a physique
which somebody else looks at and they
don't want my physique but they go damn
that shit is impressive how do I get
that from me how do I change my body to
look more like I want it to look in a
little bit of the vein of what they look
like but not like them I'm not comparing
myself to them I'm just looking at them
and going fuck that shit is impressive
as fuck I want a little taste of that
process
back when I was starting out lifting
weights it was the early 2000s late 90s
actually but early 2000s I started
reading bodybuilding magazines like flax
muscular development I was completely
drug free at the time I started those
magazines I weighed 180 pounds everyone
in the fucking magazines this was like
the mass monster era Jay Ronnie Gunter
all those humongous 300 PB people I
couldn't relate at all to these people
they sure shit didn't demotivate me
because I never looked at them and go
wow I'll never become that though I did
think I'll never become that I didn't
even know if I wanted to cuz those guys
look Rony Coleman's bicep peak was like
what the fuck like that's honestly
freaky looking now I think it looks cool
back then I was like that's a little
much right I didn't want to be like them
I didn't have a hope to look like them I
was using it for Pure inspiration of wow
these guys can put on a ton of muscle me
being drug free me weighing 180 lbs me
being 19 years old maybe I can put in a
little muscle put on a little muscle of
my own as well that's as far as it went
and that filled my heart with a lot of
inspiration to do my best in the domain
that I could have done and that I think
is a really really really big deal the
ultimate wacky analogy to this is like
do you how many people who now fight MMA
or wrestle in college or duju Jitsu how
many of those guys or fuck lift weights
how many of those guys how many of you
guys
grew up watching Superman Batman
Spider-Man all that shit and the
Japanese Comics like DBZ what El Naruto
fuck shit like that
right there is no avoiding hard training
if you want to grow but if you want to
grow the most your training needs to be
hard and smart RP hypertrophy app will
make sure you're progressing on track
monitoring and adjusting your workout at
all times so for all that work you're
doing you can be sure you're getting the
best
results look did you watching Superman
throw a mountain in someone demotivate
you for your American football training
because you're like well I'll never be
able to do that what a shitty influencer
delete Superman follow account no you
were like fuck that is real strength now
I'm going to go in to the gym and even
though I'm bench in 135 I want to be
just a little bit more like Superman
striving to be the best I can be of
course I'm never going to be fucking
Superman he's not even human there is 0%
chance I'm going to be Superman or
cryptonian or be able to thr planets of
people that is all out the fucking
window just the same way if you look at
druggy MCD druggers ifbb Pro you don't
have to be like that fucking demotivates
me I can't relate to that at all he's
fucking Juiced up to the guilds I need
something I can relate to that is
something you can relate to that is a
human being at the Pinnacle of their
existence and they got there through
multiple inputs drugs drugs diet hard
ass work in the gym etc etc etc one of
those things is missing also your
genetics are different also you're not
from Egypt and your name's not uh you
know Mambu lpie or whatever the fuck
ramy's real name is there are so many
differences you want to focus on the
inspirational part of that you don't
have to get demotivated the only way to
do that is to compare yourself and be
like well he's certainly bigger that's
not how that works you go wow he's big
let me go home and let me work on my own
bullshit a little bit and that's how I
can Ascend to the next level if you need
real relatable progress I got you
covered too just look at your own
physique month to month year to year
take pictures well from every angle put
them on only fans you guys got to mon
I'm just kidding monetize the shit and
then you know what I'm saying I'm not
95% kidding take pictures look in the
mirror after you get a real gnarly pump
at the end of a cutting phase beginning
of massing phas days do a couple most
muscular side chests in the mirror soak
it up look at old pictures of your go
holy fuck do it before and after put it
on fucking social media not so that
people comment and go you're dumb in
both pictures but so that you can look
at it and go wow I really made a
difference to my physique I can relate
to that maximally because that's fucking
me and I did that and now that fills me
with so much excitement about the
changes I can make in the future because
if I got from here to here maybe I can
go a little further wouldn't that be
amazing if you think of it that way it's
all good vibes everyone is inspirational
natties drug people cyclists gymnasts
you name it anyone at the top of their
craft is someone to look up to because
that's where you want to be at the top
of your personal craft of making your
body better as a matter of fact that
isn't entirely fucking pump up speech
for all of RP because it's why the whole
company exists we're trying to make you
better at your shit we're not trying to
turn you into somebody else we're trying
to make you better at what you do so you
can relate to yourself look back look
forward and be like damn I'm making
jumps I'm improving slow as it may be
I'm going to be better and the idea that
you could be better in the future fuck
man that's what it's all about I got
nothing I got nothing else see you guys
in the comments feel free to accuse me
of anything talk to you next
time