hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization simple tips to increase
your deadlift starting now I think we
have seven of them yep tip number
one is to standardize your Technique a
lot of folks deadlift isn't going up or
they're not sure if they're getting
stronger they grip the bar different
ways when they reach down they grip at
at different lengths their hips are in a
different position when their weights
are light they tend to stand up through
full hip extension when the weights get
heavy they tend to shoot the butt up
non-standardized technique is a bad deal
because your body is strongest when it's
well practiced and it can only be well
practiced in a specific technique so
whatever technique you choose same foot
position same knee position same hand
position same chest position replicate
that over and over and over don't
deviate from it find a technique that's
comfy and that works well and then
practice it without changing stuff if
you go Sumo one day and conventional the
next and wider grip one day and closer
grip the next your body's really
confused and you won't get as good as
possible at
deadlifting versus if you just did one
technique and kept it stable so that's a
big
deal
second spend lots of time in the three
to six repetition range it's cool to
pull deadlifts for doubles or
singles it's fun in a bodybuilding sense
to do deadlifts for sets of 5 to 10 but
basic strength is best trained in sets
of three to six
repetitions and that's probably where
you should be training a lot of your
deadlift now that sucks it's heavy it's
hard multiple sets you're not really
showing off but it's heavy enough to be
really brutal it is what it is but it
works the best so give it some
thought next deadlifting more often
here's the problem with deadlifting it
is so systemically fatiguing so aely
fatiguing so just fatiguing
that if you deadlift heavy once a week
it takes kind of a whole week for you to
be able to go heavier and then some
again if you deadlift heavy twice a week
sometimes even more often the disruption
is so insane in just one of those
sessions that the fatigue overlaps and
it grows really fast and within a few
weeks you're super weak on the deadlift
again but you could say well how's that
a problem we just train deadli once a
week but hold on once a week is not
enough to practice the technical quality
is the deadlift the actual movement
pattern because remember from point
number one the movement pattern is huge
in order to ingrain to become
stronger a lot of
times the only reason powerlifters are
stronger than bodybuilders isn't because
their muscles are bigger sometimes
they're smaller they just really grooved
into that one single lift which they
practice all the fucking time
bodybuilders do other lifts so their
specific strength for that lift is not
really good so you can be overall have a
stronger legs and stronger core and
stronger back than someone but they
deadlift more just because they practice
the deadlift a lot but if you can only
deadlift heavy once a week how the hell
are we supposed to practice it more than
that and the answer is lighter
sessions do sets of three to six reps
with like 70% or 60% or even 50% of your
one repetition Max at least one other
time during the week and if you deadlift
twice maybe two sessions are relatively
light and one session is hard and
heavy that way you get tons and tons of
practice with the deadlift motion
without coming in hitting a huge fatigue
wall because such small number of sets
with a small number of reps with a
weight that's very light allows you to
practice your Technique a ton but
doesn't impose a whole lot of fatigue on
you possibly not at
all that's a great thing and I really
really highly recommend it so worst
case you deadlift once a week with some
whatever accessory you do and another
time a week maybe with legs or something
you start or finish the workout with
three or four four sets of three to six
reps ultra light in the deadlift that
practice alone will make your harder
days on the deadlift next week go better
and you'll be stronger and you'll feel
technically more proficient so give that
some
thought next Point number four is doing
the right accessory
work a lot of the great accessory lifts
for deadlifting Target various parts of
the deadlift musculature which there are
really three muscles that contribute a
ton to the deadlift it is the
musculature of your hamstrings that of
your glutes which is almost never a
limiting factor because your glutes are
really really strong and the musculature
of the or erector spena complex the
spinal
Erectors those are the predominant
muscles that are really really involved
and limiting factors in deadlifting talk
later about another mystery muscle that
you can work on but here the point is we
want exercises to Target those really
well and what are those
exercises stiff legged deadlift can
Target the hamstrings a ton the glutes a
ton and the spinal erectus to some
extent good mornings
same deficit
deadlifts can require a lot of all of
that but specifically the glutes and the
erector complex because through you have
to move through a huge range of motion
and some of that is going to be actual
active flexion and extension of the
erector complex which is really great
makes them really strong you can use
flexion rows which are a type of row in
which you round and then Arch your
entire back your ential spinal cord it's
actually a dynamic way of training the
spinal Erectors which is different
because most deadlift variants are
static the spinal recors are
isometrically contracted they don't move
and isometric training is fine for
muscle but it's not the best Dynamic
training is better so flexion RS are
great and of course other things like
deadlift with bands and so on and so
forth notice I didn't really say a whole
lot about regular barbell Rose because
regular barbell Rose are primarily
designed to train the musculature that
pulls your elbows behind you and that's
not a function in the deadlift that's
not what the deadlift
does there are as absolutely some lat
work involved in the
deadlift but not a ton the lats are
usually in a very shortened position and
they're usually in isometric contraction
and it's really quite rare that they are
a super big limiting factor to the lift
with just your normal back training
which you should be doing anyway and
with all this stuff especially with a
properly done stuff like which you pull
into yourself you should have plenty of
that sort of work lined
up number
five treating your spinal Erectors as a
dynamic muscle to train is a really
really good idea because spinal Erectors
are the single most determinative muscle
of deadlift strength when your back
starts to go from relatively flat to
round because your spinal Erectors are
insufficiently strong your Central Drive
your nervous system's ability to tell
all of your other muscles like your
hamstrings and your glutes to turn on
and pull declines rapidly because your
body perceives an instability it
perceives a source of potential injury
and it just kind of says whoa who easy
fellas it's like trying to uh jump
really high off of a sheet of ice if
your body perceives instability it's not
going to let you activate a ton of
musculature so it turns out that very
many people have legs hamstrings maybe
inner thighs a bit of quad and glutes
strong enough to pull way bigger
deadlift numbers than they are but their
backs aren't strong enough that's why
the deadlift is considered a back
exercise in many cases because they
spinal Erectors are such the limiting
factor and you should be training them
they're great to train with deficit PS
for example especially deficit PS which
require such a big deficit that you have
to round your back to get them now you
got to play with load management here
you can't go Ultra Ultra heavy but sets
a five to 10 with deficit pulls can be
an unbelievable back Builder that can
trans translate to giving you a more
muscular back that you can isometrically
contract later on regular deadlifts and
of course flexion rows are a great
option on any kind of row in a machine
where you go into a fully flexed
position and then at the top you go into
a fully extended position in addition to
that staying super upright and super
tight and super arched back with
stiff-legged deadlifts and even heavy
deadlifts for repetitions also grows the
spinal erector so you want those nasty
cables in the middle of your back if you
build those muscles your deadlift will
go up it's absolutely a thing
now if you've been deadlifting for a
while and it's gotten stale on you
sometimes not deadlifting at all is the
best thing to do because lifts do get
stale the stimulus to fatigue ratio of
the deadlift starts to fall and it has
already gone from our inclusion criteria
of what is a good exercise the only
reason you putting it in or keeping it
in rather is because you're specializing
on it and we say there's sort of two
reasons to do an exercise one you want
to focus on it and two it's got a good
stimulus to fatigue ratio when one of
those drops
off yeah we're still training the
deadlift to say we're training for
deadlift lift to checkbox the
specificity thing but we're actually
getting very good Training we could be
very getting very bad training training
is so bad it is insufficient to exceed
your body's current adapted level and
then you just don't get any better fuck
that better than that take the deadlift
if it's feeling really stale and just
throw it away and do multiple months of
deficit pulling flexion rows all sorts
of other work stiff legged deadlifts and
get those lifts going up nice and high
then a couple months later when the
deadlift is something like you picked up
and played around with it and and tried
it in the gym it's feeling real fresh
then come back to it and ease in and
you'll get mega gains because that'll be
novel it stimulus the fatigue ratio will
be high again and you'll be able to
really really convert and the entire
time that you stayed away from the
deadlift you were working on all of the
muscles and movements that contribute to
a big deadlift but not the deadlift
itself so you've lost no time at all
you've gained a ton of ground in fact
and
lastly grip can be a huge factor in the
deadlift it's actually been shown that
if humans grab thinner bars they can
generate more pulling Force than if they
grab thicker bars check this
out even
regardless of if they're strapped into
the
device if you feel like you can grip
harder because the bar is thinner your
body will let you pull harder and that
same thing is multiplied by 10 if your
grip is actually slipping because in
that particular study there was no
possible grip slip because they were
tied right into the device it still
mattered how they felt about their grip
if your grip is actually slipping in the
dead off I mean holy shit as soon as you
pull a weight and your fingers start to
go your body's Central Drive to your
quads your hems your glutes your spinal
rectors goes
down because if you're unstable and
losing something your body won't let you
generate so much force that it rips it
out of your hands it believes you when
you say you want to hold on to this bar
it says uh okay we can hold on but if we
slow the weight down but if you slow the
weight down you start missing lifts now
of course straightforwardly if you can
pull 500 with straps but only 450
without straps in a competition and I'm
assuming you guys are many of you are
competitive powerlifters watching this
you can't use straps if you increase
your grip two amazing things happen one
is straightforwardly if grip was
actually limiting factor for you a
automatically now it's less and you can
just do deadlift way more same glute
same ham same spinal Rector complex
bigger grips equals bigger deadlift if
grip was limiting factor even if it
wasn't a limiting factor and even if it
was just being able to grip harder more
completely and feel more stable will
automatically let you produce more power
with the rest of your body produce more
force with the rest of your body and
they actually get bigger lift that's a
big deal so app so fraking
lutely get a bigger grip and the best
way to do that is probably working with
the captains of crush grippers so go on
iron mine.com no affiliation just a huge
fan get you some trainer captains of
crush grippers and they have grippers
all the way up the chain from like you
can barely grab a pencil all the way to
you can Crush people's hands when you
shake their hands and they have all the
grippers so you can periodize do sets of
five to 10 with a gripper all of a
sudden first of all your forms are going
to get big and also you're just going to
be way way way more able to well do your
best at gripping and thus have a bigger
deadlift simple enough sweet folks we
will see you next week for the advanced
periodization version of if you can
actually spot some distinct problems in
your deadlift we'll teach you an
advanced periodization for how to fix
them so you can finally pull big and uh
we'll really just have a reason to be
around because if you can't deadlift
heavy I think as John Paul Sigerson once
said what is what is exactly that you're
doing on this Earth see you next
time