tricep press Downs you need to do these
exercises they're so fundamentally sound
in terms of building muscle I don't
agree with push Downs being the second
best tricep exercise in fact I think
they're one of the most overrated tricep
exercises on account of they only really
Target the medial and lateral head well
they don't fully lengthen long head and
so if I'm looking for an isolation
exercise that is already designed to
train the whole triceps very well you
may as well pick an exercise that
lengthens all three heads effectively
and that would be an overhead extension
but having your arm overhead you're more
effectively lengthening the long head
and likely leading to more hypertrophy
indeed some research has shown more
hypertrophy when training at lower
muscle lengths some of us get elbow pain
if we do tricep press Downs a certain
way some of us don't