in this video I'm ranking 19
controversial Fitness topics as either
overrated or underrated and for some
extra scientific credibility this time
I'm pulling in exercise scientist Dr
Mike isrel who not only has a PHD in
sport physiology but is a competitive
bodybuilder himself I'm giving us 15
seconds each to explain why we think
each item is overrated or underrated and
we'll be covering three categories
training nutrition and hot fitness
topics here we go the first category is
training cheat reps also known as ego
lifting go first it is a journey without
an end or a purpose when you think it
through cheat reps are stupid on almost
all counts you end up having a higher
probability of injury a lower
probability of stimulating the target
muscle and a very difficult time
tracking I I agree that they're
overrated I think for the most part
people should use good technique I would
argue that on certain exercises for
example bicep curls if doing a little
bit of cheating and slight momentum
allows you to get another rep and then
you control the Ecentric that might be
an extra control decentric that you
wouldn't have gotten if you hadn't used
that little bit of momentum so I think
that they can have some value but I
would still say overall mostly overrated
muscle soreness I think it can be a good
proxy that you did actually hit the
target muscle it can be an indication
that the muscle you were trying to hit
was in fact stimulated um but I think a
lot of people are under the impression
that if you didn't get sore that means
you didn't have a good workout or you
didn't grow muscle which is definitely
not true and in that sense I would say
it's overrated I think it's become
fashionable lately in the evidence-based
Community to say that soreness is
overrated or more specifically that
soreness doesn't really mean anything
and orus is only a side effect of
novelty I think that fails on about
seven or eight logical grounds when you
do more volume more intensity proper
progression when you come closer to
failure when you generate a lot of
metabolites when you focus on the
Ecentric when you train along muscle
lengths all of those things tend to
cause more soreness and to me that
sounds like a very very close link
positively to hypertrophy it's okay if
you're not getting sore but if you're
not progressing and you feel like you're
under stimulating trying to get sore is
probably a good idea and if you're
getting sore you have 99 problems but
stimulus is not one M okay training each
muscle only once a week also known as a
bro split there are better ways to train
than training one muscle group once a
week especially if you're talking about
small muscle groups like if you train
your rear adults once a week or your
biceps once a week there's absolutely no
way they take that long to recover you
just missed opportunity uh at legs or
something or if you have a huge back
back is fine once a week but it's also
not optimal I think you should train
muscles when they recover that generally
occurs anywhere between every day or two
times a week yeah I agree a little bit
of Devil's Advocate the latest frequency
research does show that a bro split is a
viable approach but I would say it's
probably not the optimal approach don't
spend two hours per workout 5 days in
the gym to do a perfectly fine approach
no one in here in the gym right now
wants perfectly fine they want jacked
it's the same number of days a week you
show up and not do a bro split you get
better results what about training to
failure so I think overrated I think
that the research shows that there's not
a huge difference in terms of
hypertrophy or strength if you go all
the way to failure or if you stop a
couple reps shy I think people think
going to failure is super super
important and I think that you have to
know what failure feels like but I do
think overall it's overrated and not as
important as a lot of bodybuilders think
agreed and I would add that most of the
people that are saying that failure is
super important coming from an
egotistical perspective in which they
need to emotionally drain themselves in
the gym and it's more cathartic and
psychological and less to do with what
gets optimal results nice okay so so I'm
here editing this video now and I kind
of want to update my answer just a
little bit I still kind of think that
training to failure is slightly
overrated however there's a brand new
meta analysis that did find that on
average training to failure was better
for muscle growth than not training to
failure that doesn't mean that every set
you do needs to be taken to failure but
I would say it's important if you don't
take any sets to failure I would say you
are leaving gains on the table if I had
to update my answer training to failure
is properly rated to slightly overrated
but I'm going to give Mike a quick call
and see if he wants to give an
update hey Mike in our last video you
said you thought training to failure was
overrated I'm just wondering if you'd
want to update that yes training to
failure is even more overrated probably
more overrated than ever because of that
recent meta regression that came out
that said that trained a failure was
Superior for hypertrophy but it turns
out that's only the case if you train
with very low volumes you're not trying
very hard you're smaller you're weaker
and you don't train very often if you
train a lot and you're really serious
and you're really trying in that very
study they say training to failure has
no Advantage because most people didn't
read the study almost no one read the
study I guess then it's more overrated
than ever thank you so so much I really
appreciate it okay the mind to muscle
connection you go first I think that
people who prefer to talk about mind
muscle connection sometimes are right in
a nuanced way but often are doing a mind
muscle connection at the expense of good
technique and uh a lot of load and the
right movements and especially
progression so as long as your Technique
is good you have progression then mind
muscle connection becomes important but
it's very much a quat or tertiary
variable I completely agree I think it's
one of those things that matters and is
generally good but I think people
overstate how much it actually matters
you can get a good mind muscle
connection and not necessarily have a
sufficiently stimulative set if you
didn't push that set hard how do you
feel about pumps m okay I'm going to say
properly rated I think pumps are fun and
they make training more enjoyable they
probably have some connection to
hypertrophy and I think people think
that pumps are good and fun and they are
so yeah properly rated sure I just mean
underrated is and I think pumps are
great and in the evidence-based space I
think pumps are underrated whether or
not you got a really good pump is a good
gauge of if the target muscle was hit if
it's the right place that the gearing
pumped and also a good gauge of volume
the next category is nutrition let's
start with dirty bulking I think dirty
bulking can be fun it can lead to
strength gain but overall it leads to
vastly disproportionately more fat gain
than it does muscle gain and for that
reason I think it's overrated I mean I
have the stretch marks and loose skin to
prove it so I used to do it I thought it
was great it was a lot of fun it caused
a lot of irreversible side effects and I
wish I would have stayed leaner and it
sure would have gotten me laid more
often in college natural testosterone
boosters go first yes this would be
super simple there's no such thing if
you want to boost your testosterone take
in the needle I mean even if there was
an over-the-counter herb that could
boost testosterone there's no evidence
that it would do anything significant or
noticeable for muscle mass right which
is why most people I think take it also
the thing is is that if herb boosts
testosterone you have to ask by what
mechanism is it doing that if your own
body detects that a serum testosterone
increases occurred it usually
downregulates its own production so if
you have a combination herb that also
keeps your testosterone naturally
producing higher that is a
pharmacological multicompound drug that
is not something that grows on a tree
right sorry one gram of protein per
pound of body weight oh I'm gonna do the
Jeff Nipper it's just a little bit more
than enough protein than you need for
almost all cases and because it's just a
little bit more than enough if you need
a relatively balanced diet it obviates
the need to pay high attention to
protein quality and it's a really easy
number to remember and if you live in
the great nation of the United States of
America then you do pounds God
damn but grams for food still okay I'll
say properly rated as well I like 1 G
per pound with the caveat that it is
actually more than you need in almost
instances when cutting I would say 1 G
per pound is a good rule when bulking
you probably only need like 0.7 or 0.8 G
per pound what about body recomposition
also known as recomping I think
recomping is underrated because most
people in the general population can
very reasonably expect to build muscle
while losing fat at the same time even
though a lot of people in Fitness
culture tend to say oh you need to cut
in bulk I don't think that's actually
true for most people I think those are
great and valid points I'm coming at
slightly different perspective just
because you can do something and it is
effective doesn't mean there's not a
better way to do it almost all goals
that you could achieve with recomping
you could do better with dedicated
cutting and bulking if you want to be
Jack jacked or lean lean then recomping
will only take you so far and after it
runs its course which is probably in
about a year of dedicated recomping
you'll get almost all of it that you
will after that you're going to have to
pull some bigger triggers what about
diet soda diet soda is by almost all
research accounts essentially completely
nert with regards to your health and it
tastes delicious and it's amazing and
it's awesome and it's underrated by
people who think it's really bad for you
or who think it's as bad as regular soda
or who think it's worse wor and they're
just pure make belief wrong so even just
switching from regular soda to diet soda
can result in weight loss in a lot of
people it can be so good for satiety and
reducing Cravings on a diet it's a very
underutilized tool y diet breaks I'm
going to say underrated there really
shouldn't be any like major rush to get
lean I think in general people try to
rush fat loss too much and they'd be
better off just like chilling out a
little bit taking the foot off the gas
every once in a while allowing your
training to improve allowing your
muscles to fill back up people could
take a week or two off and and just put
their calories up to maintenance or even
slightly above and it would actually
benefit them in the long run I think
people like to lose all the weight they
need to lose all at the same time and
generally when it's more than 10% of
your body weight and even that's a high
figure you're going to have to take a
long multi-month diet break for all of
the diet fatigue to settle before you go
on so I think lose you know 5 to 8% of
your body weight take two or three
months of Maintenance and then try again
what about clean
eating H controversy I think it's
overrated because for one it's really
really hard to Define everybody has a
different definition defition of what
eating clean means if you take it to the
extreme you can get some really
disordered eating behaviors ultimately
it can become so clean that there's
nothing left on the menu I think it's
better to focus on an inclusive approach
to diet so you want to include a variety
of different foods for health you want
to include a bunch of different fruits
and vegetables and I don't think really
think any foods should be like strictly
off the menu I think everything you said
is valid but I would say that clean
eating is relatively easy to Define it
is the absence of intentionally High
palatability processed junk food and I
think that taking those Foods mostly out
of your diet especially as the fat loss
phase gets hard can be really hugely
advantageous but in most of the
circumstances Mass gaining maintenance
and even the beginning of a diet some
fun foods are awesome and a great part
of life okay I would agree with that on
a fat loss phase you should try to
reduce the super palatable highly
processed foods that makes sense the
third category is hot fitness topics oh
jeez I thought these were all Hot Topics
how do you feel about Natty or not
videos all right I'll take this one from
the Creator standpoint I think they're
overrated because I believe in innocent
and T proven guilty and if you're just
speculating on someone's natural status
on scant evidence then you could be
hurting their reputation from the viewer
stpoint I don't think they actually give
you any value apart from just the fun of
the drama I guess because the idea is
that oh if they're not Natty then it's
not realistic for me to look like them
but you can't really look like anyone
else anyway because of genetic
differences right so I think that from
both the Creator standpoint and the
viewer standpoint super overrated yeah
the only thing I'll say is I think true
Natty or not journalistic approach where
someone who has made a real commitment
to being drug-free and is lying about it
I think that's awesome exposing those
frauds is a great thing but Nat or not
videos are like when you've done zero
research you're just yelling at the
camera and pretending you know things
that you don't about anyone and by the
way for context I'm not Natty just in
case anyone wanted to say anything fair
enough what do you think about the idea
that Natty training is completely
different from enhanced
training who wrote these all right go
ahead yeah it's just like a fiction
design designed by two people one
natties that need an excuse for why
they're not getting jacked and two drug
addicted idiots that think that they
don't have to read science papers I
would say enhanced people can probably
recover better um is that not true
either it's very nuanced topic it's
absolutely true but if you're enhanced
that means you're more jacked and as
soon as you become more jacked that
enhanced recovery difference goes away
because you're more jacked you're
stronger you're bigger and it's way
harder to recover so it just ends up
leveling the playing field and you get
so big that you have trouble recovering
even though you're enhanced so for all
intents and purposes like training
principles or training principles yes
okay cold showers uh research vetted way
to reduce hypertrophy if you think that
they offer you an effect of that sort of
shock therapy waking you up and being a
a sympathetic driver for part of your
day because sympathetic parasympathetic
balance is really good then you don't
train hard enough GO train yeah I think
overrated I feel like it's just a lot of
hype with very very little evidence
except for reduce hypertrophy yeah
reduce hypertrophy it does it does seem
to definitely do that okay what about
noof fap also known as is semen
retention oh
bro I don't know where the started
but in the wild humans fap and they also
fap with each other and the overemphasis
on the toxicity of both masturbation and
is without research support and there's
absolutely unhealthy ways and weird
relationships you can get into that the
vast minority of people get into that if
that's you I feel you it sucks you
should be getting looked at in treatment
and and backing off but for most people
good God it's just normal and it's just
not a big deal and there's no evidence
that it that I'm aware of that it like
boosts testosterone to a substantial
degree over the long term or that it
improves training performance all right
locking out the knees is
dangerous go ahead there's neither
evidence nor rationale for that and your
knees are designed to lock out and if
you control the lock out gently and you
don't snap into it like a psycho and
turn your muscles off at the end and
you're not one of the people with some
sort of laxity disorder you're going to
be just fine and you need strong knees
again I think it goes back to people
approaching training with a very fragile
mindset they think if they just move in
slightly the wrong way then everything's
going to break and it's going to be the
end of them it's not true filming in
gyms I think
underrated I think it's overhated I feel
like people people hate on people
filming at the gym like oh why are you
filming at the gym this and that I film
at the gym and it helps educate people
on training as long as you're not
disrespecting other people who maybe
don't want to be on camera or violating
the gym rules I'm all for it I think as
the world becomes more technologically
advanced and as more of us start to wear
eventually VR glasses AR glass say
eventually AR contact lenses being out
in public will be implicit consent for
being on anyone's video and also yeah of
course I'm going to film my training and
anyone should be able to film the
training too and if you walk through
someone's camera you will be on camera
because you're out in public anyway are
you kidding me and Facebook and
Instagram and stuff is just another
version of public you were out in the
gym weren't you if someone's filming in
your own private gym and you don't want
to be on there I understand and also oh
there's tripods everywhere so what walk
around there's also machines everywhere
get out of here if you didn't see the
last video I did a shoulder workout with
Dr Mike I'll put a link to that over
here somewhere make sure you check out
his channel he does all kinds of really
good mythbusting Style videos so if
you're into that kind of thing you'll
love Renaissance periodization give us a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one