first eat mostly healthy which means
lean meats veggies fruits whole grains
and healthy fats that's should be the
core of your diet in addition to that
take that core and make it taste pretty
good put some seasoned salt on that
broccoli don't just eat it plain you're
not in this to suffer and if you are you
know saying Nichi kind of stuff do you
do you point number three you can
absolutely put in some fun junk on
occasion and that's great it's part of
living life you know you eat super clean
most of the week and then Friday night
you head to the all you can eat sushi
buffet and just nuke shit it's awesome
but like if you do that daily and that's
the only way you get your excess
calories yeah you're going to get fat
and sloppy and slow but if you do that
once or twice a week maybe even three
times then you're totally good to go and
it's no problem at
all