are you training hard enough to maximize
muscle growth odds are you might not be
and here's why there's been some recent
data around both volume and intensity
AKA how closer to failure you train and
hypertrophy specifically it seems to
show that doing more volume and training
closer to failure both lead to more
growth a recent metanalysis by Zack
Robinson colleagues confirmed that the
closer failure you train the more growth
you see per set equally there's some
more data coming out now that more
volume up to maybe 20 to 30 plus sets a
week for muscle group seems to lead to
more muscle growth now you might be
saying well I can't train that much I'll
just get overtrained there's a good
chance you won't for example in the
recent study by Coleman colleagues where
people train for 9 weeks straight with
20 sets of quads a week to failure they
still didn't really see a need for a de
lo they still didn't overt trade
likewise in the recent super high volume
study they still saw a benefit of doing
up to 52 sets of quads a week if people
can recover Within These studies and see
a benefit in terms of muscle growth
there's a very good chance that you
could do so too so if you're not
progressing right now and you want to
see more hypertrophy consider simply
training with more volume AKA more sets
and a little bit closer to failure