your worst nightmare you can't grow
muscle anymore you've reached the
natural limit the truth is Noob gains in
the gym building muscle really fast it
doesn't last forever why not that's
simply not
possible and I don't find this funny
anymore it never was supposed to be why
isn't it possible it's just not why not
you stupid bastard why can't you keep
building muscle forever naturally
welcome back Dr M wolf here with wolf
coaching breaking down the science
around the natural limit for building
muscle before we go into why the natural
limit even exists let me deliver the
good news the good news is that you can
definitely make gains almost no matter
your level of training experience even
Advanced traines can likely still gain
some muscle it just takes a lot more
time the more advanced you become what's
realistic progress to achieve when it
comes to muscle hypertrophy and strength
gains well a metanalysis of 200 studies
or so by waren Bowman colleagues in 2007
found that on average across these 200
studies participants muscle
cross-sectional area increased at a rate
of 0.1 to 0.2% on average per day spend
training there's a few caveats to that
number first most of these studies
included untrained participants so if
you're untrained you can use these
numbers as a rough guideline or maybe
even adjust upwards slightly however if
you've been training for a while it is
likely unrealistic to expect quite this
much growth additionally depending on
how you see it you could view these
numbers as a slight overestimate or
underestimate it's an overestimate in
that people generally train harder when
they're being observed and are training
in the context of a lab but it's a
slight underestimate when you consider
that often times in these studies that
are doing a single exercise for a single
muscle group two or three times a week
in all likelihood you're training more
effectively than that and finally this
is an average you your viewer might be
below average or you might be above
average in all likelihood by the nature
of averages you're going to be somewhere
around average but just consider that
these numbers don't necessarily apply to
you perfectly but to give you an example
of what this .1 to 2% growth per day
really means let's say you have 12in
arms and you want to add 2 in to your
arms how long will that take you based
on these numbers well depending on the
assumptions we make about how much of
your arm circumference is made up of
bone and fat tissue let's say somewhere
between 50 to 75% of your circumference
is muscle tissue that would mean that
adding 2 in to your arms would take
somewhere between around 100 to 300 days
or about 4 to 12 months and to be fair
this is roughly what I expect most
beginners to be able to gain in about a
year is most beginners if they're
gaining a bit of weight and training
effectively in their first year of
training often times are able to add
around 2 in of arm size importantly this
also applies to women while people often
think that women can't gain as much
muscle what you in relative terms they
can gain just as much muscle as men it's
just that women have a lower starting
point in terms of overall muscle mass
but in terms of percentage increase from
Baseline women gain just as much muscle
as men that was defining in of a recent
met analysis by Ral and colleagues on
differences between the two Sexes and
how much muscle is gained in absolute
effects meaning how many kilograms of
muscle were being gained or how much of
an increase in muscle thickness there
was in terms of centimeters Yes Men gain
more but that is an artifact of their
bigger muscles to begin with but in of
percentage increase it turns out women
and men do gain the same amount of
muscle mass so that's a rough guideline
based on the research of how much
progress you can expect to make as a
beginner what about strength how fast
can you realistically expect to gain
strength well a big survey by Stronger
by science from a few years ago asked
around 1,800 participants how strong
they were and also asked them how
advanced they were so that we can get a
rough idea of how much strength people
gain in the big three the squat the
bench deadlift based on how long they've
been training for and basically for
relatively untrained men it's not
uncommon to gain around 5 to 10 kg on
the squat bench or deadlift in the first
few months of lifting or the first year
or so of lifting for women around 3 to 5
kg per lift per month is pretty
reasonable on the squat bench deadlift
however as people become more advanced
that can slow down quite substantially
and by the time you've been Lifting for
say a year or two for both men and women
you're lucky if you're putting on 1 to 2
kilog On Any Given lift per month on
average so if you've been Lifting for 2
years or so you might be gaining an
additional 10 kg or so in a lift per
year if you're lucky taking your squat
from say 45 lb or 180 kg or so to 190
over the course of a year if you've been
Lifting for a few years now keep in mind
with these numbers there is going to be
some degree of survivorship bias in our
likelihood for one if you don't see good
results when lifting you're more likely
to quit lifting altogether and so the
people who quit lifting because they
weren't making gains didn't end up
putting their numbers into this survey
and secondly in general if you're really
feeling bad about your lifts you might
not be as likely to actually take this
survey in the first place even if you
are lifting consistently importantly
this same pattern of Rapid strength
improvements and then a pretty drastic
slowdown in progress is evident in
another couple of studies both in
powerlifters and the general population
in a study by latella and colleagues
that I was involved with we looked at
the Improvement in powerlifting total
from meat one to Future Meats over time
using a huge database of powerlifters
keep in mind that most people enter
their first powerlifting meet when they
have at least a year or two of lifting
experience under their belt so we're not
talking about rank beginners here more
so about like intermediates to advanc on
average from their first competition to
about a year after the first competition
most powerlifters gain about 10% on
their total so if you just competed for
the first time and your total right now
is around 500 kog after a year of power
fitting on top of that you might expect
on average around a 550 kg total the bad
news comes after that to go from adding
roughly 10% to your total to roughly
adding 20% to your total takes 9 for
further years so you go from adding 10%
over the first year of powerlifting to
adding only an additional 10% over the
subsequent 9 years of power lifting
those are averages your experience might
differ importantly though this sort of
logarithmic growth increase is apparent
in other research as well for example I
was involved in another study where we
looked at data sets of people performing
20 minutes of lifting a week so really
minimum dose sort of lifting a gym chain
in the Netherlands called fit 20 is
centered around the idea that people can
achieve strength gain
by just spending 20 minutes a week
lifting importantly the trainers there
consistently take note of how much
weight people are lifting and so we were
able to analyze that data set to see how
fast people progress as they keep
lifting with a minimum dose approach and
when rescaling strength as a percentage
of Baseline in other words if you could
like press 100 kg when you first started
lifting how does your strength increase
over time compared to that participants
saw an increase in strength of 30 to 50%
over the first year of lifting however
after that if you extend the time time
frame to 6 years of lifting they only
gain around 50 to 60% of strength total
over those 6 years of lifting
importantly they were only lifting 20
minutes a week in this study so I don't
think this is going to be representative
of everyone's progress but it's worth
keeping in mind that across multiple
studies both in paling populations that
really trying to get stronger in
populations they're being more minimum
dose training gains really slow down
after like a year of lifting and the
same appears to apply to muscle growth
too and that is where the infamous Natty
limit comes in why does the natural
limit exist why do Gaines slow down so
much once we spent a year lifting well
what prompted me to make this video in
the first place was the publication of a
recent paper entitled the plateau in
muscle growth with resistance training
an exploration of possible mechanisms
let me put this up front this paper is
dense in fact here's a graph showing
just how complicated the muscle growth
process can be and how many things can
play into it and explain why gains slow
down over time I'll give you the summary
but just know we don't know everything
fully yet and while all the mechanisms
I'm about to explain maybe probably have
something to do with it some of them are
more likely explanations and we need
further research to fully explain all of
this stuff first a quick primer on how
muscle is thought to grow your body is
in a constant state of flux things are
happening all the time and in fact
within your muscles muscle proteins are
being broken down which is what we call
muscle protein breakdown and built up
which is what we call muscle protein
synthesis all the time and whether or
not you grow muscle as a result of your
nutrition training and so forth is
really just going to be a matter of
those two things or at least that's what
we think we can express that as net
protein balance equals muscle protein
synthesis minus muscle protein breakdown
if net protein balance is positive
you're growing muscle if it's negative
you're losing muscle and importantly
whatever you do with your diet you're
training Etc can influence this equation
if you're eating more protein
congratulations you've boosted muscle
protein synthesis and reduced muscle
protein breakdown the same applies to
lifting weights but it's a physiological
level in all likelihood muscle protein
synthesis needs to exceed muscle protein
breakdown if you are to grow muscle in
other words you need to be in a positive
net protein balance so why does Net
protein balance tend to reduce and
potentially even become negative over
time and trained lifters why is there a
natural limit well as you keep lifting
and you become more trained your muscles
might become a little bit more
anabolically resistant in other words
when you're sending them the signal to
increase muscle protein synthesis as you
keep training and training they become
incrementally more depa and unable to
hear you when you tell them to increase
muscle protein creation and finally grow
some muscle as the authors put it it may
be that anabolic signaling Pathways
become more refractory to loading with
chronic training partially explaining
muscle growth Plateau over time
importantly though both mechanistically
and in more applied settings we do have
evidence that taking some time off
training might decrease anabolic
resistance slightly and resensitize your
muscles to the muscle protein synthesis
response from Lifting weats for instance
a couple of studies by ogasawara and
colleagues looking at the effects of
training cessation on sub progress
suggest that taking some time off in the
form of De loads or just time off
lifting in general could resensitize
your muscles a little bit allowing you
to make progress in the long term but
this remains pretty speculative we only
have a few studies on this and I
wouldn't Bank on taking time off really
boosting your muscle growth as long as
you're taking the occasional week off
training every few months there's a good
chance you're getting this effect
already next certain factors might
impact the muscle protein breakdown part
of the equation by increasing muscle
protein breakdown you're reducing the
amount of muscle growth being seen
importantly muscle protein breakdown
doesn't seem to change that much as you
become more trained the authors note
that it's possible that the ampk pathway
which is a pathway that gets activated
during energy restriction or cutting for
example becomes a bit more prominent in
trained lifters and so as a trained
lifter potentially getting into a
calorie Surplus and consuming sufficient
protein might be the main things to pay
attention to when it comes to minimizing
muscle protein breakdown and so if you
want to maximize hypertrophy as a more
trained lifter we already kind of knew
this anyways but being at least a bit of
a surplus is probably a good idea and
likewise for protein protein both
stimulates muscle protein synthesis and
reduces muscle protein breakdown both of
which contribute to a more positive net
protein balance or more muscle growth so
there are a few things that seem to
impact both muscle protein synthesis and
muscle protein breakdown and more
trained lifters that we need to be aware
of and these things influence the
natural limit and why we stop growing
muscle in the first place but there are
also other more physiological or
cellular mechanisms that might be a play
as to why you eventually almost stop
growing muscle the first one is
myonuclear domain Theory let me break
down what myonuclei are like every cell
your muscle fiber cells have nuclei or
essentially little control centers
importantly muscle fiber cells are what
we call multinucleated meaning they can
have multiple nuclei at the same time
you can view these nuclei as factories
inside these little factories new
proteins are being synthesized
importantly one Factory or one nucleus
can only oversee production in so much
territory eventually you need to build
more fact factories to build enough
protein to keep expanding the muscle and
so in the long term addition of new
factories or new my nuclei is important
to continue muscle building adding new
mind nuclei is likely what keeps us
growing over the long term preventing us
from hitting that natural limit and
that's why taking steroids for example
seems beneficial in part it allows you
to build new mind nuclei and so one of
the more likely potential explanations
as to why people stop growing muscle or
stop growing as much muscle is because
they essentially hit a ceiling on how
many myonuclei they have around and if
there unable to add new mind nuclei to
their muscle there might no longer be
able to add any muscle altogether as the
authors put it it has been proposed that
an increase in translational capacity
may be crucial to provide additional
Machinery to support a sustained
increase in muscle growth increased
translational efficiency is sufficient
to increase muscle growth initially but
it may not be enough to allow further
muscle growth without an increase in
ribosome number another potential
explanation I'll be a little bit weaker
is the Sizer Theory the Sizer Theory
essentially states that as a cell grows
in size it rate of growth diminishes and
this would also apply to muscle cells
and so as your muscle cells get bigger
and bigger their rate of growth slows
down until eventually it comes to a near
H explaining the natural limit myostatin
a powerful negative regulator of skill
muscle mass may also have something to
do with it but at this point we don't
really know how myostatin changes over
time in more trained lifters so far
we've identified a few reasons as to why
training age can reduce your muscle
growth over time a greater degree of
anabolic resistance as you become more
trained for example or it could have to
do with myonuclear domain Theory where
you need to keep adding myonuclei to
keep growing or where the rate of growth
of a given cell decreases as its size
increases all of these things could be
contributing to why more trained lifters
see slower growth than less train
lifters however there's another big
component that not enough people really
think about and that is the real killer
of gains father time as you become older
the conditions for growing more muscle
become less and less favorable there are
quite a few studies demonstrating less
muscle growth in middle-aged to older
aged adults compared to younger adults
even when exposed to the exact same
training program for instance one study
found more growth in a group aged around
25 years old compared to two groups aged
either 50 years old or 75 years old
there are many mechanisms behind why
this happens for example some studies
note that the first fibers to shrink as
you age are type two muscle fibers which
are larger and therefore account for a
larger proportion of your muscle mass
and importantly age complain to many of
the factors I mentioned earlier when it
comes to muscle protein synthesis or
even myonuclear domain Theory as the
authors note theology behind the
development of anabolic resistance is
likely multifactorial including
epigenetic changes decreases in
Satellite cell and capillarization
reductions in circulating anabolic
hormones impairments of amino acid
delivery insulin resistance and age
related physical inactivity which may
exacerbate these affir menion factors
importantly some of this stuff can
definitely be reversed and attenuated
with the right training and diet for
example we have evidence that older
adults require more protein to maximize
muscle building so if you're somewhat
older say above the age of 65 years old
or so you definitely want to consume a
bit more protein similarly one of the
bigger reasons why older adults tend to
lose muscle mass is because of
inactivity so if you just keep lifting
into your older age there's a chance you
will still be able to gain some muscle
mass or at least mitigate any muscle
loss a decrease in certain hormones is
also why aging is worse for muscle
growth aging passed around middle age is
typically associated with a 1 to 3%
decrease in circulating testosterone
levels essentially as you age the
conditions for muscle building become
less and less favorable in other words
anabolic resistance starts building up
and you can view anabolic resistance or
essentially the degree to which your
body resists muscle growth as more of a
dimmer switch than an on or off switch
essentially the conditions become
incrementally less favorable for
building muscle across your lifespan
however just because they're not
perfectly favorable because you're 30 or
40 years old or 50 years old even that
doesn't mean you can't still grow muscle
especially if other factors are in your
favor for example you just started
lifting weights and therefore for your
Noob gains are ahead of you you can
definitely make gains even into your 50s
60s and Beyond however if other
conditions aren't in your favor you've
been Lifting for a while your nutrition
isn't great Etc the degree of anabolic
resistance that you're being exposed to
does increase with age and so the
authors postulate this to increase your
natural limit and to fight back against
it the most effectively you need to
start lifting early in your life
essentially the more time you're able to
spend lifting while conditions for
muscle building are favorable and
therefore accumulate a large area under
the C of muscle growth the higher your
natural limit for muscle building will
be so all I'm saying is if you have kids
and they're 2 to 3 years old better get
them to start lifting if not yesterday
at least today don't actually do this
unless you want to so while in the first
category you have things like reductions
in muscle protein synthesis as you
become more trained
and myonuclear domain Theory impacting
your rate of growth where if you can't
add further myonuclei you may not keep
growing in the second category you have
Father Time essentially telling you
sorry man you're not going to make any
gains anymore so there is a natural
limit for everyone out there it's not
the same for everyone but there is a
natural limit if only because aging
takes its toll on everyone and that's
why the natural limit exists it exists
because both physiologically as you
become more trained anabolic resistance
builds up but also so because as you age
anabolic resistance builds up and
eventually anabolic resistance is high
enough that you can't keep gaining any
more muscle and your net protein balance
will stagnate and eventually become
negative wolf coaching provider of
Positive Vibes I hope you enjoyed the
video and now that you're acutely aware
of your own mortality and gradual
decline to old age like the video
comment subscribe if you'd like to see
me cover any other positive Feelgood
topics leave a comment down below and
I'll get to them if you like a training
app that coaches you no matter your age
no matter how advanced you are no matter
whether or not you've yet hit your Natty
limit and are pondering your own
existence check out my adapt.com myapt
is a coach in your pocket we've
integrated all the latest science on
lifting weights and how to maximize
hypertrophy into my adapt and there will
be a ton of updates coming I'm confident
saying that right now there is nothing
else like it out there out of any apps I
think it will provide the best training
programming individualized to you based
on your age how long you've been lifting
your preferences whether those any
muscle groups you want to specialize on
and much much more the team behind madap
is highly educated with several phds and
sports signs working on it so to get
notified by email when myap finally gets
released and to lock in at a lower price
than anyone else check out myod app.com
and sign up to be notified in the
meantime if you'd like me to coach you
check out the link above and we can make
that happen mortality not so cool but
you know what is cool this t-shirt right
here Rascal apparel on a serious note my
favorite designs my favorite training
clothing in general so if if you like
what you're seeing go check it out and
use code wolf at checkout for 10% off
and now that I've killed your spirits
have a phenomenal day and I will see you
next time peace