the serving size you're going to use is
going to be determined by your workout
volume like if it's legs you're going to
be consuming more carbs if it's like
just biceps you probably don't need
carbs at all the intensity of the
workout if it's like you Peak Week super
hard you might need more carbs if it's
an easy kind of De workout may not need
any and everything in between and of
course your overall diet if you're
cutting carbs like crazy and you're
starving to death it's probably a good
idea not to have these very rapidly
digesting very not hunger squashing
carbohydrates remove that and keep the
carbs in the rest of your diet so
there's a lot of context here about how
much you should be having but usually
for practical recommendation one bottle
of Gatorade or power rate for most
people in the workout along with a
protein shake that's roughly some
fraction of your daily intake a typical
meal size and uh maybe two bottles if
you're you know training legs or you're
quite large over 200 lb and muscular and
that should be good for most people so
no no real crazy rocket science there