hey folks Dr Mike here for RP strength
welcome to another episode of Mike's
training regular old
training um Scott's this one going up on
the
uh regular channel I think so so if you
guys want to see more of this we do make
quite a few more of these but these are
in our member section usually so if you
want to sign up for that you get all
kinds of other goodies in there and this
is one of them suppose if you think this
is a goodie but uh it's just my normal
training no pump and Circumstance
nothing crazy today I am uh roughly 11
weeks out from Masters Nationals where
I'll be trying to you know put my best
physique on the stage so far things are
going pretty well I uh today I weighed
233
pounds which um is on the low end for me
of my current uh weight cycle I'll weigh
depending on if it was a kind of a
higher calorie day or low calorie day
day or two before I was somewhere
between well really 232 and 240 at this
point but um I'm hoping to get that down
closer to the in know 229 to 237 kind of
range you think like what what do you
mean like you got 11 weeks left you're
supposed to just continue to lose like a
pound a week over that time and that
will occur in tissue and body fat
hopefully but as you guys may well
understand I'm not exactly the
natester produce more pharmacology as
your prep gets closer as your show gets
closer and that pharmacology for many
people and definitely for me holds body
weight on you like crazy it fills your
muscles up with water and that will gain
you know I'll gain I have sort of two
bumps left in farm and each bump will
give me three to five pounds of body
weight and it makes my appearance look
cooler but nonetheless if I just go by
the scale it's real real confusing so my
RP diet coach app which I use to program
my dieting my end diet goal is 229
pounds uh and this I calculated is sort
of roughly what will take to get me nice
and shredded but uh if you looked at my
current low body weight like later this
week I'll probably hit like 231 or
something on the scale and you're G to
be like the fuck dude you really you're
going to take another 10 weeks to lose
two pounds and that's not how it works
because I next week I introduce my first
up upping of farm and that's going to be
you know the weight scale just doesn't
go down for two weeks at all sometimes
even goes up and then for another week
or so it's stable and then for another
week it goes down at the end and then I
have to make another introduction for
the last little tail thing so if I could
just scoot that down to 229 while at the
same time you know 6 to 10 pounds of of
uh of body water and actal muscle tissue
are added during that process yeah could
be a pretty cool look so that's the
situation generally spe specifically I'm
in my second to last week of my
accumulation phase for this Mesa cycle
and using the RP hopy app of course
which you guys will see in screenshots
of uh every time I do an exercise today
and it's a pull day which means uh my
program's constructed a little bit
interestingly but I do calves first is
you got to do calves at some point doing
them before legs screws up your leg
workout doing them after legs you don't
have any energy you can do them on a
push day that's totally fine but if you
scoot calves on a push and pole day to
the end you're really just kind of
mailing it in there's no other way to
say that so for me calves before I start
my back workout is awesome because they
just uh don't really I mean they don't
at all systemically fatigue me the
fatigue is only local I don't use my
calvs in any of the other movements
today and I have full bore energy at the
beginning of my workout to do this kind
of thing on my leg days I actually train
forearms first for this mesle cycle and
it's been working out great because like
I don't use my forearms at all for my
legs and now I can train them really
nice and hard so start with calvs then
we're going to go to machine rows the
prime row is what I'm going to be using
today it's Superior to almost every
other row because it allows you to load
that stretch position you an insane
range of motion unloads the contracted
position which is awesome that Force
curve really matches what the body seems
to prefer for muscle growth and then
after that I'm going to do straight arm
lat pull Downs or otherwise known as LP
prayers if you're a mano henselman fan
which you should be he has a YouTube I
was using the uh Prime machine for that
um single joint overhead work but I to
be completely honest fellas it sounds
kind of fucking weird I'm literally too
big for the machine like it Clips my
lats on the way down and I'm like the
fuck is going on there's no way to
adjust it so it's kind of sweet you know
ascended Beyond machine size remember
Jared and I were training in a gym in
San Diego actually called the gym in San
Diego which is the best gym in San Diego
as far as I can tell and uh there was a
similar machine there and Jared and I
had planned to use it we're really
excited we got in there and we were
like looked around adjusted some things
couldn't fit that's it no more machine
so I'm switching to the straight arm
laat pull Downs I love this movement I
haven't done it in months and months
it's going to blow me up I'll probably
keep it in all the way to the show and
then that's just two back
exercises definitely enough to Nuke my
back because I train back basically
twice a week and then after that I'm
going to be doing um free motion cable
lateral raises and those are going to be
really awesome I'll talk through those
more specifically when we get there but
um it's a really cool exercise and uh
just in case I forget to thank him Joe
Bennett who is hypertrophy coach on in
Instagram super great guy he saw me
using um or I think maybe we critiqued a
video of his right Scott the Batista
video and he had the um uh the cuffs on
there the the wrist cuffs so you can
clip directly into the machine and not
have to use your hands and I think I
said something and then he just like was
like hey what's your address and of
course any young man asked me for my
address I instantly send him my address
various pictures of myself that my Pearl
Officer says they're not again again not
a good idea to send to people Mike um
and he sent me some of these uh wrist
cuffs and they're amazing they've
completely transformed my shoulder
training in in a pretty interesting
sense because I'm not limited by my grip
anymore Versa grips do an amazing job at
mitigating this problem but you got to
kind of readjust them every now and
again because I'm doing High Reps it's
this weird cable setup and I end up kind
of hooking it it works but the the clip
situation is is way better the thing is
Versa grips are still dominant for 99%
of all other exercises you can't exactly
clip yourself into a barbell or a
machine but into a free motion or cable
machine literally comes with a clip you
guys will see that in a bit that's it so
four exercises and Cals Jesus like that
doesn't count so three and a half
exercises um let's get a cracking and
I'll you know I'll say some things
between sets and you guys can enjoy the
amazing music that I listen to when I
train nope that's just in my head all
right let's get to training so I'm just
doing a couple reps here warming up
I'm actually going to be doing calf
raises on the uh belt squat machine but
this is just a fun place to get some uh
blood through the calves get some warmth
going because once I clip in there my
weight's already on there I'm just
fucking going so I do that let the
calves rest a little bit and then I do
my uh
calisthenics which is arm
circles just I've been this is a warmup
I've been been doing my entire
bodybuilding career and the vast
majority of my training career in
general kick out my knees kind of feel
out my joints kick out my
elbows so it's interesting the first
time I just did this kind of throw the
elbows out thing both of them clicked
but the second time they don't click so
I'm getting some clicks out I really
like to do this do some rotations my
hips and spine just clicked a few times
now they're not clicking do some side
bends get a couple weird clicks
there and this just kind of warms my
core up a little bit warms me up
generally so here I'm kind of doing a
good morning to get the ham stretched
but then I also round my back to stretch
my back just getting in touch with my
body raising the body temperature a
slight bit although calf raisers will do
that for us just
fine you don't have to do anything like
this in your own
training but for me I used to get little
um pings and dings every now and again
before I started doing this and after I
started doing it it led to kind of a
little bit better smoothness to my
training and the warm-ups go better
still
so could be some old man yells a cloud
type of show this is how I was raised
this used to be America wrong Channel
all right all right I'm going to go look
at my app see how many reps I have I'm
going to train caps all right folks calf
raises Matt winning belt squat great
belt squat machine it's built with the
kind of quality that you see in Ohio
regular real America none of this
foreign bullshit you know what I'm
saying fellas
readjust a little bit
there all right that's
23 just have myself a seat
this is
like an allegory for capitalism you know
like you change your desk man fuck steel
bars the corporate machine or keeping
you in you know what's stopping you from
just unclipping yourself and being free
your mind bro they get to you in
elementary school do your homework why
so I can practice working for the
fucking boss fuck that
set2 for
[Music]
so I did 15 there because your boy
yapped a little too much in the last
rest
break and uh typically i l i rest uh
much less time and so because I did 15
there I'm going to rest much less time
here and uh do a few reps shy to get the
same rep
total that makes the most sense so I got
15 means on my last one instead of 10 I
got to do seven and on this one I got to
do 11 let's go
[Music]
oh
fuck that hurts you guys know shit
serious when the hood comes off in here
still from the hood seven lucky number
seven
[Music]
[Music]
I'm at last rep you guys will notice
that I scooted down and waited for two
seconds as if I was going to do another
some shit you might have heard me say
before as as if another the last rep of
Any Given
set is typically in the conversation for
being very muscle growth promoting why
is the last rep maybe the most growth
promoting but maybe not the most but
definitely in there is because you have
maximum metabolites maximum pump and all
of your fibers have to show up to try to
contract to help you do that last rep
because all the other fibers are
fatigued so you may be getting pretty
good fiber recruitment there's more
nuanced conversation there if the reps
are really high the fastp fibers kind of
smoke a Sig and they're out to set a
seven at the end it's probably maximum
recruitment the Ecentric of the rep The
Descent is also very very muscle growth
promoting and you don't have to save
your energy for anything because the
last rep of a set you get to rest
afterwards so when people do that last
rep let's say in dumbbell press calf
raas is also a great example you
dumbbell press and then they rack
okay but what if you got it up on that
last one and you took your time to
really get that last Ecentric is not
very difficult because you're already up
there just controlling the way down and
you get a crapload of per rep
stimulus it's to me something that just
makes a lot of sense you got there
finish strong as if you're going to do
another rep and that muscle growth
message sentence to the cell with an
exclamation mark instead of a dot dot
dot the cell's like G to put the weight
down Fine is this an important thing not
really is it a religious thing you got
to do the last rep as if you're going to
do them no but it uh you know we're in
here to get jacked and might as well do
the kind of stuff that oh you oh oh
you're interested oh yeah yeah
yeah oh
yeah what was I saying I distracted
myself so
every single set should end with a rep
that looks like you're about to do
another
ideally speaking of which let's go warm
up for the bake all right warm up set
nothing too
[Music]
crazy getting in the hardest part Big
Stretch
sh
easy warmup set of
12 I'm going to
slap another plate on
here I do a set of 6
to8 and slap some more weight and yeah
either take it for another two to four
reps here if it feels pretty good and I
feel pretty warm I'll just do a work set
you know
what F pretty good on this
so actually going to go
up to two plates in addition for total
my working
weight is
this with some small change on the
end so I think it's
2115 PBS that bottom 25 I don't count
that's for ballast so it's not super
easy at the top because if it's too easy
you actually just kind of fall
back and so I count this as
180
so
180 plus oh cool I have a even plate to
put on I slap on a 35 and then that's
going to be my work weight so it's
perfect I'm going to rest a little bit
and then I'm going to do probably a set
of six with this weight I'll see you
guys in just a sec hopefully my grip is
good enough I'm haven't used the verses
yet saving them for the work set going
to do hopefully a set about four to six
reps here this is pretty heavy not
exactly my working weight but getting
close
[Music]
feels good today I'm not going to lie
that feels fucking good my last prep
kind have doubted myself a little bit
which is fundamentally not
terrible and thought maybe I was wasn't
training hard
enough which you
know people have said to me that I don't
train so hard and
uh they're not wrong you know they're
not wrong they do leave some reps in the
tank
and I was like you know what let me rise
up to the occasion and I started
training harder getting closer to
failure
consistently and uh just made me really
really fatigued did not add any more
muscle than normal it just was not worth
it and ever since then more or less this
whole past year half year including
now I've been stopping short of failure
two three reps on the
tank um in my last week of the meso I
stopped honestly one to two reps in the
tank uh and I'm having basically some of
the best training in my entire life
consistently week after week after week
I'm getting stronger I'm recovering and
my muscle size is kind of absurdly the
biggest ever been
so
yeah hard training is cool if you've
never done it before you got to do it to
figure out where your limits are I
mean probably in almost all of high
school
and definitely all of
college I trained every single set to
failure multiple set program so I was
dope um I got hurt more I didn't uh
understand what fatigue was and after 3
weeks of training i' always get hit like
a ton of bricks and I was like the
fuck's going on my training partners are
experiencing the same
thing and uh so I know how training to
failure feels I know a lot about it and
uh when I discovered reps and reserve it
boosted my training like crazy when I
recently went back to closer to failure
style training it degraded my training
now that I'm back to more reps in
reserve my training is better again to
me that's that's something also the
research says that R is at least
equivalent
to train into failure in context so yeah
uh it feels good to be training
intelligently again and getting better
results and I will say that um there are
definitely folks who need to train
harder a ton of people but there are
also lots of folks out there who are
training really hard because it's an
emotional situation and they're TR
trying to prove something in the gym to
themselves maybe they're fighting some
demons maybe they think if I train
harder I'll be better than everyone in
the reality is what makes you better is
genetics time drugs and putting in
consistent difficult effort um whether
or not you do that last rep uh really
going super close to failure it uh May
is likely to make no difference at all
and it is probably more likely in more
cases to make you worse next week but
bodybuilding is a week after week after
week after week situation you know
people say shit like do or die like
leave it all in the gym like hold on a
second I need some of it for later
so for me it's been working great
getting uh further from failure and I'm
sure you'll see this in the comments In
This Very video you get some tough guys
like yeah man but fucking I don't train
like that bro I go all out like word up
um trying to train in such a way that is
maximum effect demons and shit I'm
already done with all that fuck crap so
that's what Brazilian jiu-jitsu is for
really
so I'm just going to do uh the kind of
training that is a combination of
scientifically supported and seems to
work the best for me and if you got some
comments about how I don't train hard
enough yeah compared to your standards I
probably don't but do you look like me
no you probably look better fuck anyway
for now you do but wait till I do this
setup back let's fucking kick it easily
the most difficult part of this lift is
the unloading and settling in 12 reps is
the goal
[Music]
that was fucking sweet
this machine is
undefeated I love this
shit super easy at the top which allows
me to Crunch that PE contraction which I
like that PE contraction is probably not
worth a damn but ASMR wise it feels
sweet lets me really feel like I've
reset the rep what it also lets me do is
get in touch mine muscle
wise with my back so I can pre-contract
it to slow that
Ecentric get a ton out of it on the way
down versus like you know more arms than
back big massive stretch at the bottom
it's
brutal the force curve on this is just
it's just hard to beat so highly
recommend Prime equipment in general is
fucking sweet and this Prime row Best in
Class
legit which is why I know I'm
one uh 12 reps that felt
great strength so far on my prep
total prep length is 18
weeks I've already gotten through like
seven weeks of prep
weird uh strength has gone up so far A
little bit which is cool my strength
will probably continue to climb through
allive prep just by the bidest of
margins I'm not trying to push it just
little tiny PRS here and there a rep
here and there extra 2 and a half pounds
here and there works really
well now for some of you at home asking
how the fuck does your strength continue
to go up through allive
prep
Drugs That's it typically you lose some
strength just a little bit tail end of
prep if you're natural or if you're
doing gear and you're doing it wrong um
the last couple weeks water manipulation
drying out estrogen
management you know your strength is a
question mark because you wouldn't even
be testing it at that point staying a
little bit further from failure or very
light weights High Reps it's tough to
track then but generally speaking for
enhanced preps uh intelligently designed
enhanced preps should keep your strength
either stable most of the time or slowly
rising and uh it's kind of cool but um
you need pay the price on the back end
actually right then and there with a
terrible psychology of drugs and make me
feel
awful and uh of course shortening my
lifespan
yay yeah it's just like this whole body
thing is like a weird art project where
uh yeah it's like being any other artist
you finish your artwork for that day you
feel really happy you walk home from
school and you get beat up by the bully
for being an art
nerd just described Scott who Scott the
video guy life except his music nerd
which is arguably even worse set two
nine reps
f
got another set of eight and then I do a
down set where I take a 45 off so say
215 PBS external load non-machine load
and a go to
170
um after this so it's 12 98 and then I
think I have to do another 12 at
170 so it's really good extra volume a
little bit of a different rep range
seems to be adding a little bit more
muscle than just exact same rep range
the entire time tentative tentative but
there's at least one decent study to
support that and personal experience one
Downs set at the end of a a bunch of
heavy sets seems to take some boxes the
heavy set doesn't um and after
that straight arm pull
Downs then lateral raises the cable and
then I uh shower Scot video Guy usually
helps with that there are parts of the
body that I can reach all my parts of
the body but I don't want to
yeah and then after that food and then
recording uh exercise scientist reacts
videos Scott can we give a preview of
what those are going to be who we doing
Jay Cutler and
me fucking favorite Doran fucking Yates
and I know he doesn't talk like this he
don't talk like this do he he's like a
some kind of fucking Midlands accent
with fucking scotch and Irish in there
and why not fucking Welsh it's all the
same it's all the fucking same you give
me a a New Yorker hey yo whoa and a
fucking North Carolinian I tell you what
man sound the same to me man it's all
American e same with you British folk
but in any case we're going to do Dorian
we talk some shit of course we're going
to pay major respects of
course and generally just look at his
bubbly muscle body and just wonder just
wonder what could have
been huh let's do another set Mike
you're careing off into your bullshit
again
sh
[Music]
[Music]
oh yeah that'll fucking work and
now take a plate
off
170 rest a little bit do
12 and that's enough roll for straight
arm pull Downs in a little bit so got
four sets here straight arm pull down I
might only do two
sets
because all my other muscles are going
to heal with just one rest day between
this half week and the next half week I
have to let my back
heal but straight arm pull Downs are new
for me first time today long time I was
in this meso using the uh
machine straight arm pull down
situation and I just like I said earlier
did not fuck and uh cool thing about the
RP hypertrophy app link in
description is that uh you can trade out
exercises anytime and it actually gives
you the option of trading them out for
good like for the whole
meso or like repeat this trade out or
you can trade it out just for one
session and it doesn't touch anything
the next session you come in it's all
the same exercises with the same weight
progressions you were using before which
is a sweet feature because if you're in
a situation like I'm right now and
you're like this exercise kind of sucks
I want this new exercise and I just want
it to perseverate perfect the box is
auto checked for you when you replace
exercise you're traveling going on
vacation going on a trip you CH a random
gym you'll be back to your own ship next
week you want to keep progressing it's
mid mzo you just want to highlight that
box repeat and all of a sudden you get
to keep jamming on it and uh you do
whatever different replacement exercise
for that day or week that you're
traveling come back the next week like
nothing ever a change look up your app
it continues that progression for you
that you start started two weeks ago or
had been doing two weeks ago so kind of
a cool tool we we really designed the
app with the advanced user in mind we
designed the app literally so that
myself and Jared could use it and we do
we don't I don't train without it
anymore training without it seems alien
it's like walking around with no clothes
which I think is fun but the law is
weird it's like don't do it there's kids
weird shit so it's just an awesome thing
and I really like it and if if you would
just for the love of God just subscribe
I could finally get some money in my
life look at this look what I'm wearing
free t-shirt Walmart shorts literally
Walmart shoes walmart.com these are $10
old
socks look at how ugly I am you guys
think I can afford cosmetic surgery you
don't think I'd run to that fucking
place if they offered it I would but
can't even afford to run think about
that so if you want to support people of
lower socioeconomic status by the app 12
reps
[Music]
[Music]
going to unrack
this take off my
verses I'll see you guys for the warmup
for lat
prayers all right straight arm lap pull
Downs AKA lap prayer
feel pretty good I just did a little
quick warmup set about I used 95 lbs I
did six
reps um cool thing about warming up is
that once you do your first muscle Group
Training for that day all other warm-ups
for that same muscle are way way easier
just don't require a lot maybe just one
set the best term I've ever heard for
this is a term uh I think invented by Mr
Jay Cutler
multi-time Mr Olympia he called them
feel sets used do a set with like some
intermediate weight just one set maybe
five to 10 reps just kind of get the
feel of it get the feel of the movement
get everything uh moving in the right
pattern and uh that also you know wakes
up the nervous system component that's
supposed to be in charge of that
movement and so it's really really
awesome you don't can't that technically
a warmup anymore in some sense in a
general sense it is because the term
warmup we use colloquially uh for a
bunch of different processes and that's
all called the warmup the physical
warming is just a part of it but you
know my back is physically warm as fuck
you guys saw on those rows my LPS were
kicking it so this kind of just feels it
out and then now I'm going to do work
sets with 115 PBS close to the same
weight but uh not for a set of six but
hopefully for a set of somewhere between
10 and 20 haven't done this in a while
we'll see how it goes I think somewhere
between 10 and 20 is going to be a good
thing again controlled Ecentric at all
times deep stretch people often when
they come up here they lean up with a
machine don't do that lean down so that
your lats stretch more you can feel that
as far as grips are concerned um I'm
going to be using
the uh straight bar attachment basically
there's dandles on it but I don't use
those for this uh movement grips for lat
prayers or straight arm lat pull Downs
it's one of those things that dealer's
Choice it's just variation now in some
sense do your lats get better activity
if you have the vertical grip like this
sure but if you put your pinkies out it
actually stretches a part of the lat
that normally doesn't get stretched
there's a conversation to be had there
and you know some people say like well
you're training the chair is Major when
you do that like sweet I want that
muscle big too um no one ever just looks
at your lats ever it's always everything
in context so overall back width yeah
this is the shit and you have vertical
positioning is great 45 degre is great
and even straight is great try buy all
of them over the course of time see
which one feels better for you on
essentially two factors one is stimulus
proxies like how much of a pump how much
do you feel the tension blah blah blah
how much do your lats get sore and the
other is fatigue specifically joint
connective tissue fatigue which means
like if grabbing it like this means no
shoulder and elbow pain but grabbing
like this means shoulder and elbow pain
like yeah this is the one that wins not
always because months later you could
come back to this with normal weight
work up to it and then all the elbow
pain and shoulder pain is gone so
variation is a big deal and last thing
I'll say before starting is variation is
a
concept that a lot of folks in the gym
who know a lot of other things they
seemly don't understand u a lot of
people know you got to train hard a lot
of people know you got to do the basics
and shit like that a lot of people know
that you know volume matters how much
you do as as a thing but a lot of people
are still looking for like the number
one exercise for XYZ with the perfect GP
position hand spacing that's a
non-answer question because it's like
asking uh fuck it well say this is
actually quite good analogy you know
what's the best sex position what the
fuck what like any sex position after in
my case 30 seconds and in your case
probably an hour and a half since you're
all adult film stars that watch this
channel um she gets old you got to
switch it up and even if you're fucking
grinding in one position it's fucking
dope for fucking days weeks months at
some point you're like honey get on top
which I never say because nobody ever
gets on top me babe I'm On Top uh yeah
yeah let's do these
[Music]
h
that fucks
hard joins feel great Lads feel fucking
Zapped
yes
Christ that feels fucking great you know
great in the painful
sense free
motion cable y
raises let's go warm up on
them raise These Bars up in my uh RP
hypertrophy app in the notes feature I
have all the specific up down in out
written
down every week I know what to
do and uh you'll notice it's a pretty
high up because I want maximum tension
here minimum tension here Big Stretch
and uh having a high position helps with
that the low position isn't bad or
anything but if you try the high one and
stand out in front a little bit could
work
well taking these guys putting them
away I could have done that more uh
stealthily this is a mix of Gatorade and
whey
protein cool shake to be anti-catabolic
start the anabolic process start the
recovering process and it actually keeps
my energy up a little bit towards the
end of workouts all right lean forward a
little bit notice line of pull
perpendicular which is really good a lot
of tension here minimum here control
Ecentric
boom hypertrophy coach the uh uh what's
it
called the wrist thingies go get them
they're fucking sweet this set coming up
first set so this is my rep
match which uh is a feature you can use
in the app and basically I have three
sets of 20 to do the first set I'm going
to do a straight 20 close to failure the
second and third sets I do as many reps
as I can at a time rest a little bit and
then keep going I rest I Don't Unplug I
just kind of move back take the tension
off the shoulders and keep plugging
along so it's three sets of 20 but it's
really like probably six approaches to
failure instead of three and it's just
so mashes a ton of volume and a ton of
relative effort it's really really good
so I'm going to scoot my ass through
here oh there we go let's do reps
what
I'm G pull the mic out
here all right
20 ah works a lot more
smoothly 20 reps take a little break
another 20 and then another 20
I
ah
shit all
right that was actually 22
reps so I have 18 total left is that
going to be our little secret guys cuz
yeah my rep match means hit the same
total reps over each set as many my at
many sets as it takes
but to be completely honest as long as
you hit that first set reach your first
goal the other subsequent sets instead
of seeing him as 20 202 you can see him
as 20 and then 40 and for the 40 total
reps as long as you're getting close to
failure on each minis set as many minis
sets as it takes so I did 20 then it's
22 now it's going to be 18 I'm going to
set up my own camera here for my
Instagram where you guys can follow me I
post
95% of my
training at least one set of almost
every exercise I post screenshots of the
app so you can see my exact program I do
that all the time so if you guys want to
follow me on Instagram I'm Dr Mike gell
on
Instagram we I'm Dr Mike gel in real
life
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
folks that's training if you guys want
to see more of this kind of training get
two options for these full length
feature production YouTube videos the
member section on our YouTube is really
good you also
get uh explicit versions of the exercise
scientist critiques videos I say a lot
of shit that does not make it to YouTube
you'll get all that shit uh when you do
the member situation because you can't
cancel that and uh if you want to follow
me in Instagram I post my training in
much lower quality video format with
much worse editing all the time so guys
thanks so much for tuning in best wishes
in your own training train SMART Train
hard drink your milk go to school don't
do drugs slightly hypocritical on my
part I did uh I I consumed so much milk
and went to so much
school I get a little pass on the
drugs see you guys next time
[Music]