training in the morning or training in
the evening is the time of day you train
having a profound impact on your
results welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
PhD in sports science with wolf coaching
other side left right all very confusing
to me featuring an unon t-shirt leave a
comment down below letting me know how
much of a shame I've brought upon my
family but today I'm bringing you the
signs on whether training in the morning
or in the evening makes a difference to
how much progress you'll see in the gym
first we need to ask the question why
would the time of day that you train
even impact the effectiveness of your
training that you perform in the gym
well here's the deal our bodies have an
internal clock that results in
fluctuations in Readiness to train
across the day or essentially how well
you'll perform for example in a study by
getting colleagues from 2005 they found
that when assessing the strength of the
knee extensors at a variety of points
throughout the day using a very
unskilled test of strength strength
peaked at 6:00 p.m. as opposed to 6:00
a.m. 10:00 a.m. 2: p.m. or 10 p.m. 600
p.m. seem to be the point where your
muscles are essentially most primed to
perform strength-wise but why was this
the case like what explains this
increase in strength at 6 p.m. well they
found a tanic temperature which is an
indicator of circadian rhythm it's
essentially your body's temperature in a
sense peaked at 6:15 p.m. or4 6
suggesting that your C Rhythm
predisposed you to perform best around
600 p.m. importantly this increase in
performance was explained by peripheral
mechanisms more so at the muscular level
versus anything related to your central
nervous system per se so the idea goes
by training at the optimal time on each
day you perform a little bit better in
each session this increase in
performance then leads to an increase in
stimulus which when taking advantage of
day in and day out eventually leads to
more muscle growth in the long term and
that's all well good but there are a
million mechanistic rationals out there
that actually don't pan out what does
the evidence actually say when it comes
to muscle growth being measured is there
a consensus well as it turns out there
is there was a metanalysis by G Jen
colleagues from 2018 in their
metanalysis they included studies that
compareed two groups both groups would
perform the same training but one group
would train in the morning and the other
group in the evening this allowed them
to minimize the impact of any other
variables such as their training
programs on the results and they found
11 studies that did this and measured
either strength or hypertrophy
importantly all 11 of these studies
measured some sort of strength outcome
but only five looked at muscle ruls
Within These studies when the
researchers assessed strength at
Baseline before participants actually
went and the training program involved
in these studies they did find that
participants were a little bit stronger
in the evening versus when they were
tested in the morning this effect was a
small effect size in statistical terms
so just like the study by gon colleagues
it does seem like on average people are
a little bit stronger in the evening
then they try to see whether strength
gains from before the study to after the
study are time of day specific so for
example did the group training in the
morning see greater improvements in
strength when tested in the morning
compared to the group that train in the
evening essentially if you train in the
morning do you get stronger in the
morning than someone who trains in the
evening well when strength was assessed
in the morning there were no differences
whether you trained in the morning or in
the evening however when strength was
assessed in the evening
the group that did train in the evening
did see greater strength gains compared
to the group training in the morning in
other words there may be some
specificity to when you train and how
that impacts your strength gains across
the day but specifically this only
applies to training in the evening and
importantly the effect was small in
statistical terms with that being said
when studies measured maximum voluntary
contraction Force which is essentially a
very robust unskilled test of strength
they found no differences between the
morning group or the evening group as
far as strength gains went and more
importantly the exact same is true of
hypertrophy they found no difference
whatsoever in terms of muscle growth
whether participants train in the
morning or in the evening so what can we
take away from this metanalysis and from
the general idea that you will see
better games training in the evening
versus in the morning first off and this
is a huge takeaway that I see a lot of
the time in practice in this industry
just because something mechanistically
makes sense or makes sense in isolation
don't think that in practice that is
also what happens for sure just because
you find in this case for example an
effect on acute performance don't think
that it makes a practical difference in
your progress in the gym in fact things
may not even work the way you think if
all you're relying on is a mechanistic
rationale your body is a complex system
with mechanisms that overlap sometimes
even counteract each other and
ultimately the outcome you care about is
the result of all of these mechanisms
overlapping sometimes counteracting each
other all of this to say when you're
looking at does this work better than
this try to measure or try to look for
studies that measure your outcome of
Interest not specific mechanisms next
the time of day you train probably
doesn't matter much for muscle growth
which hooray that is good for basically
everyone ever so if you have a job you
know you're not a YouTuber like me and
you have to be at work from 9:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m. or what you maybe 10 p.m.
because let's be honest you're
workaholic as am I except my work
involves just standing in a studio
talking to a camera for some reason and
you have to train at 6:00 a.m. get up
early in the morning and you're like
 this influencer just told me I'm
wasting my time here because I'm not
training in the evening there's good
news in all likelihood you're still
optimizing your muscle building and the
final takeaway that only applies to a
few very specific cases if you're an
athlete and you have competitions that
usually take place in the evening try
training consistently in the evening to
maximize your progress and maximize your
performance in those competitions by
training in the evening you may see
slightly better performance that is the
video If you enjoyed this video please
leave a like comment subscribe when do
you train do you find that there's a
certain time of day that you prefer
training that you find to get better
workouts in let me know down below if
you'd like me to coach you consider
checking the link above to see what I
offer with that being said have a great
day and I'll see you guys my subscribers
in that next one
peace