losing fat is difficult when you lose
weight your body's metabolism slows down
and your hormones responsible for Hunger
often increase the good news is that
hunger can be fought here are the best
foods to lose weight and keep it
off welcome back Dr Milo wolf with you
today PhD in sports science wolf
coaching you know the deal I have gone
through numerous fat loss phases I've
competed in bodybuilding and I've also
got a degree in sports science with all
that in mind let me give you what I
think are the best foods for fat loss a
big part of bodybuilding and weight loss
in general when you're cutting down to
become leaner loose fat Etc is to stay
full enough that you don't feel like
going over your daily calories
ultimately for fat loss being in a
calorie deficit is what matters but
staying sufficiently full throughout the
day can make that a little bit easier
I'm going to give you a great analogy
here so stay with me for a second being
full during a cut is kind of like
post-nut Clarity which by the way women
do get too when you're experiencing
post-nut Clarity you may not have much
interest in any physical intimacy
anymore much like the same way if you're
super full even the tastiest food
doesn't really seem that appealing
anymore yes this spool scientist just
compared post not Clarity to being full
during a cut but you get the idea if
you're sufficiently satiated really
palatable foods that can cause you to
overeat in terms of calories become less
appealing so here's the deal when you're
in a calorie deficit and you've been
losing weight and fat for a while your
body makes you hungrier and so what what
we look for in good foods during a cut
is that they obviously help you to
retain muscle mass have an adequate
amount of protein in them but the main
thing is just to satiate you and
generally contribute to Good Health
here's a checklist of what likely makes
a food more satiating and filling and
beneficial to eat during weight loss
phase first and this is kind of obvious
but the foods that we consume should
have a low energy density or just have a
lot of volume per calorie consumed guess
what all else being equal if you have a
spoonful of food or if you have a huge
plate of food the huge plate of food is
going to make you more satiated even if
they contain the same calories and
there's actually been quite a bit of
research on this so when you see people
eating salads for example that have a
ton of volume during a weight loss phase
they're probably on to something and in
fact there's a huge area of research
centered around energy density when it
comes to weight loss and that body of
evidence was recently reviewed by Clen
colleagues where they reviewed 38
studies on the topic of energy density
and how it impacts things like hunger
and energy intake when participants are
just left to their own devices as far as
how much they want to eat just by
reducing energy density AKA how much
volume of food you get per calorie
people ended up consuming 22 fewer
calories when eating foods that were
less dense in energy so when left to
their own devices why did people consume
fewer calories when consuming less
energy than food well as it turns out
there's a variety of mechanisms
responsible for inducing satiety that
feeling of being full and not wanting to
eat forur their food one of them is
gastric satiation and gastric satiation
is volumetric specifically when you
consume a lot of food in terms of volume
mechanical distension of the stomach may
occur since the stomach is densely
inovated that can then result in gastric
satiation conversely though there are
other types of satiation for example
intestinal satiation seems to be more so
mediated by the nutritive content of the
food you consume for example a certain
combination of macronutrients can be
more productive when it comes to
intestinal satiation but at the very
least when you reduce energy density and
you consume more volume of food that
reduces ad lium energy intake and like
has something to do with gastric
satiation the next Factor on the
checklist would be fiber content now
generally a high fiber content also goes
hand in hand with a low energy density
and many other things that are good for
promoting satiation during weight loss
phase for example foods that are higher
in fiber generally are also a little bit
less palatable AKA less pleasurable to
eat so you're less likely to over
consume them and end up negating your
calorie deficit welome back to
palatability as a factor in food
selection during a weight loss phase but
in the meantime we have a systematic
review by working colleagues looking at
the impact of fiber intake on satiation
and hunger they reviewed 44 studies
studying the impact of fiber intake on
subsequent satiation hunger fullness Etc
to make a long story short around 40% of
those studies found a benefit on
appetite only around 20% of the studies
reviewed found a significant benefit as
far as energy intake went so how many
calories people consumed when they
consumed more or less fiber importantly
though when you zoom out from this
specific systematic review and you also
look at epidemological data then you
notice that generally people who consume
more fiber also have lower body weights
now I'm not claiming this is causation
and that fiber is a huge factor in
making you lose body weight but when you
consider this research on hunger and
potentially reducing energy intake plus
you add to the equation that often times
foods high in fiber also have low
pability a low energy density and have
health benefits via micronutrients and
so forth good stuff tends to happen when
you consume more foods that are higher
in fiber within your diet especially
during weight loss phase next up is a
smaller factor that may play a small
role and that's the texture of your food
generally foods with a chewier texture
or with a more toothsome texture are
going to satiate you more than foods
that are liquid this likely has more to
do with rate of eating the faster you
eat something typically the less it's
going to satiate you all else being
equal but it is worth keeping in mind
for example one met analysis of 29
studies that equated for the weight of
the food consumed and or the calories
consumed found the following on a scale
of 0 to 100 with appetite ratings
reflecting a variety of aspects of
appetite generally solid and biscus
Foods reduced appetite by about 5 Points
or so out of 100 compared to more liquid
foods you can drink 300 calories a lot
faster than you can eat 300 calories
typically next up we have protein
content of the food now first protein
content has a higher thermic effect of
feeding per gram than any other
macronutrient meaning that when you
consume a ground of protein your body
expends more energy to digest it and
metabolize it compared to other
macronutrients like carbohydrates or
fats this means that of all the
macronutrients in your diet it actually
has the lowest energy density as far as
weight is concerned which as I mentioned
earlier in the video is probably a good
thing when it comes to weight loss
however your calorie intake across the
day when you're dieting is kind of like
a budget for a trip right you could
spend all your money at the strip house
and then have no money left for the rest
of the trip or you could spend it more
sensibly and so just like with your
money on a trip your calor should be
spent sensibly and you have to make the
decision of do you spend your calories
on more fiber heavy Foods or on more
protein heavy Foods generally fiber
sources are going to be a slightly
better choice in my view for satiation
when it comes to Pure satiation I would
typically recommend Foods higher in
fiber versus higher in protein they're
generally a low bit less palatable or
pleasurable to eat making it less likely
for you to over consume them they
generally have a lower energy density
meaning you get more satiated from them
and finally they have a slightly more
toothsome or two-year texture and it
generally just takes a little bit longer
to consume
so all us being equal I think fiber
sources will generally be more satiating
than protein sources however protein
doesn't just have the benefit of having
a lower energy density it also
potentially has other benefits so here I
am Shilling for big fiber however
protein intake also has some pretty
strong evidence behind it as far as
promoting weight loss for instance
here's what a review paper by Heather
and colleagues found in interventions
lasting less than a year increasing
protein intake has a modest benefit on
losing body weight and even
interventions lasting more than a year
there is still a modest benefit to be
had of increasing protein intake as far
as long-term weight loss or weight loss
maintenance essentially helping you keep
that weight off after you've lost it
importantly though putting aside its
potential weight loss benefits and
satiation benefits there is also the
more important benefit of protein intake
being important for maximizing muscle
mass gains and muscle mass retention
while you're losing fat ultimately for
most people you're looking to lose fat
and not just any weight like muscle mass
you're looking partly for the aesthetic
benefits of losing fat if that's the
case increasing protein intake to about
1.6 g of protein per kilogram of body
weight per day is going to be a good
thing to do not only will help you
retain more muscle it'll also keep you
Fuller and it's generally a good thing
when it comes to losing weight next up
we have the palatability factor that I
mentioned earlier in the video we
actually have a review paper by soron
and colleagues looking at exactly the
impact of palatability on energy intake
and hunger interestingly more palatable
pleasurable foods like a lot of energy
dense foods that you consume in your
diet didn't satiate people more they had
inconsistent effects when it came to
appetite however they also found that
studies measuring energy intake as
participants consumed either more
palatable Foods or less palatable foods
that when a meal was delicious or really
pleasurable to consume people ate more
basically as a food was tastier and more
palatable the consumption of that food
and overall energy intake increased no
matter what the subjective perception of
appetite Etc was Within These studies so
not only might consuming more palatable
foods like like more energy-dense foods
and pleasurable foods to eat not make
you any Fuller than less palatable Foods
they also seem to just make you consume
more overall calories so it's a double
whing of not benefiting your hunger that
much and also making you consume more
total calories those are the main
factors I would pay attention to When
selecting Foods within my diet
especially if I am struggling with
Hunger these factors are going to be the
main ones when it comes to making sure
that you stay full during your diet
making it easier for you to lose fat
here's a random side note that I found
beneficial during my diets from purely
anecdotal perspective I'm not
recommending anyone necessarily do this
but I want to mention it anyways because
I found it to be the case during my
diets personally fat-free dairy products
it might be because I'm slightly lactose
intolerant or what have you satiate me
quite well when you specifically opt for
fat-free versions of dairy products like
yogurt and what have you generally their
energy density is relatively low they
have a relatively high protein intake
and I just find that they make me
slightly nauseated you can't be overc
consuming calories if you're about to
 yourself but the research on this
topic is pretty equivocal so take this
with a grain of salt and a large glass
of alternative milk so think about all
these factors that I mentioned in the
check list when you select which foods
to eat and select a variety of food
sources now I'm going to mention a few
foods and illustrate why they are
satiating just so you have an idea of
what potentially to consume but equally
don't let me dictate what foods you eat
I am not your parent and I don't want to
be a parent yet without further Ado
Sports Science doctor reveals shocking
foods that may help you lose fat first
we have fruits shocking apples are fine
pineapple is fine with apples for
example you have the chewy texture you
have the low energy density you have the
high fiber content all things that
likely help you when it comes to
promoting satiation and helping you use
fat next up we have vegetables for
example salads I know even more shocking
salads have a low energy density AK a
few calories per each bite they have a
lot of fiber they're not super palatable
unless you make them then you also have
legumes and beans like chickpeas for
example which have a high fiber content
a decent amount of protein how they r
ATIV L tooth some texture the list goes
on and finally any lean meats or
relatively lean protein sources AKA
things that mostly contain protein and
not much else for example lean meats
have a decent amount of volume they help
with muscle mass retention protein is
relatively satiating I know all of this
is very shocking vegetables fruits
legumes beans PES and lean meats and
generally just good protein sources
these things can help you lose fat
shocking I know but consuming more of
these within your diet will help you
stay Fuller potentially have health
benefits via increased fiber intake
increased micronutrient diversity and so
forth but whenever you're struggling
with Hunger within your diet just keep
these factors in mind and see which
foods might help you stay Fuller and
successfully lose weight and keep it off
that has been the video If you enjoyed
the video please leave a like comment
subscribe if you want to see me cover
any other topics within the nutrition
realm leave a comment down below letting
me know what you want to see do you want
me to coach you check out the link above
and that can become a thing now I hear
you saying Milo at I don't have the cash
to hire you as a coach and that's
totally understandable if you're looking
instead for a much cheaper option we do
have an app coming out soon that will
handle all the training for you I can
confidently say that currently on the
market there's nothing else like it so
if you want to stay in the loop with
myap check out myod app.com have a
fantastic day and I will see you guys
next time
peace Jesus Christ I will shoot
whoevers at the door now except we don't
have guns this is a UK I have no idea
what the the special delies for is
it a bomb am I being bombed who knows
that sounded very important I'm not sure
I trust it I arrest in hmrc sending me
bombs right now they can't take all this
tax evasion I've been committing not
actually don't come after me