hey folks it's doctor mike from
renaissance position as always and
today's color is purple
would you look at that
brilliant
let's get into actually learning things
instead of suffering through my painful
dad jokes how about that great how many
exercises do you have to do
per muscle group per session in order to
get the best response and there's such a
thing as too few
especially for today's topic is there
such a thing as too many so for example
if you're going in and you want to train
your chest
how many exercises do you need to do in
that one session let's say you may train
chest and then biceps and the triceps
that day
for just chest how many exercises do you
need now a lot of the times the answer
from many of the ways pro-bodybuilders
have trained in the past and of course
that trickles down through the rest of
fitness oftentimes the answer for many
people is well you know
four or five exercises for a muscle is
generally a good thing you'll have
probably memory of this in your own head
having visually experienced it yourself
hopefully not from your own perspective
you're just watching other people do it
i'm sure as hell done this myself you
the ultimate college freshman year of
college chest workout you do
say it with me now
flat barbell bench incline barbell bench
that's two so far decline of course how
do you hit the lower fibers if not a
decline then you want to get some outer
pec uh outer lower pec you do some dips
and of course you end up with a drop set
of cable flies at the end if not even
doing two different kinds of flies
because yeah the cable hits you well but
what about the pack deck different
stimulus we're up to six exercises
chest fully developed
is that necessary well let's take a look
and see what science has to say here's
the deal
the research is getting clearer and
clearer about this every few months when
a new study is added into the total
publication list of how many sets per
session per muscle are optimal and it
seems like anywhere between three
at the low end and 12 at the high end of
sets per muscle per session like sets of
chest on monday between 3 and 12 total
sets for chest not per exercise seems to
be right where most people get their
best muscle growth much more than 12
sets is probably overkill it's too many
you're so weak by then you're barely
stimulating shit it's actually called
junk volume anything fewer than three
sets is like well if you did more sets
you could have gotten more growth pretty
open and shut so
that all of a sudden if we understand
let's say make a simple number out of
this 10 sets at most is what an average
will be doing
10 sets all of a sudden if you're doing
six exercises
that's like
one to two work sets per exercise or it
sounds kind of curious as to why you
wouldn't just do fewer exercises and get
more time spending uh high quality work
on each separate exercise we'll get to
that in a second there's another concern
here
it's that we could say okay we could do
a lot of exercises per muscle precession
if there was a really big benefit if the
muscles were architecturally very
complicated had very distinct and
numerous sub-regions we have to at this
part then we have to this part then this
part this is known as the nipple area of
the chest maybe that's an area you can
hypertrophy with weights turns out
that's not the case what is the case is
that most exercises
and sorry most muscle and muscle groups
have between one and three main
functional elements or angles that they
can be targeted from that actually
differentially cause meaningful
hypertrophy so for example your pecs
have charitably maybe three
different angles of attack there's the
sternal pectoral which is the main part
of your pecs your lower pecs and mid and
most of your upper actually then there
are the clavicular pecs which is the
upper pecs so maybe you do some pressing
movements that go normal for one maybe
you do some incline pressing for the
other and then lastly there may be some
small benefit on occasion to including a
fly that hits the fibers maybe closer in
especially if you cross your hands or
pause at the top at the end which if you
don't do a bench you don't really get
all that full contraction so potentially
you have two kinds of compound pushing
incline and horizontal or two kinds of
fly movements and then just one kind of
fly on top of that so at most
if you have three let's say monday
you're doing chest and i see you're
doing a flat pressing movement an
incline pressing movement and a fly
movement in any angle i would say
anything more than that is almost by
definition overkill so why are you doing
that why would you do for example
incline barbell and then incline
dumbbell when it kind of hit the same
part of the pecs unless you need more
work the question is how much more work
well if you're doing a total of 10 sets
and that's a lot for pecs 10 sets that's
towards the end of a plan usually not at
the beginning
if you do
five sets of incline barbell work maybe
you'll do five sets of incline dumbbell
work if you really just want to hammer
the upper pecs maybe you just do five
sets of flat pressing of some kind and
then g wiz you're kind of out of volume
and that's really all you need to do to
hit the whole chest anyway it's not like
there's small components of the chest
that require very specific exercises
let's look at the most complex muscle
group that's termed one group generally
from a training perspective in the human
body in bodybuilding or just fitness in
general the back when people say i'm
hitting back today you could
intelligently surmise hold on a second
that's a lot of stuff you know because
if someone says to you like you know
they're running over to the tv in a in a
in some kind of lounge area at a school
and you're like hey like come look at
the tv there's war in asia like on the
way to writing tv you could be like
fuck
where in asia
russia's in asia kazakhstan's in asia
azerbaijan is in asia
technically the entire middle east is in
asia and also
japan is in asia there's the southeast
wait hold on a little bit more specific
so the back is kind of like asia in this
regard it is quite complicated and has a
few different parts but not that many
parts
there are the lats you can do exercises
to target the last specifically and
again as soon as you've chosen one to
two exercises to target the lats any
more than that is kind of overkill
because there's only so many high
quality sets you can do
and
then there are the erectors the spinal
erectors they're the muscles of your
back that allow to arch your back and
keep it rigid against a heavy load okay
that's another functional group we could
have exercises that bias the erectors
and then there's what people call the
mid-back or the upper back which is
composed of the rhomboids the teres
major teras minor and the mid and lower
trap muscles uh upper traps usually
aren't included in back but they get a
lot of work anyway the those the
rhomboids terra's major and the mid and
lower traps they really all
do something very similar which is
anytime you're doing some rowing and
you're having a peak contraction or a
deep stretch those muscles are heavily
involved so at the end of the day it's
like
vertical pulling and lat work horizontal
pulling to hit the
rhomboid stairs major lower traps those
are one exercise each
and then like a lot of times if you do
especially like a barbell movement or
dumbbell movement not a chest supported
movement for rows or if you even arch
and retract and round over on your rows
you can hit that erector
check with just two exercises right
so if you were saying well i need an
exercise separately for rhomboids
another one for mid lower traps then i
got my lat focused movements then i've
got my erector focus movements a lot of
times one or two exercises will condense
that into everything you need so yeah
for the back you can see how three
exercises for example we'll get to some
examples later you can see how three
exercises make sense but as soon as you
insert a fourth exercise notice we have
lats erectors and then sort of upper
back
upper mid back as functional groups like
if you have a fourth exercise it's just
going to be doubling up on one of those
or another and remind you there's tons
of crossover anyway you say let's say
you do lap prayers to hit your lats and
then you do some rows to hit your
erectors hold on a second yeah you did
hit your erectors with those rows but
they also hit your lats again also and
they hit the shit out of your mid-back
so
what exercise would you add to that well
you could add another rolling movement
you could have lat movement but after
that third exercise gee we're double
checking multiple boxes there's only so
much work your back can take some point
it's just overkill or superfluous
lastly something super super uh or sorry
second to last super straightforward
what are the functions and the
components of the quads like not
charitably we could just say knee
extension that's it if you do squats and
or leg presses and or hacks watts you've
already checked the box with one
exercise but maybe you could say okay
okay fine there's that whole thing with
you know the middle part upper part of
the quad uh you know the rectus femoris
is ostensibly maximally hypertrophied
when the hip is not in flexion you know
when the hip is mostly extended that
muscle works better so maybe we could
have some kind of leg extension or
seated back like ascension to attack
that that's understandable but that's
really picking at really tiny tiny
particles at that point so the quads
have one to two functions charitably two
so how many quad exercises do you need
to do
as far as making sure the exercises are
different not just as a way of getting
more sets so we'll talk about that in a
bit but as you get bored three four five
sets of an exercise you can just switch
exercises that have the same functional
requirements still same
knee extension component but they're
just a different exercise slightly
different angle mostly to counteract the
boredom of having to do something and to
keep the sfr really high but outside of
that gee whiz you know one quad exercise
may be enough of a correct answer
certainly two take care of everything
with three it begs the question of well
you're really doing 12 sets for quads
and if you are i'd like to see your
program because if you see any of our rp
training videos where we train people
really hard that are super jacked a lot
of times one quad exercise is all the
trick they need they do one and a half
they do some leg presses and hacks and
they do half of an exercise worth two
sets of squats and then they collapse
and blood comes out of their eyes so you
don't actually need a whole lot of quad
work same with hamstrings hip extension
and knee flexion although if you train
knee flexion at an extended position
something like a seated leg curl you
really get both of those functions if
you do the hip extension only like a
stiff leg and deadlift 90 some percent
of your hamstring grows a ton anyway so
you don't actually have to do both of
them in the same session
and obviously that means you know five
to ten sets of hams covered by two
exercises is absolutely mostly overkill
but certainly enough for almost everyone
to get some growth out of now here's the
kicker i keep saying well you know you
have incline work and flat work but you
don't need to do both of them hold on
why not because you don't need to do
everything you need to do that week in
one session right it's possible to go to
a restaurant and have chicken and rice
for lunch and then same restaurant and
have some beef and pasta for dinner you
don't need to show up to that restaurant
at lunch you'd be like i need chicken
beef pasta and rice all mixed together
they're gonna be like all right that's
gonna be weird you're like shut up you
don't know nutrition that's not how it
works if there are some nutrients you
get from the beef and the pasta later
just over the day getting those
nutrients means you don't have to get
all of your nutrients all in one meal
that's not how that works but some
reason people seem to think that's the
case with training oftentimes they'll
show up to the gym and be like i need to
hit my chest from every single fucking
angle brother and i'm like i got you
brother if i can call you that though of
course or
iron
compatriots that was a pretty good one
so you say hey listen i get it but you
have another chest day thursday right
like yeah like why don't you do like
some of the stuff today
10 sets worth maybe focus a lot on upper
packs but just train your lower packs a
little bit
whereas on thursday you can train a lot
of lower packs and a little bit of upper
pecs you hit both of them through the
week you check all the boxes maybe one
day you do only pressing movements the
other day you do some fly movements to
check those boxes you don't have to have
the ultimate chest or back or leg
workout every session but over the
course of the week if you check the
boxes on all of the functional
components of the muscle the different
functional components that you want to
hit if you want to hit those throughout
the week then you don't have to do every
exercise every day you can have a two
day split monday thursday for chest and
do half of the chest exercises you were
going to one half the other that's two
to three exercises per session for chest
way more manageable way better from a
variety of perspectives than doing five
or six chest exercises every time and
actually creating quite a bit of
redundancy another thing is this
probably benefits you from a chronic
nagging injury perspective
if you incline press heavy
every single time you do your chest you
might start to develop some shoulder
joint irritation from just going heavy
and doing inclines all the time but if
you have one day in which you go flat
heavy incline light the other day you go
incline light flat light and then you
have a moderate fly
the different angles over the course of
the different days that you're
stimulating this issue from make it
likely that one particular part of the
connective tissue won't get so irritated
as to cause you problems so there's
another benefit right there from not
trying to do everything all in one
session
now
all taken together
okay
this implies
that if you do
one to three exercises per session per
muscle for one to five sets each that
should more than cover your bases for
getting everything you need to get done
in a single training session and if you
intelligently arrange your training
sessions through the week prioritizing
one part of the muscle in one
prioritizing the other part of the
muscle in another you can get this
covered no problem
anything else will work
but it requires needless moving beyond
you know from one machine to another
warming up there are a couple of
problems with that i'll get specific as
to what the problems are
there is a situation in which when you
start on a certain machine
up to about three to six sets worth
anywhere from one to two two to three
and three plus to six sets
you actually improve in your technique
in that exercise your mind muscle
connection improves considerably such
that the stimulus to fatigue ratio of
that exercise can actually be really
good and maybe even improve a little bit
depending on how you conceive it
relatively from set to set to set you
guys may have noticed this in your own
training you do first set of hack squats
and you're like all right big pr that
was great result someone's like did you
feel your quads like yeah
but my knees kind of felt a little weird
you do set number two you move your feet
down you push them out a little bit
because that one you kind of we're in
the middle of the set you don't want to
adjust you're like if i put my feet
lower and out more i'd feel this better
you do that and your quads are
pre-pumped anytime you have a pump and
your quads are a little fatigued your
mind muscle connection is going to
improve because you can tell where the
muscle is better where the tension is
you do that second set and you're like
bro that was everything i'm nice and
warmed up my technique is better i'm
putting my feet in the right position
and pushing through the right parts i'm
using the right muscles and everything
is great man i could just keep doing
these sets now they're super productive
the amount of joint stress i'm feeling
is really low the amount of
psychological effort i have to impart is
lower because i'm really in the groove
and the amount of uh you know stimulus
that i'm getting from pumps my muscle
connection etc is really starting to
rack up because i'm just in the groove
making this exercise count i just really
haven't figured out uh i don't know it's
like if you go to a japanese restaurant
you have to learn do chopsticks for the
first time in your life once you figure
it out you're like oh shit here we go
and you can just keep going if you come
back a month later you have to relearn
the whole fucking process so
similar thing happens with exercises
every time
every time i see someone
do like two exercises or sorry two sets
on an exercise and then switch to a
different exercise i'm like you know
that third set if you had just stayed
and done it on that first exercise would
have been maybe the best feeling set of
all of them at the very least stimulus
to fatigue wise you have to compare
doing another set in that same leg press
let's say versus doing the following
finishing that leg press exercise
like a decent fucking human being
unracking all of your weights that's
fatigue that's time
finding the next machine you're going to
do ostensibly you do not train at a
private gym where you have access to all
the equipment and there's nobody around
you train in a regular fucking gym like
damn near the rest of us and you have to
go and watch karen do leg extensions for
five fucking hours while scrolling on
her phone excuse me excuse me she
pretends not to see you you're like
ma'am and she's like yes
like um just how many sets do you have
on that just like you do one of these i
do this all the time just trying to
figure things out kind of hand gestures
and she'd be like um three and you're
like okay could you just like not
just go back into care and mode but
there you go three sets maybe i can
switch my exercises around where i can
do hack squats now and wait for leg
extensions but then maybe like bob over
there looking like he's on the machine
he'll come in and piss away another 15
minutes of my time so if you were just
because once you're already on a machine
you kind of have cart blanches to like
how long you stay on there people come
and go and they say how many sets you
have you can say whatever 2 four
eighteen they're usually just like and
they fuck off or they work in once
you're on a machine you're golden like
nobody's gonna kick you off there but if
you come off of machines every two sets
and look for other ones you're gonna
delay yourself now let's say you get
that machine karen does her two sets
rather quickly gets off the machine you
got to do at least one set of leg
extensions probably to warm up to get
the feel at least to adjust the seat to
where you need it
and then after that you're going to do
multiple sets the latter of which after
two or three sets you're really going to
get into the leg extension groove and
then watch this you got to get off the
machine to go do hack squats and you
have to repeat that whole awkward
process of finding a groove or warming
up finding your groove getting into the
best kinds of set stimulus to fatigue
wise and then as soon as you're having a
great time it's like going i'll give you
a really decent analogy
here we go here we go hum
analogy gods please feed me information
directly through my chakra that's it
here's the analogy it's not a bad one
if you've ever been to like a bunch of
parties with your friends or like a bar
crawl or something
there is an optimality of how many
locations you hit
and the answer isn't as many as possible
for almost the same kinds of reasons
like let's say you get to a bar club
after five minutes you're jiving with
the music like i feel this shit then
after a few minutes you ordered a drink
because it takes some time for you to
order a drink stand in line jostle with
the bartender
after a little bit you you and your
friends find some seats you get comfy
you start chatting people up chatting
with each other everything's going great
you're grooving
you're fucking having a great time the
last fucking thing you want in this
world is from one of your friends who's
asshole no social abilities whatsoever
or just anxious and he's like you guys
want to go under the next bar like
motherfucker no
we just arranged this situation to be
optimal for us having a fucking great
ass time i love it here like when we're
not feeling the flow anymore then we can
leave like you know when you've seen
enough the same people and you're like
this bar is kind of weird and this
drinks fine but it's too expensive let's
go to the next one there has to be a
good reason for you to go to the next
bar now if you're in a dedicated pub
crawl where there's a schedule great but
here we're taking a sort of
auto-regulatory approach we're going our
job is to have as much fun as possible
how do we cycle through going from bar
to club to after party to the hotel
lobby and after the lobbyists the scott
what's the line
hotel lobby and then we go up to our
rooms and
somebody i only listen to the edited
versions because i have virgin ears i
don't want to hear
demonic things so in any case
the correct answer isn't like we like
can you imagine telling someone like hey
man i had an amazing night last night i
went to 18 bars in two hours i'm sorry
what so you basically walked around
tokyo like well yeah like i had one
drink total because as soon as we get in
the bar we have 30 seconds we're gonna
go to the next one that's dumb but
that's how some people deal and treat
with their uh exercises they want
everything at the same time incline
decline flat flies dips like jesus when
do you actually work out versus walking
from machine to machine and warming up
so just the same way as if you want a
fun night out
when you get to a place and the getting
is good the groove is there everyone's
having fun don't fucking leave unless
there's a compelling reason to be like
all right this is enough let's go in an
exercise that tends to happen with three
four five or six sets into an exercise
not one two or three sets into an
exercise so if people who switch
exercises too often they're they're
doing this all this momentum destruction
and momentum rebuilding that just gets
in the way at least for any perspective
one of nuisance and the nuisance
absolutely builds psychological fatigue
and that's not something you want in
your program so
here are some examples of using not so
many exercises to build a really great
session for a particular muscle so for
the back you do four sets of bent rows
three sets of pull-ups and then three
lap prayer sets your back is fucking
toast you say well my rhomboids weren't
hitting enough that's later in the week
you do machine rows that's it three
exercises is nothing to add
chest you do incline barbell press for
four sets in this example and then you
do four cable fly straight sets of just
a regular game flying on an incline
you've hit
flying pressing upper pec lower pack
you've hit it all you're fucking done
that's like 10 sets of chest and if
they're hard sets you're golden until
you come back and hit them again later
you know another time during the week or
two times during the week depending on
how your frequency is programmed for
biceps here's this is descending into
fewer and fewer sad examples biceps you
do the easy curl you do four sets heavy
and then you keep the easy curl bar you
take some weight off and you do two sets
light you don't even have to change
exercises you got six fucking ball of
working sets amazing stimulus to fatigue
ratio and six sets for biceps often
times there's way enough trained biceps
every other day or something those
doing biceps for anywhere between four
and eight sets every other day is much
better than doing biceps for 16 cents or
something twice a week so that wins and
we just had to use one exercise amazing
and imagine how much stress and time
this saves you if you just find the
fucking easy curl bar your busy ass
commercial gym and as soon as you got
your fucking hands on it that's it
that's all i need no fucking take this
away from me people but i don't need to
go to ten machines and work in and spend
two hours trying to get you know three
sets accomplished lastly
hamstrings and this is the one that
almost for everyone is the same
hamstring exercise is done right with a
full range of motion emphasis on the
eccentric and the stretch
are so powerful that you may do
something like you know you just have
two sets of stiff-legged deadlifts and
because you're doing them properly your
hamstrings are destroyed and blown away
and then later that week you do four
sets of leg curls and that's it i often
get asked in my own training videos that
i post you know instagram and youtube
and stuff like dr micah you did you did
four sets of leg curls and that's all
you did for hamstrings like motherfucker
come try these sets you do some maya
upsets four sets of leg curls you don't
walk for a day and a half afterwards
your hamstrings are sore for three and a
half days that's all you need
i've seen people's hamstring routines as
ifb pros and shit like that whether i
could start out with stiff legged deaths
four sets of ten i go to lying leg curls
three sets of ten three sets of 15
seated three sets of ten standing one
leg leg curl and then i finish it up by
tying off tying the whole area out with
lunges or whatever like tying it all in
like how the fuck is tying it all in
mean first of all i think you just want
a cool pump to take pictures of your ass
after you're done but tbh if you had
anything like a relative effort that's
remotely close to failure in any of
those sets and your technique was
anything like fucking normal basic
technique on let's say stiff like a
deadlift after four sets of ten of
sniffling deadlifts you would have
rhabdo you'd be vomiting blood out of
your fucking mouth and then you would be
done training hamstrings the rest of
your life you gotta force that anyone
that says
versus outside of a huge training
history where they're used to doing this
anybody can do four sets of ten
hard stiff-legged deadlifts properly is
a bullshit artist they're fucking lying
to you tiny exceptions okay two sets of
ten would have been good enough but i
know if i see one of those programs
something is wrong with the execution
with the effort with the technique and
when you see programs of bodybuilders
that are like five exercises for all
different parts of the muscle tons of
volume like man is this what i need to
do or oh man i just must need to take
drugs to survive this both those answers
wrong those people just aren't training
hard enough or their technique is so bad
that some they need most of that stuff
or if they don't need it they're over
doing it and they would be better off
doing less i know it sounds crazy but if
you can do less and get more god damn
that's actually the best possible thing
so here's the deal to sum this all up
in most cases for most people even those
after the most advanced hypertrophy
one to two good exercises per muscle
group per session with two to four
sessions per muscle per week okay
hammer these
exercises with multiple sets each you
know
one to two good exercises
two to six working sets for each
exercise depending on how much volume
you tolerated over the course of the
multiple weeks you get into a better and
better groove every single set when you
lose that groove on set five or six you
switch exercises and the groove is
reestablished you get a nice fresh thing
to do
if you do this i promise you will not
have to take grand tour of every machine
in the gym every time that you go and
train chester quads or biceps or
whatever and you'll get amazing amazing
results and one of the best parts is
because you're only focused on a few
exercises per week at a time every few
months when you change exercises you
have a plethora of new exercises to
choose from which begs the question of
college you know freshman year college
chess workout guy
he's doing incline barbell incline flat
incline barbell incline barbell flat
barbell decline barbell
some dumbbell presses why not and some
flies and some dips in all in one week
let's be charitable and say it's one
week not work or not one workout
sometimes it is all one workout if one
of those becomes stale or becomes you
know starts to hurt uh the person and
they're not getting good enough groove
or results
where do they go there's no more fucking
exercises to choose from you're gonna be
doing one arm chest flies with a bosu
ball some stupid shit that has no
stimulus and luckily no fatigue either
unless you fall off the fucking bosu
ball
the good thing about using just a few
exercises is that it'll really let you
focus in on mind muscle connection it
really lets you milk as much out of the
exercise as needed it saves you a
shitload of convenience for not having
to switch exercises it does the checks
the box of maximizing hypertrophy and
lastly the bonus round thing is it
leaves you with so much more variation
to tap into when stainless inevitably
temporarily eats up your current
exercises
if you have six or seven good chest
exercises you only per any one week and
thus any one month use one sorry you use
two to three of them
and it only takes a few mesocycles to
refresh each chest exercise it doesn't
take einstein to realize that you can
have an infinity refresh loop that
because you only use two to three chest
exercises at a time you have six or
seven good chest exercises on the docket
they're the highest stimulus to fatigue
ratio exercises that work best for your
body what you can do is do two or three
two or three two or three when you come
back around to the next two or three the
last time you do them maybe six to eight
months ago they may as well be new
exercises they're super fresh your body
super loves them you don't accumulate
any joint wear and tear
at the end of the day you can get super
jacked by limiting your variation and
intelligently using it after you get
super jacked finally you recreate your
eighth
birthday party your eight-year-old
birthday party you invite all the same
people awkward you get cake there's a
clown you put on a funny hat finally
unlike your actually birthday party you
feel at home in your own body you're
super muscular and uh you can die happy
see you next time unless you do that
thing i just said and then enjoy