almost everyone starts doing some kind
of cardio okay I do three or four or
five whatever number X number of weekly
sessions in the gym on a cardio machine
for XYZ amount of time 30 minutes
elliptical four times a week that'll
take up loads of time especially if they
drive to the gym to go use the cardio
machine which is kind of curious you
could just have walked around the block
by then and gotten the same amount of
calories burned uh and also like they'll
be super hard weight training and they
say well I still have to do cardio
because I got to lose fat so they stay
after the weight training they get these
cardio machines they do it for 30 or 40
minutes after the weight training and it
probably blunts the adaptations of
weight training which is to say it
becomes more difficult to hold on to
muscle mass and strength because you're
sandwiching cardio right after training
ideally you would do it very very far
apart