this is the most effective chest workout
ever first we'll start the session with
an incline press variation for sets of 5
to 10 repetitions a recent study by
Chavez and colleagues actually found
greater upper chest growth when doing
the incline Smith machine press versus
the flat Smith machine press and similar
lower chest hypertrophy I recommend an
incline Dumbo press or a prime machine
incline press next to cover the whole
chest will follow this with a flat press
variation for 10 to 20 repetitions this
movement targets the lower chest I
recommend trying the flat dumbbell press
or you can try the deficit push-up and
finally finish off the session with
dumbbell flies perform for 20 to 30
repetitions all three of these movements
focus on the lengthen position something
the research suggests might be better
for hypertrophy go a little bit further
from failure as you start the session
and then gradually get closer and closer
to failure by the end of the session
you'll have hit the whole chest from the
upper chest to the lower chest you'll
have used a variety of rep Rangers and
you'll have focused on the stretch
position do you think