hey folks Dr Mike here with Renaissance
periodization for Renaissance
fertilization eh Renaissance
periodization
just saying just saying the phrase
today's tip is about how to maximize the
effectiveness of your chest training
with a really cool cue that I use that
is basically reaching out and up with
your chest so here's the deal
when you're doing chest presses of any
kind push-ups dumbbells barbells
machines Rings anything in between
what
you're trying to do ideally
and in most cases is really stimulate
your chest as much as possible oh my
chest bounced like that it's just
getting excited
and
it
pays to make sure that you're when
you're going through this difficult
lifting
and you're trying a lot
and you bother to warm up and come to
the gym and everything you might as well
maximize that technique
to get as much stimulus for the packs as
possible so it's not just a matter of
moving the weights up and down and the
thing is is if you lie down on a bench
press or a machine or anything like that
you sit down and you sit down flat with
your shoulders forward and you do some
pressing your anterior deltoids and your
triceps
if you have certain genetics especially
can get in a lot of those stimulus a lot
of the work and actually become limiting
factors such that every after every
single set of presses
you're kind of like ah yeah my pec's got
a little bit hit I think but my delts
are just pumped beyond belief my triceps
are already like shaky and almost sore
now
what am I doing these presses for and
can I do presses in a way that maximally
stimulates my chest and the answer is
yes and here it is
the best technique for pressing for most
people barbell dumbbell machine anything
is
as the machine or bar implement or
whatever descends or as in a push-up you
descend
you want to reach up and out with your
chest in a part of that up and out
motion is going to have you retracting
your scapulae your shoulder blades back
it's like uh one of my friends way back
in high school termed it the funky
pigeon it's like pigeons walk around
like this all the time oh I just
accidentally did a Greg douset
impression
Scott's video I love that one
so if you put your chest up stick it out
by arching your back a little bit and
then having your scaps back
as you descend you've already
pre-stretched your pecs which means
they're going to get a really big
stimulus the deeper that you go
at the bottom of the movement
let's say that it's a barbell bench
press for Simplicity
you're thinking as much about lowering
the bar to your chest at the very bottom
as you are with your hips stationary on
the bench no butt wiggling
reaching up with your chest as much as
possible to meet the bar on the way down
it's not you bring the bar down
completely most of the movement is at
the very bottom interest so you reach I
mean you're already reaching the whole
time you reach extra really get your
chest up to touch the bar that reaching
pre-stretches the pecs while at the same
time putting them as the most limiting
factor position in the lift what you
want to think about is exposing your
chest if you come down like this and
you're all contorted your scaps are
forward your back is flat your shoulders
are up front
your chest is kind of pointed down
you're hiding your chest if I was
benching with an injury I would do that
in fact I used to have some really nasty
PEC injuries back in the day and still
in some of my lifting less and less now
because my backs are feeling pretty good
still in some of my lifting I'll
intentionally protract so as to keep
stress away from my pecs because they
get too stressed but that's not your
problem very likely your problem is you
want the packs to be extra stressed
you're literally putting them into the
line of fire like when Superman is
blocking bullets with his chest you're
like nah say I loved old school Superman
where he's like nah I'll save you your
Dame but then he was always polite but
you know what I'm saying Bruce Wayne AKA
Batman sorry to give out your real
identity
unrelated sort of related
Slade bro
Slade
1920s 30s being a comic book superhero
sweet just get the sleigh all the time
Cat Woman how's that for a list in any
case
Superman
expose his chest to the world and the
bullets bounce off you're the same way
except it's a marble or doubles or
whatever
and if you have dumbbells when you're
coming out and around your chest you
want to stick your chest up as high as
possible at the bottom reaching for the
sky slash ceiling depending on if you
lift indoors or up doors I suppose
and on the way back up you have two
options
Jared feather would say Mr ifb Pro Jared
feather on our training partners
when I have a training partner at all
he's my training partner
he would say try to maintain that
Arsenal tractor position even through
the Press
I think that's totally valid my other
perspective as I also think it's valid
to once you've gotten to that bottom
position to just think about pressing
and if you get out of alignment a little
bit and do a little protraction I'm not
too worried about that but what I am
worried about concerned about attentive
to even better is on the way back down
that you reassert yourself I think what
Jared is doing is on the way back up he
gets really great pack activation
concentric's not as important as each
escentrics but still something and then
because he doesn't have to get out of
position he doesn't have to reassert now
it's automatically started in the right
pocket in the right spot
some machine some set up some dumbbell
stuff you might have to get out of
position a little bit at the top so what
you should learn to do is potentially do
the movement dynamically you set up Arch
reach
and then as you press you lose some of
it
and then you set up an arch and reach
especially on a machine you can do it
more dynamically in a barbell press I
would say probably just keep that Archer
tractor position the entire time so what
you want to think about is reaching your
chest up and out
scaps back as far as possible to
reinforce that to really open your chest
up
if you want to show as much of your pack
to the world as possible you don't want
to hide it like this you want to do this
so that as much of it is shown as
possible so that you are in a proper
leveraged position to expose your pecs
to as much tension under load and
tension in a stretch position as
possible
and then you are going to get a lot of
the actions if you need an extra little
bit of help for getting your chest in
presses
for whatever machine you're doing try to
get a slightly wider grip not a crazy
wide grip that usually doesn't pay off
and feels weird on the shoulders a
little bit of a wider grip can help
try instead of having your elbows by
your sides to flare them out a little
bit at the bottom that'll hit the pecs
carefully slowly and lastly try to get
it so that
you pause at the bottom for a split
second but not pause when you unload the
chest pause under load the bottom of the
press your paused and you're still full
tension on the bar one whole second or
even two whole seconds tears your shit
up like crazy in the best possible way
and increases the probability that your
packs will be maximum stimulated when
you begin to do this
you will have a reduction in strength
quote unquote and your ability to lift
heavy weights because it is a new
technique for you
as you get stronger over time and as you
learn and become comfortable with that
technique you realize that's actually
all the technique all the power lifters
use and you'll be able to lift even more
than ever so expect a short-term
reduction in how much you can press and
all the pressing movements that you do
and then a long-term increase to Way
Beyond anything you could do before
stay safe go down slow use good
technique and I'll see you next time and
I'll definitely see you in the crowd
because your pack is going to be
enormous folks take care see you next
time