[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization Technique mistakes and
fix this video the up right row let's
take a look at what's good what's bad
how to fix it so we can get gigantic
side delts traps and whatever the hell
else they up railroad trains
[Music]
so first of all let's review the purpose
for doing the upright row it's not just
something we do for fun although it can
be fun we're trying to hit the side
delts somewhat the traps and some of the
forearm flexors and even the muscles
that grip as well but mostly the target
is the side delts and the traps so
mistake number one in the upright row
that we want to avoid is pulling the bar
not high enough sort of arbitrarily so
go ahead Christel go ahead and try
pulling it so sometimes with usually
less immaculate technique folks will
stop there pyro right there now there's
nothing wrong with stopping it there if
any higher hurts your joints but if
you're stopping there just to use
usually more weight it's not great
because your side delts are really
engage a whole lot more all the way
through movement especially the traps as
well going higher is good so crystal if
you want to pull maybe to your clavicle
at this point like yeah at least to
there is good for most people so the fix
here is just pulling higher which often
means using less weight so first mistake
was not pulling high enough the second
mistake is actually pulling too high now
what is too high really mean there's
really no such thing is too high in the
upright row as long as your fuel your
side don't sand trap activating and as
long as your shoulders and elbows and
wrists don't hurt ton a lot of folks
will think they have to pull really high
we get a ton of shoulders comfort and
it's not something that goes away after
a couple of reps or sets it often gets
worse and worse and worse and eventually
leads occasionally to not-so-great
things for the shoulder so if it really
pains your actual shoulder joint to go
super high stop going that high and go
only as high as you can safely so this
is what it might look like crystal might
pull the bar up you know she heard on
YouTube you gotta go up and oh my god it
hurts her shoulders not just once but
she does a couple reps and maybe she's
tried there's a whole bunch and it's
just not working out so what she's gonna
do is just maybe pull it to about the
clavicle region or as high as she can it
feels totally fine plenty of range of
motion for great hypertrophy stimulus
you don't have to be an upright row hero
to get great results the next mistake an
upright row technique is to actually do
a pretty good concentric movement but
not control the eccentric at all and let
the bar drop pretty quickly just by
gravity's force so go ahead and show us
that so normal up and then down we've
got a drop now you might not be falling
forward but your
not controlling the movement can we get
another one of those bad reps so good on
the way up and on the way down we just
let the bar drop that's not necessarily
a terrible thing but you get a lot of
stimulus out of the eccentric
contraction out of the control on the
way down so why miss a bunch of the
growth and risk a little bit less safety
if you can just control the weight more
so go ahead and do it the right way
we're gonna come up under control
and we're gonna come down under control
it's not like 50 you know
milah you're 50 whole seconds to bring
it down you're not super controlling the
eccentric we're not saying go super slow
just have control the bar one more time
up and then control on the way down
that's it folks the next mistake isn't a
huge mistake it's the one when you are
cure' bar just arbitrarily way too far
out from your body so go ahead and make
that motion
so it's decent upright roll but the bar
ends up real far out and sometimes folks
pull it back in like she's doing at the
top but ends up being this big forward
arc that does activate a lot of the
muscles we want but it also activates
the front delts a little bit more the
side delts a little bit less and usually
it lets you use less weight productively
so the easy fix here is just to focus on
making sure your elbows go up and not
forward and to just focus on keeping the
bar close to yourself at all times - go
ahead make that fix keep the bar close
elbows go up and then they go down and
just a couple more reps like that
perfect that's it so a lot of these
fixes or eliminate just making an effort
mentally not to do the wrong thing folks
the next mistake is looking for an ideal
grip in the upright row a ton of folks
who want to do the upright row will ask
hey what's the best grip for the upright
row and then someone will give them an
answer which is usually met very well oh
you know it's medium grip right here or
wide grip hits the side delts more this
hits your traps more and it's better for
your shoulders but it turns out that the
human shoulder joint and a bunch of the
other parts of the body have a lot of
variation muscle design has variation
some people feel comfortable and feel it
more effectively if they do their own
individualized grip in there is no
golden grip for the upright row so some
folks might try a really close grip and
someone told them this was the optimal
they might do some operate rows with it
and you don't have to do that you might
do some upright rows with it and it
hurts their shoulders a time and then
they switch someone else said maybe do a
wide
they'll do a super wide grip and then
you know that apparently doesn't work
either and they'll think man they
operate roads is just not for me and
they'll keep asking people hey what grip
works folks the solution here is to stop
asking people what grip works and try a
bunch of different grips yourself and
maybe for her a medium grip just
guessing might actually be the best one
but for you it might be totally
different give it a shot with different
grips and heck you can even try dumbbell
upright rows cable upright rows a bunch
of different implements to find the grip
that works for you how do you know it
works it hits your side delts gives them
a pump you can feel it in the muscle
they get a little bit of a twinge in
weakness later and it hits your traps
and it doesn't bother your shoulder or
elbow or wrists hey there at all or very
little the next mistake in the upright
row is to not be using a consistent
technique from wrap to wrap and set to
set this happens interestingly enough
all the time sometimes it's ego but a
lot of times the fix for this is just
not having the will or rather the fixes
having the will to say you know what I'm
gonna do these reps very very similarly
which offers us a bunch of benefits
first of all it offers us a great
ability to evaluate the operator rows
effects it doesn't hurt my shoulders
doesn't give me a pump all the reps are
different you're not really sure if
maybe you're just doing some of the reps
wrong or if the exercise doesn't right
for you once you're doing the reps in a
very similar way you can evaluate the
exercise really well in addition to that
it allows us to track and program ly
well you know if you need a hundred
pounds in the upright row four sets of
ten last week you do 105 four sets of 10
this week and you get all sets of 10
super Wow you're getting better you
getting stronger that's a good thing but
if your reps are always different and
range of motion and how they look you
can't really sell and maybe I just cut
less of my reps this time or cut more of
my rest this time I don't even know if
I'm getting stronger so just to see what
this looks like in the real world you
know crystal might do the first rep sort
of pretty normally and then she might
pull way too low in her second wrap I
don't know why and a third actually
might pull high but then she might stop
this rep and go up again who knows right
we want one standardized rep looks
pretty much the same every time go
Joseph it looks like up and all the way
down and all the way up if you do the
similar reps every single time you're
gonna get results that you can use
predictably and that's a very very
important part of any training program
[Music]
alright folks the next mistake is one
I'm sure you've seen a trillion times in
the gym it's just using a ton of body
English so a lot of times when people up
retro they turn it from an exercise
decided to hit the side belts and traps
by that we mean uses the side delts and
traps and not much of anything else -
one that maybe is just trying to lift as
much weight as possible so usually the
fix here is to reduce the weight on the
bar and focus on good technique not
doing any hip Drive not doing any crazy
swing Christel go ahead and show us what
that looks like uh yeah you're doing
some kind of and this is even really
good technique because it's really
consistent for but you know a lot of
times yeah you just get really crazy
stuff folks if we were training the
glutes in the hamstring we could
absolutely include a dynamic high pole
type of thing from Olympic weightlifting
but we're just not doing that so when
you do the upright rope
don't let ego take hold and make sure
you just stick to the strict technique
and use the muscles that you're supposed
to use which are the traps the side
delts and all the muscles of the upper
body nothing in the legs no swinging no
BS this trick technique is super
important but not if it comes with the
great expense of muscle activation that
is trying really hard a lot of times
when using plenty of weight and an
exercise there'll be natural shifts in
your center of gravity that you just
have to adjust for so you can't stay
completely upright at all times and you
can't go super slow just like a textbook
it's gonna look close but not exactly
some people will do super overly strict
technique everything will be straight
they means they have to go super slow
they always pause at the top super slow
on the way down it ends up looking like
a textbook you don't get a ton of muscle
activation because you're so busy trying
to move correctly you don't even bother
activating the muscles at all it looks
great externally but internally it's not
that challenging in the real world if
there was lots of weight on here it's
okay to lean forward a little bit at the
bottom and lean back at the top it's
totally fine it's not craziness it's
just reality
so don't perseverate on having perfect
technique that's completely textbook
with an unloaded bar when you have a
loaded bar things are getting a little
weird as long as you're not purposefully
adding momentum to the movement it's
okay for things to look a little bit
realistic and not overly insane if
you're paranoid about using perfect
technique and it's always leading you to
cut reps cut weight off the bar and
super focus on this technique you might
not be growing as much
you could be the target musculature of
the upright row are the side delts and
the traps okay it's not the grip we have
other form exercises for that here's the
problem if you have a grip as a limiting
factor in your upright rows you might
not actually get a really good side that
workout or trap workout because your
grip will go to failure first or really
close to failure you'll have to stop the
set and your side delts and traps might
be reps and reps away away from failure
which is not remotely optimal for growth
so how do you solve this problem first
of all you have to be honest with
yourself if you're missing the upright
row because your hands are letting go
that's bad news what do you do
chok is a great idea straps are a great
idea
the best idea and we are not paid to say
this is the Versa grip it is a miracle
form of technology I have no idea how
the hell it works it's a single greatest
investment you could ever make into your
back and shoulder training give one of
these a shot it's gonna be awesome
grip won't be a limiting factor you'll
get way more reps and use way more
weight in this exercise with strict
technique than ever before and you'll be
like holy crap what the hell was I doing
before this miracle verse a grip came
into my life and made me a better person
Maxo mistake for upright rows is one in
which you can't feel your side delts a
ton or your traps of time maybe you're
not sure what you feel may be feeling a
for arms maybe in the biceps or maybe
you don't feel it at all anywhere except
for your joints there's a couple
potential fixes of this the reason it's
a problem is because we have to feel
something in the target muscles in order
to be ensured that they're actually
training and getting a really good
stimulus now if you just go through the
range of motion with weight yeah sure
they're gonna be involved but maybe not
optimally there are some fixed of this
specifically for side delts you're not
feeling your side delts enough you might
be able to play with some grip widths
maybe wider
maybe narrower maybe you could pull your
elbows back maybe you can pull them
higher maybe lower experiment to make
sure that you're not just going through
a motion but you feel the target muscle
working another option is to do a
pre-exhaust or rather just place another
exercise before our print rollers are
even right before it inch in true
superset fashion of actual side laterals
or bent laterals and when you do those
your sides outs will become the limiting
factor on the upright rows after and
you'll feel them that much more making
the upright rows relatively speed
more effective exercise for your side
those and lastly I'm gonna see something
really crazy in the operate role video
you don't have to do upright rows tons
of people don't do them a lot of people
hate them and they still have huge delts
there are like 50 trillion side delt and
trap exercises you do not have to
operate rows now what you should do is
give them due diligence try them from
multiple mesocycles to see if you can
play with a technique to get them to
work for you because they're an
excellent exercise but if at the end of
the day all they do is mess up your
joints just stop doing them and do
something else the last mistake commonly
seen in the upright row is the practice
of going too heavy now even if you have
strict technique you can go too heavy of
course if your techniques not strict you
should almost certainly reduce weight
off the bar consider it get a stricter
technique and then a lot of your
problems are solved however for most
people remember we have through a three
I don't even know how many figures they
have three hypertrophy ranges the 5 to
10 rep range close to failure the 10 to
20 range and the 20 to 30 range we find
that the upright rows because of the
nature of the exercise because the
shoulder joint that position doesn't
seem to tolerate a whole lot of load a
lot of the mind muscle connection tends
to break down at really heavy weights
can you do upright rows in the 5 to 10
rep range yes but if you're not feeling
the muscle and if you're getting a lot
of that joint discomfort don't throw
away the upright row just yet it might
just be that you're using too much
weight even if you're doing struck
technique so if you're feeling like that
and you're doing really have you weight
try the 10 to 20 range and if that
doesn't even feel so so stimulative and
feels too fatiguing try the 20 to 30
range I know crazy but when you put on
your brand new versa grips I swear to
god they don't pay us to say this I
don't even know if I'm legally allowed
to use that term so when you put on your
versa grips or whatever your chalk and
your grips not a limiting factor a set
of like 25 and the operate rows team oh
your side delts torture traps give it a
shot you might find that you have this
awesome exercise you just weren't
considering because you were always
going too heavy honest I did that for
years when I lightened up the way my
shoulders got bigger
folks give that a shot that's all the
mistakes we have for today's exercise of
up right road folks thanks so much for
tuning in to the upright row correction
video a couple of points to sort of
summarize and tie everything together
all of these tips are relative to the
individual you
sucker to you to use them to maximize
your abilities at the end of the you
want the upright row and any other
exercise to be as stimulating as
possible to the target musculature and
his little fatigue as is necessary so
we're gonna avoid a ton of extra effort
a ton of joint stress and we're gonna
try to maximize how mess up the muscle
that target muscle gets from what you're
trying to do if you have questions by
all means ask him in the comments and
folks those of you have know a bit more
feel free to answer other people's
question is a comment to a little bit
community we can all learn from each
other
lastly if you want a specific exercise
to have a video gun on it by yours truly
to see what we can improve with it
why don't you mention it in the comments
below and maybe we'll get around to we
have a whole list of exercises your
opinion matters folks like subscribe
comment wherever youtubers say
see you next time
[Music]