what do we look for in a good quadricep
exercise well we look for the exact same
things as we do for other muscle groups
you can check those out in the
description not to repeat myself
verbatim but here's what we look for
When selecting what is a good exercise
according to the science for the
quads the first criteria is stability if
an exercise is wildly unstable it will
limit how much force you can produce
think about this let's say you were
squatting on a bosu ball do you really
think your quads would be able to exert
maximum force and thus get a good
hypertrophy effect as compared to a
regular squat where you're just standing
on much more stable ground indeed
there's evidence suggesting that
unstable training will result in lower
Force production than more stable
training the next thing any good
exercise for the quadriceps should do is
Target one of the quadriceps functions
and when we're looking at your whole
exercise selection we want to make sure
that you target most of the functions of
a given muscle group so we get a
complete stimulus for hypertrophy next
for a good quadricep exercise well the
quadriceps should be the limiting muscle
group it shouldn't be anything else but
the quads that go out first ideally so
something like conventional deadlift or
even a Sumo deadlift may not be ideal
for the quadriceps because other muscle
groups like the hamstrings or the glutes
or the adductors may very well give out
first if we want to maximize hypertrophy
we want the target muscle group to be
the limiting factor next we want the
exercise we select for quarup growth to
be stretch friendly let me break down
what that means
there's two components here the first
one is position the exercise should put
the target muscle group in this case the
quads into a lengthened position
secondly the target exercise should
place the quads in that lengthen
position under tension so it shouldn't
just be an unweighted stretch at the
bottom it should be a position where you
have to forcefully contract the target
muscle group and get more growth that
way indeed this is the exact area of
research that I've specialized in
finishing my PhD recently on based on
these two factors you can compare
something like a leg extension to a
reverse ntic curl a reverse ntic curl
would be better than a leg extension
because it both puts the quads in a more
lengthened position by going into deeper
knee flexion and it also places more
tension in that lengthen position than a
leg extension does finally Beyond just
putting the target muscle group in a
position where is lengthened and making
that muscle work in that lengthened
position by having it produce plenty of
force bonus points if that exercise is
also well suited to doing lengthen
partials as came out of my PhD there are
than five studies comparing length and
partials to full range of motion and
length and partials might be
advantageous when it comes to maximizing
muscle growth so when picking exercises
for the quads we may want to pick
exercises where you can safely perform
lengthened partials here are a couple
bonus points for exercise selection one
we want the exercise to be time
efficient this is mostly or exclusively
relevant if you're someone who doesn't
have much time or enough time to train
at your disposal but in general we want
to pick exercises that are a bit more
time efficient if we can less time
efficient exercise exercises usually
include barbell exercises when you're
loading a barbell getting ready for that
exercise it'll take quite a while to set
up versus something like a dumbbell
exercise or even a stack loaded machine
the final point and a point in which
barbells actually went out is micro
loadability what's the smallest
increment you can load a barbell with
very very small by comparison if you're
doing a cable exercise which yes more
time efficient the increments there are
quite large so for certain exercises
having that micro loadability those
small increments to load by is
beneficial in terms of facilitating
progression week to week before we go
into what the best exercises for the
quads actually are based on all the
criteria I just mentioned we need to
make sure we understand what the anatomy
of the quadriceps is now as the name
implies quadriceps basically stands for
four heads there are four parts of the
quadriceps there is the rectus femoris
muscle there is the vastus lateralis
medialis and intermedius muscle
fortunately the quads aren't too
complicated let me break it down all
four of these muscles do knee extension
exactly the movement you do in a leg
extension is actually with with quad
muscles do however the one exception
there is the rectus femoris also does
hip flexion so when we're training the
quadriceps the main thing to look for
will be knee extension to a lesser
extent you could include some hip
flexion exercises in your program if you
specifically want to Target the Reus
femoris however that should be a
minority of your program the implication
of these functions is that the quads
will be most lengthened when your knees
are fully flexed for the vastest
lateralis intermedius and lateralis
since these don't do anything at the hip
just Flex ing the knee will maximally
lengthen them and for the rect furus you
don't just want to flex the knee fully
you also want to keep your hips as
extended as possible to lengthen rectus
femoris and this brings me to an
interesting implication for quadricep
hypertrophy we don't want to pick an
exercise where a b articular muscle like
the rectus femoris that does something
in both the hip and the knee we don't
want to pick exercises where that muscle
is shortening at one joint while
lengthening it the other we have
evidence for both the hamstrings for
example in the squat and for the rectus
moris in the squat that picking an
exercise where a biarticular muscle
lengthens at one joint while shortening
at the other doesn't really produce
hypertrophy very well and so for these
biarticular muscle groups we want to
pick an exercise that either does both
of its functions at the same time or
just isolates one of the joints and
performs its action at that joint for
example something like a squat or a
lunge won't be ideal for the rectus
femoris because the rectus foror will be
shortening at one joint while
lengthening at the other however
something like a reverse NY curl your
isolating motion at only the knee joint
allows the Reus for morus to be trained
effectively so generally we can select
compound exercises where both the hips
and the knees move for the vasti muscles
those three muscles that only acted knee
but for the rectus femoris we'll want to
pick isolation exercises where only one
of those functions is being trained at
once ideally knee extension as that's
the main function that will also hit the
other quarter muscles will need to
include both isolation and compound
exercises in your program to get both
Reus femoris growth but also overall
qual growth and indeed this was
evidenced by a recent study that hasn't
been published yet that I was involved
in at Brad sh and feld's lab in New York
where he compared the effects of leg
extensions and leg press on quad growth
participants simply performed either leg
extensions with one leg or leg press
with the other and basically the Reus
for moris grew more when doing leg
extensions but the other muscle groups
grew a little bit more when doing leg
press suggesting you do want both in
your program if you want maximum overall
quad growth so with all that nerdery
about criteria for exercise selection
based on the evidence and the anatomy of
the quadriceps without further Ado let
me present you with my picks for the
exercises that will produce the most
quad recept growth in the compound
exercise category I think the single
best quad exercise is the Smith machine
squat now you could argue the feet
forward Smith machine squat is equally
effective and for the quads it might
actually be a bit better because it
shifts the emphasis from overall low boy
development minus the hamstrings to just
the quads making sure they're the
limiting factor but if I had to pick one
great exercise within your program to
make quad gains and overall lower body
gains I would pick the Smith machine
squat if you're only going for Quad
development I would probably pick the
feet forward Smith machine squat all the
following applies to both the Smith
machine Squat and the feet forward Smith
machine squat we're talking about great
stability the only Direction the bar is
going is up and down you can focus
merely on extending your knees and
pushing that bar up as opposed to having
to worry about the stability concern
especially for the feet forward Smith
machine squat the quads should be
limiting factor with the regular Smith
machine squat you have a chance of the
quads not being limiting factor but at
any rate they will be quite close to
failure at the end of the set now a
really important thing about the Smith
machine squat as a compound is that it's
very stretch friendly let's review the
components first it definitely places
the quads minus directus for moris but
that's the case for any compound into
that deep lengthened position going as
deep as you can and in fact simply by
putting your feet forward you might find
you're able to get deeper and get a
deeper stretch on your quads if you find
usually that your depth is lacking the
second component is resistance curve
with a Smith machine squat you
definitely have a lot of tension at the
bottom of each rep and the final
component which is why I prefer the
Smith machine squat over other squatting
variations is that it's very length and
partial friendly in fact you can unrack
the weight in that middle position of
the lift and just get straight into your
length and partial set and let's say for
example you fail a rep well you you can
just reack it whereas with regular
squats you might have trouble racking at
the end if you're going very close to
failure and doing length and partials so
between being able to just start the set
in that lengthen position already and
being able to just react the weight at
any time if you were to fail a 4 rang of
motion rep that might be otherwise
dangerous during a full range of motion
squat with free weights and even being
able to set up stops at the top of the
range of motion so you just work in that
lengthen position I think the Smith
machine is a great option and is super
stretch friendly and even length and
partial friendly so as far as a compound
exercise that will Target knee extension
and Target those vastest muscles or vast
thigh muscles the Smith machine Squat
and the feet forward Smith machine squat
I think may just be your best options
particularly with regards to how they
allow you to do lengthen partials better
than a barbell squat would I think
honorable mentions go to the leg press
and the hack squat the reason why I
don't think these are quite as good as
the Smith machine squat or twofold one
depending on the hack squat or leg press
you have you may actually find that it
doesn't allow you to go as deep as just
a Smith machine would right many hack
squats and leg presses I've used don't
allow me to get a full stretch on my
quads so that's a pretty big downside
and the second thing is a lot of hack
squats and leg press are not length and
partial friendly they don't have a
rerack setting where you can rerack it
after length and partial you will almost
always have to do a full rep in order to
finish the set so that kind of stops you
from going as close to failure as you
otherwise could if you had a low react
setting where you could just stop the
set after you're about to fail a
lengthen partial and not a full rep that
said hack squats and leg press depending
on your situation can absolutely be a
great tool and often times they have
more flexibility with regards to the rep
range they can be used in versus
something like a squat where if you go
above 10 or 15 reps often times you'll
find you gas out you get out of breath
and your quads are no longer the
limiting factor and now for the best
isolation movements for the quads for
overall quad growth but specifically for
rectus femoris growth and here the best
exercise has to be the reverse Nordic
the reverse NY curl is a very stable
exercise especially if you have a hand
out to hold on something if you need to
it has a very advantageous resistance
curve wherein the lift gets harder as
you lengthen the quadriceps which is
what we want it also allows your rectus
femoris to be fully lengthened by
flexing the knees fully and extending
the hips fully in this position you'll
feel a deep stretch in your rectus
femoris therefore it's a really solid
exercise for rectus femoris growth but
also just for overall qual growth as is
the case for most isolation exercises
there's no not really any other muscle
groups that could give out before the
quads do maybe you could get out of
breath but on account of it just being
an isolation movement usually the first
thing to give out will simply be the
quads the final thing is that the
reverse Nordic curl by Design is
essentially a lengthen partial already
you're not fully extending the knee
you're essentially going to about 90° of
knee flexion at the top and therefore it
is already functionally length and
partial and as I reviewed earlier in the
video there are now five studies
comparing length and partials to 4 in of
motion training suggesting you might get
more muscle growth by doing something
like a length and partial over a full
range of motion and so reverse n curls
as what is functionally length and
partial are a great option for
hypertrophy as an honorable mention I
think the squat is also slept on
now I wouldn't actually recommend using
the bench or machine people often use to
do the squat because this often
reduces how extended your hips are
you'll essentially mimic a regular squat
where in you still flex your hips and
thus you don't get your Reus foror fully
lengthened however if you just do a body
weight Squat and keep your hips fully
extended it can be a great exercise
offering many of the same benefits
resistance curve getting a deep stretch
and re sporis as reverse Nordic curls do
the only reason I think they lose out a
little bit compared to the reverse
Nordic curl is because one I think there
are more muscle groups involved like the
Cals for example and two in my
experience it is a little bit less
stable than the reverse ntic Cur would
be however it's a great option and if
you don't like the reverse n curl by all
means try the squat the one
exercise I wouldn't really recommend
anymore for quad growth as an isolation
exercise would be the leg extension
while the leg extension does offer you a
lot of flexibility with the rep range it
is essentially unloaded on your spine
the issue there is it is a shortened
partial and the evidence we have on
shortened partials for partial
repetitions at shorter muscle lengths
versus for range of motion versus length
and partials it's consistently worse for
hypertrophy by maybe up to 20% or so
compared to something like length and
partial like a reverse n c and so leg
extensions for me should be kept for
when a person doesn't like reverse NY
curls doesn't like squats or they
find them painful what have you that's
when you could use them but most of the
time if you want more growth take the
reverse NY curl or the squat
that's the video if you like the video
please comment like subscribe I'm trying
to upgrade the camera equipment the
editing Etc so all support helps towards
that if you want to see me explain the
best exercises according to the science
for any other muscle groups leave a
comment down below and I'll get to it
that's the video peace