what technique is best for hypertrophy
well as our recent review paper points
out there's not a ton of evidence here
there's a few things we do have evidence
for and here's what they are first for
range of motion use a range of motion
that emphasizes lengthen positions long
mus lengths for example this could be a
length and partial the second thing we
do have some evidence for is tempo
specifically as long as your repetitions
take between 2 and 8 seconds per rep and
you have some control over the Ecentric
it doesn't need to be 6 seconds long
even just 1 second is sufficient you're
pretty much optimizing hopy we don't
have evidence suggesting that longer
Ecentric pass say 1 or 2 seconds are
inherently better for hypertrophy
finally that's kind of it we really
don't have a ton of evidence for certain
techniques over others at this stage so
if you're seeing a lot of influencers
promoting a certain technique just be
aware there is no evidence to support
those claims typically so use a
technique that feels pretty good to you
satisfy the range of motion criteria the
tempo criteria and you'll be good