in the bodybuilding world junk volume
refers to any training you do that takes
up time and energy but has no actual
benefit in terms of muscle or strength
gain so it's basically exactly what it
sounds like volume is the amount of work
or simply the number of hard sets that
you do and junk is garbage it's not
actually worth anything and as we'll see
i think the scientific evidence is
pretty clear in showing that junk volume
is a real phenomenon and i personally
think it's holding many trainees back
from getting the gains that they want so
let's take a look at the three most
common types of junk volume and how we
can avoid all three the first example
we'll cover is excessive volume per
workout so let's say you're training
your chest with a flat dumbbell press
after a quick warmup you'll do your
first working set for eight to ten reps
and it's a hard set within one or two
reps of failure now because the muscle
is being stretched and shortened under
load with control it'll no doubt
generate a high amount of mechanical
tension within the pec so obviously this
set will be very effective at
stimulating muscle growth and it falls
under the umbrella of what we'd call
effective volume it's definitely not
junk volume and if instead of one set
like this you did two sets both of those
sets would be effective at stimulating
growth and if you did three sets the
third set would be effective as well but
what if you did 10 sets would all 10 of
those sets be equally effective at
stimulating muscle growth would you
expect to see 10 times the growth if you
did 10 times the sets or would the
stimulus per set eventually diminish to
the point that we might as well just
call them wasted sets junk volume well i
think it's obvious that your return per
set will diminish but at what point does
it become junk is it after three sets
per body part 10 sets
20 sets how many sets in a single
workout can we do before we're just
wasting our time energy and ability to
recover let's take a look at this
comprehensive in-house meta analysis
from james krieger which pulled the
results of nine separate studies looking
at the impact of adding sets on
hypertrophy as you can see in the graph
here up to around six sets per muscle we
see a pretty clear benefit in terms of
muscle growth but once you go above six
sets you hit a pretty hard plateau and
maybe even regress a bit now i wanna be
clear in previous videos i've talked
about weekly volumes and i've said that
roughly 10 to 20 sets per muscle per
week is usually the sweet spot and i
still think that's true however in this
video i'm talking about volume per
muscle per day how much volume should
you do in a single workout to maximize
muscle growth so going back to our chest
example sure you could do 10 12 14 sets
for your chest in a single workout but
those extra sets beyond six to eight
probably aren't doing much to help grow
your chest and at a certain point they
could be counterproductive because now
your chest is going to have a harder
time recovering from all that volume now
of course all six of those sets don't
have to be on the same exercise so for
example you could do three sets of flat
dumbbell press then three sets of
incline cable flies but to then go and
do another three sets of machine presses
and then another three sets of push-ups
some of those sets are most likely going
to be falling into the junk territory
for most people and if you feel like you
really need that much chest volume in
order to keep progressing you'd be
better off either splitting those extra
sets out into separate workouts or maybe
you don't actually need as much volume
as you think you do and you'd be better
off keeping your volume the same and
instead focusing on other variables like
your technique execution and effort per
set now before we go any further i need
to make a few important caveats first if
you look at krieger's volume graph
you'll notice that there's a lot of
variance in the data this means that for
any given volume there's a big range in
terms of muscle growth for different
studies in different individuals this
line is simply reporting the average
trend so on average most people won't
get more gains out of doing more than
six sets for a muscle in a single
workout but no doubt some of you
watching this video have volume curves
that look something more like this and
you might not run into junk volume until
you reach 10 or 12 sets possibly more so
this trend line should be your starting
place and then you'll want to adjust the
numbers up or down as you assess your
own progress and recovery i also think
your volume needs depend on how much you
train to failure if you push each and
every set to absolute failure your
volume cap will be lower so to be clear
the six set figure that i'm suggesting
here assumes that you're not taking
every set to true failure but you are
getting pretty close so it means six
hard working sets close to failure
within a single muscle in a single
workout if you're regularly going well
above this you might not be pushing
those sets as hard as you think you are
or you might be wasting time and energy
on junk volume i should also say that if
you're doing less than six sets per
muscle per workout that's perfectly fine
as long as your total weekly volume is
sufficient so for example for the biceps
you could do three to four sets of
different curl variations on monday
wednesday and friday and then that would
add up to be ten effective weekly sets
which is solid so six sets should be
seen as an upper threshold per workout
not a minimum threshold that you need to
hit every time you train a muscle i also
think these numbers differ depending on
body part based on my coaching
experience some body parts really do
seem to tolerate and benefit more from
higher volumes for example i think the
back glutes and quads usually grow
better with more sets so i would
speculate that the average per session
effective volume might be closer to 10
to 12 sets for those muscles and closer
to six to eight sets for everything else
and this is part of the reason why i
still think the traditional bro split
will be sub-optimal for most people if
you do 20 sets for your chest on your
monday chest day at least half of that
volume is pretty much junk for most
people i'm not saying it's doing nothing
but i really doubt it'll make a
noticeable difference on the other hand
if you instead do 10 sets for your chest
on monday's upper body day and then 10
sets for chest on thursday's upper body
day suddenly you've cut down on your
junk sets and i do think that approach
would result in better progress now i
should mention that the latest research
does show that bro splits still work
just fine as long as weekly volume is
matched however i think that if you're
trying to go from the intermediate to
advanced stage or from the advanced to
elite stage most people won't be able to
get there as efficiently on a bro split
because to keep driving progress upward
you're gonna need to bump your weekly
volume up and if you try to stack all
those extra sets on one day they just
start to look more junky eventually at
that point it just makes sense to
distribute your sets more evenly
throughout the week whether that be
through an upper lower push-pull legs
full body or some hybrid split alright
the next type of junk volume that i want
to look at is easy sets and i do think
this is the most common and most
pernicious type of junk volume that
there is at least in commercial gyms and
with more casual lifters research shows
that when people are left to their own
devices most lifters don't train hard
enough to maximize muscle growth past
the newbie phase and the study people
were asked to pick a weight they'd
normally do for 10 reps on the bench
press and then the researchers had them
actually do it for as many reps as they
possibly could only 22 percent of people
got 10 to 12 reps which i'd argue is
about where you want to be to maximize
muscle growth only 22 were actually
there 31 got 13 to 15 reps so they'd be
leaving about three to five reps in the
tank not horrendously easy this will
still build muscle but if this type of
volume dominates your routine you might
have a hard time getting past the
beginner to early intermediate stage i
personally wouldn't call this junk
volume because it is still worth
something especially if you're doing
multiple sets however the 47 of people
who got 16 to 20 plus reps with their
typical 10 rep weight relieving six to
10 or more reps in the tank and this is
what i'd call junk volume and you'll
never get past the intermediate stage
training this way and so for practical
purposes the majority of hypertrophy
work should be within zero to three reps
from failure and it'd be smart to take
some of those sets all the way to
failure whether you do that on the last
set for each muscle like dr schoenfeld
recommends or on the last week of a
mesocycle like dr isratel recommends and
the last type of junk volume that i want
to quickly mention is ultra high rep
sets so anything upwards of 40 to 50
reps and similar to so-called easy sets
it isn't that ultra high rep sets don't
do anything they're just far from
optimal research shows that you can
train too light even if you go to
failure and that cutoff seems to be
somewhere in the range of 20 of your one
rep max so if you're regularly doing
sets in the range of 50 plus reps you'd
be a lot better off simply increasing
the weight and getting down below 30
reps or so apart from this i think the
biggest downside of ultra high rep work
is that it creates a huge recovery
demand for no added hypertrophic
stimulus it can get you super sore and
impair your performance for future
workouts and end up compromising your
results despite actually working harder
now if you guys are interested i spoke
with researcher james krieger about junk
volume over on my podcast which i'll
link down below i also just launched the
final 10 week installment of my power
building series which you can learn more
about over on jeffnipper.com and before
we go i want to give a shout out to
skillshare for sponsoring this video
skillshare is a huge online community
that has thousands of classes for
creative people looking to learn new
skills like photography graphic design
web design music and even business stuff
like marketing and productivity i
actually just got a new camera this week
and i'm excited to dig into some new
skillshare courses on video production
to help elevate the quality of my
channel even more it doesn't need to be
super expensive or elaborate either for
example this course teaches you how to
take and edit amazing photos using only
an iphone which i'll still use to take
photos from my instagram all the time
with skillshare you'll be getting
instructions from fellow creatives that
teach classes for every skill level from
beginner to advanced so you can learn
exactly what you need to know about that
skill that you've been wanting to learn
so the first 1 000 of my subscribers to
click the first link in the description
will get a free one month trial of
skillshare so you can start exploring
your creativity today skillshare's
classes aren't just videos they also
offer class projects and hands-on
feedback with short to-the-point
tutorials so you can easily fit them
into a busy schedule so make sure you're
one of the first 1000 people and get a
head start on that skill that you're
looking to master so thanks again to
skillshare for sponsoring another video
i really do appreciate it thank you guys
so much for watching don't forget to
leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the
video subscribe if you haven't already
and i'll see you guys all here in the
next one