optimal hypertrophy gains Made Easy Dr
pack here a real doctor you know what
they say an apple a day keeps the doctor
closer to you because I like Apple give
me your damn Apple but that said this is
the easiest way for you to think of
optimal training we often see people
essentially complaining about other
people making content on how you could
potentially optimize your gains exercise
selection adjustments and so on and so
for there's just a lot of information
out there however it all comes down to a
few basic principles that as long as you
follow those principles you are likely
to be making optimal
gains let's start with a very Basics so
the first thing that you want to do is
make sure that you're performing enough
training volume if you're somebody who's
trying to optimize muscle gains starting
at approximately 10 sets per muscle
group per week is a solid starting point
and treat those sets as direct sets so
you wouldn't be looking at 10 sets for
your biceps where you count five or your
l pull down or row sets as sets for your
biceps you'll have to think of things
like your legs as separate muscle groups
so you wouldn't be doing just 10 sets
for your quad per week and calling it a
day for leg training but you also need
to consider your hamstrings and your
cows as a separate muscle groups
starting at 10 to 15 sets per muscle grp
per week puts you right in the
optimization Zone and for a lot of
people it may be all the volume that you
will need I think that for a good amount
of you going even higher as far as
training volume goes is a safe bed that
you can make and it's worth making in
the context of optimization but we'll
get to that in a
second after You' set your initial uh
training volume and you've said okay I'm
going to do 10 to 15 sets per Mouse
group per week then you need to pick a
bunch of exercises ideally pick two to
three exercises per muscle group and
select exercises that train the
different functions of a muscle if that
muscle has multiple functions I would
recommend picking exercises that place a
lot of tension on the stretched position
now for example when doing triceps you
wouldn't necessarily want a tricep
Kickback where the majority of tension
is at the short position when you're
flexing your tricep but exercises like
the overhead tricep extension where
you're getting not only stretch but
you're also getting most of the tension
in that lengthen position I would also
pick exercises that offer you a stable
environment where you can focus
specifically on the muscle group that
you're trying to Target keep the
majority of your sets very close to
failure somewhere in the one to two reps
in reserve Mark and have the occasional
set to failure ideally on exercises
where you can safely go to failure and
you can do so without a ton of fatigue
make sure that the range of motion
allows you to get a Sol solid stretch on
whatever muscle you're trying to Target
but if you're somebody who's trying to
maximize hypertrophy having a few of
your sets as lengthen partials and
separating them from your full range of
motion sets may be a good idea that said
there are obviously some other things to
consider and one of those is tempo so if
you are lifting with concentric and a
Centric Tempo combined so a total
repetition tempo of anywhere between 2
to 8 seconds you seem to be covered make
sure you're lifting with close to Max
maximal intent on the concentric
although if you want to somewhat slow
the concentric as well and I'm again
saying as long as your repetition
duration is somewhere in the 2 to 8C
range and you're getting close to
failure you could slow down a bit more
on an exercise where that may feel a bit
better on your joints or whatever else
for me personally I spend a bit more
time in the Ecentric phase of a lift as
it allows me to get a nice stretch on
most things and allows me to focus on
getting in that stretch versus going too
fast and missing that opportunity now
whether pausing in the lengthened
position is beneficial for muscle growth
is something that we haven't really
explored in the literature I would say
that it's not necessarily a bad idea to
do so although I would not recommend it
as a gamechanging practice but if you're
trying to maximize hypertrophy spending
that extra second at long muscle length
or at least keeping the tension at long
muscle length may have something to
offer for hypertrophy worst case
scenario you waste wasted 30 seconds
during the entirety of your training
it's really not a big deal it allows you
to keep things very strict as far as
technique go and at the same time you
are not going to be losing out on gains
if you were to do a slide pause at the
end now as far as exercise specific
directions whether you need to slightly
Point your elbow in or out or whatever
watch a few tutorials on how to perform
the you know exercises that you
eventually decide to go with but at the
end of the day it's likely not going to
make an insane difference whether you
make some slight adjustments based on
pressure and preference as far as rest
goes between each set cuz I hear that
often rest for as long as you need uh
until you're ready to tackle the next
set that in some cases may be as little
as a minute in some other cases it may
be as long as 3
minutes your mindset going in the gym
should be something along the lines of
beating your previous performance either
by adding a bit of weight or an extra
rep here and there and adding sets
should be kept as a huge sort of change
that you will be making when things are
slowing down or are feeling way too easy
keeping things at a 5 to 15 rep range
will make things relatively manageable
and won't have you there wrapping stuff
out until the gym manager comes to you
and says Bro you've been here for 7 and
1/2 hours doing sets of 35 reps and
everything please leave I want to go
home
the current literature shows that
frequency does not matter much if volume
is equated so keep in mind that you do
not need to lose your mind about
training a muscle two to three times per
week although as a good rule of thumb I
think most people manage better when
they train things twice per week because
it allows you to split your volume in
different sessions versus doing
everything in one session so instead of
doing all your qual and hamstring work
in one session splitting that over two
weeks is probably going to give you the
best outcome possible that will land you
in um training setup where you're
training anywhere between four to six
times per week which I think is a good
way to approach an optimized training
Pro program for hypertrophy tracking
your workouts probably makes sense if
you're trying to leave no Stones
unturned and tracking how difficult each
session feels will allow you to know
when it's time to add a bit more volume
if we were to use the session RP scale
out of seven I would say that if you're
consistently seeing
that you're hitting an SRP of three on
some of your sessions of three and you
know your average is near four for the
majority of time that's where you can
start adding a bit more
volume touch it keep in mind that
extreme volumes going as high as you
know 35 40 sets per week
may have something more to offer so if
you're seeing that doing 10 to 15 cents
per muscle group per week is
fairly manageable for the majority of
your training and there are days let's
say on your upper dat where you could
potentially add more volume adding a few
more sets when that SRP rating is
relatively low in that session is very
manageable probably makes sense we've
done a blast 7-hour podcast over at
Stronger by science with Greg nuggles
and Milo looking at the literature on
Extreme volumes Link in the description
below absolutely last but not least be
in a 5 to 10% Sur make sure that you're
consist consistently gaining some body
weight while obviously killing it in the
gym and posing your performance ensure
that you're mostly eating Whole Foods
getting plenty of fiber in and being as
healthy as possible sleep at least 7
hours per night ideally at the same time
and manage stress to the best of your
abilities it's also advisable that you
do maintain uh some level of physical
activity outside the gym to ensure that
you're in good health hitting anywhere
between 7 to 10,000 steps per day will
do that it's really not much harder than
just showing up doing the dam work and
going
home de lo and that's actually the last
thing that I wanted to mention there
will come a point where pushing your
training so hard will require you to
take a step back if you've had two weeks
of consistently missing out on reps and
having to decrease the weight you're
doing on certain exercises take an easy
week of training if you're somebody
who's trying to maximize muscle growth
still train in that week still keep some
light lifting leave you know four to six
stps in reserve do approximately 50% of
the training volume that you were doing
before and then build back up and
continue doing so until you need another
de lo these tips should get you there
and I look forward to seeing you look
like an absolute monster when I take my
cat to the vet and I see you there
getting your usual whatever injection
you're supposed to get don't forget to
like subscribe comment and of course buy
the official Dr pack merch which is not
available and it's essentially this
shirt which I will sell at an auction
for millions of dollars make sure you
buy it maybe this works you never know
maybe we have that one weirdo that has a
fetish with Greek Bal bearded guys and
wants to buy this shirt for you bro
million it's all yours I won't even
watch it please help me live a
stressfree life by making this random
joke it will also make for an awesome
story telling my kids yeah at some point
I made this joke on that YouTube video
some weirdo bought it million put that
on a side invested on the side and now
look at us we're homeless cuz then I
gambled all your money away go [ __ ]
work you dumb kid make money your father
is homeless thank you peace