Push Pull legs upper lower full body
split a body part split which is best
for muscle
growth welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
PhD in sports science with wolf coaching
and today we're breaking down with the
best rouas according to science in a
good routine we're looking for two
things first we're looking for
sufficient rest between two instances of
a given muscle group being trained such
that both instances are productive for
hypertrophy theoretically if you don't
take enough recovery time between one
day for a muscle group and the next your
performance on that second day could be
compromised to such an extent that the
stimulus you're able to impart upon that
muscle in that second session takes a
meaningful hit the second thing we look
for is that we want to train a muscle
group as often as is beneficial if every
time you train a muscle group you
eventually cause it to grow surely we
want to train it as often as possible to
result in as much growth as possible let
me give you an analogy with protein we
know protein contributes to to muscle
growth yet we wouldn't want to have all
of your protein in a single meal across
the whole week and then go the rest of
the week without having protein we would
want to spread that protein out somewhat
across the week to see your best muscle
growth in other words a good routine
should have adequate rest between
sessions for a muscle and a good
training frequency let's touch on the
first Factor first how long should you
rest between sessions well the truth is
how long you should rest after a session
really depends on how much volume you
did for that muscle group and how close
to failure that volume was indeed both
volume and proximity to failure are
going to be the two main variables
impacting how long lasting fatigue is
and how long it takes you to recover for
example in a full body split you could
train the same muscle group on two days
back to back if the volume and relative
intensity are properly managed on that
first day so how long you should rest
between sessions for the same muscle
group really depends on the specifics of
your routine in that case what does the
research on frequency say how often
should we train a muscle group for hyper
the most upto-date research on frequency
is the metanalysis by Brad shonfeld from
2018 and including a variety of studies
that measured the impact of frequency on
muscle growth here what it found when
volume was equated for in these studies
frequency played little to no role in
modifying hypertrophy however when
volumes weren't equated for there may
have been a slight benefit in favor of
higher frequencies of three or more
times a week compared to once a week
just to explain what a volume equated
means here it means that both groups the
higher frequency group and the lower
frequency group perform the same total
tonnage that's sets times reps time
weight across the week the reason this
isn't necessarily realistic is that you
do fatigue within a session and so when
you do the same sets and Reps but you do
everything on one day versus sprad out
across 3 days you may get more total
volume across 3 days simply because the
fatigue from earlier in that session
doesn't impact subsequent performance as
much to summarize these findings there
were essentially no differences in
hypertrophy between higher frequencies
and lower frequencies but if you look
closely you might notice very small
differences potentially in favor of
slightly higher frequencies of three or
more times a week with that said the
effect size from a statistical
standpoint was generally trivial the
effect was also more apparent in the
lower body versus the upper body all
right so this metanalysis suggests that
frequency doesn't play a huge role but
that there may be a neutral to positive
effect of slightly higher frequencies
what did previous research find well
there are also two in-house metanalysis
by James creger of weightology and Greg
Knuckles of strong by science depending
on the exact studies included these
studies either found a slight benefit of
higher frequencies for hypertrophy in
the case of GRE knuckles's metanalysis
or no relationship between frequency and
hypertrophy in the case of James Creer
metanalysis an even earlier metanalysis
by sh and Feldon colleagues in 2016 did
find that training and muscle group at
least twice a week was better than once
a week for hypertrophy at the time this
metanalysis included fewer studies
compared to more recent ones all right
to summarize that section higher
frequencies of three or potentially more
times a week may be slightly beneficial
particularly for a lower body but the
effect is very small if there is one
however if you're someone who is
concerned with maximizing your
hypertrophy this may still be relevant
higher frequencies may be beneficial in
that they allow you to maintain your
performance better across the week and
get a greater volume in when volume is
measured as sets times reps times weight
because the muscle group your training
is relatively fresh compared to a lower
frequency approach you're able to
perform better and get a higher tonnage
in and ultimately since tonnage is
sowhat reflective of tension applied to
the muscle and tension is the most
wellestablished mechanism for
hypertrophy this makes some sense all
right I've broken down all the signs on
training frequency and hypertrophy but
what about training splits which is the
best routine well the research on
frequency tells us a few things first
the Bro split where in you train each
muscle group only once a week should
very likely be avoided if your aim is
maximum hypertrophy second we almost
certainly want to train each muscle
group at least twice a week for maximum
hypertrophy since the amount of volume
perform per week and the amount of
tension you impose upon your muscles
does seem to matter more for muscle
growth than say frequency if a higher
frequency allows you to perform more
volume while still recovering there may
be an additional benefit to going above
twice a week this benefit is likely
mostly mediated by just having a higher
volume throughout the week versus a
super huge benefit of having higher
frequencies in and of itself here's the
checklist for Optimum frequency you
should use the frequency that you enjoy
the most is at least twice a week and is
the frequency that allows you to perform
the most volume and maximize your
performance in a given week while seeing
your performance maintain or increase
week to week that is to say you're still
recovering looking at that checklist
that means a push pull leg split only
really works if you're consistently able
to train 6 days a week otherwise your
frequency for certain muscle groups can
fall below that two times a week
threshold that is very very likely
necessary to maximize hypertrophy
likewise an upper lower split only works
if you can train at least four times a
week otherwise you're again falling
below that effective threshold finally a
full body split maybe the most flexible
of all the approaches and that it hits
the threshold and sometimes allows you
to hit more volume in a given week while
still recovering thus potentially
leading to more growth if you want to
see a full video on how I set up a full
body split check out the video in this
corner to see how I set up my own
training using a full body approach
that's the video while body part splits
probably aren't ideal pushable legs can
work up or lower can work but full body
may just be the most flexible approach
that may allow you to get a bit more
hypoy if you enjoyed the video please
comment like subscribe and I'll see you
guys in that next one peace