doctor pack here real doctor with
another fellow real Doctor Mike Israel
thank you for being in your own house
having us here as your guests to
interview you and we're here today a
groundbreaking video on how to make
things simple from a man who likes
things not so simple when it comes to
training you think we're playing games
out here you think this is a game go
mother yes tou oh another one as
complicated as possible it's my source
of
ego so you are somebody that is known
for optimizing all sorts of training
variables for muscle growth and I'm here
to ask you what are some basic tips for
somebody who doesn't want to bother with
learning anything about the science
behind things what would you say is the
simplest approach to somebody getting
very jacked and very strong very jacked
and very strong or somewhat jacked and
very jacked and very strong like
somebody you would look at and be like
nice bro you're looking good so as a
pedantic I do have to say a lot of that
is genetically determined and the
another big variable is time like if you
train in this way that I will shortly
describe for 5 months you're not going
to get very jacked but for 5 years you
may be impressively jacked I think if
you want to get something like in the
conversation for pretty [ __ ] jacked
to me 4 days a week of training is kind
of where that conversation begins 4 days
per week training is enough frequency to
make a big impact on your muscle size 5
days a week is for optimizers 6 days is
for people who have no friends and 6
days with two a days is literally for
hopeless idiots like myself and Jared
feather ifb Pro who have nothing and no
one and live only to be in the gym where
we feel the least bad of any time we
feel during the day but still bad I want
to be clear about that so 4 days a week
of training is to me if someone talks to
me like randomly at an airport or some
[ __ ] like that first thing I say is who
the you and why didn't my buters push
away from me but if the Butlers aren't
around it's weird I don't feel safe I
have to pretend I'm nice so then you say
look I want to get pretty [ __ ] jacked
but also I follow Pack's Channel which
means I'm a lazy piece of [ __ ] and I
have do not have what it takes to put in
serious work we love you all in any case
if someone was like dude look I'm not
trying to become a goddamn professional
bodybuilder and piss away the good years
of my life but I want to be prettying
jacked what do I do how many times a
week should I train I'd say four is a
really good again three can work five
can work but four is like just enough to
where you're for sure giving a good
effort and not so much like five may be
Superfluous for a lot of people first
thing second of all I would say every
muscle that you want to get big train it
twice a week once a week totally works
training a muscle twice a week isn't a
total increase in program volume it's a
different spread so you can do six sets
one day or three sets over two days it's
probably better to spread out your
volume a little bit and there's a lot of
4day splits that are kind of cool
there's push pull upper lower core and
limbs all kinds of stuff and you can
recycle these splits all the time if you
like but they're really really simple
the next thing I would say is try to use
mostly what I call distributed compounds
a term I made up as most of my terms
that I talk about I made up these are
exercises that are compound lifts which
means they involve more than one joint
and more than one target muscle at the
same time they don't really prioritize
one of the muscles over the other in the
movement for example the wide grip bench
is a compound lift but it really only
kind of really trains your pecs if you
think about it in any really
meaningfully stimulative way and the
triceps are kind of like eh close grip
bench definitely trains your pecs really
well and trains your triceps really well
another lift underhand pullup is a good
example the upright row is a good
example these are lifts that if you use
a lot of them in your program you keep
the [ __ ] real simple because you get to
knock two birds with one stone out with
oneing lift there's nothing wrong with
isolations but that's kind of like a if
you want to give yourself more work to
do you can pepper them in no problem but
the more you can get done with compounds
kind of the better next thing is a
numbers of sets start at just one set of
every exercise per session that's two
sets per muscle group per week and just
keep that until one of two things
happens in your program one you
realistically feel like you're not even
training That's how little the chance
Alles or two rep strength isn't going up
anymore and you feel super underdosed go
to two and eventually go to three and
eventually go to four then by eventually
mean months later because you can get
amazing gains like just you don't have
to do all the volume in the world if you
feel challenged everything's going well
if you're not feeling challenged do
another set eventually your own volume
landmarks will be something you discover
and you can realize do I really want to
do more volume is it worth my time so on
and so forth that right there is kind of
the core of the program and in most
cases it requires four total hours at
most of work per week use good Tech
technique get stronger over time as far
as rep ranges and [ __ ] anything between
5 and 30 reps is good most people will
benefit from like sets of 5 to 10 early
it's much easier to learn an establish
technique when you have at least five
reps per set to practice cuz like if
you're doing singles you're like I know
how to do a squad but I did three squats
today this three sets of one but if you
do many more reps than 10 the fatigue
starts to break down your Technique and
as a beginner it doesn't really well
because you end up being like I just got
tired and my back started rounding and
then I squatting but I really wasn't
squatting anymore so sets a 5 to 10
probably form the core of your workout
and also a lot of people that kind of
want the simple approach I feel like
they want to be jacked but they also
want to be strong and if you're real
strong for sets of eight getting strong
for sets of 3 to six or even one at Max
is like a few weeks of periodization
away you're strong for set of 20 like is
I don't know half a year for you to be
able to do on rep max facts every now
and again when an exercise feels kind of
stale like annoying your joints or just
bored the of it then you take an
exercise that hits the similar muscles
and you replace it if you get tired and
really kind of not jazzed about the
training at all take a week off go on
vacation come back restart your plan
lower your volume back down cuz you're
getting super sore for no reason if you
don't and then start that wave again
that to me is a plan that's simple and I
guess relative effort probably is worth
discussing yeah yeah for sure just try
hard and to me trying hard can be broken
down into a few things one if the weight
pushes back at you and slows down you're
trying pretty hard so like if you do
this close your bench and you rack if
other people can't tell if it's a warmup
set or work set a [ __ ] problem but if
you do this and then you're like it
doesn't much matter if you go and then
Rack or uh and then uh and then and
someone drags It Off Of You the
difference between that is if you do a
lot of close to failure training you're
just going to have to de lo earlier if
you do a lot of training far from
failure but still challenging you'll
just be more consistent for months on
end the average results probably tend to
be the same especially in the context of
a low total volume systemic fatigue wise
and you know 4 days a week for an hour
is not going to can probably overtrain
anybody so try hard and the easy way to
try hard is to write down your numbers
using the RP hypertrophy app oh G socit
knew that was coming sooner or later but
legit and any app use the RP app is a
fine app but any app you use you just
like track your and like every time you
come to the gym you look at what you did
last week and you like try to increase
by kilo here and there 2 and2 kilos 5 lb
or just add a rep and if you can't do
that anymore cuz you're super tired take
a week off change lift recycle go back
as easy as that and would you say those
guidelines also count for advanced
traines and people have been training
for a while I mean they work until they
don't so if you're Advanced and you give
yourself this kind of 4- day a week
program that's super simple you're
probably going to continue to make gains
are they going to be gains at the speed
that you're interested in I have no idea
what speed you're interested in if you
want to make more gains you may have to
make the process more complicated if you
want to walk across the street to say
hello to a friend you just get up and
move your feet if you want to run 10
miles like you might have to bring a
drink with you and think about like
what's the route and what's the weather
things that are more challenging
necessitate a greater level of
complexity but I think some people have
it backwards to where they like want
something really straightforward and
really simple and they're still making
good gains and they're like how can I
make this needlessly complicated do that
if you're Advanced you may still get
years of slow gains like this but
Advanced means a few things if you are
Advanced because years ago you had to
start training five and six days a week
and you're barely eeking out gains and
you're not overdoing it it's not a
recovery problem if you go down to the
method I just described it's going to be
barely detectable gains SL just
maintenance and then if you're going to
do maintenance I would again see seek
your your advice and that's that's
probably more like two days a week of
whole body training you can maintain for
months and months and months maybe
forever 3 days for sure you can maintain
so if you want a gains program as a
beginner this is probably too much I
would say 2 to 3 days a week but four is
fine as an intermediate and the way I
catalog intermediate is 3 to 7 years of
serious training that's a long time and
by the way every time you take a month
off or 6 months off that resets a lot
and so a lot of people just never leave
the intermediate phase cuz they like
trained for a while they have a kid they
miss two years they come back and
they're like I've been training for 15
years and my next question is like how
many of those are consistent they're
like zero and like okay you're still
under media maybe maybe a and some
people as advanced lifters they can
continue to make gains for literally
decades on this plan that I described
that may be you it may not be you so if
you're not making gains think of what
you could Wile maybe I'm not training
hard enough maybe it's the eventually
you might have to be like look these are
2 and 1 half hour workouts now I'm so
big and strong it takes me so long to
warm up the [ __ ] beats me up so much
this just takes me 2 hours to be in the
gym yeah that you need to start training
five or six times a week and then you
start need to start cycling like
prioritizing this muscle group and de
prioritizing that one some muscle groups
are maintenance volume some are in the
maximum adaptive range and all that
complicated [ __ ] but you can make
amazing gains for years and most people
can get pretty goddamn Jack just on a
4-day approach even on a 3-day approach
if you want more invest in more but if
you don't then you know like you ever
been somewhere where like you go to a
restaurant that's like too fancy for for
you culturally and they're like so you
know how would you like your dessert
prepared I'm like I I thought you guys
told me that they have options you don't
understand a lot of people get into
lifting and they're like well I should
do sfr like don't worry about sfr just
go do good technique you'll be totally
fine if you want to take your physique
to the next exotic level to really take
your gains to something you're milking
out all of your genetic potential yeah
this just going to get complicated
everything that is exotic is complicated
so no exception that's nice what I
wanted to say is yeah I do see a lot of
people who consume evidence-based
content we've done as well with like
high level powerlifters and you do with
highle bodybuilders you make content for
people who want to get that extra 5% who
are like okay my arms are 17 in I want
to get to 18 or they're 18 I want to get
to 20 and then they see the content that
is presented in the context for those
people they assume that oh I now need
three different prioritization phases
for my arm when in reality exactly as
you said a lot of the people who want
another inch on their arms and they're
doing something pretty simple if they
tell me he look like I want bigger arms
and this just kind of not happening
my first recourse is not to give them a
higher level of complexity my first
recourse is to examine what they're
currently doing and see if we can
troubleshoot it because quality comes
first like if you're like man I think I
need like a double split your Jared
feather 8 days a week kind of psycho
routine where Jared has like one two
sessions a week where he just only
trains side delts and triceps for
example right like that's prettying
intense and they're like yeah man I need
that I'm like show me how you do a push
down and they're like I'm like you don't
even know how to lift with proper
technique I show them proper technique
and my [ __ ] is soore for days like enjoy
months and years of gains ahead and you
don't have to make anything complicated
before you make things complicated keep
them simple and make sure that they are
done well it's kind of like you know
like if you don't know how to make a
pancake and you're like I need to go to
culinary school no you don't you need to
watch a YouTube video about how to make
a pancake and then it tastes really good
and then you don't need to go to
culinary school you don't have to
calling a professional chef to help you
make aing decent breakfast it doesn't
have to get to that but then again a lot
of people and it's totally
understandable egotistically they're not
interested in someone them actually
you're doing the basics wrong uh they're
interested in in assuming that they do
the basics right and then obviously the
was for them since they're so Advanced
only the most RP strength hyper Advanced
periodization model will do you got to
earn that 100% man 100% time and effort
you often see people that are
half-assing their [ __ ] and it's like
okay Bro you've trained for 6 months
you've made some gains you're not going
to unless you're a genetic freak you're
not going to be turning heads sometimes
even if you're genetic freak Nick Walker
pictures from his first show and he
knows this you looks like [ __ ] he's some
kid with like you look like awful
genetics years later he's Nick Walker
what did he do time and effort time and
effort time and effort if people aren't
interested in putting in time and effort
you know before the genomics Revolution
where you just take a viral vector and
you're Jack the next day before that
happens there is just no negotiating it
it's kind of like you're like okay I
want to do everything it takes to win
World Championships in Formula 1 racing
I'm like okay let's get you in the car
let's get you in the Sim let's get some
hours and like when it rattles it hurts
my neck I get the [ __ ] out of my face
sorry this is not for you real science
real doctor the medical community in
shambles The Matrix in
shambles Dr pack Mike Isel don't forget
to like And subscribe and buy us stuff
buy the hypertrophy app buy our app when
it's released biggest competitors we'll
see you in cord we already guys peace