choose a weight for each exercise which
barely allows the performance of eight
repetitions when you have progressed to
the point of being able to perform 12
repetitions at about 10% more weight to
the bar or stack let's say you're
squatting 405 lbs for a set of six I
mean that's to the Limit basically
failure if 405 for six is hard for you
and you're pretty advanced in the squat
you might train weeks if not longer
until you successfully lift 405 for S
one extra rep when you're typically
doing six reps of 405 is so much more
physical work and the degree of
difficulty in relative terms is huge if
you use load you can put 5 lounds on the
bar from 405 for six to 410 for six
adding load can give you the small
margins which you can actually
successfully get stronger at that pace
and thus you can make these small gains
versus having to do the same over
and over again