you will gain more muscle but you're
going to get so much more fat and you'll
have to cut off your mass gain phase
early because you got too fat to perform
well be healthy or just for the love of
God look remotely like a lifter to where
if you just stretched out the phase that
was gaining you 700 calories per day it
was gaining you maybe 90% of the muscle
per week that that 1400 was gaining but
you could do it for one and a half times
as long gain like 1.3 1.4 times the
amount of muscle for that phase and
never get a fraction of that fat
fraction of that unhealthy fraction of
the performance and the fat loss phase
after is going to be like fucking 6
weeks and then you're back to as lean as
you ever were and you can repeat that
really awesome long road to real solid
gains without an excessive amount of fat
I'm not saying fat is avoidable entirely
it's really not when you bulk you're
going to get a little fatter but there's
a little bit fatter and there's like
what are we really gaining here
right