[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of Technic Tuesday this week we're going
to be looking at the three pillars of
proper training technique now my opinion
so far in this series have been a lot of
focus on proper technique full range of
motion and avoiding injury and while all
of that is fine I think without being
placed in the context of what really
matters I'm not sure it's gonna get you
the gains that you're looking for so in
this episode we're gonna be taking a
step back and having a quick look at the
three pillars of proper training
technique so I would say the first rule
of technique Tuesday is that it really
doesn't matter what your technique looks
like if you're not using very heavy
weight you really want to see how many
plates you can put on there and if you
run out of room
we recommend using duct tape to really
maximize the barbells true loading
potential if you're not using it Ted
here extra plates ankle weights etc and
you're just simply not maximizing on the
barbells capacity for overload and
according to now retired American pro
bodybuilder and a time mr. Olympian
Ronnie Coleman ain't nothing but a
peanut so when it comes to loading you
do always want to go as heavy as
possible but this isn't necessarily
implying that you always need to stick
to low reps as long as you allow your
form to loosen up modestly we should be
able to use both very heavy weight and
also high reps
okay so technique principle number two
is to emphasize the concentric
contraction only anyone who has any real
experience with lifting has probably
heard the phrase lift things up and put
them down and I don't think it's any
coincidence that the lift things up
component of that phrase comes first you
want to focus on simply getting the
weight up and then allowing gravity to
carry the weight on the way back down
and this feeds into the first principle
perfectly where you're going to preserve
essentially half your energy by just
letting the weight fall on the negative
allowing you to lift more weight overall
on the bench press for example you can
use the assistance of a spotter on every
rep literally help you lift the weight
up off your chest as much as possible
which is beneficial not only from the
lifters perspective but it'll also
provide benefit to the spotter since
you'll essentially be getting in some
complimentary bicep work from the active
spotter and even though actively
resisting the negative will make lifting
much safer that safety is going to come
at the expense of using maximum weight
and because
term cheating tends to get a bad rap in
the lifting community because of its
association with infidelity I prefer to
use the term body English or body
freedom which can be extremely valuable
again as long as it's being kept
somewhat modest ok pillar number three
is to reduce the range of motion as much
as necessary so using the squat as an
example or actually let's use the
benchpress here as an example you can go
all the way down to your chest and use a
full range of motion however that's
simply going to be sacrificing total
weight for range of motion and so for
example here you can see that if I only
go about half or a quarter of the way
down I can actually use significantly
more weight than if I were to take the
bar through a full range of motion and
again this can be applied to any
exercise so the same thing goes for the
squat the barbell curl dumbbell curl
spider curl cable curl really any
exercise that you can think of and every
time using a full range of motion is
simply going to put a cap on the amount
of total weight that you can use of
course there is much more nuance to
proper training technique than just
those three pillars and one thing that I
think many lifters miss out on is a
proper preset hype up I think it's
honestly because most people just don't
realize what the human body is actually
capable of so get in your zone while
still being respectful of the other gym
members type yourself up as much as
possible before every set and just make
each and every plate on the bar each and
every pin on the machine and every
dumbbell on the rack a new reality for
you since I'm truly are no limits to
what you can lift alright guys that's
all that I have for this episode of
technique Tuesday I hope everybody has
that that's a happy April Fool's don't
forget to like the video if you enjoyed
it subscribe if you're new and I'll be
back for an actual serious video next
Tuesday that's the no video tomorrow
I'll be back next Tuesday and I'll see
you guys all in
[Music]
to a new episode of technique Tuesday
I'm as less about the technique itself
and more about the amount of weight that
you're using and there's a limit to how
much duct tape you'll want to use for
environmental purposes
[Applause]
[Music]
like that wow that's pretty cool yeah
okay I think that was it touch that