all right what's going on guys in this
video I'm gonna be taking you through
some minimalistic workouts that'll take
you under 45 minutes per session so this
is a two day per week routine however if
you have more training days available
than that I'll also explain how you can
modify these two workouts into a three
day per week four day per week or five
day per week schedule so everything you
need to know to set up your own
minimalistic training split will be laid
out in this video and throughout these
workouts we'll be applying many of the
fundamental minimalist training
principles that I discussed in my last
video which I'll link Down Below in case
you missed it alright let's get started
with full body day one so after two to
three minutes of brisk walking on the
treadmill in a few dynamic stretches
just a few arm swings and a few leg
swings is fine we're kicking things off
with two sets of flat dumbbell press the
first set will be a heavy set for four
to six reps and the second set will be a
lighter back off set for 8 to 10 reps so
we'll get our strength set in first and
then do our hippertrophy set now there
are two reasons why we're doing a
dumbbell press rather than a barbell
press on a minimalist routine first
dumbbells are generally more time
efficient because you don't need to load
and unload load any plates which does
chew up some time and second dumbbells
allow for a greater range of motion than
the barbell this normally isn't a big
deal because we can compensate for the
barbell's minor limitation by also
including a stretch focused exercise
like a cable fly however on a minimalist
routine we're trying to minimize the
number of exercises we do so in this
case it makes more sense to choose a
pressing exercise that also provides a
large stretch on the pecs so a dumbbell
press or a dip would probably be your
best options now from a technique
standpoint I recommend lowering the
dumbbells down with a slight elbow tuck
at around 30 to 45 degrees when viewed
from the top and then as I press I'll
flare my elbows out if you feel any
shoulder discomfort when you flare it's
fine to just keep your elbows tucked the
entire time okay after that we're moving
on to the dumbbell Romanian deadlift for
two sets of eight to ten reps again I'm
going for the dumbbells here mainly
because they tend to be a bit more time
efficient but the biomechanics of the
exercise will be the same whether you
use dumbbells or a barbell the main
thing to keep in mind with the RDL is to
Simply push your butt as you allow the
weight to drop straight down under
control don't think about lowering the
weight to touch the floor simply set
your hips back and let the dumbbells
naturally lower in a straight line
reversing the motion once you feel a big
stretch in your hamstrings without
allowing your lower back to round I like
to maintain a nice smooth Cadence on
these where I don't fully lock out at
the top and this helps me keep tension
on my hamstrings however if you did want
to activate the glutes a bit more you
could lock the hips at the top and
squeeze your glutes together I'd also
strongly recommend using straps for
these so that your grip strength doesn't
limit the amount of tension your
hamstrings receive next we're doing a
two grip lat pull down for two sets of
10 to 12 reps using a different grip for
each set so for the first set we're
doing an overhand middle grip to Target
the mid back and the lats and then on
the second set we're doing an underhand
close grip to Target the biceps a bit
more and to hit the lats from a slightly
different angle then after the second
set to get a little more bicep work you
can strip the weight back and do some
overhead curls this way we'll make sure
the high threshold bicep fibers
experience a high level of muscular
tension as well okay after that we're
moving on to a single working set of 8
to 10 reps per leg on the dumbbell step
up this will be our main quad and glute
Focus movement for the day now one thing
to remember about minimalistic training
is that because we're often only doing
one single set for some exercises it's
very important that we execute that set
as perfectly as possible in this case we
want to be forcing our front leg to
carry all the load so minimize cheating
with your back leg as much as possible
and remember that it's just there for
keeping balance I prefer to work each
leg one leg at a time because that way
you're not losing tension in between
reps which can really drag the set out
another thing you may notice is that you
need to go heavier than you think most
people stop well shy of failure on step
ups and lunges so to get to failure or
at least within one rep of failure
you'll probably need heavier weights
than you'd normally use and again using
straps is smart since they'll prevent
your grip strength from being a limiting
factor up next we've got one set of 12
to 15 reps plus a drop set on the
overhead cable tricep extension the
reason I'm going with the overhead
tricep extension rather than a regular
press down is that the triceps will
already be hit in a more neutral
shoulder position with the flat dumbbell
press so it'd be a bit more redundant to
also hit them with a press down also a
new 2022 study from mayo and colleagues
found that overhead tricep extensions
resulted in about 40 percent more
hypertrophy compared to regular press
Downs even when volume matched which is
pretty huge now there's been quite a lot
of noise about this study online some
people claim that the results are most
likely a fluke however according to the
mass research review it was a very well
designed study and there are at least
three plausible explanations for why
overhead extensions led to substantially
more muscle growth than press Downs so
while I wouldn't put too much stock in a
single study like this if you are
limited on time and can only fit in one
tricep isolation movement I would favor
an overhead tricep extension more than
press Downs okay so for these you want
to lock your elbow in place with the
cable just behind your head squeeze your
triceps to move the weight and then
lower the weight back down under control
and try to feel a nice big stretch at
the bottom after reaching failure once
I'll drop the weight back by about 30 to
40 percent and then take the triceps to
failure once
okay after that we've got one set of 12
to 15 reps plus another drop set on the
machine lateral raise I personally use
this Atlantis standing lateral raise
machine at my gym mostly because I find
I can get a much larger range of motion
here while maintaining consistent
tension on my side delts however if you
don't have this machine you can use a
seated machine option or a cable machine
or even dumbbells as long as you're
taking the muscle to failure with good
form the fibers will be maximally
recruited regardless also strap in again
here so I can use only my side delts to
sweep the weight out as opposed to
relying on my grip and more specifically
my thumb to support the weight again I
use a larger than usual ROM on these but
if that ROM isn't comfortable for you
you can just stop at 90 degrees so
parallel to the floor and again as long
as you're taking the set to failure the
total activation level will be very
similar and again after reaching failure
I'll drop the weight by 30 to 40 percent
and go to failure again to really finish
the fibers off I'm getting a little
extra volume without killing too much
time by doing a whole other set okay and
to finish off the First full body day of
the week we're doing one set of 12 to 50
reps on the horizontal tow press for the
calves now doing calf raises on a leg
press machine is the exact same basic
movement pattern as doing them on a
standing calf raise machine because on
both exercises your leg is straight Not
Bent however when you're seated your
upper body doesn't have to bear any of
the load so I find that I'm able to get
a better mind muscle connection with my
calves when I do calf raises on a seated
leg press machine and once again after
reaching failure I'll drop the weight
back by 30 to 40 percent and go to
failure again one thing to keep in mind
with the calves is to make sure you
don't start bouncing on the drop set
reps a lot of people have a tendency to
let loose once fatigue starts setting in
but you'll get the most out of the set
if you keep your form locked in and
remember each and every rep should have
a nice one second or so pause at the
bottom and a full squeeze at the top
okay let's jump into full body day two
on the second day we're kicking things
off with the hack squat doing one heavy
top set for four to six reps and then
one lighter back offset for eight to ten
reps now the reason I'm going for the
hack squat is because on a minimalist
routine you can often get a way with
less warm-up sets on machines than on
free weight compound exercises for
example with barbell back squats it'll
sometimes take me a half an hour just to
get all my warm-up sets done whereas
with the hack squat I'll just hit two
maybe three quick warm-up sets and then
I'm doing my working sets within five or
ten minutes tops so for the first heavy
top set I'm choosing a weight that'll
have me about one rep shy of failure so
an RP of nine for four to six reps and
here I'm just focusing on moving the
weight I'm thinking about driving
through my heels while maintaining
consistent pressure against the shoulder
pads and after the first heavy set I'll
rest for about three minutes and then
for the back offset I'll drop the weight
back and this time focus a little more
on controlling the negative and feeling
my quads working this is more of the
hypertrophy set so I'm focusing more on
the Mind muscle connection rather than
just moving the weight and on both sets
I'm getting to full depth and
purposefully allowing my knees to come
forward past my toes which is perfectly
safe and I can link another video on
that down below okay after that we're
doing an antagonistic superset for the
chest and back now an antagonistic
superset is when you train two opposing
muscle groups back to back without rest
I'm a big fan of these because one
muscle will be working while the other
is resting so in this case we're doing
two sets of a high incline Smith machine
press to Target the pecs shoulders and
triceps and then we're supersetting that
with a t-bar row to hit the mid traps
lats rear delts and to some extent the
biceps with the incline press I'm
setting the bench angle a bit higher
than usual so around 45 to 60 degrees
and I'm doing that so the delts get more
involved rather than doing both a
vertical press and a horizontal press
we're just meeting in the Middle with a
high incline press to save on time and
this will do a good job of hitting the
pecs and the shoulders with a single
movement we're also taking a slightly
closer grip so we can take the triceps
through a greater range of motion and
this will shift some of the emphasis to
the upper pecs as well which is a weak
point for most people then we're
supersetting this with 10 to 12 reps on
the t-bar row now my gems t-bar row
machine is right next to the Smith
machine so I can superset these two
easily but if your gym has these two
machines further apart instead you can
just flip around on the bench grab some
dumbbells and do some chest supported
incline dumbbell rows instead of t-bar
rows for the same sets and Reps now I'm
doing t-bar rows I'll usually do one set
with a wider grip and one set with a
closer grip just to Target the back from
slightly different angles and I should
also point out that even though we are
super setting I'll still rest for about
30 seconds to a minute in between the
two exercises so just because you're
super setting and you're going back and
forth doesn't mean you need to go
straight to the other exercise getting a
little rest in between to catch your
breath is a good idea so in practice the
Super Saddle looks something more like
this which still saves on time but
allows me to recuperate more in between
supersets alright after that we're
moving on to one set of 10 to 12 reps on
the seated hamstring curl plus a drop
set a recent 2020 study showed greater
hamstrings growth with seated leg curls
over lying leg curls across a 12-week
training study so if we're given the
option to do only one I pretty much
always favor seated leg curls these days
and because this difference seems to be
related to the higher degree of stretch
you get on the hamstrings with the
seated variation I'll accentuate this
effect by leaning forward over the
machine throughout the set and then
since we're only doing one set here
we're taking it all the way to failure
and then dropping the weight back by 30
to 40 percent and going to failure again
then we're doing one set of 12 to 15
reps on the Easy Bar bicep curl plus
some Maya reps again just one all-out
set to failure here so we want to make
sure we execute that set as perfectly as
possible so I'm focusing on curling the
weight out and up not just up and
thinking about driving through my pinky
to cue for supination as I curl I'm also
thinking about squeezing my biceps to
move the weight and keeping a looser
grip on the bar so that my forearms
don't take over after hitting failure
with good technique we're doing some
mile reps to enhance the set further
rather than a drop set this time so this
time we're going to keep the weight the
same and instead of dropping the weight
back we'll simply rest for three to four
seconds and then do another four reps
then we'll rest for another three to
four seconds and do another four reps
and we'll just keep doing that until we
can no longer get four reps at that
point the set is done now the good thing
about Maya reps is that they allow you
to get in a lot more high tension reps
in a short period of time remember that
it isn't until near the very end of a
set the Reps become maximally
hypertrophic so by doing these myorep
mini sets where the muscle is already
very close to failure you're essentially
cutting out any of those early low
tension reps and jumping straight to the
more effective stuff all right and to
finish off the workout we're doing one
set of cable crunches for 12 to 15 reps
plus a double drop set so I like to do
these kneeling with the Rope locked in
over my head and then I'll crunch down
hard on my abs and allow my entire back
to round including my lower back after
reaching failure once I'll drop the
weight back by about 30 percent and then
go to failure again and then to really
finish things off we'll do one more drop
set this time so I'll strip it back
another 20 to 30 percent and then go to
failure one last time now if you guys
were wondering how you could adapt this
to a three four or five day per week
program this is how I would do it you
keep most of the exercises sets and Reps
the same but simply modify how you'd
split up your volume throughout the week
if you want to train three days a week I
do the same full body workout number one
and then split the second full body day
up into an upper body day and a lower
body day you could also add a little
more volume to the upper lower Days by
either adding an extra set for some of
these exercises or you could add a few
extra exercises for your individual weak
points on those days if you want to
train four days a week you just split up
both full body workouts into two
separate upper lower days so you go
upper lower rest upper lower rest rest
and again you can add some volume to
these workouts if you find them to be a
bit too short and if you want to train
five days a week you could do the same
basic thing but this time with an upper
lower Push Pull leg split done five days
per week or if you want to have all this
work done for you you can check out my
new 12-week Essentials program which
just launched this week over on
jeffnipper.com it's made up of workouts
very similar to the ones in this video
that are designed to get you in and out
of the gym in under 45 minutes it comes
in a two day per week three day per week
four day per week and five day per week
version and I'm gonna leave it at 20 off
for another week if you guys want to
pick it up so that's it for this one
guys thank you so much for watching
don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one