all right what is going on everyone so
in this video I want to share with you
guys the top 7 things that I wish I knew
when I started lifting because if
someone had just told me these things I
would have either gotten results a lot
faster or would have saved a lot of time
or wasted energy
now for the record I started lifting
when I was 15 years old I'm 28 now so
that's 13 years in the gym so I'm gonna
overlay some clips from my latest
upper-body workout as I go through the
tips here and before we get started I do
want to thank Squarespace for sponsoring
this video and I'll have a little bit
more about that at the end ok so the
first thing I wish someone had told me
early on is that I shouldn't let others
influence my own training so easily I
see this manifest in a few ways in new
lifters and I'd say it's most common in
young lifters probably the most
dangerous form of this is lifting to
impress your friends or other people in
the gym usually this results in loading
on more weight than you can handle with
good form and so you end up doing things
like not squatting to full depth not
touching the bar to your chest on the
bench press or having your spotter curl
the weight up for you and trust me as an
experienced lifter I can say that no one
really cares how much weight you can
move if it's not done with good form and
personally when I see a new lifter in
the gym I'm the way way more impressed
if they have a really nice technique
than if they're just throwing a bunch of
weight around so even though it can be
very frustrating to see people getting
stronger than you faster than you I
think it's important to keep in mind
that ideally this is going to be a
lifelong journey for you and the
downside of encoding bad lifting habits
early on that then need to be
unprogrammed down the road is far worse
than just having your buddies getting
slightly ahead of you in the beginning
now I also see this take form is
basically just copying exactly what it
is your favorite bodybuilder or
influencer is doing I actually fell for
this one pretty hard early on in my
career whoever was the biggest and
strongest guy at my gym I just take
everything he said and run with it and
if I wasn't so easily influenced by
others I might have been able to find
out what works better for me through a
combination of self experimentation and
healthy skepticism number two is that
building muscle and losing fat is
actually pretty simple I think a lot of
youtubers and influencers sometimes it
make the process sound much more
complicated than it actually is
and because you have so many different
influencers doing so many
and things it can be difficult to figure
out what it is that actually matters
you've got all this stuff at the very
tip of the iceberg being thrown at you
all the time so it's hard to decipher
what it is that's actually driving
progress so I had someone tweet me
saying that if you can't explain it in a
single tweet so on two hundred and
eighty characters then you probably
don't understand it so here's what I
said in response you want to lift
weights with good form mostly in the six
to 12 rep range that doesn't mean only
in the 6 to 12 rep range mostly with
compound movements be consistent train
hard have fun eat enough protein be in a
caloric surplus to gain size faster in
anak lauric deficit to lose fat now I
would probably add progressive overload
to that which is kind of captured in the
be consistent and train hard part but it
is important that you're not only
consistently showing up to the gym but
also consistently progressing with what
you're doing I cover this in detail in
my fundamental series which I'll put a
link to down below but the bottom line
is that while it can be fun to try out
different workouts and use fancy
training techniques and in my opinion
there's nothing wrong with doing that
that's important to keep in mind that
these main things that are driving the
majority of your progress forward
especially as a beginner the third thing
I wish I realized is just how much
genetics matter when I say this a lot of
people get discouraged because they
assume maybe they don't have the best
genetics for building muscle and so
there's no real point in even trying but
that isn't the case it simply means that
like almost anything we're not all
starting on an even playing field which
means you should only compare your
current physique to your starting place
and not anyone elses current physique so
you can use other people as motivation
but it's important to recognize that
even if you copy exactly what your
favorite bodybuilder or influencer does
it's still possible that you'll never
attain their level of physique
development because of differences in
genetics and also the fact that these
social media platforms tend to select
for the genetically elite anyway setting
an unrealistic standard for most people
so I want to look at this study from who
ball and colleagues which had subjects
train their biceps and triceps for 12
weeks you can see here from the graph
that despite everyone being on the exact
same training program there was a huge
range of muscle growth that the subjects
saw the best responder gained 59 percent
and a few people actually lost
muscle maybe that was due to
overtraining or poor nutrition another
point is that all these subjects ran the
exact same program so maybe that implies
that maybe a subject toward the bottom
end just didn't respond well to that
style of training not that they were a
non responder to any style of training
so this is why it's important to self
experiment and try different training
styles to figure out what best fits your
needs however this doesn't also mean
that you should always be hopping around
from program to program you need to give
it time to see if it actually works
and in a blog post on genetics Gregg
knuckles argued you need to train
consistently for at least four months or
you can have a reasonable idea of how
well you respond to a particular
training program if you don't put in at
least a year of consistent challenging
training with a good attitude you
probably aren't justified and
confidently claiming that you have bad
genetics for lifting also quickly on the
topic of genetics while you can make a
muscle
bigger or smaller and that can kind of
change how your body shape looks you
can't really change the shape of a
muscle itself much so things like AB
symmetry and bicep insertion distance
from the elbow can't be modified with
training so don't be fooled by people
who claim to have some special trick for
this ok the fourth thing I wish I knew
when I started is that your physique is
gonna look very different based on
lighting your level of pump the time of
the day etc I remember when I first
started lifting I'd look at my physique
in my bathroom and then I go and look at
my physique in my bedroom notice that
they looked very different in the
bathroom I'd look much more muscular in
my bedroom I'd look much less muscular
now from my perspective today it's
obvious that it was just a difference in
lighting but I think the lesson here is
that you shouldn't judge your progress
on an hour-to-hour basis or even a
day-to-day basis because you may
actually find that discouraging or
destabilizing I think the key is to
gauge your progress over a longer time
scale and use more objective means to
track your progress so you can take
progress once or twice a month use
average body weight trends and most
importantly make sure you're getting
progressively stronger in the gym and
these things are going to be a much
better indicator of whether or not
you're making progress than just
constantly checking yourself in a mirror
so kind of piggybacking off the last one
I think being very analytical about your
training and nutrition as a
Jenner is a very good thing for driving
progress so you should have some kind of
workout logbook or app where you track
your weights and reps from week to week
and I also think that tracking macros or
at least tracking your food intake is
the best way to know exactly what you're
putting in your body and how you can
regulate that to best suit your goals
and following a meal plan also can work
fine as long as the macros are well
suited to your needs but I prefer to set
up a more flexible approach for
beginners so you don't become a slave to
that particular meal plan and you'll be
able to be more flexible with your
approach over time as your goals and
needs change and eventually you'll be
able to understand your body and its
nutritional needs so that you don't
really need to track or follow a set and
trishul plan at all anymore now of
course this doesn't imply that you need
to track every single set that you ever
do or every single bite that you ever
eat but having a log of what you're
doing for future reference and to see if
you're making progress is extremely
valuable even if there is some ballpark
estimation to the specific numbers okay
so number six is that you don't need
steroids to build an impressive physique
a lot of early lifters get so convinced
that in order to build any muscle or
have a lean physique at all then you
need to use steroids and this simply
isn't true I'm not going to go into any
length or detail here I would I think
steroid use especially when you're still
new to the gym can set up a slippery
slope for serious mental and physical
health issues down the road especially
when you cycle off and lose most of the
size you had put on which can then
perpetuate the problem over time I'm so
anyway I talked about those issues in
detail in a steroid science explained
video which I'll have linked down below
and also I think there is something to
be said for more or less maxing out your
natural genetic potential first before
even thinking about turning to steroids
because this way you're going to be
forced to learn how your body really
works and how it responds to different
training styles without having the magic
of steroids in your corner from the
outset and the final thing I wish I'd
been told when I started lifting is that
when you're new to training you are by
far the most primed for growth so during
this time you really want to take
advantage by getting serious about your
training
it's common for me to see guys only hit
chest and arms for their first year of
training and then end up with an
unbalanced disproportionate physique
that might then take another a couple
years of really hard leg and back
training to balance back out so while
you're still in the newbie stage you
want to be intelligent and thoughtful
about how you're training because this
is the time that you're probably gonna
make the best gains of your life and
unfortunately there isn't ever gonna be
a time that you can get that newbie
period back unless you completely D
train again that isn't to say there's
any real urgency to the journey here if
you don't get everything perfect during
your newbie phase that's fine I don't
think anyone ever actually does and as
long as you're consistent and balanced
with your training over the coming years
things will eventually balance out as
you near your natural genetic limitation
anyway um so all other information I
want to direct you guys over to my
fundamentals video series here on this
channel covers all the basics you need
to know as a new lifter and then my
technique Tuesday series covers all the
basic exercises you might want to
include in a training program and if
you're looking to make all this stuff
more actionable in the gym and recommend
checking out my fundamentals hypertrophy
program which was designed for people in
their first couple years of training and
before we go I want to thank Squarespace
for sponsoring this video
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that I used to run Jeff Nippert
comp and actually just finished
redesigning our website layout over
there so I built in a new video loop
that plays on the homepage and revamped
all my program pages so Squarespace has
really aesthetic designer custom
templates in 24 hour customer support
they'll use anytime that I run into any
issues and they make the entire process
of running your own website really
simple so if you're looking to get
started with building your own website
or your own online store and go to
Squarespace comm for a free trial and
then when you're ready to launch go to
Squarespace com /in deburred and that's
gonna save you 10% off your purchase of
a website or a domain so thanks again
guys so much for watching don't forget
to leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed
the video don't forget to subscribe if
you haven't already and I'll see you
guys all here in the next one
[Music]