it's time that we stop telling women
that they should be training so
differently to
[Applause]
men doctor pack here searstone for this
video typical intro insert joke about
being a real doctor here
phds are the real doctors but straight
to the topic of lifting for women I have
seen my fair share of specialized women
training protocols specialized exercises
for women exercise selection guides for
women programs that are separated into
male versus female and just general
guidelines that are supposed to be sex
specific when in reality women should
train
like men and men should train like women
but when it comes to the actual
literature there's really not a huge
difference between men and women when it
comes to responding to resistance
training sure there are some cases where
women may be able to handle more
training volume than men but that's not
to say that for every woman out there
who wants to engage in resistance
training they should automatically be
placed on a program that is three times
the volume of a man however that's not
the point of the video it's rarely that
it's training volume that is debated
when we're talking about programs for
women versus programs for men It's
usually the intensity of effort an
exercise selection that I find super
super cringe the idea that women need to
be doing um booty clam uh exercises and
doing a ton of reps on these sort of
exercises with bands bands on everything
300 different exercises for their glutes
and all those performed far from failure
in some cases doing it ton of pump ab
work for toning versus men who are
supposed to be doing heavy lifting and
building muscle and strength when it
comes to building muscle mass and
strength a woman is not supposed to
follow some completely different
approach to a man when it comes to the
fundamentals of muscle building and
strength the same things go for both
sexes if one wants to build muscle mass
they need to work close to failure they
need to perform a sufficient amount of
training volume and so on and so forth
now the idea that one you need to pay a
lot of attention to your menstrual cycle
for muscle building and strength is
something that recent evidence shows is
not really the case obviously I can only
comment on the current scientific
evidence and there is also evidence
suggesting that and Elite athletes
different parts of their menstrual cycle
lead them to feel more or less fatigue
so obviously individualizing your
training around that may make some some
sense but the idea that you will have to
train in this specific way based on the
phase of your menstrual cycle because if
you don't you're not going to make as
good of gains as you would if you didn't
is as far as the current evidence is
concerned not
true the idea that you should avoid
heavy lifting or do specific rep ranges
or whatever or focus more on toning
versus building muscle mass of strength
or not lift as heavy is also BS you're
not going to all of a sudden didn't turn
into a mass monster unless you're an
absolute genetic freak and bulking and
it's not like your muscles will
understand mechanical tension so much
differently than the muscles of a man
will and even when we look at strength
changes over time between men and women
in strength development from Baseline
and over time between men and women we
see that things look very much similar
as far as relative strength increases uh
go it's not like women build less
strength or need some form of completely
different training approach or anything
like
that I understand the point of some men
wanting to prioritize and emphasize
certain muscle groups more than some
women and vice versa but putting out
programs out there and promoting the
idea that all women should be doing some
sort of bootybuilder Summer High rep uh
hit cardio sort of mix uh workout plan
is just cringe in my opinion I
understand some marketing behind it and
people people wanting to make money of
it but the idea that every woman out
there wants to just focus on their lower
body and they don't care about their
upper body or they want to be doing
these sort of lighter more delicate
exercises that are not close to failure
because they're women I don't know I
think that's cringe the default for
everybody who wants to build a solid
physique and wants to build all muscle
groups equally and wants to steal again
plenty of glued muscle growth plenty of
leg muscle growth and and also upper
body muscle growth should be a
comprehensive program that targets all
muscle groups following the basic
principles without necessarily taking
sex in consideration women shouldn't be
doing something completely different
than men as the default and for all the
ladies aka the one lady watching this
channel the idea that you have to train
differently to a man or you are more
frail than a man when it comes to
training or you can only do specific
things or you should be doing specific
things is BS this is something that has
improved greatly at least again from my
own observation in the UK and in the US
back home in Greece you still you know
if you if you go to many gyms as a woman
and you ask for program you will get
something that is not very intense in
terms of intensity of effort exercise
selection will be as described mostly
lower body and mostly specific exercises
that are not really effective and are
not taking any of the basic boxes and
when in reality you should just be
getting a resistance training protocol
that is just like default resistance
training protocol for any individual who
wants to get bigger and stronger oh you
want more uh focus on your glutes cool
we'll add a few more resistance training
glud exercises not clamshell kick back I
don't even know what these exercises are
called
booty Circle walks I see those exercises
at the gym and I'm like man you're
literally 20,000 rep away from failure
you're just wasting your time sure
you're feeling a burn that's not not
really indicative of anything and it's
not the trainee fault is the people that
promote this idea but yeah overall
enough with the cringe let this die
women who love lifting go out there slap
whoever tells you to do everything that
I just said lift weights break PRS be an
absolute badass and thank you so much
for watching don't forget to hit like
subscribe notification icon and by my 12
week booty program for men specifically
so there's football in there beer
cards not listening to your significant
other while they're talking and all
those sorts of things that men do thank
you take
care peace
[Music]