hello everyone and welcome back to
another episode of the ice cream for
pr's podcast my name is Jeff knit bird
and with me as always is my co-host
Robin and today we have a very special
guest with us he is cliff Wilson of teen
Wilson natural bodybuilding
welcome to the show cliff hey thanks for
having me on I appreciate it yes it's
our pleasure
so if any of you guys don't know who
cliff is he's someone who I really look
up to as a natural bodybuilding prep
coach and his accolades within the
industry really speak for themselves
when it comes to the actual athletes
that he's coached and the level of
muscular development and conditioning
that they bring to the stage so cliff
why don't you just tell us a little bit
about your personal training background
and then also a little bit about your
coaching background yeah you know I've
been training for about 12 years now
it's hard to believe it's been that long
I started just after high school my
first year of college just got into it
as a hobby
after I finished playing basketball in
college after my first year and right
when I picked up a weight you know how
it is it's it's addicting and I knew
instantly I wanted to compete and so you
know that kind of became my goal is to
just step onstage I'm not naturally a
very muscular guy so it kind of became
my goal to really get on stage and do it
right so uh you know I didn't want to
you know a lot of guys when they go
about it they go about reading you know
like a lot of the muscle magazines and
stuff like that but you know that that's
usually not filled with great
information so I kind of tried to go the
more I would say scientific route with
my own approach to training and you know
try to try to just basically get my
hands on anything I could read about you
know physiology nutrition and training
and then just apply it to my own and you
know I did my first show in 2008 I did
pretty well I I took second place I was
easily the smallest guy on stage but I
was the leanest and you know
just after that I have a few people
start you know asking me if they could
help them get ready first if I could
help them get ready for shows I didn't
really think of it as I didn't even know
prep coaching was really a profession
let me put that pause okay I didn't know
coaching was really a profession I was
kind of I wasn't very much on the
Internet
around that time my wife which makes fun
of me for being completely computer
illiterate around that time and so okay
and so um so yeah I just started helping
a few people in my gym for free because
they definitely didn't know what they
were doing and so uh you know actually
my first so then you know I put my first
client on stage they weren't paying me
or anything and he ended up winning his
first show and it kind of snowball from
there when one client did well they went
to the next and in actually five out of
the first six shows that I put people in
they ended up winning the overall so my
business took off pretty quickly after
that around 2011 you know I I did I
started off with that I wouldn't say
clean fully clean eating like that but I
would say I was more or less like a
little yeah yeah I was especially a
little more restrictive with my food
choices than I am now and you know you
grow when you learn yeah I just drove
him into the dirt with chicken and
broccoli that's it even shredded you
know you you evolve over time and you
know I think every coach you know they
they learn their mistakes at least they
should let me put it that way
yeah and so you know around 2011 I
started doing this full-time after Ali
you know started coaching for you know
about a year and a half I started doing
it full-time and you know I've been
lucky to work with some really great
athletes since then you know I've helped
you know some people turn pro and work
been fortunate enough to work with
two world champions as well and it's
pretty crazy to be honest with you so
let's just talk about a couple of these
athletes like I know you did at least
part of the prep for Doug Miller's
latest contest season is that right
yes yeah I hope Doug for the last ten
weeks six weeks out from the gaspari
when he won and then I helped them from
the Gaspari to the Norton Cup when he
won that and then from the Orton to the
Jay Cutler classic when he took you
overall there as well and the past I've
also worked with Candace Scott she's the
2013 Jordan world champ and the 2014
DFAC world champ at the show that I just
did in New York because I know it was a
your ttan Cup winner the vichy bikini
her figure
she was bodybuilding yeah yeah Candace
if anybody out there googles her name
Candace Scott she even as a male well
first off I guess say she's she's one
that shows that you can be very muscular
and still be feminine but her packs and
her shoulders put me to shame so poorly
I actually worked with a short stint
through an offseason period with John
Hanson I think a lot of people know him
as well and then I've also worked with
Ashley Leahy she's an optimum sponsored
athlete and she was the MGA world bikini
champion as well see you work with all
sorts of physique oriented athletes so
bikini figure men's physique
bodybuilding just everything yes yeah I
would say I tend to get a little bit
more I would say pigeon-holed into a lot
of people think of me that's just more
of a bodybuilding coach but yeah I have
quite a few of all of them that's
interesting yeah we're just looking up
photos here of candice scott on google
and yeah she looks unbelievable man nice
work yeah even for a little bit leaner
this year with her but you know she's
she her muscle bellies are incredibly
yeah and her waist is tiny
so she has bigger Delson I do yeah so I
was just gonna say I think that that is
one of the better attributes of good
coaches is the willingness to change
your approach over time and evolve as a
coach because you see some of these prep
gurus online and they're just pushing
the same stuff that they push they just
get set in one way of doing things and
then they just stick to it no matter
what evidence shows up to the contrary
you know oh yeah and people that when
they're when they're asked questions
about why they use a certain method that
get defensive
like I always was curious why they've
developed such an emotional attachment
to their I see I know like I mean well
I'm probably guilty of it a little bit
like when I first discovered about
flexible dieting and if it fits your
macros from weighing I was kind of like
you'd have to be crazy to do clean
eating like this doesn't make any sense
and like I was kind of a Ament about it
and everything but now I just have
completely come around and mellowed out
and it's just like whatever you choose
to do is what you choose to do like
we're talking about bodybuilding
nutrition and training here like it's
not like if a bland diet is gonna help
you like be adherent and like as long as
you're getting enough nutrients from
your diet then I don't see it as like
the hugest issue because some people
find it too much food variety that don't
like one little serving of cereal I can
just put them over the edge for like
cravings like then they just want more
and more and more and then have a hard
time eating Whole Foods oh I totally
agree you know some people they almost
need that clean eating to keep them on
track and and you know I have a bad
habit where I know a lot of people
really get caught up in big debates with
people on the internet and I almost
never do that just because I'm like hey
you know what if some guy wants to if
somebody yeah if somebody's really
adamant that they want to drop their
water on their sodium before a stage and
they have all the facts in front of them
and I'm not gonna keep arguing
exactly I've learned to stay away from
that too because you know at the end of
the day I'm not sure how much gets
accomplished from that sort of
confrontational approach online I think
a lot of people learn a lot more just
from these sorts of conversations where
people are just open-minded you just
kind of share your thoughts share your
opinions and then you know if you differ
then that's cool and we all can you know
just uniquely share what it is that we
believe without judgment oh yeah and I
should guess I should state that I
didn't necessarily always use that
approach I used to argue with people
find it like I would find statuses that
I didn't like she's like why are you
getting so worked up I'm like oh yeah
yeah and for the people who do that I
mean it is a source of entertainment for
the rest of us who just lurk right so
like when you're one of the old the
early adopters of iifym you had like a
duty to like enforce it but now that
it's like years later we're like the
people who adopted it really early or
just like it yeah well let's let the
newbies like you and you know I don't
know if you've noticed this cliff I
don't actually even know where you stand
with like if it fits your macros and
flexible dieting and clean eating and
all that stuff but I've noticed like
some people have sort of reacted to it
now adversely in the other direction so
it's like people who were once like
extreme iifym err is posting like their
Froyo bowls and stuff like that are now
just like you know you should try to eat
clean or like it should mostly be clean
and like if it's almost like if it fits
your macros has now kind of started to
like take a little bit of a backseat
like it's not as hot and fresh and cool
anymore if that makes sense just just
like a little trend I've noticed on
social media or whatever but do you do
you actually do you think that there's
any difference between let's say clean
foods and then dirty foods on a contest
prep like some contest prep coaches that
I know personally will limit the junk
food say at like three weeks out or a
month
or something and they're convinced that
this really makes a difference in terms
of the hardness and level of
conditioning that they can bring is this
something that you enforce on people or
do you take more of an approach where as
long as it hits your macros even up
until peak week or even during peak week
which we'll talk about in a minute that
doesn't really matter it does come down
to the macros at the end of the day you
know I really think it comes down to the
macros at the end of the day so the way
I always describe it to my clients is
you know I encourage them to get more
fruits and vegetables in their diet
because I do think that if they go for
too long without you know consuming any
nutrient-dense foods and I say nutrient
I mean you know not macro nutrients but
micronutrients and you know different
phytochemicals then obviously it'll get
to a point where their body is not
necessarily healthy which I don't think
an unhealthy body would put muscle
growth at very high of a priority but
you know in the short term I don't think
it's really gonna make much of a
difference and usually I you know I
think for health I would tell my clients
it's up to them how healthy they want to
be they're grown adults and they can
make that decision but when it comes to
fat loss I just don't think it's gonna
make really any noticeable difference
perfect example one time I got a client
go through his entire competition prep
and on show day he looked amazing
completely shredded turned pro that day
and at the end of his show day he goes
him to think I did this but with eating
nothing but cocoa puffs and chicken
breast for what do you mean like nothing
but and it turns out his carbs were
pretty high he never dropped below 220
cars per day and he literally got every
single bit of his carbohydrates from
Cocoa Puffs for about the last 12 weeks
I'm like that week on my last crack it
was like chicken and like some greens
and
literally the rest of my cards of the
ice cream like I could not stop myself
from eating like five cups of ice like
we when we travel to the states to
compete we would buy a full tub of
driers ice cream because you can't get
that here in Canada we would eat one
serving and then throw it down the
toilet because it was like I'll just
keep eating it and then we'd go out and
buy another full tub just for the one
serving but yeah I totally believe that
about I don't know when you like
something on prep and you have that
flexibility with your macros it's kind
of difficult not to do that especially
when you when you feel like you know
better you're like Oh what at the end of
the day it's the macronutrients that
matters so you just like can't not do it
like I just talk and totally relate to
that yeah and if you find that food not
about you guys but I get stuck on foods
even personally and you know I if I find
it and that's what I'm enjoying at the
time I'll just keep with it because I
also me stay on track as well you know
you just keep going
so yeah I actually have a couple
questions for you cliff about one of
your athletes in particular and if this
crosses the the line of you know
confidentiality he just let me know but
Robyn and I were talking a couple of
days ago about who our celebrity crushes
are and like I was like I really have
one but like not really a crush but like
spear all I don't let's say and like I
was like I don't know like I really was
a huge fan of Radiohead growing up so
like Thom Yorke was like an idol for me
like he's someone that I would probably
like faint if I met in person you know
and she was like I was like who would it
be for you really have anyone and she's
like actually you know what it's Doug
Miller and it's true man like I thought
I was gonna lose my girl when I was at
the Arnold and like I saw Doug lock by
well so what what sort of macros does he
diet on like he's a huge guy right like
he carries a ton of muscle is he one of
those luxury macros types of dudes who
gets really shredded on like 300 plus
carbs or does he have to grind or
what's his deal you know well I guess I
should first stipulate that you know
Doug when I helped him finish out last
year it was you know I've known Doug for
few years he sponsored me since to
eleven twelve so you know I I felt him
finish out those last several weeks last
year for I think it was a total of 10 to
12 weeks I would say more in friend
capacity but you know I did I did you
know we make the final adjustments on
all of those so you know with Doug I
will say when he first asked me because
you know I've been a fan of bodybuilding
like I said for quite natural
bodybuilding for such a long time and
Doug won his first Stewart in Cup in
2009 I believe a year after I got into
the sport really and you know I've
always looked up to him as a competitor
so when he asked me to you know to bring
him home into the shows last year me as
a fan of bodybuilding I was like holy
crap that's my wife on a side note when
I when Doug texted me and said hey will
you help me you know finish this out my
wife I showed the text to my wife you
know what she says to me is uh just
don't mess it up he doesn't you know
Doug doesn't have an extraordinary
metabolism giving how given how big he
is
yeah to get him fully lean we had to dig
fairly dark Doug does a high protein guy
like when we started with him I think he
when I started with him he was taking
the 310 grams on his prep and we I
reduced it over time to about 280 and we
got that down I think his carbs got down
to a low of about 120 what we got him
down low fast for around 55 gram range
I'm doing this I move off my head so
these are well figures but we had him
ready early before the gaspari and so we
were able to bring food up for a couple
of weeks before peak week and we got his
carbohydrates back up to about 200
before peak week and then actually
before the Orton we got the carbs
actually up to about 275 per day so you
know he was able to maintain his weight
I'm pretty
pretty high in macros and but to get him
down we had to dig pretty hard and what
do you think about high protein diets
like that are you like on the one gram
per pound kind of camp or generally with
your regular clients or what do you
think about that you know I'm actually a
little controversial I guess I would say
in that department I do the opposite a
lot of people I would say a lot of
people in the more scientific the more
scientific minded coaches they tend to
do along somewhere around the gram per
pound of body weight and then you know
they'll bring it up a little bit once
the contest prep starts I actually do
the opposite I go very high in the
offseason with protein intake and
because my view is that this is when
caloric intake is high energy levels are
sufficient to fuel hard training and if
I take an extra thirty or forty grams
from carbohydrates and give it to
protein it won't be at the detriment to
performance because there's there should
be plenty of energy in glucose to go
around a fuel hard training and I'm not
sure for many out there if ever read
John bodies papers on protein spread and
change theories but he showed that the
optimal protein intake or the protein
intake that you will usually give the
highest degree of results in terms of
muscle growth will be the one that has a
change upon baseline of protein intake
so I sort of use protein intake as a way
to create a higher protein intake change
from baseline and then what I do is
during prep I will bring protein down to
a more moderate level to spare
carbohydrates so I can use that for
training so I kind of do it a little bit
backwards from what most people see
that's cool the change theory is did you
say boss because I heard John boss talk
about his research on this or was it
someone else yes yeah okay so yeah I am
familiar with that that's interesting
that's the first time I've ever heard
anyone actually apply that research
that's really interesting because a lot
of people just go by like you know that
either that you're a comms paper
or the 0.82 paper on the marathon
runners or whatever so that's that's
actually really cool I've actually never
heard of that approach and it's
unorthodox but it it sounds interesting
and just one other quick question about
your clients what I know you like guys
cliff has worked with so many athletes
and so many elite athletes that while I
you guys know that I'm a science-based
practitioner I love reading and
interpreting research but when it comes
to bodybuilding contest prep I value the
opinion of someone who's worked with a
lot of people specifically who are
contest prep bodybuilders and natural
and natural athletes because a lot of
this research is done on just general
population or like you know average day
gym goer type dudes and not necessarily
bodybuilders in contest prep our
research there really is limited to just
like a handful of case studies and then
extrapolations from you know non contest
prep populations so Cliff's opinion here
really is highly valued I'm wondering if
you've noticed a trend whether bigger
more muscular guys tend to be able to
get away with more carbs or if you know
smaller say more active like just hyper
type dudes are able to get away with
more carbs and what what is the most
carbs you've ever dieted a guy on for a
competition in Gaza I do tend to find
that the bigger guys are typically not
the biggest carb monsters you know I
know you've done some prep as well Jeff
I don't know if you noticed that but
that likes a lot of a smaller leaner
guys and like you said the very hyper
ones as well they tend to be the bigger
carb monsters and every once in a while
you'll get somebody that's sort of
in-between you know not necessarily the
big of the big muscular freaks but
somewhere middle-of-the-road but also
very hyper hyper active and so they'll
they'll be the the I would say the the
ones that are gonna take the most trying
to think I do have one client that is
very big and also a pretty hyper guy and
the lowest his carbohydrates ever got
during his prep was 325 grams he weighed
about 159 pounds on show day and yeah
and his yeah and his car blow you know I
know we're gonna talk a little bit about
peak peak but his carb load for his body
weight was insane 159 pounds before his
load and we ended up using I want to say
close to 1300 grams the day before
like you know that's a that's two days
of intake for some bikini girls that I
know in calories
like that's 1300 grams of grams of
carbohydrates yeah I really became
concerned my biggest concern if it
wasn't spill it was is his digestive
tract going to keep up like did you give
him specific guidelines for what type of
constant can seem like ripped low
residue cancer yes yeah when I do you
know the rapid back load peak I do give
specific foods that I want people to
handle because because of digestive
purposes and as well as keeping balance
a few things as I go through so yeah
that was definitely in his plan so let's
just jump right into the peak week stuff
I know a lot of guys and girls are gonna
be curious about your approach here so
let's just take these one by one first
what is your general approach so just to
make sure everybody knows peak week is
from I'm gonna call a Saturday to
Saturday so if the show is on Saturday
is one week out from the competition and
this is when you hear all of that talk
on the internet where there's all this
voodoo magic and you're gonna drop your
water and you're gonna fill out and all
this sort of stuff and everyone changes
everything
come peak week so that they can look the
best for show day so I'm curious to know
what it is your approaches here cliff
so for carbohydrates what do you
normally do for peak week well you know
I guess I would say the the style of
peak I use will be a little bit
dependent on the category first off
if I'm using if I'm picking a bikini
competitor or figure competitor I will
either use a front load or I would what
I call it's almost a physique management
load where you know the front load is
obviously where you bring carbohydrates
up at the beginning of the week and then
you'll maybe taper down a little bit as
the week continues with us maybe a
slight loading on Friday before before
the person gets to stage and then I get
on Saturday uh what I call like a
physique management or a subtle back
load is where essentially I'll bring
carbohydrates up very slowly and
gradually across the week it's more of a
it's more to bring out a subtle look and
to find the look that I like for that
figure or bikini athlete and then I once
I find that look that I really like you
know not too full and not too flat I
just stick with that I try to maintain
that going into the show now with
bodybuilders and I should say I'll use
this method I use a rapid back load I
that's kind of a the term I just started
calling it I use a rapid back load and
I'll also use this for figure
competitors where they are doing a show
where a more extreme look is favored so
maybe my figure competitors that are
doing the World Championships because
usually at the World Championships more
extreme looks are are rewarded very lean
very full looks for figure are rewarded
at those higher levels so I'll also use
a back load in those instances as well
but the rapid back load is something
that I started using in 2011 and a lot
of people were really not not too they
were pretty skeptical about what I was
doing where essentially I will deplete
carbs for three or four days Monday
through Thursday or Tuesday through
Thursday and then on Friday I will bring
carbs up very high most male competitors
will probably be in the range of 900 to
1400 grams of carbs on Friday and most
female competitors in the range of 500
to about a thousand
right yeah and they were on the day
before the show so you know then that
those are my my usual methods they're
for bodybuilders and you know the
bodybuilding one obviously that's a
pretty extreme approach but you know
I've had pretty I've had really good
luck with it
you must like a company that with like a
water load or any what party would you
manipulate water and sodium with that
amount of cards any different yeah
there's a lot of intricate moving parts
and I guess I should say I always put a
disclaimer with this for those that
aren't really familiar with how to do it
or aren't really familiar with how water
and carbohydrates and sodium and
potassium work with each other I don't
usually recommend doing this so many
people will say oh you know I'll give it
a shot and they just think I'll just cut
carbs for four days and then I'll just
load cars for the day but you know you
really do you're very right Robin you
need to have water sodium and
carbohydrates and potassium it's all
working in tandem at the same time so I
usually will bring water up I'll
actually bring water up about a week out
just to start acclimating the body to a
higher water intake because I don't want
to throw anything to it a too crazy at
the last minute because you're gonna
need that higher water intake obviously
for glycogen storage once those
carbohydrates come in into play so I
don't want to I guess I would say I
carbohydrates are variable that need to
be adjusted at that last minute but
water is one that doesn't need to be
adjusted at the very last minute so I
will bring water yeah I'm a big I'm a
big believer in reduction of variables
during the final week you know the fewer
things you can leave the chance the
better and so I i'll bring water up just
to acclimate the body to the high higher
water intake and i pretty much leave it
there for the entire week it just
usually around two to three gallons per
day and i'll just keep it that way all
the way through friday and then that way
the water is there when those
carbohydrates start coming in in a very
high
so I have a couple questions about this
now so does it make any difference for
you if an athlete is leaner or maybe
someone came to you a little bit with
not quite enough time you didn't have
quite enough time to get them in true
stage condition well you still load a
rapid back load as heavily or do you
find that the slightly less conditioned
athlete will be more likely to spill and
by spill I just mean you know you're you
start to look smoother and maybe you
have some water pockets or just look a
little softer and more bloated kind of
thing that very good question actually a
lot of people you know ask that but that
is very true if someone is not fully
lean I do not use the back load the
large back load because you are very
right the the leaner someone is the more
someone's gonna be able to take in those
carbs without seeing any spilling but if
somebody does have pockets of fat
wherever those pockets of fat are then
you will see a blurring of that area and
you know I think that when there is a
decent amount of subcutaneous fat there
there's just more area for water to sort
of you know get stored yeah I collect in
that area and you know maybe some of the
glucose would just be a little bit more
likely to float around in that area so
yeah you know I it's a method that
somebody just has to be absolutely
peeled and literally just no pockets of
fat left out of them yeah
and so since you've you prepped so many
competitors and you've kind of refined
this these techniques you do you feel
the need to test athletes out like or
like earlier and the perhaps a like or
is it pretty consistent that if they are
a very very mean they'll always like all
athletes will respond very well to like
the rapid back load or do you do you
test it out on an athlete just to make
sure they'll respond well to it I
usually don't test it I would say about
95% of the bodybuilders I work with it
is right for them and usually I can see
they will respond to it just by how they
react to their high carb day if somebody
tends to get very watery very smooth
after their high carb day then usually
it will let me know that that maybe this
isn't right for them so you know I but I
will say that even people that are very
have to go very low carb to get lean
some people that you know maybe even
have some insulin resistance issues
it still works to them really well and
so you know I've had some people where I
they we have to get their carbohydrates
down to 40 grams per day or something
crazy during their prep and we can still
use the back load without any spilling
just while we're on the topic of people
not getting quite stage ready just gonna
sidestep for one second do you find that
there are certain people who have just
an extremely stubborn body and have an
extremely difficult time getting is
there any way to predict it and what is
the approach you would take with someone
who comes to you like that because you
know in this industry it's all about
promoting the athletes who get shredded
right so you see all the contest prep
coaches posting you know the same pics
that have same dudes over and over all
have to like veins going up their ass
and like they have just like striations
on their earlobes and they all eat tons
of carbs right so they post a
genetically but you know that there are
clients out there who are stepping on
stage over ten percent - right so my
question for you is and by the way I'm
not hating on people like I do the same
thing everybody posts their best
athletes for the most part right but
have you ran into this where you have
some people who just seem to have
extremely stubborn metabolisms really
are genetically predisposed or somehow
predisposed to keeping fat on and yeah
is there a way to sort of overcome that
or yeah what do you have to say about
that yeah you know that man you asking
some really good questions that I feel
like you [ __ ] that I could talk forever
about on the there there are and you
know I've often found
that some of these people are extremely
muscular I talked with like you said
John Bazzi about this as well on one of
his podcasts but I've seen this weird
instance where sometimes people that are
extremely muscular and actually have the
capability to get extremely lean there
they can but they need to dig so much
harder than some other people would
probably need to I'll use one of my
clients as an example her name is Kerry
Boleyn she's a female competitor she's
probably the leanest female competitor
I've ever not only ever coached but I've
ever seen in person and but she gets
extremely lean but we just have to push
so hard and when you work with someone
like that I think it's important to
really just one gauge how much how much
physically and mentally they're able to
take because you know you always want to
avoid excess excess whether it be you
know excessive you know caloric deficit
or excessive amounts of cardio but you
know sometimes it's called for and
you're just kind of engage first off
where this person is able to tolerate a
certain level of work and a certain you
know caloric intake but then beyond that
I think sometimes you need to get a
little tricky I mean I'm not necessarily
a fan of ketogenic diet alot of the
really hard case weight-loss people as
hell I'll go as far as I can with I
would say a more traditional fat loss
method of cutting cutting fats down
keeping protein moderate and then just
chipping away from carbs from there but
once carbs and fat start to get pretty
low I've had really good success with I
would say finishing with a ketogenic
diet and when I say keto not just you
know now what people a lot of people
think of ketogenic diet where you just
go a little carb and high protein but
real ketogenic guiding where you go
almost yeah where you actually look to
achieve ketosis and you know a lot of
people think you need lower protein to
accomplish that so you know I'll even
have some female competitors where I
drop them down to 100 grams of protein a
day or 90 grams approach
for the day and I'll raise fats up to 80
grams and it's almost like starting over
where I had their calories maybe down to
1,100 calories or and they're just stuck
I'll sort of start over and I switch
them over to ketosis and I'll bump their
calories up to 1300 1400 maybe in 1500
and they'll start they'll start dropping
again with that ratio and then I sort of
work the calories back down from there
while in ketosis initial drop is like
glycogen depletion or do you think it's
true like fat loss I do think it's true
fat Li I mean obviously there's some
water weight that comes off with that
but I'm often surprised to find that
they will continue to lose for several
weeks even on the higher floor I can
take and I you know it's it's been this
is only something I really started doing
I would say in the past two three years
of that finishing with with with keto
dieting and it's been it's been really
good and I think it also has to do with
just from a greater energy output during
training and during cardio because the
calories come up but insulin levels stay
low and with with the caloric intake
coming up they're just able to train
harder they're able to push harder
during their cardio and then it just
leads to greater fat loss I feel like I
am so card sensitive I would just knock
I don't know because I've never tried it
but I feel like I would just be a zombie
on a keto diet like I feel like I
wouldn't be able to push myself as hard
do you ever find anyone that just really
doesn't respond well to it or is it just
you know I don't I would say don't but
that's only because I use it so rarely I
only use those in the yeah 3 percent of
people that you just can't get them as
lean as they need to be with traditional
methods so I would say that that you
know finishing mosquito is like the last
last resort if I tried to do Aikido
method I would be a complete zombie as
well and you know what I think a lot of
these people as well though
ones that tend to need to do that they
tend to be more muscular they they tend
to be the people that are more muscular
so they you know they they're almost
like a different breed of athlete you
know that you know we've seen those
genetically tanned Jeff I know you've
seen some of the guys in the IFP a and
WOM BFS that are just so big and so
massive and I have some females that are
just extra muscular and they can almost
take and what's is seemingly an endless
amount of work you know you give them so
much hit and you give them so much
training and they just really never seem
to display the signs of you know
overtraining as it may be and so when
they switch to Keough dining it's almost
like it's no there's no big thing to
them yeah I just have I'm sorry for all
the tangents man like but everything
just keeps popping up and while I have
your knowledge at my disposal I just
want to take advantage of it for myself
and the listeners I have a question for
you those striations because I noticed a
lot of your competitors have striated
glutes feathered triceps vastus
lateralis vastus medialis all feathered
I'm the type of guy that I can get lean
and stay comfortably lean I would say
probably between like eight to ten
percent very comfortably but I've never
really been able to get like the veins
in my glutes like really really striated
triceps I it's just like almost like
there's always that last bit of fat and
no matter how hard I dig it's like I
just can't quite get to the level of
some of these guys that you know you've
put on stage do you find that glute
striations let's say or tricep
striations there's a genetic thing there
so like some guys just have good
genetics to have deep cut striations and
they can have that really shredded
appearance without say getting super
super lean or do you find that it is
just a case of how lean you get and is
there any approach that or
recommendation you would say for someone
say like me who struggles with that
extra like you know two or three percent
whether that be more contest prep time
or is it some approach at the end or
what do you have to say about that
thing I dispute no I think it I actually
think it's a combination of a lot of
those factors he named you know
sometimes it does come down to there's
just a little bit more and you know
honestly a lot of people ask me a lot of
questions about peak week and all that
and they get really excited about the
different you know backload approaches
but I think you know you know this more
than anything the biggest thing you can
do to make the biggest impact on stage
is really push yourself farther than
what you think you should go so
sometimes it is just a matter of losing
that last two pounds but of course there
is a genetic component to it you know so
the same way some people have you know
different shaped muscle bellies and you
know muscle insertions you're gonna have
different looks in terms of the
striations of the muscle and so I think
that's also component but also your
you're a young guy right holding at 24
oh yeah you're young so I also see age
as a big component to that you know
muscle maturity the the density of an ax
look of someone that has been training
for a long a longer period it just tends
to look different and I can't even 100%
say what that is like we were discussing
this like probably last week and just
like kind of arguing over hours like
what we thought it was but I thought
that it was because the body was is just
more willing to let go of the last bit
of sub-q fat that was my opinion and
then Jeff said that no he thinks it's
that the muscles are actually more dense
but you just to me just like on like a
40 year olds physique like this skin
just looks thinner to me it's like
there's less collagen or something I
don't know I just think that it's a skin
thickness thing and that's it but I
don't know firstly I agree with both of
you actually and I always tell people
like imagine you know like factory
workers and laborers that maybe have
never touched a weight in their entire
but they were it yeah and their forearms
are just jacked and you know they've
they just have these huge straightened
forearms it's just different skin in my
have some younger clients that are maybe
21 22 that are absolutely massive
they're genetic freaks in their own
right but they you know they're say
they'll say I want to look like
so-and-so maybe another one of my
clients that's you know 38 you know 42
something along those lines I'm like
you're not gonna you're not gonna look
like that you'll be you maybe everybody
just big but you're not gonna look that
dense cuz it just doesn't happen that
quickly so you know for people that
would say our little discouraged for the
situation's you know get lean get as
lean as you possibly can and your may
just have to give it time the other last
thing I would say might help as a
component of that is getting lean extra
extra lean early and then bringing food
back up for at least a good three to
four weeks before peak week because I
think that you know you can whether
house no matter how small at baby
increase your muscle mass that you've
lost a little bit going into a show and
you know that increased muscle mass
without if you do it slowly without
putting on any fat can sort of push out
against the skin a little bit more
tightly and show off some illustrations
that you do have yeah cool that actually
helps a lot just need to keep being more
patient not wanting to look like guys 10
years I know but I've never seen I don't
know why I mean it's like fat
distribution and variability and fat
distribution is a real thing and for me
I just feel like it goes on my triceps
in my butt and like I swear I'm a female
man because like this is the same
problem that females have when they get
oh yeah and this is actually
good segue into the question the burning
question that I have for you clip and it
is do you have some females where they
just have terrible lower body stubborn
fat and if so have you changed an
approach like I know I like specifically
for these women
I know Lyle has written a book on this
and I've actually read it and I was
curious to know if anyone actually
applied his theories or what you think
about that you know I haven't read Lyles
book and suggestions on the subject so
of course I don't know what he
recommends I can say it really really
quickly
it's a weird it's a combination of
supplements it's your hemline and
caffeine and if you're not in you know
it's such and such a natural
organization of fed Rijn and you take
that before your cardio fasted it gives
a protocol for no supplements as well
yeah there's a bunch of different
protocols but I'm not just giving the
basic one and then you do HIIT for like
20 minutes or something then you do a
bunch of lists which is supposed to like
burn off the fatty acids that you
liberated from the HIIT then you finish
off with like I think a couple more
little intervals I did trick like the
different receptors on on the stubborn
fat cells cuz he thinks that the
stubborn fat cells are like have a
different physiology like than regular
fat cells it's interesting like the
nerdy side of me really likes it but
then at the same time it's just a
grueling protocol and I've heard some
other guys sort of you know brush it
under the table and be like you know
that's probably not the most Proctor who
are like that know if there's any hope
for them it's like their body fat just
seems to come off their upper body and
almost just like stick on their lower
body or they just only lose body fat
from their upper body like I've seen
female natural body builders on stage
like that and I'm just like oh I just
I've I know that it's real and like I'm
just wondering if if you have
encountered that you know it's you know
it's funny that you mention I actually
just did a talk on this I wish I had
visual representation here but you know
I've heard protocols similar to what
Lyle recommends I guess
I can't necessarily say it's wrong but I
would say that I've tried similar
protocols so that in the past and I just
can't say that I noticed any big
difference in the end I think what it
comes down to is continuing to push even
when you're you're naturally lean areas
have already leaned out the way I look
at it is that once body fat stores in a
particular area are tapped out the body
has to pull that energy from somewhere
and so if you keep digging it eventually
has to come off it's sort of like if I
had if I take five hundred dollars and I
put it in one bank and I take five
hundred dollars and I put in another
bank and I continue withdrawing ten
dollars every week out of only one
account you know and and until that
count is totally depleted maybe that's
somebody some some females upper body
eventually if I keep meeting ten dollars
every week I'm gonna have to start
taking it from my other account you know
what I mean
so if you just keep continuing to create
the demand for energy it has to start
coming off the lower body but you're
right unfortunately that the some people
just have very unfortunate and I'll even
use myself an example as a male body
Buller I have terrible body fat
distribution I tend to have pretty lean
legs but it is all stored around my
stomach I get I get glue striations in
my side poses before my ABS are even
even close to in and I have I have the
anti men's physique I would make the
worst men's physique competitor and so
so you know I think in a situation like
that if you're a female out there and
you get to the point where your upper
body's just really lean and you cannot
you know you still have quite a bit left
on your legs my advice is just just keep
going just keep losing and you'll find
that it'll start coming off
one girl that I was falling and she
actually just did Canadian Nationals I
watched her on stage and she had done a
whole prep for the Arnold she did that
Arnold amateur and her upper body was
completely shredded like more mean than
any other girl I saw on the Arnold stage
and her lower body just was like
probably looked like six weeks out or
something and she knows this like she
posted about it and everything and then
she continued to prep since the Arnold
like digging digging digging for like oh
I think sure hole prep was like eight
months or something until now nationals
and she finally just decided to start
prepping and she only just started to
get like her legs lean and it's just
like yeah bikini so much dieting like
for just for so long
so you know it's one trick that I'll
actually use this if I have a bikini
competitor where her lower body isn't
really keeping up and you essentially
have to push to the point where her
lower body is lean enough but her upper
body's maybe we could become too lean
for bikini in a situation I'll do what
I'll do with that is I actually this is
the only situation where I will cut
water for a competitor for a few days so
she softens up you know if you and I
have seen I'm sure we've seen the look
of a competitor that cuts water and they
get soft
is that because if their upper body is
too lean I'll cut water and I'll reduce
water pretty low for a few days before
the show and her upper body gets softer
yeah that's that's really cool I agree I
thought you were gonna say I would get
her to stop training her upper body
I mean yeah like people so you could you
could tone back on the upper body
training right a lot of competitors
actually like a lot of bikini
competitors who just have like good
upper body development and just find
that their legs are
kind of the last tool you know but I
don't know like how house like
science-based that is alright cliff so
let's just quickly go through all this
peak week stuff I think we've touched on
a lot of really cool topics already so
you do the rapid back load for most
people what about fats do you also load
them deplete them keep them the same and
the same for protein during the rapid
back load people get really nervous when
I say I'd do a deplete because obviously
I deplete carbohydrates for a few days
to create that super compensation effect
when I load but some people get really
nervous when I say deplete I don't
really do a caloric deplete it's just a
carbohydrate deplete so typically I'll
keep calories around the singles they're
dieting levels and I'll just decrease
carbohydrates and I'll distribute among
fats and proteins so fats and proteins
will usually come up during the deplete
portion just so I can get make sure that
they're not losing muscle during this
deplete this complete phase during
loading portion protein comes way way
down because I'm just trying to keep
calories from getting way too high and
so proteins and fats are mostly just
trace from the carbohydrate foods that
are coming in I do have some people I do
have people take bites of chicken
throughout the day and I'm gonna be
totally honest this is a little bit more
of the bro in me trying to get out in
that I just feel uncomfortable having
somebody go the entire day without any
you know protein
specific protein source like I know Jeff
stomach gets upset like on meats like
when we do powerlifting meats and we
just snack on carbs all day yeah and so
you know the I mean I don't know how I
put this delicately sometimes I find
people before the before shows as nerves
start to get to them like during peak
week and stuff like that they have
trouble going to the bathroom in the
final days it's not typically an issue
when you're taking in 1200 grams of
carbs they're able to keep the day the
digestive system has to
it stimulates everything pretty well so
alright so what about for sodium and
water that should tie this all together
um sodium much like water you know
people have this tendency to want to cut
sodium because they think they're gonna
drop drop subcutaneous water which you
know it's ridiculous and they just don't
realize how much sodium plays into the
carb up process everything I do is
really it's not about trying to because
I hate when people use the term trick
the body and they think this rapid back
load is a way to trick the body but it's
really working with the body to a
favorable situation and so you know it
for me it all comes down to
carbohydrates to it I feel like you know
intracellular extracellular water is
going to fall where it needs to be as
long as you carb up properly and so you
know when it comes to taking in a
thousand or twelve hundred grams of
carbs and in a single day timing becomes
very important and you know for those
that aren't familiar you know I know
Jeff I've actually seen your YouTube
video on peaking I might have to cut
water and sodium and it was very good
and very thorough and so you know people
don't realize that they're you know
sodium works with glucose to transport
and so when carbs are coming in in a
very high amount when you're trying to
put them in in that time and have them
assimilate in a timely fashion and hit
okay be stored by the time someone's on
stage you need a high amount of sodium
and to make it effective and to make it
timely yes
like well he has a degree in
biochemistry and I have like a partial
degree in biochemistry and in
engineering but anyway so like he
obviously like my degree is only partial
Geoff's is full so he always you mind my
dropping you know people it always
cracks me up when people just completely
restrict their sodium they go no sodium
for four days while they're trying to
blow their carbohydrates so what I'll
usually do is I would say sodium
tolerance levels vary from person to
person so during prep I'd to let people
eat whatever amount of sodium feels
comfortable to them but during the final
few weeks I kind of start raising it up
slowly just to increase their their
tolerance and you know make sure their
body is able to process the amount of
much like what I did with the water
process the amount that I'm gonna give
them so usually I will I will increase
one last time during peak week and I'll
bring it up to a pretty high level but
not so much that they're gonna see edema
and then during the lower portion and
I'll try to put this live haven't given
without confusing to many people but
during the low portion it becomes pretty
crucial to balance sodium and potassium
because you don't want those numbers to
get too far away from each other from
weather or Nashville so I sort of
balanced my timing of my sodium pulses
with because I used sweet potatoes quite
a bit during my low portion and sweet
potatoes are extremely high in potassium
so then I sort of need to keep a really
high sodium intake to keep up with this
really high potassium intake that I have
coming in so it's not uncommon for in
the week leading up to the deplete
portion I'll keep sodium you know for
males and females probably around 3000 -
anywhere - up to 6,000 depending how
much somebody's been taking in
milligrams of sodium and then during the
load day on that load day anywhere from
900 to 1200 nine sorry nine thousand to
twelve thousand milligrams of sodium on
the load day and you know the and a lot
of people that makes a lot of people
panic but you know acute bursts of
sodium like that is not gonna cause many
problems the the kidneys should be able
to flush out any excess that is coming
in as long as you're taking in
sufficient water and as long as it
doesn't continue on for too long and
then on show day I back off on sodium
I'll hit people with it right before
stage why you know I kind of use that
load day as the day to load and then I
showed a I don't push food too hard and
I really don't give much more sodium
because it everything it needed the
previous day and you maybe hit them with
a little bit more just before stage to
bring out that vascularity and then
they're good to go that's a nice
approach I like that because even with
myself I found that when I compete and I
I have taken a very similar more
aggressive approach like this my last
competition season and I felt I peaked
really well but after the may him after
two full days of high sodium by the by
the time the night show rolled around I
know it was twelve thousand it was no I
my potassium wouldn't have been as high
as what cliff would recommend for Shore
and that probably that might have been
as I'm part of it but I what I've
noticed with myself is that it's like
it's very time sensitive so all day
Friday I wouldn't notice any spill at
all and then even all day Saturday for
prejudging and everything I didn't
notice anything but then that night look
for it next day one of those one of
those days where you take your socks off
and you see that ring around
really this brings me to my next
question for you cliff have you ever
seen someone spill from this approach
for when you were trying to peek them
and if so is there any way to counteract
that if they have say multiple shows
lined up you know what i I've never had
anyone spill because I always play it
you know and I'll say this some people
always view this as risky this method
but I will say that this method once you
learn how everything works together is
honestly way more consistent brings way
more consistent results then my
front-loading or the subtle backloading
that I would do for like a bikini
competitor I mean it's like clockwork I
know I know what when someone looks at a
certain way you know Friday midway
through their load I know precisely what
they're gonna look like the very next
morning when they wake up so it's been
the most consistent but I just to be on
the safe side the first time I ever peek
somebody I always aim a little bit lower
than what I think they can take in I'd
rather have somebody be a little bit
flat and still obviously so you know if
I if I suspect somebody can take in
1,200 grams of carbohydrates I may aim
slightly under 1,100 or you know go with
a you know 1050 or something along those
lines and then if they have multiple
shows lined up which most of my clients
I do encourage them to do more than one
show in a season
I will then maybe increase for the
second third shows however I would say
the wolfen I would say the the instance
that was the scariest for me as a coach
was um are you familiar with Brian
ahlstrom yeah Brian good friend of mine
uh I didn't know him too well he became
a really good friend I've kept him in
2012 he woke up the morning of his first
pro show and he was flattered than any
client I have ever which seems strange
because he had taken in so many
carbohydrates the day before I think he
took in about a thousand that day but he
was just so flat
the thousand carbs did not do the trick
and we were we were scrambling usually I
kind of like to use pretty basic foods
on the morning the show just to keep
people's you know digestive system from
having any curveballs and what we were
scrambling we were having a chug
Gatorade we were we were having him you
know pop-tarts and Reese's Cups just
anything he could get his hands on that
had a lot of carbs and a lot of calories
and we were really lucky that it was an
afternoon show it was like 2:00 p.m. and
he filled out I would say like he
started looking on point about noon and
you know he actually ended up winning
his pro debut but you know you know your
as a coach you'll be the first one to
admit nobody's perfect and I think that
was the that was the one incidents where
I woke up the morning a show and I was
like panicked at the results that I saw
because he was just so flat and it would
finally got it together before stage is
that cause you like low-balled his carbs
do you think or was it just random like
he just didn't respond like you
suspected him you know I that was a
situation where and in 2012 that was
2012 so I've only been using this peak
for about a year at that point and at
that point of using this method I didn't
quite understand or see the tell-tale
signs of somebody who you know we eat a
lot of food you're gonna see that you
know that short term rise in metabolic
rate over the course of the day and some
people also when they start having food
come in they just get a lot more
hyperactive and will just do more things
and you know I didn't see Brian's
capability to hold not just store
something carbohydrates but also he kept
just telling me how hot he was all day
he was just and so you know somebody
you'll see that instant you know and so
my guess is that if you're that same way
when you start carving up sometimes it
maybe takes more than you what you would
anticipate take forever to spill over
after the show I just like like I'm only
a hundred pounds on stage and I
like so like we didn't all-you-can-eat
Cruz and I was like still stage lien by
the end of it like it took me that long
because I just burn up and like my
metabolism just reverse adapts I guess
you could call it like very very quickly
yeah yeah you know you can feel almost
coming off this burning up
yeah and Brian was telling me how hot he
was and at that stage like I said I'd
only been doing this pee for a year I
didn't pick up on the signs that we
needed to give him more so you know that
was um for me as a coach that was a good
learning experience all right so I think
that that covers everything I wanted to
talk about about peak week unless Robin
there was something else you wanted to
say I did post on Instagram cliff that I
was having you on the show and I just
asked if people had any questions for
you so if you don't mind I'll just maybe
read out a couple of these and then
we'll quickly touch on reverse dieting
and then call it a wrap yeah
so we said ready to go asks after a
successful extended offseason does food
capacity increased dramatically from the
increased muscle mass or is it more
along the lines of it goes up a bit but
you're stuck with the hand you're you
were dealt so I think what he means by
that is at the end of the cut or when
you start your cut are you going to have
an increased food capacity and be able
to diet on more calories or are you kind
of like you know you're gonna hit your
genetic bedrock in terms of calories
once you start to cut and you're just
gonna pretty much cut on the same macros
again if we're looking at like sequence
drill season so like back to their
consecutive seasons back to back say or
whatever you know I think that it's a
little bit of both I think some people I
think some people can really increase
their food intake more so than others as
long as they're diligent and employed
binging and getting too heavy quickly
but you know just like muscle mass you
know all of us have different Jenna
potentials in terms of muscle mass all
of us have different genetic potentials
in terms of our food intake and so you
know it's a nice thought and you know I
sure I'm sure we're gonna talk about
this a little bit with the reverse
dieting portion and you know some people
think like to think that with reverse
dieting you can essentially work food up
almost endlessly and just tolerate
anything but well I mean I guess you
could but you'll keep getting fatter you
know which explains why you see some
very obese people that can take in
20,000 calories a day so I think you can
maximize the hand you've been dealt I'll
put it that way but you know it depends
on how heavy you're willing to let
yourself get in the offseason you know
some people can really brag about how
much they can take in or I see some
coaches they can you know like you
talked about they'll they'll brag about
I have this client dieting on this
amount of carbs which is always nice but
it doesn't mean you know anyone else can
do that
there was same people just might like
like we've met someone who dyed it on
400 grams of carbs I'd only like 160
pounds body weight and he was still
dying oh great great point I've actually
I've actually found and I kind of joke
with my clients about this the ones that
actually have the highest carb intakes
are usually the biggest babies they're
always the ones that are lining the most
and like people would kill yeah okay I
just want to say this because people
will be like you know what if you have
high curbs like you can be one of those
guys or diets on 300 grams of carbs you
could be one of those guys who diets on
100 grams of carbs it sucks for everyone
like you're both gonna suffer and you're
both gonna go through it like okay all
right fine but the dude who has 300
grams of carbs is always better like
anyway it's always better to be in that
condition yes it is you get more food
like it has to be at least
like a couple weeks ago Oh like yeah for
bikini competitors I ate a lot but I was
dying like yeah you were dying but all
else being equal it's always better to
have 200 extra grams of carbs a day like
at least you get to be more creative I
mean I'm not saying as a matter of
physiology you don't feel worse but like
from a psychological standpoint or even
just like everything if you just imagine
everything else being equal would you
rather have 300 grams of carbs or 100
grams of carbs like being on poverty
macros is all these porters like if you
feel like [ __ ] if you feel like [ __ ] and
you're on 300 grams I'm sure would be in
concept Li you can you wouldn't be on
those I don't know yeah anyway I will
acknowledge I will acknowledge that
people suffer I'm like cool whatever
intake they're on if they're lean and
like at the end of a cup and everything
yes no I agree and also having all those
extra carbs it brings with it a lot of
lifestyle freedoms you know you can go
out and you a lot of those times people
have pretty forgiving metabolisms as
well they can go out maybe estimate a
few meals more easily than somebody on
50 grams of copper I don't know it was
just like it didn't matter I would just
burn through the carbs and my meals and
then just still be like ravenously
hungry but yeah Vince not Eugen I
apologize actually don't know how to
present Jim Newton okay he says you know
about the metabolic capacity question
like I think it's the latter have you
seen Lovato's poverty macros and it just
it I've noticed the trend cliff with my
athletes and just with the community
generally that people who have to diet
on low macros even if they do a diligent
reverse diet are the people who have to
die on low macros have you ever seen a
counter example to this where you've had
someone do one prep on really low macros
then you you know have run a successful
reverse diet and have done another prep
and gotten just as mean on higher macros
or is that a is that extremely rare you
know it I would say if they died in
correctly the first time and then diet
it correctly again the second time
they're probably gonna end up around
area yeah I but I would say the only
time that I think it can be improved I
think a lot times comes down to length
of time between preps to allow yourself
to get back to your previous level at
least your previous level of muscle mass
I think the only time you see people
that will have to diet the they'll
almost died on what were calories is
when they do to contest perhaps too
close together maybe you know maybe
that's from anabolic hormones and you
know muscle mass not reaching the high
levels that they should have and you
know maybe fat loss hormones not
rebounding the way they should have as
well but you know usually it's not gonna
go the other way unless they died it
really poorly the first time so I'm just
gonna take one more question and then
maybe one quick question on training a
cliff by the way do you do training
programming for your athletes as well or
is it more so just nutrition and contest
prep I do i do do training okay yeah
some power lifters I wouldn't say it's
necessarily my main I mean you know
clientele but I do I do work you know
with training plan programs with I would
say about probably about eighty percent
of my clients oh okay so this blonde
laSandra of long sorry if I'm butchering
that asks how would you go about
programming a female's offseason who is
predisposed to fat gain instead of
muscle gain that is should she bulk or
not she's I'm sorry can you repeat that
she's predisposed to what okay so we
have a female who's in her off season
and she's predisposed to put on fat very
easily should she do a bulk when she's
trying to gain muscle or not just I mean
how do you approach that offseason in
terms of how heavy I'll let someone get
I always called the sweet spot you know
and people that are naturally heavier
than others you know some people are
just more prone to be heavier and have
higher body fat levels to have a
successful offseason you obviously want
to keep someone as lean as they can
possibly be while still feeling
comfortable I always kind of say it
comes down to a few things
performance in the gym energy in terms
of making sure they just feel good
because if you're if you're so lean that
your your hormones are your anabolic
hormones are suppressed like
testosterone and things like that
if if they're suppressed then you're not
gonna feel good and then the mental
aspect of you should also you know
obviously we all want to look like we do
during prep all the time but you should
be a comfortable weight where you don't
feel uncomfortable in your own skin so I
would say you know for the person asking
a question try to hit those criteria
where you're strong and performing well
in the gym and where you are at least
content with the way you look in the
offseason and you don't feel miserable
like it's a struggle to maintain that
weight and that's probably your sweet
spot right I think that's good advice
I do like a slow a more of a slow gain
approach for people who tend to store
fat more easily rather than you know a
fast Balkin that's probably approach you
take with most people anyway if they're
planning on competing the next season
like if they're not planning on
competing for a couple years or
something then if they're a hard gainer
like if they find it difficult to add
muscle but easy to add that it's just
unfortunate about the fat but I think I
don't know I think that if their body
fat setpoint is a little higher and
they're not competing for a couple of
years like I personally would not see a
huge no that's a great point you know if
somebody's not competing for four years
some guys you know some guys and girls
say they want a four year offseason well
you don't need to monitor that weight
too closely if they want to get a little
bit heavier because like I think it's a
balance between adding muscle in the
offseason and then making sure you're
still able to get lean again for the
next show but if you're trying if your
only goal is to maximize how much muscle
you put on then and you don't care about
conditioning then I would say that like
it would be better to be a little more
aggressive with adding in calories and
I'm not worrying so much about the body
fat yeah yeah and so
one last question here Leo BBT asked
that if you have someone say who has a
really weak body part would you
recommend utilizing a four to six week
specialization training phase where you
overload volume on that one body part
and put everything else at the bare
minimum volume I don't think it
necessarily needs to be set for a
certain phase but overall I think that's
a good approach for a weak body parts as
long as you don't overload the volume in
that area so much that you become
imbalanced and you know you start to
have really bad imbalances but yeah I
mean I'll use myself as an example I
have my legs or my strength and my upper
body's always struggle to grow so this
past offseason you know I've lowered my
volume for my legs - as you put it bare
minimum and really upped the volume and
the intensity on my upper body to sort
of save my energy and my recovery
ability for the areas that need it most
because usually overtraining isn't a
localized issue it's more of a systemic
issue in terms of recovery ability so
that I definitely think that is a good
approach guys love to train their
strengths hard and intensely because
everybody loves doing what they're good
at
so you know you see guys that have huge
deadlifts and you know really good legs
and back they go on they squat like
crazy and love to brag about it but you
know they probably shouldn't be putting
as much effort into that and focus on
the areas where they they're generally
not good I totally agree that's a good
that's a good question in a very good
point yeah and I'll just share my
experience with this I do find it to be
the case that a lot of guys in the
natural community have really nagging
upper chests and side delts I don't know
what that is but I've noticed that a lot
of especially with a lot of the guys
that come to me even not necessarily
competitive guys but I think that's
something that really brings about that
just thick look old school bodybuilder
type look that x-frame and then the big
scallop
so sometimes what I'll do with these
guys is give them a like a short for
six-week overreaching phase where
they're hitting their incline presses
you know incline cable crossovers really
a lot of exercises just to target that
that clavicular head of the PEC and
develop that upper chest as much as
possible and sort of shock the system to
use a bro term and I have found this to
be effective increasing the volume and
frequency in this way but like you said
cliff if it happens for you know too
long of a period of time then you know
that the amount of training volume
dedicated to the weak point can displace
training volume dedicated to other parts
and you know what causes a shoulder
about or cause the outer cop cause
postural problems exactly which is why I
said that it's usually just a truncated
time yeah exactly yeah and we all know
the look like yeah only you said
postural imbalance you know guys that
strain like okay great I'll train chest
for five days a week and then they start
doing that gorilla look yeah I will
qualify that by saying that you know I
always balance it out with at least a
one to one ratio of pushing deploying
even if I do that program so if they're
doing you know incline pressing two or
three times per week they're always
doing rope face pulls after it or wide
grip cable rows or something like that
to balance it out yeah so that's just
that's just common sense programming all
right cliff so we're gonna quickly touch
on some reverse the hiding stuff here so
in case there are new listeners to the
show that have come to you know hear
what cliff has to say my view
historically on this based on my own
experience and experience of the people
that I've coached is that it's a smart
idea to you know after your competition
I use the analogy of instead of you know
just tiptoeing your way around the
swimming pool or instead of just
belly-flopping your way into the
swimming pool I like to sort of slowly
wave my way back in and then just get on
with your swim and that is the analogy
to in your offseason instead of just you
know reverse dieting
ad nauseam for and you know undetermined
amount of time not really getting
anywhere with it instead of doing that
you sort of bring your calories back up
to maintenance within a couple weeks or
even right away and then just start
increasing from there I listen to a
podcast you did with barbell one and I
think you maybe have a slightly
different vantage point than me
and maybe you can talk about what it is
what approach it is that you take to
your athletes post show and you know I'm
completely open-minded when it comes to
this kind of stuff and I recognize that
you've had more experience in working
with bodybuilders than I have and so
your opinion from this is highly valued
so I'm interested to hear what it is
that you have to say on this well and
actually before we did this because we
had talked about this going in I
actually went I looked in watched your
video on that I would say my approach is
almost in-between where you're at and
where I would say the typical quote
unquote reverse dieters are because I do
see what you're saying and you you know
your points are extremely valid where
some people reverse die so slowly that
their bodies recover so slowly and and
you know they're they're anabolic
hormones do not recover quickly for
those that are familiar you know that
case study I'm Chris Paz was example it
took him nearly six months to get his
hormone levels back to normal and even
you know for those who don't know Pete
pitchin is a client of mine Pete is
should be completing his PhD here in
about two months and he's done a case
study on himself and you know he showed
that it took a little while for his
muscle mass to return and I actually
have a client right now that is looking
to finish some research on his diet and
then his reverse as well and so yeah you
know I'm hoping to see one on a female
soon here I really am
so yeah I've actually been putting the
word out to some of my clients that are
in school now only a you know yeah it
would be great so you know it can take
so long for those hormones recover when
you're just like you said tiptoeing the
way that the food up the road so if you
you know with your approach you just
jump right back up with calories I like
that approach better than the slow
approach now I'm gonna qualify myself
here as saying I've changed my viewpoint
on this and then in the last few years I
used to be the guy that was bringing
carbs up ten grams at a time and you
know I kind of slowly came to the
realization that you did that I was
hurting people more in the long run it
actually became a it almost became a
test of will for my clients where who
could stay on their diet the longest
without cheating and so you know I've
changed my viewpoint on that and I do
bigger increases but the reason I still
take a more moderate approach where
instead of adding 10 grams or instead of
jumping all the way you know back up
with a thousand extra calories or
whatever it may be I'll maybe do
increases of 30 to 50 grams of
carbohydrates because with a few just
you know this isn't published work or
anything like that but I've done a few
tests with some of my clients they have
access to good body fat testing and I've
used the various array of methods you
know some people are just using calipers
some people are using DEXA some people
you know bod pod and things like that
but obviously nothing is 100% accurate
when you're talking body fat tests but
you can obviously gain back that muscle
mass that you lost during preps so
quickly there is huge advantage to going
fast but the only thing I've seen is
that if I use a slightly more moderate
approach I can almost see I see
situations where people gain almost pure
muscle and no fat in those early stages
so I'll maybe use the first three or
four weeks to be a little bit more
conservative to sort of give them a
platform to where they can and will kind
of see you know I talked about that
sweet spot in the OP see him where maybe
they'll be able to hold a slightly
leaner sweet spot in this offseason than
they did in the past which sets us up
for the next prep of being able to have
to lose less fat than we did so that
that would be my big you know my big
issue with that and I'm gonna also say
ideally ideally my goal with all of my
clients is to essentially start their
reverse before their show with every
single one of my clients I aim to have
them 100% lean ready to go at least
three or four weeks out from their show
which gives me two or three weeks of
reversing food up before peak week even
starts so like I said you can regrow
some muscle tissue and then then you're
even on your way to reversing before
your show even gets there so that's my
only reasoning for that is still being a
little bit moderate that I can maybe put
on because the only after you've lost so
much muscle have you ever have you read
the case study by Pete bitchin okay he
didn't cover hormone panels in that one
but he lost quite a bit of muscle mass
you know cuz he you know I also say he's
not he was he was prepped by Lane that
year as well as well as was Chris during
his case study yeah and Pete isn't as
genetically gifted as Chris I would say
in terms of muscle mass so he ended up
losing quite a bit more muscle I want to
say up to 30 pounds he lost about
somewhere around 14 pounds of it was
muscle I remember that because there
have been three case studies actually I
think he did a poster piece in review a
couple of months ago and I think he
covered it was three case studies and it
was his where the greatest amount of
lean mass losses were seen and he
speculated about why that was the case
but I'll let you finish oh I didn't read
that one I did oh yeah although he's
speaking with me in a seminar in a few
weeks and he's actually in the cover of
physiological effects of contest
prepping so it'll probably bring it up
there so you know in someone like a case
like that we're you know a great deal of
muscle mass has been lost you know
you're seeing that the muscle mass can
come back so quickly and and because you
know the actually in Greg knuckle it's
just sort of great article about my own
nuclei that for those that and so you
know in a situation like that where I
think it's the one of the few times
where I almost think you can either
maybe the lose fat or at least maintain
fat and gain pure muscle almost see a
recom positioning because if you add in
40 or 50 grams of carbohydrates it's
gonna give you a lot more energy to
train harder and if you're especially
put them around that work out of time a
lot more energy to train harder and then
you train harder and you increase your
load by that strength going back up it
creates the demand for more muscle mass
again and so then you know the those
calories I once again this is a little
bit of just like extrapolating you know
things from the things that I've read
but you know that I don't have any 100%
cocky kind of creep proof for this a
little bit of a hypothesis on my on but
you create the demand for more muscle
mass than those calories you've
introduced will maybe in the early
phases of reverse dieting go almost
solely towards muscle mass so that's
that's where I'm from
you know I like that approach to that I
mean I can get totally on board with
that right for me I I come at this
question more from a psychological
perspective maybe even more than a
physiological perspective just because
I've seen so many people struggle so
profoundly with the reverse diet and I
just ask the question you know at what
end because eventually you're going to
settle into you know some set point
where your body tends to be comfortable
anyway and I'd rather get there sooner
rather than later and then get on with
there I start building your muscle get
you start feeling better
allow your you know body fat to
redistribute and and just have
physique looking better more quickly and
that doesn't mean that you go out and
binge and then you get all this water
attention just blow up like a Blowfish
but I think that maybe you know stepping
on the gas pedal a little bit more
post-show is the way to go in my
experience for psychologically reason
you overshoot a little bit then it's not
that it's worth they like them getting a
better relationship with food a little
quicker post-show is a difficult period
psychologically like you know you put
everything into the competition and
you're noticing your body change and
I've seen you know people will ask
people will say to me and I've seen it
myself and I've seen it in a lot of my
athletes if you're say 165 pounds at
five weeks out then you do your show at
like 160 and then five weeks post show
your back up to 165 those to 165 look
very different in my experience and you
can look you know harder going into the
competition then you will be coming out
the other side sometimes and I attribute
that mostly to water attention and just
strange body fat distribution so like
after you gain fat in the post-show
period you might gain it in a different
place than your body tends to store it
and then over time it will start to
redistribute I don't know if that's
something that you've always quit but
yeah absolutely that's a very good point
yeah it's actually kind of it's actually
kind of strange to see me yeah and like
I said they look puffy I mean yeah and
so no I totally agree and I can get
behind that and I would also say that
speed with which I reverse somebody is
sort of also determined by how how well
I think they're handling everything
mentally you know if if somebody just
seems like they're they've had enough
you know in that situation I will
definitely increase a little bit more
I'll include some higher carb some very
high carb days to sort of give them a
little bit of a release you know it's
natural to want to feel hungry I mean I
feel full again after being hungry for
so long
yeah so no I can totally get behind that
you know like I said I changed my
viewpoint on that cuz I did used to be
that guy that was hopping it by you know
10 and 15 grams week after week you know
and obviously I slow it down once I'm in
that deep in the heart of somebody's
offseason but you know in those early
weeks it was just too tough for people
hang on and you know now I you know I
and I kind of looked at that especially
after that Christopher study I can't
look at people and I was never this bad
but I see some people brag about it
online they're like oh twelve weeks post
show and I'm up three pounds like
Michelle like there's no way you feel
good right now I mean I'm not gonna
judge anyone for the approach that they
want to take but I just think that at
some point you're gonna break the diet
unless you know you're actually in their
special case scenarios but if you're
looking at a year you're just gonna
eventually like you can reverse diet for
so so long and then eventually you're
just gonna break and then you're just
gonna binge sometimes to where people
they've binge on their diet and then
maybe a couple times and they don't like
the way they look or you know you even
said some people get up and then they
try to go back to losing again I'm like
no that's like the worst thing you can
do you miss that vote now yeah yeah all
right cool I think that our listeners
are really gonna like this episode we
touched on so much cool stuff oh I
appreciate you guys having me on I
really enjoyed it some excellent some of
the best questions I've ever gotten
actually I really thanks again for them
yeah yeah I've been looking forward to
it for a while and we've actually been
on a hiatus with this podcast so I think
we brought it back with authority and I
know you're getting ready for a show
coming up right yeah I'm gonna debut in
the professional ranks
in 13 weeks so nice so we're really
excited to see you
yeah you know it's kind of funny cuz I
know all the three dmj guys I've talked
to Brooke quite a bit and Jeff lighter
but I've never actually talked to Eric
but I definitely know he's a good coach
and I respect his work a lot yeah
all right cliff well thank you once
again for coming on the show and sharing
all your insight and yeah maybe we'll do
this again sometime
awesome I appreciate it thank you all
right man talk to you later bye