yeah I I think I know where this is
going
a couple things it's not a sport so
don't tell people you're a power
Builders I don't make any goddamn sense
if you really want to be as big as
Jackson as strong as you can be you will
do this on a phasic approach you take a
few message Cycles to really push your
strength up while conserving your
physique then you take a few muscle
cycles of real physique specific stuff
while conserving your strength alternate
alternate alternate alternating over
time you get really really jacked and
really strong so in this case you just
have like a specificity violation in
terms of you're splitting your goals
across two fairly distinct points that
type of training is okay for up to kind
of like early intermediate level
training at that point you have to make
a decision in terms of which direction
you really want to go if you want to
start keep making tangible progress
because I think this kind of stuff can
carry you through beginner and then into
that early to mid intermediate level and
then probably right around there you're
just not going to see their strength
going up or your muscle mass and
physique improving