the Bro split training everything once a
week is okay and it works fine but we
can do better most of the research shows
that especially if you're willing to
train with a little bit more volume
higher frequency does lead to better
Gams hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance priorization and I have
three secrets to making an awesome
effective training split for muscle
growth let's get into them real quick
first please only watch this video with
headphones in make sure nobody sees the
screen huddled in a corner of a bus on
the way to Central Mexico some shit like
that because the secret don't tell
anyone about this and don't share this
video with anyone don't DM it to people
none of that stuff don't screenshot it
don't make memes about it this is just
between me and you literally you're the
only person watching this in the whole
world you're welcome Mr
person when people ask me and they ask
me so often Dr Mike why are your
genitals so big genetics and
training why are you so rich because I'm
fabulous why are you so fabulous because
I'm rich all right but they often maybe
never ask me those questions instead I
get a lot of the following question
here's my split is it good or did I fuck
up as a matter of fact on the team full
ROM Forum where you could be joining but
you play in too much anyone can ask me
if their split is good or not and I'll
usually see in usually comment here's
how I think about it how I figure out if
your split is good and it's only three
things that I ever look for one are you
doing enough weekly volume in terms of
number of sets generally anywhere
between six and 20 sets per week on
average there are exceptions to me if I
see six to 20 sets per muscle per we per
week like you train your back with 15
sets total I'm like all right this is
pretty good and how they're arranged for
this question doesn't matter so you can
do one set per muscle group six days a
week whole body every day bro I know I
know stay calm or you can do 10 sets for
a muscle group twice a week no wrong
answers that's just what I'm looking for
now if you're doing three total sets for
legs per week or if you're doing 36
total sets for chest per week I'm going
to look at your plan a little more
closely and be like that looks high or
that looks low you must be high what the
fuck did you do writing that
number
two is there enough time between
sessions specifically are you doing two
things are you getting overlapping
muscle soreness Monday you train your
chest Tuesday you train your chest again
and it's still sore no
bueno you should rarely ever train
muscles if they're still sore you want
them pretty close to fully recovered
before we hit them again they don't grow
as much muscle if you train them while
they're sore their probability of
getting hurt is higher if you train them
when you're sore and you're just going
to have a bad
time soreness is not enough you also
don't want to train a muscle if it's
feeling weak still you go and train
chest Monday Tuesday you come back and
you're like uh it just feels like it's
sapped because it is you want to take at
least whatever amount of time lets you
feel not sore sore touch touch touch
feels good and you're fucking strong you
do some War UPS you're like fuck yeah
it's go time that means your time
between sessions is good so if you do a
program where you're like chess Monday
uhuh chess Tuesday uhuh okay chess
Monday uhuh chest Thursday better
better now if you do have a situation
where you're getting overlapping
soreness or overlapping weakness SL
fatigue you have two potential solutions
to that one is you have more time
between sessions which are just
Illustrated instead of Monday Tuesday
it's just one day between do Monday
Thursday that's like three days between
you're good to go
or you say but Dr Mike a whole body
every day you keep telling me no worries
you can absolutely train a whole body
every single day hamstrings hamstrings
hamstrings hamstrings hamstrings back
back back back
back almost just gave a powerlifting
command by accident back back stomach
stomach
W I've seen way too much equip
powerlifting in my day still traumatized
you can totally train the same muscle
every day but then you have to condense
the number of sets you're doing so like
you're not going to do six sets of quads
every day of the week that's fucking
insane but you could do one or two sets
of quads on Monday one or two sets of
quads on Tuesday and so on and so forth
every day of the week and because it's
so few sets every time you show up the
next day your quads are not sore and
they're not tired so you win so if
you're too sore or too tired either
spread the days out more make them more
symmetrical through the week and if that
doesn't work start reducing some volumes
and then your program gets a shitload
better now there's another thing where
if you don't have this problem you can
avoid the problem totally by making
another mistake that is you spend way
too much time in a recovered State say
Okay I want to train legs all right I
train legs Monday okay with two sets
okay sweet he's certainly going to train
legs on Tuesday or Wednesday like then I
train legs again on Friday
okay with two sets Okay and then and
then the weekend and then I train Monday
again okay at what point are you ready
to go back and have another hard
training session after Monday's two sets
of legs where you're no longer sore and
you feel feel good and strong and
they're like huh Tuesday okay Tuesday I
could see okay fine it's too close maybe
legs are tired something even though you
said they weren't maybe your hips hurt
who knows let's just play it safe
whatever happened to Wednesday and
Thursday motherfucker why didn't you go
and train then like well I need recovery
recovery for what you don't want to
spend a ton of time recovered for no
fucking reason so basically if a muscle
of yours is no longer sore and you feel
strong in it like now or the next day
it's time to go hit it again it's
totally cool if you don't but you're
missing out on potential gains that you
could be
getting facts as the kids
say number three thing I'm looking for
in a good program is a frequency per
muscle of at least two times a week two
times plus the Bro split training
everything once a week is okay and it
works fine but we can do better most of
research shows that especially if you're
willing to train with a little bit more
volume higher frequency
does lead to better
gains now it's a real ASM totic
relationship where one time a week does
good gains two time a week gives you
great gains three maybe a little bit
better four kind of undetectable five
who knows so if you just go two times a
week you can go three and four and for
short bursts that can be more effective
but the distance between 1X time 1X per
week training and 2x per week training
as far as Effectiveness is Meaningful so
if you just go twice to the gym for a
given muscle you know biceps twice chest
twice back twice everything else you can
go three times but twice really gets you
into that gnarly Ballpark and that's
awesome so more than twice just doesn't
matter in most
cases if you manage to checklist all
these items you doing enough weekly
volume you're spreading that volume out
intelligently so that you're not sore or
tired between sessions or sorry within
sessions and you're not taking too much
time between sessions and you're
training at least twice a week for every
muscle group and you ask me hey is my
program good outside of you're doing
really weird things to weights like
doing 500 lb one day for the squad the
next day doing 10 I think it's a fucking
good split and I like it and by
extension I like you would you like to
go out on a date with me that's right
it's just the two of us
remember what's your typical first date
like I like uh I like a nerd boy
somebody shy I love it but on a serious
note if you want to make great programs
and you want it to be super super fast
and for a low low price the RP
hypertrophy app it exists I made it it's
the first and possibly only Link in the
description give it a click see you guys
next
time