hey folks I'm Dr Mike and this is the
targeting the muscle Series today we are
going to be working on push-ups
biceps
let's do it
[Music]
if you have ever done push-ups for
triceps you might be familiar with the
diamond push-up which is when you do
push-ups from this position right here
the problem is
is as you get to the bottom yes it's a
lot of tricep involvement but almost
never are you going to be able to get
the full stretch look at my hand here if
we move slightly out from the diamond to
just outside of our chest what ends up
happening is here is the tricep stretch
here if we move here look at how much
more stretch we get so my humble
recommendation is to point your fingers
forward and make sure that you are just
outside of shoulder width so when we
actually do the push-ups it looks
something like this
foreign
is a really potentially challenging one
but if you really want to work your
triceps with push-ups this is how to do
it most people will get great tricep
work
if they leverage their bodies forward a
little bit let the triceps do some of
the load and let the chest and shoulders
pick up the slack so this is a fine way
to do the push-up just like that notice
where my chest lands it's in front of my
hands totally fine
if you're bigger and stronger you can
already do a ton of reps you can make
the push-ups way more triceps emotive
less chest and shoulder
by when you come down still touch your
chest to the ground but sink back this
turns the movement more of a skull
crusher JM press on the ground so
instead watch this of coming forward
like that totally fine you come down and
back a little oh fuck my triceps that's
crazy
come push your chest behind your hands
it loads your triceps like wild give it
a shot
foreign
next tip is a twofer two for one
tip number one is to make sure to have
your butt up
if you have your butt low you end up
touching the ground with your genitals
no good it limits the range of motion
have your butt up just a little bit
above your body being completely
straight
and the second tip is to always make
sure to descend to where your chest and
only chest touches the ground butt up we
descend chest touches and we come back
up no tummy touching no dick touching
none of that nonsense
[Music]
all right we've got everything worked
out pretty well
two extra tips to get to feel your
triceps a little more
combined together one
is to make sure that on The Descent your
elbows stay close to your body and don't
flare out it's okay if they flare out on
the ascent but on The Descent you want
to turn your elbows in so they stay
flush as much as possible loading the
triceps the most and while you're doing
this
go slower on The Eccentric to really
make sure you're doing this and the slow
eccentric really really fucks the muscle
up and that's a technical term in
science so we could do push-ups
faster and flared so we do them like
this
okay that's fine feels okay but we
should do the push-ups elbows in
oh fuck that's even hard to demonstrate
holy triceps
now we're really winning and by winning
I mean having big triceps surely is
winning isn't it folks thanks for tuning
in like subscribe upvote down vote see
you next time
[Applause]
[Music]