a slow or a fast tempo which is better
for building muscle according to the
science welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
PhD in sports science with wolf coaching
and today we're discussing Tempo first
off what has seemed to work for people
in the past well at the very least
people in the past successful
bodybuilders for example have used a
variety of tempos and they've all gotten
pretty jacked which at the very least
suggests that Tempo isn't going to be a
hugely influential variable when it
comes to maximizing muscle growth and
Mike menor's heavy duty training
approach for example which was kind of a
continuation of a lot of Arthur Jones's
advice he recommended doing repetitions
that lasted 8 seconds and Mike mener got
very jaed and meanwhile on the other end
of the spectrum we have people like
Branch Warren whose reps often last like
one or two seconds and he's also very
jacked But ultimately the reason you
don't see me discussing that as
particularly strong evidence for one
approach or the other is that looking at
the physiques of Highly Successful
Advanced bodybuilders doesn't really
tell us what will work best by a few
percentage points for the average lifter
like you or I so instead of looking at
just Elite bodybuilders what does the
science tell us well on average a faster
Tempo or a more explosive Cadence leads
to you being able to perform more
repetitions and potentially accumulating
greater volume load however when you use
a slower Tempo you'll generally Reach
Fail you're a little bit quicker and so
essentially when you're using a slower
or a faster Tempo you're essentially
trading out more volume load for more
timer attention but assuming you still
hit failure does it matter whether you
go with a slower Tempo or with a faster
Tempo well let's look at the evidence
the first metanalysis on the effect of
repetition duration or essentially how
fast you lift on hypertrophy was
performed by Brad schenfeld and
colleagues in 2015 they looked at the
results of eight different studies with
rep repetition durations lasting all the
way from half a second per rep all the
way to 15 seconds per rep they
categorized repetition durations or
tempos into being either fast medium or
slow fast corresponded to 0.5 to 4
seconds per rep medium corresponded to 4
to 8 seconds per rep and slow
corresponded to eight or more seconds
per rep and by and large there were no
differences between fast reps so between
half a second and 4 seconds and medium
reps between 4 seconds 8 seconds however
performing repetitions that lasted more
than about 8 seconds was probably worse
for hypertrophy likewise while the
effect sizes or essentially the best
hypertrophy was generally seen in the
faster hoop between half a second to 4
seconds per rep the confidence intervals
were very large AKA there was too much
variance for us to be able to
confidently say there is an effect here
that is in favor of faster tempos of
just half a second to 4 seconds but at
the very least if your reps are too slow
say8 or more seconds that does seem to
be worse for muscle growth according to
this metanalysis however following on
from this there has been a more recent
upto-date systematic review by wilin
colleagues on the same topic their
takeaway was similarly lukewarm here's
what they had to say the results of
these studies indicate that neither
isolated slow nor isolated fast movement
tempos are effective for muscle
hypertrophy but it seems that the most
favorable is a combination of slower
movement in the Ecentric phase with a
fast movement during the concentric
phase and that's all well and good your
Ecentric phase apparently should be
slightly longer at least than your
concentric phase but how long should
that be well most of your sets should
take between 40 to about 70 seconds to
complete with the authors recommending
anything from a 1second Ecentric with a
concentric phase that's as fast as you
can possibly make it to a 10-second
Ecentric phase and a 10c concentric
phase it's important to note that this
recommendation of all the way up to
10sec decentric and con Centric phases
for 20 second repetitions does clash
with this previous meta analysis by
shenfeld and colleagues so with all of
that evidence reviewed what do we
actually do in the gym well one thing I
think is for sure is that excessively
slow tempos say much above 8 seconds per
rep probably aren't ideal for
hypertrophy likewise excessively fast
tempos where you literally have no e
Center control no control and lowering
phase are also going to be
counterproductive I think the best
guideline we have to maximize hyper
right now is your Ecentric phase or your
lowering phase should take at least a
second and on average should be longer
than the lifting phase or the concentric
phase of the movement but overall here's
what the evidence suggests there's just
not a huge effect to Tempo whether you
go a little bit slower a little bit
faster once you're in a reasonable range
for how long your reps last we just
don't fully know yet whether for example
repetition taking 5 seconds with a 4sec
Ecentric and an explosive concentric is
going to be better than say a 2C rep we
just don't have that gran sity yet and
so far it doesn't seem to matter
ultimately with Tempo it seems that
there's many roads that lead to Rome
whether you lift with a faster Tempo and
get more reps in and eventually reach
failure or whether you live with a
slower Tempo get fewer reps but still
eventually reach failure the main thing
appears to be getting sufficiently close
to failure having some Ecentric control
on each repetition and that is what is
going to stimulate hypertrophy not the
exact configuration of how long your
Ecentric concentric phase need to be
however let me now give you some of my
anecdotal experience as a coach and as a
lifter when it comes to Tempo first off
I think slower tempos can be a good
learning tool for technique if someone's
completely new to a movement and they're
struggling with a certain aspect slowing
down the movement often gives them more
time to think through things as they're
doing them and allows them to better
incorporate certain cues or improvements
in their technique however that same
super slow tempo is generally something
I have people move away from as soon as
possible and there's a few reasons for
that number one is that in my experience
and a lot of client experiences super
slow tempos can actually make it a
little bit harder to reach failure
sometimes I suspect it might be for a
similar reason as why High rep ranges
make it harder to gauge how close to
failure you are but I don't really know
I just find that generally when you
train with super slow tempo some people
find it harder to go as close to failure
next up and this might just be personal
preference and because there's such a
wide range of things that can work here
personal preference does play a role I
think and a lot of people I've coached
just don't enjoy slower tempos all that
much they just seem less fun than
slightly more explosive tempos where
your average rep might take 2 to 3 or 4
seconds at the most but finally slower
tempos I think all the way up to maybe 8
seconds per rep can be a useful tool to
use when you're training around pain for
example I currently have a little bit of
shoulder pain the way I modifying my
training to still be able to get in the
gym get an effective growth stimulus
from that session is to just slow down
down the tempo by a decent amount this
reduces the weight I'm using it just
makes everything feel a bit less painful
and as long as I'm still going as close
to failure and my reps take no longer
than about 8 seconds I'm still able to
get an effective growth stimulus with
all that being said here are a few quick
takeaways number one repetition
durations of maybe between 2 and 8
seconds can walk I think the upper end
of that range is usually not advisable
because it makes it harder to go as
close to failure a lot of people don't
find it as fun but it can be useful when
it comes to learning technique and
sometimes when training around pain but
ultimately whether you're training with
two to three second reps or 6 to 8C reps
as long as you're going sufficiently
close to failure with both approaches
there's just not really any evidence
right now to suggest that either
approach is better for muscle growth and
when you look at successful bodybuilders
and this doesn't mean a whole lot there
are people using both approaches that
have gotten quite jacked if you enjoyed
the video please comment like subscribe
leave a comment down below if you
disagree with me if you agree with me
what tempo do you use if you'd like me
to coach you check out the link above
have a great day and I will see you guys
my subscribers in that next one
peace Here Comes The Waffle not the
tasty kind the get me my ad Revenue kind