there he is
just like slowly rotates it was a bit
disorienting with the first time I sat
down
[Music]
what I got I got salmon and some
and what is going on aboard that intro
clip was actually from last night stuff
and I went to the CN tower and we went
to the 360 restaurant and had a nice
meal there I loved it that's my first
time doing
and today we're first thing going for a
workout and I've actually changed out of
my training split i'm says you guys may
or may not know I've been running kind
of like a push-pull legs or a modified
push-pull legs with an added arm day for
a while but I've actually reduced my
weekly training frequency to just four
days per week and I'm gonna talk about
that a little bit more in the voiceover
and then after that I'm actually gonna
go get my lower back look that so I've
talked about this in other videos so
I'll just link the time stamp in the
video where I talked about my injury in
more detail my lower back has been
giving me some trouble ever since my
powerlifting days a while ago
pre-workout so I've got some high volume
and prolific it's pretty early workout
it's still 11:20 a.m. so I'm gonna go
with the caffeine based prolific and
then this is for a little bit of extra
pump but you don't need to combine these
if you do like caffeine in your
pre-workout then prolific is plenty it
has a pump product in it as well
IPE science is my sponsor so I like to
stack both of them together for maximum
energy and maximum pump Steph is a PE
science sponsored athlete now - you guys
didn't know make sure you tell her
congratulations and use her code instead
of mine this time okay transition
alright lets going on everyone welcome
to the voiceover that's when this voice
over I'm gonna go over my new training
split and I'm actually planning to
release a training split science
explained video sometime in the next
month or two so I don't want to dig too
deep into the science here but instead
just focus on what it is I'm currently
doing and why so generally speaking many
of you guys will know that I like to
organize my training in blocks now so
typically a block for me will last
anywhere from 1 to 4 months and in that
block I'll run the same split with a
core of set exercises that I don't
really change from workout to workout so
for example for legs I'll do hack squats
and dumbbell Romanian deadlifts every
workout I'll do like lat pull-downs and
t-bar rows for back
so on and over the course of that block
I'll make an effort to progressively
overload on those core movements by
either adding weight or reps with the
most important thing being that over the
course of the block I'm at least capable
of doing more work at the end than I was
at the beginning and because I've been
training for over 10 years I can't
expect to make that much progress in
that simple linear fashion anymore so
for me I find that I need to use
periodization to drive progress and all
that periodization really means is how
you organize your training over time so
for me I found the most important factor
to drive progress here is periodic
variation in training variables so I
like to implement this primarily through
three main avenues the first is a change
in weekly training frequency so this
means basically switching up your
training split the second is a change in
exercise selection especially for the
non core exercises are the ones that
don't necessarily stay exactly the same
every week for the block and then a
change in specialization or body part
focus so while I'd normally pump my
frequency up slightly from a push-pull
legs or a push-pull legs on day to an
upper lower split the weekly frequency
would go up however since I'm only
training four times per week this block
due to all the travel and other
commitments that I have right now the
frequency is more or less staying the
same with every body part being hit two
times per week I think that there are
benefits to a relatively lower training
frequency to say hitting every body part
one to two times per week you have
higher volume sessions more recovery
between sessions and usually better
pumps but there are also benefits to
higher frequency blocks such as better
muscle protein synthetic curves usually
more total weekly volume and more
strength key but usually lower volumes
per session and worse pumps so I find
alternating frequencies from time to
time
is the best way to get the best of both
worlds and in my case this time I'm
focusing on changing exercise selection
and body parts specialization more so
than frequency okay so the change in
exercise selection is really meant to
just break up the monotony of training
so if you've been starting off your
bicep work with an EZ bar curl for the
last three months switch over to say a
cable curl and progressively overload
that
instead or if you've been doing standing
face pulls forever
try them lying for a while or vary the
incline on your presses even changing
the tempos on some of your non core
exercises is a good way to add variety
to your program without losing that
general progressive focus so for me and
this block of training I'm really doing
everything I can to maximize the
development of my upper and mid traps my
neck in my biceps and that's because
these are areas that I think need the
most improvement and especially that
traps and neck are the areas that I've
neglected who are under trained for
years and I acknowledge that it's going
to take some time for them to sort of
catch up but I think that throwing in
these specialisation blocks where I
really prioritize them is a way for them
to grow even faster and basically I'll
just put most of my other body parts
that are already well developed like my
chest and quads at maintenance and it
doesn't take very much at all for me to
maintain these muscles having between
them consistently for over ten years so
to kick off my upper body workouts I'll
start with a shrug usually it's a
barbell shrug or a smith machine shrug
because too much heavy barbell stuff
does put some strain on my lower back
and I'll kick off one lower body workout
with a rack pull just above the knee and
then move on to some leg press and
hamstring work and I've been doing all
of my rowing and pulling movements at
the start of my workouts just after the
shrug to give them priority and then
I'll do some assistance stuff for
shoulders especially lateral delts more
toward the end of the workout since it
isn't as much of a focus and I was just
finding that having two dedicated push
workouts per week wasn't allowing these
weaker areas on my physique to get
enough focus and I was giving too much
focus to already strong body parts so to
quickly summarize my new split is an
upper lower split four times per week
where I'm hitting my traps through
either rack pulls on one leg day and a
shrug variation at the start of two
upper body workouts so my traps are
getting hit three times per week and I'm
also hitting my neck directly three
times per week similarly to how it's
outlined in my neck and trap science
explained video hit my biceps twice per
week usually right after my back work on
my upper body days and then I'll finish
off with just one exercise for shoulders
and or chest and usually it's an incline
press because of its efficiency in that
you get to hit both the upper chest and
the delts really well and of course I
always keep in lateral raises hitting
them one two
times per week now so that's a broad
picture of what my current programming
is looking like you guys can stay tuned
for a full-blown training split science
explained video where I'll discuss a lot
of this in more detail and all the
scientific literature behind it so I
hope that you found it helpful if you
did please hit the thumbs up button for
me now and I hope that you guys enjoy
the rest of the vlog alright guys so we
have made it back to the Airbnb and it's
like 1:30 right now so we've got a half
hour to get to my Oh detox I've got an
appointment with mini to have my back
looked at and I want to talk to him
about some stuff I'm just grabbing a
really quick post-workout meal so I've
got some protein and some teriyaki
chicken and rice that Stephanie made I'm
gonna eat this and then I'll check in
with you guys at my Oh detox
this is Vinnie by the way if you guys
don't know
well it's your boy venue we have room in
here and then there's another main room
out there which is where I think we're
gonna be treatable so uh yeah this is
like the best floor to do and we love
doing deadlifts for like my traps and
stuff like to be able to do heavy poles
like rock pools and stuff like that
might rain matters and so like I have to
do like you know like slow squeeze drugs
yeah and then they're gonna work around
in a way that I know isn't the most
efficient or optimal way to try at least
not even the way I'm really like yeah
let's do it then yeah socks off shoes
off shirt off get naked get naked like
pay him to do that you guys come a
little closer to the wall so what we're
doing right now is just we're looking at
where your body likes to be in space
before certain ranch
good so you can't even keep straight
down your rotated to the light a little
bit good comeback tell you yeah I'm
longer a lot easier read you see that
yeah how is your hip moving in the
frontal plane right yeah
who's okay they aren't it yeah nothing
the days now
all right now I'm working on his
multifidus we're lifting it up a lot of
times people who deadlift a lot this
muscles so you don't want that when
people are like oh I feel too - I feel
like came here it's literally the more
festive
it is and I'm trying to bring it out
through that hurt yeah yeah I mean I can
feel it it feels like it in a weird way
like oh relieving kind of pain of that
makes it very very together using your
longer oh you need a lot you know a lot
maybe like six sessions yeah I really
think yeah so the thing is once you you
this is like spring cleaning
I mean once you clean out all the [ __ ]
like then it's like it's like Jesus
hasn't maintain your great me more mean
and say yeah the first section is
obviously the little wart it don't work
the messiest yeah I mean we're just
ripping through everything you know so
you hear this what we do is we're gonna
practice segments in your spot
right so imagine when you're closing
your hand imagine you go from here in
here - same thing go for starting the
top slowly that mind spine connection
I'm gonna coin that burger so we usually
need to restore your minds fine actually
I'll give you shadow that's already
YouTube and like I talked about my son
and this stuff yeah that would be very
don't forget it for my same thing
straight on which is working through
selectors
it's just fun we'll keep going not
that's not good awesome very nice
reaching out
well he's filling it all over but you're
doing great and I want you in your case
I want you to focus on this partner
you'll be enough so we need to try to
bend it at the middle of your back
perfect because a lot of people will
overextend at the lumbar that with their
cognitive like obviously all my workers
at the computer most of it anyway so a
lot of the time like a momento unity is
there anything you'd recommend that do
like in terms of like a routine or
whatever just to like keep my it like
upper back a little more healthy so one
thing that you can do is take spear is
centered properly you'll be sitting and
you're basically coming down flexing
this party of 10 okay right perfect
plus it's pretty good and extend this
barbecue exactly Center center for
weight you can literally do this at your
desk it's really simple you can even
work on specific segments so you looking
at so now a little bit higher energy
spine
alright you see that one's a little
stiff yeah that one's alright and let's
say we go lower a little bit this one
was the easy one for you you feel that
yeah exactly so you you know let's say
you're sitting for an hour at some point
you just want me to open up right right
a lot of people will say like if you're
rolled forward or because you do a lot
of benching or you work at a desk or
whatever you should do a lot of rear
delts work to balance it out
no not
because this is not a muscle thing yeah
this is a nervous yeah right
if you're here like this and I work out
all the back muscles this is the tension
here right now having tension system if
this is a problem yeah they were don't I
have more attention to your system
financial evidence like I would imagine
like a TLT right like you're just like
you get into that habit of just mean
here if we do a bunch of like reverse
back deck or whatever you still when you
sit back down your tendency is still
it's just still a that it doesn't matter
what you do yeah absolutely and it's
it's more like Joseph reprogrammed
nervous system and also by the way this
is not a bad position do you mean people
say this this is not that position this
is a bad position within if you stay
there for me out no it's decent yeah
yeah
maybe being a recommended sushi
guys were here at sushi downtown Toronto
these out so Stephanie what I usually
get a California roll this is spicy
salmon some salmon the Giri I already
finished the edamame and this is a green
dragon roll then you got this crazy soup
seafood kou-kun it actually looks really
good in it better usually ashaming huge
plate of so it's the next day I just
wanted to say thank you guys for
watching the video today Stephanie and I
actually filmed a glute science
explained video with Abby Pollock or AM
polo on Instagram but we're actually on
our way to see a Brock Hampton live in
concert their style of music is just so
awesome for hip-hop right now they're
our new group they call themselves like
a boyband there's like I don't know half
a dozen of them at least on stage and
they're all really talented musically so
grab a quick bite to eat here now and
maybe I'll get some clips from the
concert and I'm gonna have all of
Vinnie's and Myo detoxes stuff linked in
the description he's a really good
follow on Instagram for some solid free
content I have to do with rehab and all
that kind of stuff so make sure you go
check it out like the video if you liked
it subscribe to the channel if you're
new and I'll see you guys next time
be romantic
the battle began [ __ ] but now is the
[Music]
[Applause]
Oh
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]