full body five days a week this is the
training split I've been running for the
last six months and I think it's great
now when I explain this setup to your
average gym bro they tend to look at me
like I've got 10 heads sometimes they'll
suggest that body part splits make more
sense where you just destroy one or two
muscles a day and then give them a full
week of rest to let the muscles grow and
while this clearly can work I think
there are much better options out there
one option would be the push-pull leg
split where you're at least hitting each
muscle twice a week
something highlighted in the scientific
literature has been better for muscle
growth upper lower splits are also solid
and while full body training is
relatively popular most people seem to
think of it as a beginner's routine
we're only training two maybe three days
a week which is exactly why this split
stands out so much there just seems to
be something wrong about hitting every
muscle every day except there isn't now
I was first introduced to this style of
training exactly three years ago in an
interview that I did with menno hence
women's where he explained that optimal
training frequency is different for
beginners than it is for advanced
trainees if you are a beginner then most
research shows that there is actually no
benefit to training a muscle group more
than once a week hitting each body part
once a week that works very well for
beginners but as you get more advanced
the time course that you can elevate
muscle protein balance that periods
basically decreases as you get more
advanced so basically after you lift
weights there's a period of time when
muscle protein synthesis increases and
the muscle becomes more sensitive to
amino acids this is why your muscle
grows in the first place and research
tells us that that response stays
elevated for about two days or so in new
lifters but actually returns to near
baseline after just 12 hours or so in
more experienced Trinis so the original
theory was that if you're a well-trained
lifter the more frequently you can hit a
muscle the more spikes you'll see and
muscle protein synthesis and the better
muscle growth you'll get as a result but
the question is do these more frequent
spikes and muscle protein synthesis
actually add up to produce more muscle
growth over time well that's a very good
and very controversial question some
skeptics have pointed out that these
studies only measured mixed muscle
protein synthesis which isn't as
relevant for building contractile muscle
tissue as myofibrillar muscle protein
synthesis also in 2014 one group of
researchers really flip to this theory
on its head claiming that acute protein
synthesis doesn't even correlate with
hypertrophy at all however when I
brought this study up here on the
channel at another protein researcher
reassure me that protein synthesis does
in fact predict hypertrophy an idea I
personally think is more supported by
the literature overall so while the jury
is still out on the theory I think what
we really want to know is will this high
frequency style of training get me more
jacked and this is where it gets really
interesting in 2012 a group of Norwegian
sport scientists conducted a secret
frequency study that would come to be
known as the infamous Norwegian
frequency project now because this study
was originally designed to get their
national powerlifting team a competitive
edge the results were never fully
published not only presented at
clandestine scientific conferences with
one dusty abstract making its way onto
the Internet but despite all its secrecy
I still like this study because it used
very highly trained lifters so they
split subjects into a group hitting
their full-body three days a week and a
group hitting their full-body six days a
week the rest of the program including
weekly volume was exactly the same and
after 15 weeks of training the six day
per week group got nearly twice as big
and strong increasing their lifts by a
total of 10 percent versus five percent
while also gaining significantly more
muscle granted while I do personally
trust these authors and the results
because this data set was never
published in a peer-reviewed journal
there is reason to be skeptical so last
year a different team of researchers
attempted to replicate this infamous
Norwegian project but this time they
used early intermediate lifters and only
ran the study for six weeks compared to
the original 15 so perhaps it's not
surprising that they didn't find much of
anything similar strength and size gains
between the three-day per week and six
day per week programme but at worst I
think this study shows us that both
frequencies can be effective and does
lend support to the idea that the
benefits of higher frequencies that are
likely seen with more experienced
lifters than less experienced lifters
still an important point to consider
with all this research is that weekly
volumes are always equated between
groups whereas in the real world they
probably wouldn't be how frequencies
tend to lead to higher volumes this has
led many experts in the field to argue
that these studies don't even account
for the single greatest benefit of
higher frequency training being able to
accumulate more high-quality volume and
I think that's a good point
when I was in Australia training with
Eric Helms he explained to me that the
main
fit of high-frequency full-body training
is simply being able to spread out your
weekly volume to help increase the
quality of each set the first question
you're gonna ask me why do I choose to
train for why that's right so I ask
myself I think for the most part the
benefit is that it's a way to manipulate
volume spread if I did like we did today
press cafes and then have upper body I
have a way more energy and I can
distribute the same amount of volume
with less fatigue over the week Grint
doing formal body sensors brings more
about volume and fatigue management and
this is how I've come to think about
training splits in general how well can
we organize these three variables into a
training week in other words does our
split allow us to reach optimal volumes
at an appropriate intensity while
allowing for recovery so let's start
with falling so there's general
scientific consensus at this point that
10 to 20 working sets is a good weekly
volume range for most muscles but it's
not enough to determine how much volume
you're doing per week you also need to
consider how much volume you're doing
her workout as new data suggests that
there's a per workout ceiling for volume
somewhere around five to ten sets per
muscle this means that after you've done
five sets or so for any given muscle in
a single workout any extra work that you
do
risks falling into the wasted sets or
junk volume category as far as
hypertrophy goes so splitting up your
volume across more workouts throughout
the week reduces the likelihood of doing
any so called wasted sets and you can
make sure that they all count this is
one advantage of doing high frequency
training so what about intensity well I
think full-body training has an
advantage here as well and this is
something I definitely didn't expect
when I first started this split because
I thought that hitting the same muscle
on consecutive training days would just
sort of tire me out as the week went on
but I've actually found the opposite
because I'm normally only hitting one
exercise per muscle that can really give
that exercise my full focus and
attention and because the volume per
workout is so low compared to other
splits I've run I find I'm able to
recover from it so much faster as well
for example on day three of my new
program for lower body all I have to do
is hit three sets of leg press and four
sets of calves so I find I'm able to
execute those leg presses so much better
than if they came after say squats and
lunges on a leg day
and honestly never having to do a full
leg day on this split has been great
historically I'd always feel so fatigued
by the time I got to the third or fourth
exercise that no matter how determined I
was my performance would just start to
take a hit at some point as the workout
drawn down and you can contrast this
with full body training where you're
normally only hitting one exercise four
legs on any given day so what about
recovery this is the thing most people
seem to have the most reservation with I
mean there's just no way you can recover
with only 24 hours between workouts
right actually I would say it's not that
hard remember when I say we're hitting
chest every day I'm not saying that
we're hitting a full Monday chest day
every day that would definitely be
overtraining instead you can think of it
like taking a typical Monday chest
workout and just splitting it up across
four or five days of the week also by
the second or third week a phenomenon
known as the repeated bout effect will
kick in where your body adapts to the
new stimulus and learns to recover
faster than you ever have before as a
result you likely never feel sore after
training which is actually a good thing
as soreness simply impedes performance
so a high-frequency split should
actually improve your body's ability to
recover not impair it this is of course
assuming you don't overdo it without
their volume or intensity in the
individual workouts especially early on
so while all of this certainly seems
like a homerun for high-frequency
training there are a few potential
concerns to be aware of first because
there isn't as much time for recovery
between sessions it is very important
that you stop a bit shorter of failure
for the first few weeks generally being
more in the 7 to 8 RPE zone rather than
the usual 8 to 9 then as the repeated
bout effect kicks in your body adapts
you can start to train closer to failure
again may also need to train some
muscles while still sore for the first
week or two which can be annoying but
granted this is common on any new
training routine but still does
highlight the importance of doing a full
and complete warm-up before training of
course after the first week or two this
soreness concern should totally go away
as well so is full-body 5 days a week
the best training split I would say for
me at the moment yeah I think it is
after years of running push-pull leg
splits and upper lower splits I think
this routine is giving me exactly the
motivation I need for continued progress
still I wouldn't necessarily put it on a
pedestal and say it's the best in all
contexts
if you're interested in a full summary
of how I think it stacks up against
other splits you can pause the screen
here and see what might be best for you
at the moment and if you guys would like
to give this style of training a shot I
did just launch my new intermediate to
advanced high frequency full-body
program over on Jeff nipper comm which
builds a complete 10-week program around
the principles discussed in this video
now if you've only been in the gym for a
year or two I'd recommend starting with
my fundamentals hypertrophy program
instead which also has a full body
routine included but only as you in the
gym three days a week instead of five so
the program includes three training
phases block one is more focused on
getting adapted to the high frequency
training and allowing the repeated Vout
effect to kick in block two ramps up
intensity and volume for a massive
hypertrophic stimulus before leading
into week nine which is a full d load
and then you get to go crazy and week
ten where you perform as many reps as
possible on the main lifts and see what
kind of gains you've made now there's
also a full breakdown of volume for
every body part so you can modify the
numbers slightly up or slightly down
depending on your specific level of
advancement and what areas or body parts
you want to focus on and I'm going to be
running this program myself for the next
few months so if you guys want to follow
along with me you can pick it up for
just 2999 for the week of launch and
then after that it'll go up to thirty
nine ninety nine so I'll put a button
over here next to my head to the new
program if you'd like to check it out
don't forget to subscribe if you haven't
already I've got five full body science
applied workouts on the way starting
next week and I'll see you guys all here
in the next video