man if the final boss is doing half reps
I got this game all day baby just
kidding Mr of the rock just kidding holy
[Music]
shit hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength I have been a professor of
sport ex science for a
while a competitive bodybuilder a
competitive Brazilian Jitsu Grappler and
a friend of Jesse James West that's
right the Jesse James West Jesse hit me
up a few days ago he's like hey what are
you doing I'm like Jesse I'm important
I'm busy he's like no please like just
talk to me like please I was like what
what fine what is okay the rock released
a raw unedited full film leg day onto
YouTube you should critique it and I was
like Jesse I knew there was a reason we
were friends I forgot what it was but
you sure as H proved yourself JK I mean
that really did happen though none of
that happened except Jesse just sent me
a Tex he was like hey check this out
he's a great guy you should check out
his channel he's really famous probably
know about him already I just want to
say something about myself I am nothing
and no one I am not even a stain on the
Rocks foot The Rock can sniff around
look around I'm not there I'm Irrelevant
in the grand scheme so please take all
of that into effect when you watch this
video of me critiquing the Rocks leg day
it is all done with a th% respect all
jokes are totally just jokes the rock is
the man and one of my uh man one of my
uh people I look up to cuzz he's kind of
amazing at everything and he's San which
means he's double triple amazing at
everything so um yeah let's critique
this leg day and again all jokes all for
good fun and the rock is clearly
whatever he's doing is working for him
could we pick out a little bit and learn
some things yes could we have a few
laughs along the way yes absolutely and
Mr The Rock if you ever see this
hello anyway let's get started exercise
one it looks like he just walks right up
to it and that looks
like an Arsenal leg press it looks like
the one leg at a time leg press Am I
Wrong
ha Not only was I not wrong it's a great
piece of Machinery by Arsenal but the
one one time at a time shit is
interesting let's just watch this a
little bit longer yeah one more caveat
before I start biting into this I don't
know what Mr The Rock's injury history
is sometimes people can't bend their
knees much or their hips much cuz they
got really crazy injury history so then
like what am I going to say about that
shit happened right so this's definitely
a factor so I don't want to overstep my
bounds here that being the case I mean
is there anything so wrong about
alternating this no not a ton I mean
this is a fine way to train what I would
like uh Mr The Rock to consider doing if
possible or more like you know I respect
the out of the rock he's doing whatever
the he he thinks he needs to be doing
he's the closest to the problem he's
probably more correct but if you guys
are using this kind of video to like
take some tips and stuff away I would
say at your own Leisure put your feet
considerably lower on the platform
Arsenal actually has a great double
platform where it goes boom and then
boom put it on the lower part put your
feet on the lower part in such a way
that your heels are still in contact
through the press and that means when
you're going down nice and slow you will
be able to get way deeper and get way
more knee flexion which means more
tension on the quad in a stretch
position which means more growth and so
putting your legs up that high typically
unless you're insanely tall uh and even
for the rock I can tell if he put his
feet lower he would get more knee
flexion so even he's not tall enough to
be justifying that unless he has some
kind of specific goal with this I I I
don't quite know and of course as always
injury history Etc that's that's a Full
Pass to do anything not that The Rock
needs approval from me I need approval
for my wife to do most things huh Scott
the video guy does she know about this a
secret oh uh oh I'm going to be in deep
shit when this releases so yeah get
those feet a little lower toast pointed
out a little bit more get a nice deep
stretch that's probably going to do you
a world of good and the alternating one
at of Time stuff I prefer
to kind of like press with both legs at
the same time that's worked for me in
the past it allows me a lot of focus a
lot of concentration but like I said
there's nothing specifically wrong about
this kind of alternating
style oh oh the rock heard me and he
started doing both legs at the same time
I I I highly suspect slash wantan this
to be a
[Music]
warm-up okay I'm going to assume that's
a
warm-up great physique oh just kidding
okay okay so this is kind of like a Milo
sarv style kind of marathon set where
you just do one set after one set after
one set we just walking machine to
machine interesting way to train is
excellent as far as saving time it's
really fun um is it maximum hypertrophy
resultant probably not especially
between sets of legs you need plenty of
rest I'd say a few minutes especially
until your breathing is pretty much
normal again and you feel really really
strong it's unlikely The Rock can check
either one of those boxes just go
straight over so that's a thing now the
vertical leg press is one of the most
dog shit pieces of equipment ever
invented I'm willing to be marginal and
reasonable on most things this is not
one of them the vertical leg press
essentially sets you up in such a way
that rounds your back as much as
possible and gives you a simultaneously
minimum knee flexion I mean like he's
not even breaking a 90Â° knee angle here
which means it hits the quads not so
much and it predisposes your back to
stressing and straining a lot now if
you're using this as a back
strengthening exercise it's actually not
that bad especially if you EAS into it
if you're using it as a leg
strengthening and leg hypertrophy
exercise it's terrible and I would just
never use it oo Scott can I get a final
boss t-shirt that fs and you can see he
cut it himself for being like in his 50s
right Scott how old is The Rock 51 51
The Rock isn't I mean he's in great
shape for a 20-year-old he's in
phenomenal shape for a 51y old this is
wild so huge kudos to him
o you know so that I'll tell you
this the way the rock is doing these
tells me his knees are kind of fucked up
look I'm
guessing but on
lunges you'll see people that typically
don't go for a full range of motion on
most other things at least get their
knee close to the ground you can tell
he's kind of awkwardly stopping at a
very high point with his knees
unfortunately for the rock most of the
benefit of lunges like with many
exercises is real deep in that hole for
your
glutes yeah I'm going to have to phrase
things
better it sucks this sucks uh he's going
to get something out of it guys it's not
all lost but when you're doing this at
home try to get your knee to gently
touch the ground every time you will get
categorically better results than doing
it this way overall the Cadence and
stride is very good he's under control
the entire time bringing that front
front foot really far forward between
reps man if the final boss is doing half
reps I got this game all day bab just
kidding Mr The Rock just kidding holy
shit rule is if you put the weights down
you got to start over that is a moronic
completely arbitrary rule that's some
old high school football type of shit
where they make up dumbass rules for
lazy ass kids that I put the weight down
anytime I want somebody stop me bab Mike
if only there was something that could
help him hold on to the weights more
better so he wouldn't lose his
grip no I can't think of anything oh
shit well look if it was prior to 1946 I
wouldn't be be able to think of anything
but something special happened in the
New Mexico desert in 1946 some sort of
craft crashed and only two teams were
invited to inspect it one was the CIA Le
US Government team alien bodies or
whatever weird Tech microwave shit
nobody cares the other team was actually
the people that run the Versa grips
Corporation because as the scientists in
the initial Inspection Team were trying
to open the door they noticed the door
handle was so
infinitely friction generating one of
the guys lost his hand because he
couldn't get it off the door they had to
saw it off it's still on that mother
good news the vers grips people took
that very same alien material and put it
on the inside of their straps now
they're not really straps they're vers
grips it's different and you can't tell
unless you try it vers grips just slip
right over any weights you're doing you
put your hand over the rest now the
limiting factor will not be your grip on
almost any exercise in almost any
scenario upright rows lateral races
pull-ups pull Downs bent rows any back
work walking lunges no problem and now
you don't have to put the weights down
because the versal grip has you handled
right now the rock probably has a bit of
a forearm pump in his fingers are kind
of slipping a little bit also he's
sweaty from leg workout vers grips make
all that go away if you want the
ultimate gripping device so you can get
to training the rest of your body
supering hard give Versa grips a thought
code will be on the screen you can use
that shit Link in the description to buy
some Versa GP yes we are sponsored and
this was an ad read I got you dumb
motherfuckers JK you're not dumb I'm
dumb yeah yeah okay so this isn't
awful is if you are trying to follow
this workout at home folks take your
feet and bring them in substantially for
the rock I would bring them in at least
6 inches on each side point the toes out
a little bit more and sink down
vertically so that your butt touches
your your calves at the bottom pause
there for a second and then come back up
that's how you do belt squats for
maximum results I don't know if the rock
is hurt again uh that's always a good
excuse but unless you're hurt there are
better ways to do this better ways to do
this yeah so they've done multiple
studies recently on which part of the
range of motion grows more muscle
they've had studies that have taken the
top half of a range of motion here to
here they've had studies compare that to
a full range of motion and then even
comparing to bottom half and typically
full range of motion beats top half by a
mile as far as how much muscle you grow
per unit time per set and in most
examinations the bottom end partials
like going all the way from calves
touching your ass to 90Â° and back down
in this exercise which in this exercise
is impossible cuz the machine sucks but
you know in a leg press or something
like that if you do that then it seems
that you grow even more muscle than with
a full range motion which is very very
interesting case in point this top end
partial
shit this ain't it man unfortunately now
does it grow muscle yes does it grow it
as efficiently and effectively as
possible
no pretty far from failure I think he's
kind of just saving some energy for
getting all this work done which will
definitely get the work done great for
cardio great for moving around not ideal
fire perer trophy from a Time efficiency
or Effectiveness perspective
all right this is going pretty well
there is more video yet so don't click
off but if you want even more more more
more video like a lot more like raw
edited uncut unrated version Our member
section has that and our member section
also has tons of videos all the time
that are super technical super nerdy get
you way more knowledge so uh click on
the members area and subscribe and maybe
you can pay us a teeny bit of money for
a ton of value back to the
video oh
shit so it's a it is a circuit which is
dope great card
and you're going to get a decent
hypertrophy stimulus from this I just
want you guys to know if your
perspective is I just want to gain as
much muscle as possible in my legs or
get as strong as possible taking longer
rest times doing straight sets of
whatever machine you're doing then
moving on to the next is probably
Superior here's another thing a lot of
the redundancy is built into this
program and this is just for fun I think
but so the leg press the vertical leg
press the reverse hack I mean these
machines largely Target the same
musculature
so what I would say is get you a regular
Arsenal leg press not the one foot at a
time shit do five or six sets of 10 to
20 reps on that maybe with some my reps
paused in there in between and I mean
like your quads are
cooked for the rest of the week or half
week do some hamstring stuff and then
you're fing golden another thing is no
hamstrings in here so he's trained quads
and glutes a lot maybe he'll train
hamstrings in a little bit that seems to
be missing
so there's no reason to do this much
variation unless it's just for for
funsies for lulls the best way to put on
size over time is pick two exercises one
to two exercises per muscle group
different versions of those exercises or
different exercises in the twice a week
that you train that muscle group so
every session's different but then every
week you keep the same core exercises
and you do multiple sets on each one
resting plenty in between until you're
strong again and then increasing the
Reps or the load a little bit over time
as you go you know five pounds here and
there a rep here and there over the
weeks and if you feel like you're
recovering little easily add a few sets
if you feel like you're not recovering
so well then stay with the sets where
they are even subtract some sets to make
sure you're recovering on time and that
I just like sounds complicated right I
wish there was an app you could get that
would do all this for
[Music]
you training for muscle
growth is never going to be be the
same is that a cupping scar Scott I was
going to ask you that that was my yes
that is my assessment also guys for the
record cupping has neither evidence in
support of it nor any physiological
rationale that real scientists can think
of that would make it effective um the
probability that cupping does anything
that is worth your time is very low
there is that chance but it's very low I
wouldn't waste my time with cupping I
would file under fad
Trend um it sucks cuz you I meet with
someone a few times a month and um they
tie me up and do all kinds of things to
me and I come out with scars mostly
emotional scars but definitely physical
ones as well um we used to do a lot of
cupping because we thought it also like
made my muscles heal up but yeah now we
just go straight to the RP hypertrophy
app well you guys know yeah buddy we're
in the state of Texas uh excuse me King
R here you don't you don't sound like me
or look like me you can't talk like this
yeah
buddy time to bleed I know all of the
quotes guys I went into this so tired
you listen to your body but usually on
the other side of that fatigue is some
sort of success that's wise words man
when you're tired sometimes it's time to
cut it off take a day of rest a really
light recovery session but not every
time many times when you're fatigued you
just ask yourself one question you go
can I hit the metrics for this workout
am I so fatigued that I can't hit the
weight for the Reps for the sets that I
need if the answer is yes I can hit them
for that and yes I'll take some rest
time after but I can do this workout and
I won't fall short of my goals nine
times out of 10 it doesn't matter how
tired you are just do it there isn't I'm
tired and people will say that to you
right like someone in your office where
you work we'll have a workout later and
don't worry they've told the whole
office building that they train and
they're like yeah
man got to workout later you're like
okay cool yep just trying to get my work
done so do you need anything and they're
like yeah man just um feeling pretty
tired though you know you can get them
away from your desk with one question so
tired that you're too tired to
accomplish your workouts goals like I
think I still got it awesome Bill get
the away from my desk so I can do a good
job for the company you asshole and go
do your workout it's totally fine to be
tired tired is not a cuto for your
workout unless you actually think you're
so tired you can't hit the weights for
the Reps for the sets that you need and
then hey day off recovery day if you're
really up half a week of recovery if
it's towards the end of a mesle cycle D
Lo no problem but a lot of people seem
to think that tired is gives them an
excuse to stop not motherucker
especially if you're really pushing
bodybuilding hard hypertrophy training
hard a personal transformation hard
definitely any kind of athlete of any
kind of sport you kind of live in the
realm of tired that's just what you do
right the only question is am I tired
enough so that I can't get my goal done
if that's the answer hey you're good if
anything else is the answer like no I'm
just tired shut the f up stop bitching
and get to it Rock's got some wisdom on
that shit one week from today
WrestleMania Scott he's doing
WrestleMania yeah holy fucking shit dude
that's
crazy that's crazy biggest match of my
career biggest WrestleMania of all time
final boss style I can meet many people
and not bad an eye there are two people
for sure and probably some others that I
would shit my pants if I ever met in
real life one is The Rock and two is
Arnold Scott you think you could meet
Arnold and just talk to him like a
normal
guy yeah how are
you arold yeah shut up what are you
doing stop it the rock man it's just
extra crediting life like few people say
he's speedr running life this is the
opposite this is where you go through
life and you collect like all the bonus
boxes and gold coins unbelievable guys
that was fun uh could have could have
ragged on the Rock and I'm sure I did a
little bit but all Mega massive super
super over the toop respect this is not
a person that has some bullshit
Hollywood trainer guide him through 12
weeks of working out while they bitch
and moan and the trainer sucks too this
isn't standard Hollywood The Rock
predates Hollywood not in a literal
sense but he came up through his own
shit through football through wrestling
and then went to H Hollywood The Rock
comes standard with his own knowledge
and work effort seemingly insurmountable
work effort on
training yes we can learn a little bit
about how to train by picking apart The
Rock's technique and doing better but
what I want to focus on with the rock is
the fact that he doesn't never need to
be anywhere ever again he's out there
sweating full t-shirts of Sweat by his
goddamn self in some random gym in Texas
that's that fucking inspiration shit
that's the level I'm trying to get on in
any case Mr The Rock best of luck at
Wrestlemania hope that goes well
hopefully you break a billion dollars a
net worth soon so I can cry myself to
sleep yet another night having nothing
and no one see you guys next time you
guys see that right there that looks
like a video you could click on to watch
more of our stuff but it could be the
next chapter of your life and true
happiness click away worst case scenario
it's another one of our videos