our people SRP you welcome back dr.
James Hoffman here hopefully had a
chance to join me on the basics of
physiology videos today we're going to
move on and kind of get to some of our
bread and butter for Sport and Exercise
Science which is movement anatomy so
this is going to be the first video in a
series of video that describes some of
the things we need to know about terms
of movement and anatomy and physiology
now this isn't going to be a full-blown
ANP course so don't have to worry about
that this one is meant to get you up to
speed just on some of the terms that
you're probably gonna hear in the future
when we start describing movement but
it's going to be in the context of Sport
and Exercise Sciences so what we want to
get away from saying like to the left or
top our bottom or front back we're going
to start using a little bit more
specific terminology and we just don't
want you to get lost along the way so
the goal for today is to get some just
general foundational terms down so that
when we go forward we can speak a little
bit more clearly about movement relative
to the body so why don't we go ahead and
get started the first thing we have to
understand is the anatomical position
now the reason why we even have to bring
this up is because movement of the body
on an absolute scale meaning just my
body and time and space can be described
any number of ways which makes it really
really difficult to say like well what
is front
what is back what is left what is right
so we have developed the anatomical
position to give ourselves a frame of
reference whenever we want to describe
either movement or things placed within
the body and all the above right so if
we look at the slide we can see the
anatomical position of this skeleton
here right so we have the person
standing upright standing erect they
have their head facing forward they have
the arms down at the sides and then you
can also notice their palms are up and
then generally it's depicted with the
toes pointed kind of down or kind of
neutral feet usually put toes down so
this is the reference point whenever
we're describing where other things are
located on the body or if you want to
describe something as being on the left
or on the right - if we want to say -
top or bottom or front to back this is
going to be our frame of reference from
this point on now just kind of a weird
nitpicky thing when we're talking about
anatomical positions
usually it's done from the first-person
perspective right so if you're looking
at this and looking at the guy you might
say well that's his left arm or his left
leg because that is the point that
you're looking at it but generally to be
more specific when we're talking about
anatomical position it would be from the
first-person perspective right so it
would literally be what is your right
arm and what is your right leg versus
looking at it in the 180-degree
flip-flop make sense so it's kind of
flip-flop put yourself in their shoes
kind of as the way that you would be
more anatomically correct but again this
is the reference point and we're going
to just describe some directional terms
and some movement terms using this as
the reference so let's go ahead and get
on to the first couple here first thing
we got to differentiate is superior and
inferior so superior is a term that
generally means above in the body right
and sometimes you'll see the word
cephalic which means towards the head
and so you can see the orange line
basically anything that's kind of like
from the midline up is generally
referred to as superior now this can
also be a relative term where you could
say something is superior in the body to
something else meaning it's located up
above or more close towards the head
right contrary to that we have inferior
which is generally meaning below or we
can also use the term caudal which
literally means towards the tail which
would be like your tailbone and your
coccyx on the back of your your hips
there so generally when we say something
is inferior you're like with the
reference point it would be lower than
or a lot closer to either the tail bone
or the feet right
that's not super super explicitly
correct but for our purposes will serve
us just fine so if we say something as
superior generally means it is above if
we say something is inferior generally
means it is below and that could be
relative as well make sense all right
next one these are pretty easy hopefully
nothing too crazy here all right - the
next one is one that we use a lot medial
vs. lateral so whenever something is
described as medial it is essentially
meaning it is towards the midline of the
body now you can see in the skeleton on
this one we drew an amid imaginary kind
of black line right down the middle kind
of bisecting it into perfect right and
left halves right so anything that is
medial meaning
it will be more close towards the
midline of the body right lateral on the
other hand is kind of a polar opposite
of that meaning away from the midline of
the body so these can be in reference to
the anatomical position here and it can
be relative you could say something as
more medial or more lateral to something
else and that's perfectly fine but
anything that is generally referred to
as being medial means it's closer to
that imaginary bisecting line in the
middle and anything that has lateral
meaning moving out towards kind of the
outside of that or maybe out towards the
periphery depending on how the person is
standing so an anatomical position you
know the hands and the feet are still
relatively close to the midline but if
my hands were extended out right we
could say my hands are pointing out
laterally versus medially towards the
midline so there's kind of some absolute
with the anatomical position references
and there's some relative references
when we're actually moving around doing
stuff but again medial meaning towards
the midline lateral meaning away from
the midline okay hopefully nothing crazy
yet a couple other ones we want to know
anterior versus posterior so on this one
we have two pictures right anterior is
really simple or basically imagining
cutting the body basically into front
and back house right so anterior is
anything that would be like on the front
half which would be the side with my
face my stomach my quadriceps right
anything along those lines posterior is
referring to the rear side the back side
of the body so this would be like the
back of my head all my back muscles my
glute muscles my hamstring muscles
that's why I often called posterior
chain right so anterior front side
posterior back side nothing too crazy
okay proximal and distal and the next
one's proximal is usually this one can
be a little confusing for some people
whenever we use the word proximal
essentially on a very nitpicky level
we're meaning near the main mass of the
body so we're saying if something is
proximal it's kind of close to the main
like your trunk area of your body
distal is kind of a polar opposite where
we're saying if something is distal it
is generally away from the main mass of
the body so for example we would say
that the shoulder joint would be
something that is relatively proximal
whereas your hands
your fingertips your phalanges alright
our relatively distal meaning away from
the main mass of the body why because
they stick out further
so things that are proximal are
generally closer to the middle whereas
things that are distal are generally
further away from the middle and in the
example here we kind of have like the
shoulder and hip joints being something
that is a good reference point for being
proximal and then we have like the hands
and the feet as a good example of
something that is generally defined as
distal now this is kind of like absolute
terms in terms of anatomical positions
but again could be relative as well we
could say something is proximal to
something else or something is distal to
something else meaning close or far away
from something else
same idea there but proximal generally
close to the main mass of the body main
like being the trunk distal meaning kind
of far
branching out away from the trunk okay a
couple other ones superficial versus
deep this one's pretty easy superficial
generally or first anything that's up
towards the surface up towards kind of
like the skin level right so in this
example we have the first one is the
hand so something that is superficial
would mean close to the surface like up
at the skin layer the dermis layers up
here that would be something very very
superficial versus deep meaning
something away from the surface actually
and as the name implies kind of deep
inside of the body so something that is
superficial would be like the skin or
any of like the subcutaneous fat near
the hand the surface whereas something
that is deep might be like the actual
bones inside the hands or something or
even some of the muscles and connective
tissue inside the hands right so that's
just a really simple one right so
superficial meaning towards the surface
deep meaning not towards the surface
away from the surface so actually inside
of the tissue a burp
moving on to the next one we have to
start understanding how we actually kind
of bisect some of these planes of
movement that we're going to be talking
about so we already had some kind of we
laid down some foundational term
movement terms we have an anterior
posterior medial lateral
so now we're going to actually start
describing how we kind of talk about the
body on a very simple biomechanical
level by kind of using different planes
of movement that we can break down so
the first one is probably the easiest
one in my opinion to on
Stan what we call the sagittal plane if
you take a look at the picture we can
see we have imaginary guy there
essentially the sagittal plane is an
imaginary plane that cuts the body in
two symmetrical right and left halves
right what does that mean well that
means essentially if I am looking at
something right and left whether it's
anterior right or anterior excuse me
anatomical right or anatomical left I
can use the sagittal plane to describe
movements that are occurring in those
right and left halves so if we're
describing the sagittal plane that
generally means that things are going to
be rotating about what we call the
medial lateral frontal axes now planes
and axes can be a little confusing for
some people planes I like to imagine as
I'm gonna use this piece of paper as an
example asks just like a flat line right
like this kind of like a big sheet so in
the sagittal plane essentially it would
be like this it'd be bisecting myself
into right and left halves right the
axis is kind of a perpendicular I'm
gonna grab this pen to kind of describe
this the axes would be something that
basically intersects this plane at a
perpendicular angle at about 90 degrees
and then you can imagine something
moving as this but you know this line is
rotating which is kind of funny to think
about so although that is a little
confusing admittedly really what this
boils down to is what things are
occurring in this kind of plane of
motion here that bisects me from left to
right so what type of movements do we
typically see well usually we see
flexion and extension type movements and
we're going to talk a little bit more
about that in a second but generally if
we're talking about movements occurring
in that sagittal plane they're gonna be
flexion extension movements and the big
ones that we're going to be using for
exercise purposes are going to be things
like elbow flexion and extension
shoulder flexion extension and then I
can't do because I'm sitting down but
also hip flexion extension so you can
imagine right if I I'm flexing my
shoulder up and down it's occurring in
this plane of motion and that's how we
describe that so that is the sagittal
plane bisecting into left and right
halves and the primary movements that
we're gonna see are going to be our
flexion extension movements that are
going to be operating within this plane
so let's go on to the next the next one
is the frontal plane a little bit
different this one is going to be
dividing the body into
front and back halves are anterior and
posterior halves so the sagittal plane
was right and left like this right the
frontal plane would be something like
this if it was to cut me in half from
front to back right and so in this case
we're going to have a similar idea we're
going to have things moving about an
anterior posterior access so again the
access basically is that perpendicular
bisector or excuse me that perpendicular
line that comes through and that would
rotate and that would be the kind of
movement actions that we would see so in
this case the primary movements that
we're going to see in the body are going
to be abduction a B duction and
adduction a deduction so once has a B
one has a D so abduction and adduction
and we're going to talk about that a
little bit typically we see that
occurring at the hip and at the shoulder
so a B duction would look like this and
that a deduction would be back towards
right so in this case we have this plane
right and then the movement is operating
within that point of motion so before we
got flexion and extension like this in
the sagittal plane in the frontal plane
we're gonna have abduction and adduction
like this make sense not too crazy I
hope and then last one that we want to
describe pretty easy I think for the
most part is the transverse plane which
is going to be bisecting the body into
superior and inferior or top and bottom
halves and in this case we're going to
have a vertical axis so what that means
is if I take my imaginary plane paper
here I'm gonna cut myself into top and
bottom halves and then I'm going to have
an axis that is rotating like this so
what we're gonna actually see in this
plane of movement as you can probably
see from the picture are going to be our
trunk rotational movements right and
that could be medial or lateral it can
be all sorts of different things but
here's where we're primarily going to
see anything where we're actually
rotating about like this right so a good
example might be like a baseball swing
or a tennis racket swing or something
like that or even like a med ball toss
something along those lines make sense
so far
so again sagittal right left frontal
front back and then and this one
transverse top and bottom now not all
movement occurs perfectly in those
planes but it's kind of a
nice place to start kind of some
groundwork to describing movement now if
you've taken the biomechanics course or
I've seen anything like that before you
know we can usually describe these
things in terms of vectors and joint
angles but this is kind of a
foundational place to start where we say
okay what planes are the movements
generally occurring in what are the
muscle actions that we're starting to
see or what are the movements that we're
starting to see at the joints really
really basic now again in real life does
anything operate perfectly in the
sagittal plane or perfectly in the
frontal plane no it's usually a hybrid
of some different movements and not all
movements are perfectly linear
but again just developing some ground
works and foundational terms to talk
about human movement so those are the
three big planes that we're gonna be
talking about more and more later on all
right let's move on to the next one now
we have to start describing some basic
joint movements in the body this is kind
of I think I think pretty easy for most
people to grasp though it's kind of a
common beginner newbie mistake that we
do see a lot so we're just going to
describe some of the basic movements of
joints so we have a pretty good
understanding of how we can describe
these drake exercise conditions later on
so the first two that are worth
mentioning probably the ones were most
interested in especially summer time
working on the guns flexion and
extension so if we're talking about a
joint that is flexing or extending
essentially what we're talking about is
a joint angle that is either decreasing
or increasing so the common examples
that we see with flexion and extension
are going to be the elbow in the knee
and so since we're sitting up like this
we'll use the elbows a good example here
so for flexion to occur essentially the
joint angle has to be decreasing meaning
the insertion point is moving kind of
towards the origin in to some degree so
the muscle is shortening the joint angle
is decreasing for extension we're going
to see this elbow joint joint angle
actually increase right so flexion
joining a little shortens excuse me
decreases extension joint angle
increases not too challenging right the
next two are a B duction and a deduction
I already mentioned those a little bit
notice the spelling difference in these
they sound very very similar they are
slightly different so
and a deduction we're going to be moving
away from the midline of the body and
the way that I like to remember this a
stupid little trick a B duction sounds
like AB duct when you abduct someone you
take them away same idea here so a
deduction would mean away from the
midline of the body so in this case if
we were talking about my shoulder joint
here if I was doing abduction I would be
taking my arm and moving the distal end
away from the body right so I have
abducted or my arm went away if I want
to do the opposite ad duct I'll be
moving back towards the midline of the
body so in this case my arm was abducted
to move it back to the anatomical
position I have to add duct ad duct back
to the midline this is a pretty simple
one but it can be a little confusing
when we are referring to something not
in the anatomical position so in the
anatomical position is pretty
straightforward
right we can think about our shoulders
coming out to the side like this or hips
coming out to the side like this it gets
confusing when you have somebody doing
something like a bench press right where
they're laying horizontally and their
arms are moving and it becomes kind of
the opposite of what you would normally
expect but for the most part if you
think about it reeling really simple
level if you're moving towards the
midline
it's a deduction if you're moving away
from the midline you're being abducted
that's abduction right away from the
midline now next one want to talk about
is rotation rotation as you can imagine
just like if you're thinking about
biomechanics is something spinning about
an axis right which is what most of our
joints do anyway but when we're talking
about rotation we're gonna usually be
breaking that down into two not always
with two pretty simple ones there's
going to be an internal rotation and an
external rotation so if we're talking
about something that is internally
rotating that means the movement is
removing the joint towards the midline
and so really really common example you
see in like PT and 80 are shoulder
internal and external rotation right so
essentially if I were to internally
rotate my shoulder that would mean that
this part of my arm would be coming back
towards the midline so an internal
rotation would be like this I'm rotating
my arm back towards the midline versus
an external rotation I'd be moving away
from the midline very similar to a B and
a deduction right so in this case I'm
going to be rotating my shoulder away
from the midline
dunt like so right so I can also flip it
up and do in a different direction right
if I wanted to go external away from the
midline internal back towards the
midline same idea so rotational
movements internal is usually and this
can be done not only in the arm right
you could think about the same idea with
the lower extremity as well so anything
that's turning towards the midline
internal turning away from the midline
external okay now I'll get into some
more specific ones that might be four
particular joints or particular areas on
the body one that we want to be specific
about for the foot or is plantar flexion
and dorsiflexion this is another one
that people get commonly confused
plantar flexion is essentially when you
are moving your toes away from your
tibia
so this is when you're actually pointing
your toes down your heels come up right
so this is like when you're standing on
your tippy toes
that is plantar flexion so normally we
have like flexion paired with an
extension and this the case we actually
have to flexions right so plantar
flexion again
toes pointing down away from tibia so
we're standing up on our tiptoes the
other is what we call dorsiflexion which
is where we're actually going to be
moving our toes up towards the tibia
which again is that big bone your shin
bone leading up to the knee right so in
that case we're actually gonna be moving
our toes up off the ground so the heel
stays down toes come up that's
dorsiflexion so toes down heels up
plantar flexion heels down toes up
dorsiflexion that's one who is specific
for the action for the foot another foot
specific one we have is eversion and
inversion when we're doing this is one
where we're actually looking at the way
the ankle moves the bottom of the foot
so generally if we're talking about
something where the sole the bottom of
your foot is rotating towards the
midline that is an inversion so the
soles are facing the midline of the body
if they are facing away from the midline
that's going to be an e-version so the
way I like to think about it inversion
is in or towards the body inside the
body eversion is out or away from the
body so if I was to look about my feet
and the way that my soul is facing five
soles are flat and I want to point my
soles towards the inside of my body in
if I want to point them away from my in
the midline of my body out that I ve
version makes sense nothing too crazy
okay so those were some specific ones
for the feet we have a couple specific
ones for the hands that are not weren't
noteworthy we have pronation and
supination essentially if we're talking
about pronating our hands we're talking
about moving our palms down like this so
we're having our palms kind of facing
towards the ground if we're talking
about supination what we're thinking
about is actually turning our palms up
and my anatomy and physiology teacher
back in the day and I'm sure every I'm
sure every NP teachers has the same
reference but the easy way to remember
this one if you get confused so if
somebody's like is this pronation or
supination though I have to think about
it as supination is making a bowl with
your hands asking for soup right so if
you were to ask for soup you'd say I
want some please sir I want some more
make a little soup bowl with your hands
you turn your palm stop that supination
pronation is palms down so supination
palms up pronation palms down with me so
far hopefully nothing too crazy okay
couple other ones circumduction is kind
of a strange one circumduction is
essentially where we have the origin of
the muscle or wherever the kind of the
proximal end of the joint is is going to
remain relatively fixed it's not going
to move whereas the distal end of the
joint art or whatever the appendage is
is going to actually make a circular
motion right so I can do this with my
arms and my legs so up here right
my humerus stays relatively fixed up
here in the joint moves around a little
bit but it's not moving grossly in time
and space here right whereas my hand is
basically free to move about wherever it
wants and it does it in a circular
motion I can do the same thing with my
leg in my hip and make a round circular
motion circumduction so that one's kind
of easy right circle circumduction so
proximal end stays fixed just the land
makes a circle nothing too crazy and
then a couple more specific ones
elevation and depression are terms that
we use to usually more often than not to
describe the scapula when we're talking
about elevating something again usually
the scapula we're talking about raising
it up superiorly right so if I was to
elevate my scapula I'd be kind of like
trying to shrug my shoulders up and
conversely to that if I was too
depressed
or using depression I'll be talking
about moving something inferiorly or
depressing it downward so elevation
would be up superior depression down in
usually again mostly reference to the
scapula and then another similar
scapular one we use our protraction and
retraction and this is one that you're
probably going to hear a lot when we
talk about setting up good techniques
for like squatting and bent over rows
and bench presses and stuff like that
protraction is where we're taking the
area in question usually the scapula and
moving it forward or anteriorly so if I
were to protract my scapula I'd be
moving them towards the anterior side of
my body moving them for right here's me
sitting neutral if I have again to
protract that would mean I'd be trying
to push my shoulder blades forward on
the other hand if I was trying to
retract I'd be pulling them back or
posterior lis like this so if I was
trying to set up a good squat or a good
bench press right we usually say retrack
the scapula's so that again would be if
me I'm sitting neutral here to retrack
I'm gonna move my scapula to the
posterior or my back side which will
look like this pulling them back notice
how that pulls me upright really well
too so really important for a good
technique so protraction forward
retraction backwards anterior posterior
make sense nothing too crazy so those
are the big ones that we're gonna need
to know going forward now we kind of
went through it relatively fast but most
of you I think are able to grasp this
relatively easy so if you ever need to
brush up on these just go back and go
through this lecture again it's not too
challenging this is something I want you
guys to have down and not even really
think twice about from this point on so
we should be able to say like what is
this
all right that's abduction or what is
this that's flexion what is this that's
extension right that's the kind of stuff
we need to be able to do easy-peasy not
think twice about now within this we
want to be able to accurately describe
not only in movement terms but also in
terms of which muscles are actually
doing the movement or producing the
force and movement and then what types
of muscle contractions they might be
going through so here on this slide we
actually are addressing a couple things
first thing on that you might see is
what we call an agonist which is
something that we refer to as a primary
mover for whatever it is that we're
doing right so there's lots of different
activities that we can talk about some
are sports specific some are exercise or
specific essentially an agonist muscle
is the primary force producing muscle
for whatever movement that you're trying
to do right now we know that most
movements are complex that don't adjust
involve one muscle group they usually
involve multiple muscle groups so the
agonist muscles are ones that are kind
of the primary force producers right so
a good example might be the bench press
right where we have a number of
different muscles involved in the bench
press we have all sorts of rotator cuff
muscles even some of our posterior
muscles on our back side help stabilize
the bench press but what are the muscles
that are actually producing force well
for the most part we know it's going to
be the pecs and the triceps right those
are going to be the ones that are really
pushing that bench out are there other
muscle groups involved in controlling
the movement absolutely but they're not
necessarily agonist muscles they might
be supportive muscles they might even be
neutralizing muscles but the agonist is
the one that's producing the most force
or producing force in the line of motion
right
so again primary mover is going to be
the agonist another term that we can use
to describe some of these things are
synergists right where we have some
muscles that are assisting the agonist
in actually performing a given movement
right and this list can be very very
long for any given exercise there might
be any number of muscles that are
assisting in the movement but they might
not be primary force producers right
this might be because of the way their
patient angle is lined up or the way
that they're lined up on the joint
relative to the movement that they're
doing or it could just be from a sheer
size perspective right so if we're
looking at like rotator cuff muscles
versus like your PEC muscle well your
PEC muscles are huge they're going to be
able to generate a lot more force than
this muscle that's the size of you know
my fingertip or even smaller right so we
might have some synergistic muscles
which can aid the movement in either
certain parts of the movement or certain
ranges of motion but are not going to be
the primary force producers for that
movement so the center just lists can be
pretty extensive for a lot of different
movements and that's totally normal
right on the other end we can
antagonist muscles antagonist muscles
are going to be those which oppose the
prime mover and they're usually located
on the polar opposite end of the joint
that you're talking about right so in
this case we have a picture and we have
a nice simple example right we have a
biceps and a triceps example here so in
this case we're looking at a elbow joint
and we're probably looking at either
doing elbow flexion or elbow extension
right so we know that to do elbow
flexion our biceps here is going to be
the prime mover the agonist muscle in an
order for us to flex that bicep is gonna
have to contract and shorten right so
here right but we also know on the polar
opposite end the back end of my arm this
tricep here is a primary true elbow
extensors right so if I was trying to do
elbow extension my triceps would be very
active and pushing my forearm outward
right and opening up that joint into
extension so we know that they have
polar opposite roles so essentially if
we don't control our movement really
well we can actually see these
antagonistic muscles very often
interfering with the agonist muscles for
whatever movements that's trying to
occur so if I'm trying to do elbow
flexion my biceps will be the agonist
right but my triceps could also be
resisting whether it's a reflex response
or it's just not quite a smooth
coordinated movement yet my triceps
might actually be actively elbow
extending resisting that movement while
I'm doing it I mean that would be
antagonistic so one of the big one of
the primary reasons we get stronger over
time especially like in the beginning
stages when you just start doing lifting
is we can actually smoothen out a lot of
these movements and one of the ways that
we smoothen out a lot of these different
movement patterns is by actually
decreasing the amount of co-contraction
meaning contracting both agonist and
antagonist muscles at the same time and
what we see is the antagonists start to
cool off over time and allow the agonist
muscles to become more and more forceful
in the beginning they're a little
cautious they're like whoa we're not
used to doing this what's going on I'm
gonna try and negative feedback negative
feedback negative feedback stop what
you're doing because this is foreign to
me or it's too much force or too much
stretch I'm not used to this yet right
and that's normal over time as you get
more and more trained that gets toned
down
responses get toned down a little bit
and we can see the agonist producing
lots of force so in this case right for
elbow flexion the agonist would be the
biceps the antagonist would be the
triceps for elbow extension the agonist
would be the triceps and the antagonist
would be resisting that movement would
be the biceps right so usually kind of
located on the polar opposite end of the
joint so the same thing we could talk
about quadriceps and hamstring the same
idea right nothing too crazy there and
then we also want to be able to
accurately describe some certain basic
conditions of muscle contraction now
this is something you're going to learn
more and more and more about and the
biomechanics course and the exercise
physiology courses but we just want you
to be familiarized with some of these
terms so that they're not totally
foreign or we don't make newbie mistakes
later on so we're talking about muscle
contractions there's three generally
main types of contractions that we can
talk about and there's a couple kind of
gray areas in between but these are the
three most common things that we're
gonna see over and over and over again
the first one you'll see on there is
what we call a concentric contraction
and what that is is a condition where
the muscle acts is actually producing
force and shortening right so it's
actually and if this example if we're
talking about the elbow we're gonna see
the joint angle decrease so for a
concentric contraction my bicep is going
to start generating tension and then
it's going to actually shorten right so
the distal excuse me the insertion end
is gonna start moving towards the origin
right so in this case I had something in
my hand maybe it was a dumbbell in this
case or a pen or maybe I was doing some
beer curls
hence my burping right so in this case
if I'm doing a concentric contraction
the muscle is shortening in the line of
pull and in this case the joint angle is
decreasing from the elbow right that
would be a concentric contraction so the
muscles producing force and shortening
on the opposite end we can have what we
call an eccentric contraction this is
something that people get confused a lot
and where they they confuse eccentric
with concentric of an antagonistic
muscle so when we're talking about an
eccentric contraction what we're talking
about is a muscle that is producing
force it's generating tension but now it
is a lengthening rather than shortening
so in this case what we started off
talking about was a concentric bicep
movement right where I shortened
bicep as a produced force an eccentric
muscle contraction is where I'm still
producing force with this bicep but for
whatever reason whether it's voluntary
or possibly even involuntary this is now
lengthening out while it's generating
force what we want to make sure that
we're clear about is this this is
different than doing a forcible tricep
extension of the elbow right so what
we're saying is my eccentric contraction
is kind of the downward phase for a
movement where now the muscle is still
producing force and lengthening but I'm
controlling it here still with my bicep
so the bicep is doing the concentric and
then the II centric phase now it's
lengthening under force what we're not
talking about doing is doing a
concentric bicep curl and then doing a
concentric tricep extension right two
different things right so in the example
with concentric and eccentric my bicep
is still doing the work the tricep is
still an antagonist right well it could
potentially be an agonist if I was to
try and throw this pen at the camera or
across the room that's not what I'm
actually doing so in this case it's
still an antagonist and the bicep is
still an agonist because I'm still
producing force on the bicep and now
it's lengthening as they go down makes
sense so we don't want to confuse that's
a really big newbie mistake where people
will say oh you're doing elbow extension
right that means you are contracting
your tricep muscles not necessarily I
could be doing a eccentric bicep
contraction and lowering the weight down
in control that's the difference right
so concentric produces force shortens
eccentric produces force lengthens and
you can see the same example in the
slide and then last but certainly not
least is one that we do all the time and
we don't think twice about it is an
isometric contraction an isometric
contraction is simply where we're having
the muscle produce force but there's no
real significant change in length we say
significant because if I was just to
hold my arm still in a relaxed position
right nothing's going on if I contract
my arm even if I don't move it you can
see that there's some movement there
right the muscle still shortens a little
but simply from generating tension and
reducing the slack inside that muscle
that's what we're talking about right
but my joint angle didn't actually
change so when we're talking about
something that's isometric we're
essentially saying no significant change
in joint angle now for if it fudge is a
little bit here there that's normal so
if we were to be really really nitpicky
right like comic book guy from the
symphony a hue metric right so isometric
would generally be something where
you're producing force and the joint is
staying perfectly still in the real
world and Sport and Exercise context
we're saying it's staying mostly still
right it's no significant movement
across the joint because there's very
rare and any sporting or exercise
context where we're doing an isometric
and you truly get no movement and like I
said even before even if I hold my arm
like this I'm not flexing if I start
flexing the muscle moves a little bit
right that's normal so it's not a true
isometric but general we're saying no
major change in joint angle so to review
that one right concentric we generate
tension the muscle shortens eccentric we
generate tension the muscle lengthens
isometric we generate tension no major
or significant changes in the joint
angle now you're going to learn more and
more and more about muscle contraction
the physiology behind it things like
length tension relationships force
velocity relationships all sorts of cool
stuff but we have to be able to
accurately describe some of these things
before we can get into some of the fun
stuff later on when we're describing the
muscle actions of like a squat or clean
or a bench press or a dead load so we
want to make sure we understand these
things really well I hope you guys
enjoyed this one make sure this might be
a good one just to even though you might
have said well man this one was probably
the easiest one we've done so far that's
okay it's meant to be easy but watch it
one more time and just make sure that
you're clear on all the terms because
this is something that's going to come
back and haunt you later if you don't
have it down now so definitely make sure
you have all the anatomical descriptions
down all the general flexion extension
movement terms down and then just make
sure you're really clear about what's
concentric eccentric and then isometric
so my homework for you will be start
thinking about different exercises that
you
and which muscle groups are performing
what types of contractions and what
planes of motion are they occurring and
what type of joint movements would you
use to describe those movies okay work
on that and we're going to get into some
more fun stuff and subsequent lectures
in this series so thank you very much
for tuning in
RP + RP u is James Hoffman again signing
out I will see you next time