what's going on everyone so we are here
in Bali my last vlog we're still in
Australia and I'm just here doing this
pre-workout sungold Kiwi by the way I
don't know if you can notice this on the
camera but the Kiwis here in Bali and
especially in Australia
are absolutely massive and the sungold
Kiwis are really really popular here
super juicy and delicious these are the
best Kiwis I've ever had and had to
actually come over here to appreciate
that anyway today I'm on my way over to
seminyak so we're currently staying here
in ubud I think I'm saying that right
which is a subsection of Bali and then
we're heading over to seminyak to meet
up with Mendel hence women's we actually
got to finally meet in person at the
Australian ultimate evidence-based
fitness conference Meno when I actually
have kind of an interesting story he was
one of my first interview guests back in
2015 for my podcast that interview is
still here on my channel and that was
the first interview that kind of blew up
on the internet and exposed a lot of
people to full body training because
back then most people were doing like
either body parts split or like some
kind of push-pull leg split or maybe up
or lower but I think Meno was like the
first guy in the evidence-based
community to really talk about full body
training five days a week so like high
frequency full body training and now
we're actually gonna go for a workout
and get to hit that now I know that I've
done a full body workout with Timberwolf
then I did that collab with Eric Helms
and he was he's also doing full body
five days a week which is somewhat new
for him but Meno is like the og full
body five days a week guy so super smart
guy he's really mysterious like no one
really knows exactly how he trains so
I'm gonna try to expose him for you guys
a little bit on this channel you guys
will get to see some of the behind the
scenes and I'm really looking forward to
it so I'll check in with you guys over
in seminyak I feel like I need another
Kiwi look at all this fruit it's so good
in this part of the world
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
all right so guys we made it to seminyak
and guess the gym took a lot longer than
we expected because traffic from uber to
seminyak was super congested is like
nothing I've ever seen
so what should have been like a
45-minute drive with like a two-hour
drive anyway we're here at the 7-eleven
next to the gym looking for a
pre-workout meal okay it's not
interesting yeah so couldn't have a look
around here to see what they have
I just need like something to eat I'm so
hungry right now whoa they have so many
different seaweed flavored chips here I
guess that's an Asian thing all right
with some protein some carbs and fats in
here that makes sense it's a pre-workout
meal probably easier said than done -
blueberry milk I don't even know what
the protein is on this Oh protein three
grams I won't do it
okay so this has seven grams of protein
so if I get a couple of these that'll be
14 grams of protein apparently this bar
has five grams that brings me up to 19
we got 19 grams of protein here babe
I need another like 5 what's she
thinking oh maybe oh yeah
should I get some beef floss or should I
get some porn it Depp tagging Saffy are
you doing oh uh uh corned beef yeah
there we go no thanks oh whoa that could
be pretty oh that's perfect
boom look at you that's exactly what I
want yeah rice and chicken okay that'll
work this along with soy tu
low fat French vanilla milks Brenda
limit should be good that's a good solid
solid we have made it here to the gym
I'm here with my man meadow what's up
bro just doing a quick five-minute
warm-up Meadows over here on the
elliptical I'm here on the bike we're
gonna get our heart rate up then we're
gonna jump into it sort of a full body
workout today it's gonna be some really
interesting stuff we're gonna get in the
zone crush it and I'm going to take you
guys through the whole workout after you
guys
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
so guys we just finished up the workout
we're here poolside in Bali say what's
up we got our camera crew and we're
gonna take you guys through the whole
workout so I'm actually gonna give it up
to minnow so what did we kick things off
with remaining that--let's for the first
one and that was pretty traditional just
having remaining in the left for
posterior chain we did a full body
workout three sets per muscle group and
then we did pretty much everything in a
circuit with antagonists super sets were
possible it's pretty crowded so it
wasn't always possible then we need leg
extensions right after the remaini that
lifts and that's actually antagonist
superset
so after the hamstring she do the waltz
work pretty much straight after possible
your gym and we did that with boss rose
friction training with katsu which
allows you to get a really effective
workout in with very light weight so
it's very easy on the knees so with the
rim Romanian deadlifts we were doing
like sets of 8 to 12 I was anyway is
that way yeah I think my reps were eight
six four oh eight six more okay so you
go you go really heavy on those heavier
than most people would go it's like five
plates or close to five plates on there
what's your ration out there like you
have a union like you're kind of like
this is kind of your thing right I
brought this up in the conference so
like you're Romanian deadlift technique
is unique so maybe you can describe how
it is you do them because people might
look at it and be like oh my god that
looks weird right but you there's
obviously rationale for it yeah so I
figured it looks weird in part because
of my structure but in part also because
I sort of do an American Romanian that
left which is I guess a bit of a
contradiction in countries okay but I do
remain in that left but with the
American lockout and I have quite some
art in my back because I think that is
the safer way to do it at least in my
lumbar spine and my lumbar spine is very
alright so while I'm walking out I
actually push my hips through and I
actually allow the knees to bend in the
top position as well so I sort of look
go push my hips through and actually go
back and it looks to some people like
I'm hyper extending the spine but I'm
actually flexing and posterior tilting
the pelvis and just letting the hips
come forward so you allow you to
stimulate the glutes actually it's also
almost like a yielding a hip frost
mm-hmm that's kind of the way I thought
it as well now for me personally on the
Romanian deadlift I like to keep them
quite light I'll rarely go over 315
pounds to three plates and that
personally I find allows me to feel more
of a stretch in my hamstrings at the
bottom and a more of a mind muscle
connection I find if I go heavier I find
my lower back starts to take over more
is is that something you find and do you
think I would benefit as someone who's
always done that more Mindless a
connection approach do you think I'd
benefit from going more of your approach
say where you have more of that hip
drive an explosive glutes squeeze kind
of thing at the top what do you think it
depends a bit on your structure so I
have a good structure for it which means
that I can just go heavier now I'll just
kill everything
I won't even like feel it that much I
think a lot of people will feel their
back the most but that's in part because
a isometric muscle actions induce more
fatigue there's some research indicating
that isometric motor actions have more
fair and feedback and induces more
neuromuscular fatigue than dynamic ones
and you also feel the back more because
you're really focusing on keeping your
arc and you don't want to let your spine
flex and there's such a heavy loads
because then back injuries can obviously
be catastrophic so your your mind muscle
connection is focused on your back and
you can't really focus on the hamstrings
while you're focusing on the back but
objectively if you look at the
mechanical tension on the muscle fibres
it's probably higher with their heavy
weights because you're just producing
much much more force right and the
reason many people feel their hamstrings
more is because they get a better
stretch if you keep your knees a bit
more walked out more like a stiff legged
deadlift but that stress shoe feels
actually not tension and what you're
feeling you can even do like it stiff
like that look without any weight if you
keep the legs fully locked out then
you're gonna get insane stretch right
that's like this the typical hamstring
stretch like with straight legs try to
touch your knees or your your toes
what you're feeling is passive
insufficiency of the hamstrings because
you are at the Europe stretching again
with two joints so you're getting really
really good stretch right but at that
length the
muscle the hamstrings acting actually
cannot form very effective acting miles
across bridges which is our muscle
contracts so they are very far apart
that's why you're so much weaker so you
get a very good stretch but I think the
mechanical tension of the muscle fibers
for many people will actually be a bit
worse right so I think like if you're
kind of style you'll probably get a very
good hamstring stimulation but probably
you probably get better glute
stimulation at least if you do them
right
better glute and still get the hamstring
we're all doing them a little heavier ok
so then after that we moved on to the
cat 2 or blood blood flow restriction
leg extension now this is my first time
ever doing these and I'll just say that
I used to think that so if you do blood
flow restriction wrap yourself up you
could basically get the same effect by
just doing high reps right just just
doing high reps may be true I'm not sure
there may be benefit to it but I will
say this but the feeling at the end of
the set is very different when you have
it blood flow restricted like it's a
unique type of burn that I don't think
because when you get to the point of
near failure with high reps you can
almost just keep going well you don't
hit that wall in the same way you could
pause for a second keep going with the
wraps on it's like a different type of
failure I don't exactly know how to
describe it when you said like this
feels more like hitting a wall
yeah exactly yeah you're still pushing
but wrapping happens anymore yeah yeah
your muscles just don't do it yeah so
that was unique basically we're doing
this whole workout it like Meno said in
a circuit so going through the gym and
doing all the different exercises
because you literally wrote the book or
the paper on rest periods that found
that longer rest periods were better for
hypertrophy right yeah um so I guess
that's the rationale there it's just a
way to cut down it's very time effective
and it allows you to get very long rest
intervals whoo-hoo yeah so our
restaurants are also probably like 10
minutes sometimes so then extra long
rest intervals can be really beneficial
to get more volume in at a very high
quality right oh by the way may be good
to also note for the lot restriction
like there's some research showing
pretty recent study by the Russians on
really really advanced products are
showing that high a low rep work induce
different anabolic signaling pathways so
that might indicate that they have a
slightly different stimulus for
muscle growth even though probably both
are mediated by mechanical tension maybe
they are activating different anabolic
signaling cascades which isn't a
rationale for why we see in some
research that combining high and low
reps either in the same workout or if
like daily undulating paralyzation might
increase muscle growth and certainly
seems to helpful in strength development
right interesting
okay so calf jumps explain how you do
those and what the rationale is calf
jumps are basically a calf raise but I
went looking for an exercise that was
like every every muscle group has like
sort of a hard-hitter like a big
compound lift right and calves it's just
like calf raises and the other seated
calf raises and they have unilateral
calf raises and then you have you know
calf raises with a double base with a
donkey calf raises but there it's it's
all calf raises right so I was looking
for something that could really overload
the calves and then I came of calf jumps
which is basically the concentric action
like getting up is sort of achieved calf
raise you allow some knee bending to
occur and you allow the quads to help
you get the weight down but then during
the eccentric phase of the movement keep
the legs fully straight so you keep the
knees pretty much locked out and that
allows you to get a very good stretch in
the calves while the weight that you
lift during the concentric is actually
greater than you could normally get so
it induces eccentric overloading in the
stretched position so you get a massive
calf stretch with very very heavy
weights and you really feel it because
you get insane sort of fiber splitting
attention on the calves yeah it was
really good this is one of the my
favorite exercises that we did now I've
talked about this on the channel before
if you're new to them I would say to
start out feel like kind of mapping the
movement out in your head so like first
set up to the north in a normal position
do a calf raise
take it down kind of slow on the
eccentric get that full stretch then
bend your knee and then explode up kind
of like cheating to help you get the
weight up like you said to me so that
those were really neat if you haven't
tried those definitely check them out
after that we moved on to a machine
chest press for really high reps
yeah and the reason we do high reps is
just right now because my elbows are not
100% so I do very high prep work for
chest work or for horizontal presses
basically and that machine is pretty
good get a nice fat contraction it's
slightly convergent so a good chest
press machine is I think hammer flex
calls it I so let's roll which is like
we are certain to be convergent is that
probably the correct term like a normal
chest press you just go like like this
the conversion one dance will go each
other right so you get sort of a flight
most reaction and that allows you to a
get more is motional effects because if
you only go to here that's sort of
disadvantage of a barbell compared to a
Dumbo dumble you can go to here and this
this part is extra range motion of racks
right so allows you to a get more is
motion and be if you're using a barbell
and you're in the position like this or
a double in this position there is
actually no more horizontal adduction
reflection force needed by the packs
because the way goes this way and the
back so try to do this right but if the
machine is convergent yes so as
resistance in this way you're still have
high tension on the facts in full
contraction right right so now you're
getting bigger Ray's motion with
stimulus on the packs throughout the
entire range of motion whereas
benchpress is more like only this part
is really the effective part of the
movements that you can see and with
those you're pretty much going to
failure very close to failure yeah high
rep work you really need to get close to
failure to make it effective because as
probably if the last five reps or so
that are really maximizing muscle
recruitment interval multi-unit
recruitment and gauging the type ii
fibers and the high threshold motor
units which have the highest potential
for muscle growth mm-hmm after that we
let priors butterfly less raises patient
curls oh and I did some grip work
because we both actually have problems
with our grip it's not really a priority
in terms of muscle growth for anything
but you know it can be problematic if
your your wrist it's really time
effective way if you're doing like
Romanian deadlifts and you can also do
this with pull-ups and like after the
last set just just hold you until grip
failure so it's like a static hole to
grip failure these strip off one plate
and you do another hold
strip of another page do another old and
when it's too light when you go over
like 30 seconds for the old
you just stop so it basically takes up
almost no time it's a very time
effective way to get some grip work in
which might help with forearm elf and
just overall grip strength okay one at a
time can you go through the next three
exercises a sort of Asian girls
Vasia curls are like a cable curl the
advantage compared to like a terrestrial
dumbbell curl is that during a double
curl you basically only have resistance
in like the middle part of the movement
which is also by if you do like the
middle only that you get any same pump
right but in the bottom position where
you get the stretch you actually don't
have much muscle tension because the
gravity is pulling the weight down and
biceps are basically producing more
horizontal movement in the top position
if you actually if you bring your elbow
weight forwards or do you like Arnold
Schwarzenegger style then in this
position if the form goes vertical again
no more tension on the bicep zu so you
only have the middle part that's really
hard whereas if you do like the Beijing
curl the cable curl and especially if
you lean into it you get a nice stretch
you get high tension in a stress
position and then you lean forward and
you curl up the weight and then you have
very good tension in the stretch in the
contracted position as well
it's basically again the principle that
you're getting good tension throughout a
full range motion which stimulates
muscle fibers along the entire length of
the muscle yeah it's a good feel
exercise - another one I've stole from
you it does take some mastery though
right a lot of people do these now like
I don't know if they know that you
invented it so yeah that's a good
stretch a good like yeah you do have ten
you feel that consistent tension
throughout the range of motion I love
that exercise then let's talk about the
butterfly yeah yeah
so butterfly lateral raises is a last
always with a Dumble except
whereas most people stop a lateral raise
like half way like this you can't go
upright you actually get shoulder
impingement we're hearing a buffer
that's always you you keep going up so
and you do that by externally rotating
shoulder and then going up right so the
advantages again great range motion and
we also use a lot of momentum for these
so the problem with the lateral raise is
that the resistance with the double is
maximal in the middle part of the
movement so then the lever arm which is
literally your arm in this case yeah yes
maximum yeah
and this in the bottom there's no
resistance so by having constant tension
and with momentum and starting the next
rep immediately from the bottle position
you get that tension in the bottom
position and so there's no no pause in
the bottom you basically throw up the
weights so you go past the sticking
point so you also get tension on the top
part of the movement and then you have
eccentric overloading because you threw
up the way to have used hip extension
movement to get the weight up that
momentum that you use that cheating as
many people will call it actually only
helps you doing the concentric face or
else you get the weight up but then if
you control the descent you get
eccentric overloading so eccentric
overloading in several studies has been
found and at least a very strong trend
to produce more muscle growth and more
strength development than regular
training because regular training
basically always under stimulates the
eccentric movement phase because you're
like 20 to 60 percent stronger generally
you can do the eccentric contractions
from the muscles lengthening and that's
because the actin myosin cross bridges
that produce muscle contractions they
are pleased mechanically as the muscle
is stretching so it is much more energy
efficient and that's the same reason you
are stronger so you take advantage of
that by with eccentric overloading and
that's basically actually sort of the
only way to train where you're really
overloading your concentric and the
eccentric also with the butterfly you do
get more trap involvement up here as
well right
imagine so there's actually a paper by a
Johnson at all that argues that the way
people do shrugs traditionally actually
doesn't Train shrugs only their neck
muscles because the it depends a bit on
your structure I think but the upper
trap fibers run almost horizontal so the
shoulder has to be abducted which means
the arm has to be a bit elevated for
these fibers actually engage because
these fibers they run horizontally so
they they produce this movie and they
don't produce this movements right right
so there has to be some shoulder
abduction some elevation of the arm for
those fibers to be able to maximally
contribute to the movement with about
trilateral race you you have more of
that phase of the move right yes there's
also more trap involvement and for some
people they feel the traps more than
their delts which i think it's more of
my muscle connection issue than an
actual problem stimulation of the muscle
fibers because
obviously you're producing a very high
shoulder abduction movement and that
cannot be produced solely by the traps
yeah so whether you feel it or not I
think in this case is a bit of a
secondary issue but the goal of
authorities is not necessarily isolation
but to train the entire shoulder you are
all right and then the last exercise was
lat prayers
so lap prayers are basically a kneeling
version of the straight arm pull down
with full rise motion so again it's an
exercise where a lot of people for what
a lot of people don't do isolation work
for the last ride there Oh someone wants
to contribute how many cats everywhere
in Bali can you repeat that please she's
stretching so a lot of people are
convinced of the need for isolation
exercises right for muscle group but
they don't do any for the lats and for
actually lot of the back muscle for one
it's a good way to have a good isolation
exercise and then if people do one they
basically do straight arm pull downs but
they only do this part right so they go
for like this so it's only half of the
raise motion and then combined with the
fact that a lot of people also do like
deadlifts and rows which also only train
that bottom 90 degrees of the range
motion of the lads I think they're
really under stimulating the lats
especially because there are some
research indicating that it's very
important for maximal muscle growth to
produce high tension on muscle fibers in
a stretched position in part because
that puts more tension on tighten as the
muscle fiber or book secondly you need
to stimulate the entire range motion
because it stimulates different muscle
fibers due to the length tension
relationship being different in
different fibers there are some research
indicating that mechanical tension is
can be greater on muscle fibers when
they are near full stretch so there's
some research for example for the quads
showing that if you do only the bottom
part of leg extensions then you get more
muscle growth than if you also only do
the top part even though the tension
should be the same and it's basically
the same volume of work and
that is probably in part at least the
case for some because you get muscle
hypertrophy by the addition of
sarcomeres in series and not just in
parallel so normally you're sort of
stacking my ripples onto each other and
that's the muscle becomes bigger and
denser but you can also make it muscle
longer literally Yoga doesn't do this
but heavy strength training does
ironically so it's a way to produce more
muscle growth because obviously a longer
muscle allows you to also stack marbles
not to each other there and you get more
sarcomere that way it's just like a
clothing rack that if you want to
maximize size you you want to expand in
every direction possible this so that's
a wrap for the workout guys we are gonna
go grab some post-workout nutrition do
you believe in the post-workout anabolic
window I believe it
especially when it's sushi sushi I'm
checking with you guys over there show
you again
all right thank you
so guys we made it here for sushi and
I'm gonna show you what we got real
quick so this is so this is salmon
nigiri the salmon looks really good and
California roll
edamame already had the miso soup that
was really good and Meno and Santa
haven't gotten there they're still
waiting we took up we took up the whole
kitchen oh that's mine too sorry guys
that was so good man Oh got a little
appetizer over here that looks insane
like we can't believe the amount of
sushi on that plate is pretty impressive
go Walmart can eat more than me and you
guys know that's saying something
yeah impressive all right guys that's
gonna finish out the video if you guys
enjoyed it please leave it a thumbs up
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
already end of the vlog but like that's
just one one human I can like the
vascularity is coming out of yet
[Music]