it tastes nice but it's a pretty shitty
hydration drink yes Mike menzer was
right yo bro let me call you back cuz
I'm doing my
cardio yeah man I feel so much better uh
since I Incorporated more uh more cardio
in my routine sounds like Mike mener was
right once
again I guess gravity is real yes Mike
mener was right again
huh water hydrates you and Mike mener
was right things have been going great
in the G lately man my daughter had her
second birthday the other day life is
good at the moment still getting my
workouts in not sweating the details
that much and I'm Tru bless that's great
BR I'm barely listening Mike mener was
right though who the who the [ __ ] is
Mike mener who is Mike mener Mike is the
guy bro the guy that came up with stuff
like doing less is more who the who the
are
you Mike menzer may have been right
about some things but he was also wrong
wrong about many things so let's get
into it who is Mike mener Mike mener was
an American bodybuilder and author best
known for his involvement in the
competitive bodybuilding world in the
1970s but also for the development of
the heavy duty uh training methodology
essentially Mike mener advocated for
very short but extremely intense
workouts highlighting the importance of
keeping training volume extremely low in
order to maximize muscle growth and
maximize recovery arguing against higher
training volume volumes and even going
as far as to saying that they could be
delerious to one's program Mike mener
and his training philosophy have sort of
exploded back on the scene as you often
see with things that go out of fashion
and then come back a few years later
people just keep bringing up how he was
right and how low volumes are indeed the
best thing you can do for muscle gains
and how all the things he said were so
ahead of his time and how he was ahead
of Science and so on and so forth let's
look at a few videos of Mike Menor
claiming things that are simply not true
true all right video number one the best
bicep exercise PS up pull down is the
best bicep exercise in the world better
than any curl you can do so he said the
Palms up pull down lat pull down is the
best bicep exercise you can do better
than a direct bicep
exercise here's why when you do a curl
whether it's a barbell curl a nautilus
curl a dumbbell curl whatever you're
working this muscle around a single
joint axis the elbow which is why the
stress is limited exclusively to the
lower bicep if you've
noticed when doing a close grip Palms up
pull down on the other hand you're
working the bicep around the joint the
elbow joint and the shoulder the muscle
is Contracting more uniformly from both
ends this is literally based on
absolutely nothing just Mike mener
saying a bunch of words uh if you do a
proper bicep curl or any sort of curl
variation you are working your bicep
very effectively doing a lat pull down
for your biceps where it's literally a
lat pull down you're heavily involving
your back as well obviously your biceps
are doing the work is not going to
magically Target the whole bicep better
than a curl because of the way the the
elbow joint is moving this is literally
just Mike Mentor saying stuff zero
direct evidence to support this and
intuitively doesn't make that much sense
as well let's move to another video
so this is called how often should you
train 6 days to rest up that's quite a
bit although not necessarily adequate we
don't know that that's why we keep a a
progress CH chart if you're not getting
stronger every workout you may have to
reduce your training frequency from once
every 6 days to once every 7 8 n or even
10 if you have some clients do so he's
saying that if you're not that you may
have to be training even less frequently
once and I assume he means for every
body for every muscle group once every
seven eight or 10 days per week if
you're not getting stronger every
session keep in mind that strength and
your performance in each session can be
affected by a multitude of factors
stress outside of the gym sleep how busy
you are with work how busy you are with
your family physical activity outside
the gym all that can come into play and
affect your performance in one session
your performance from week to week is
not really that much of a big deal as
long as you're trending upwards as far
as performance over time also doing one
session for each muscle group every 10
days is going to massively limit the
amount of of overall training volume
that you can get in a week and we know
that training volume seems to be quite
important for hypertrophy you do not
need to do 100 sets per miles group per
week but staying somewhere in the 10
plus in the 10 to 20 sets per muscle
group per week range if you're trying to
absolutely maximize muscle growth makes
sense how bad is taking an extra day off
let's see is overcompensating that means
getting stronger and bigger on the sixth
day then why would he automatically
start decompensating or losing muscle on
the seventh or Eighth Day it's not going
to hurt correct the point is by Tak an
extra rest day or two off there's no
threat of a loss there's no threat of a
negative you can't lose anything but
there is the actuality of a positive and
the positive is that you have that much
greater assurance that in fact enough
time will elapse between workouts to
allow for both full recovery and full
growth
production the conclusion of this being
that if you work out again before
recovery and growth production have been
completed you Short Circuit the growth
process shy of 100 possible units and
start Bing another hole they another
inroad in the recovery ability so you
were smart you took the two extra days
off um I agree with taking an extra day
or two off is not going to cause you to
lose muscle but if those extra two days
off could be spent training and doing a
bit more training volume you could be
missing out on potential gains but at
the same time the idea that you are
somehow enhancing your potential gains
by taking even more days off is not
really does not really make that much uh
that much sense in most cases 24 to 48
hours are going to be more than enough
for you to hit the gym and even hit the
same muscle group um again still
stimulate growth even if you've you have
hit that specific muscle group the day
before obviously that would require a
bit more meticulous planning but the
idea that taking even more days off is
going to magically allow you to make
even more gains or will enhance the
workout that you did 3 days ago is not
really grounded on much going from 1 to
2 sets is the biggest mistake you can
make such a big deal about doing one set
it would make a big difference huge
difference actually when you're talking
about so such low training volumes going
from one to two sets is literally you're
doing double the amount of training
volume as you were doing before you
could be making significantly more gains
just by adding that extra set the effect
doing a second set is neither necessary
nor desirable in fact would be the
biggest mistake you can make going from
one set to two sets is literally the
biggest mistake you can make going from
one to two
audience it
again volum of the exercise a negative
even one set represents a negative go in
so far that you trade it all you make an
inro well some people might might say
well Mike if I do a second set maybe
I'll I'll get a little bit more growth
stimulation but then I point out
bitra stimulation you
a ability that
stimulation absolute nonsense here like
this is legit nonsense going from one to
two sets is somehow the worst mistake
you can make cuz you're further uh
hampering your recovery and even one set
is a negative what like going from one
to two sets or even from 3 to six sets
you could be looking at significantly
greater muscle growth just by going from
super low to like low training volumes
and the idea that you're somehow this
fragile organism that um an extra set is
going to really hamper your recovery and
you're not going to be able to gain
muscle like this is all fear mongering
and mumbo jumbo people can withstand
much more than just a single set all
right so this has been copyright struck
but let's just read what it says having
achieved your purpose of triggering the
growth mechanism into motion by going to
failure on that one set you don't have
to do it again you don't need a second
set it's like when you throw the switch
to turn on a light once the light is on
you are confident that the electrical
mechanism will remain in motion there's
no need to flip the switch up and down
repeatedly you just wear it out okay
horrible analogy that's not how muscle
growth Works obviously one set is enough
to Kickstart that mechanism and tell
your body hey it's time to start growing
but doing more further enhances that
process and allows your body to make
even more gains that was it I think that
serves as a good example of why you
should be critical and why you shouldn't
just have this sort of her mentality
where if if a lot of people say that
Mike mener was right one may assume that
he was indeed right about everything I'm
sure he helped a lot of people and
popularized resistance training and we
have to love him for that but at the
same time don't just take whatever some
guy even if that guy is not Mike Venture
don't take it as gospel just because
people want it to be true I get it we
all want a few sets per week to be
enough for us to absolutely get as
yolked and as jacked as possible but
unfortunately that's not the case thank
you for watching don't forget to like
subscribe hit the notification icon and
buy my ebook heavy duty by Dr pack which
is essentially Mike menor's book just
with the front page and the author page
ripped out I'm reselling the book it's
my book now I'll see you guys next
[Music]
time guess Mike mener was right then
again
right guess Mike mener was right again
huh