hey folks it's me Dr Mike from
Renaissance periodization and today's
topic is about training when you're sick
should you do it should you not do it if
you do it how hard should you do it are
we still talking about sickness or doing
it
something else
speaking of sickness real quick uh
do you guys know that in Forrest Gump if
you Google it Jenny didn't actually have
HIV
for years I have been laboring under the
delusion that she in fact did it was the
early 80s they don't know what the
disease is all that stuff
and Forest was of no help because he's
like do you have a cough do you cold
you're like thanks Dr Forrest
but it turns out forest was more right
than wrong she apparently had hepatitis
disease of the liver isn't that weird
that's that's how the book was actually
written and this whole fucking time I
thought about her sinful lifestyle
brought her to rightfully Jesus I'm not
going down that road in any case Jenny
was a terrible person and uh but she was
sick and we could ask the question of
hey if Jenny was going to get a
periodized annual plan workout program
should she be training while sick good
question folks out there Forest Gump
lovers let's find out so here's the
thing there are probably three
subcategories of sickness we could
delineate and we have different advice
depending on the subcategories the first
one is if you have what are called
peripheral only symptoms that means you
do not have a fever no bone aches none
of that crazy stuff
you just have like mild peripheral
symptoms like a runny nose a little bit
of a sore throat but you still feel
fucking strong that's a big difference
sometimes you get sick like that it's
just a little bit of a thing you know
people go still go to work and they go I
just have a little bit of cold I'm okay
it's okay in this case to do one of two
things in its dealer's Choice it's your
call how that works
first what you can do is train with the
same loads you've planned same weights
on the bar same exercises
but reduce sets by one-third so to
two-thirds of the original plan so if
you had six sets of squats planned maybe
just do four sets of squats same load
same reps all the stuff hit low PR's but
reduce the volume a bit why because the
biggest factor for potentially making
you more sick if you're a little sick is
lots of volume it beats you up a ton it
is systemically draining and it can lead
your immune system which actually has a
big role in healing you for muscle
damage uh try to sort of Juggle too many
balls at once and it drops your immune
system cold ball and that one explodes
and now you have the death flu or
something so less volume still plenty is
a totally fine option this is if you
feel really good but just like woke up
with the sniffles right
second thing you could do is take what's
called a recovery session so let's say
it's a Friday workout and then Saturday
Sunday
you're off anyway you woke up Friday
morning you had some sniffles and you
still feel pretty strong be like man I
really don't want to get sick anymore
I've got an amazing concert to go to
this weekend and I don't want to screw
that up totally valid so what you can do
in that case is take a recovery session
is which is when you take your weight on
the bar and you cut it by half so if
you're squatting 200 now you're
squatting 100 very easy and you do 50 of
the sets you are planning so if you're
gonna squat six sets of 200 now it's
three sets at 100 geez that's easy as
hell that's really a deload what that
does is it brings your net fatigue down
substantially that reduction of fatigue
potentiates you healing from your
sickness and then you can go to that uh
Paul Wall concert how's that for a
throwback and uh ride on rims all
Saturday night long and have your
Scott what's that called The Bling on
the grill
you could have a grill and no big deal
right there's no right answer here both
will keep you getting
uh sicker more sick by making sure in
the first instance that you don't add a
whole lot of fatigue or maybe hardly any
at all and then a second one
substantially reduce it so that's the
first kind when you're not very sick at
all the second instance is when you have
peripheral only symptoms sore throat
runny nose Etc but they're pretty gnarly
so you made your runny nose major sore
throat you call your mom on the phone
and she's like I can tell that you're
sick are you sick can you guys tell I
have a Jewish mom yeah
there's a thing in Judaism maybe maybe
it's just my parents but when you get
sick they sort of kind of blame you for
it that's what my parents do whenever I
call and I can't hide the fact that I'm
sick they're like it's because of all
the steroids that's actually reason
number one they guess uh and also
they're like well what do you are you
wearing enough clothes are you eating
warm foods and drinking fluids always
it's a guilt trip but in any case my
family squabbles aside if you're really
really sick but they're not systemic
they're not Central symptoms you're not
you don't have like you know a crazy
reduction in energy you don't have a
fever or anything like that it's just
like a runny nose sore throat but it's a
really fucked up right you know a sore
throat you feel okay in your muscles but
you don't feel super strong you're like
oh damn it like I'm producing 50 pounds
of snot an hour how the fuck does this
even come from the human body you guys
ever think about that you have a really
runny nose and like every 30 seconds you
blow like this much snot out of it
you're like where is how can my body
make this much not why the fuck isn't it
making that much muscle huh yeah
come on God design us better in any case
if that's the case you can do one of two
things first thing you can do is a
rewind to the last section recovery
session 50 of the load fifty percent of
the sets and do this kind of session
until you are back to 100 or close so
that means if you get sick on a Tuesday
you have Wednesday Thursday Friday
workout Wednesday you do the recovery
session Thursday you do the recovery
session and if Friday you feel like a
million bucks you can do a normal
session then but honestly it's a little
better in most cases the air on the side
of easy so Friday would also do uh an
easy session Saturday Sunday off Monday
come back full bar okay the other thing
you can do option two in this case is if
you're pretty gnarly sick but not
systemically you don't have a fever or
anything like that you can just take
time away from the gym altogether and
sleep and eat extra to really heal up
that's probably the best Circumstance
the thing is if you take a few days a
week even a week away from the gym you
functionally at any measurement level
lose no muscle and you drop someone
strategy that you can come back like a
fucking world champion and just blast
through all the workouts in the next
coming weeks and just get the best gains
ever trying to have shitty 50 50
workouts probably leads you to a lot of
nothing so I would recommend you do
option b not option A in this case but
it's your call which one you want to do
additionally there's like you know if
especially if you're going to the gym
and you're they're sick but you're
training easy you still rub your germs
everywhere you breathe them all out on
people
you know I'm not into that whole coven
Insanity you got to put eight masks on
your shit and tag yourself safe on
Facebook but there's like a little
fucking lame to go to the all gym and
everything like that places you don't
need to be at when you're super sick so
maybe you stay the fuck home and and uh
wait until you're better and then go to
the gym and get everyone sick with you
know with a moral illness of having to
see you do terrible technique but any
case pushing it hard in this
circumstance of being really
peripherally sick just has a really good
chance of making you systemically sick
you know your body's barely fighting off
the virus and it's still doing well
keeping the virus contained to your
various areas but then you train really
hard through this and your body's like
Fuck this I'm out and then you get sick
sick and you get a fever and you're out
for a week and a half and you can't eat
so you lose 10 pounds we don't want that
my best advice to you is when you're
pretty fucking sick but it's still
peripheral do not do warrior shit do not
hashtag grind
just go and take either very light
workouts especially if you're training
like a garage gym and or do no workouts
at all
sit around get your work done for the
day and then watch Netflix and eat TV
dinners that's what I do every night
because I have no friends
I have a wife but she barely talks to me
so lastly
training when you have Central symptoms
is a real bad idea and here we mean
fever
super high fatigue body aches flu-like
symptoms they're also called like you
know like when you wake up and you're
like did I get hit by a car in my sleep
thinking is hard you have a massive
headache everything blows at that point
just one thing is the solution it's just
taking time completely away from the gym
completely away from training I actually
pulled up a partial deadlift of 600
pounds for a few reps when I was in my
early 20s with a full-blown the flu like
the flu like I had a fever during like
when I started pulling on the weight
like I lost my hearing for a little bit
crazy shit like that that was fun to do
to prove to myself that I was a real a
real grown boy Pinocchio style but it
turns out that didn't do a whole lot for
my lifting and it was probably a stupid
idea and every fucking possible case the
worst part about training when you're
super fucking sick like that isn't the
fact that it feels like shit which who
cares you can fucking Warrior up and do
it it's the fact that training when
you're that sick training hard is you
have a ton of systemic fatigue and your
immune system is busy trying to fight it
from the illness itself and then you're
slathering on a huge much more systemic
fatigue then shit can turn for the worse
you know even some milder viruses can be
pretty fucking aggressive if your immune
system drops off uh case in point kind
of trying to earlier in the presentation
with that HIV discussion if your immune
system is severely degraded like it
would be with HIV even common uh aliens
can can really risk your life people die
of the flu they have pneumonia which is
really rare no what I'm not saying is a
if you train when you're sick you're
almost certain not going to die of the
flu or die of pneumonia but you can turn
a shitty flu that lasts four days and
then you're better afterwards if you
train hard through it or try you can
turn that into like two and a half week
long death flu as a matter of fact one
time a few years back
Scott the video guy uh was unable to
shoot videos because he was really sick
and holy fuck he sounded and felt like
shit and I was like is Scott the video
guy gonna die in this YouTube gonna be
shut down we couldn't afford that so we
cloned him just in case but in any case
he was out for like two weeks it was
really really bad I've had flus like
that before where it's like I should be
better and that I'm not the last thing
you want to do is turn your regular
really nasty flu or nasty whatever you
have into like a weeks-long battle
that's not a good idea so when the time
comes that you have fever fatigue Etc
easy rule for you guys to remember if
you have a fever no gym
right if you're getting chills and shit
like that no gym if you're really fucked
up but it's not a fever either easy gym
or no gym
you have peripheral symptoms that are
super mild you can either take it a
little easy on volume or take recovery
sessions and honestly the thing I didn't
mention
if you have the sniffles and you're like
fuck it I'm not going to go to the gym
at all that's totally cool too
all right folks stay healthy out there
and if you're in the early 80s and your
name is Jenny get your fucking life
together people depend on you see you
next time