I've been using the RP diet to fill my
weightlifting performance for years and
our piece simple science-based approach
has been instrumental to my success with
the new RP diet app following our P's
principles is as easy as entering my
goals and schedule in choosing my
favorite foods the app builds a diet to
my exact needs reminds me to eat my
meals and adapts to my body's changes
every single day and week the RP diet
app is a huge help in my quest to become
the best athlete I can be and if your
goal is to be your best it will help you
folks welcome back it's time for that
weekly webinar dr. James steer with my
best friend and colleague dr. Mike is
retail how we doing folks hello James
especially hello to you especially hello
all right guys so we're gonna get right
to it this week we have no there's no
exaggeration here about 28 pages of
questions not just questions what pages
of questions so dr. Mike and I are going
to Auto regulate how long we feel like
going today so we might go all the way
through that's pretty Swift and we might
decide to break it up into a couple
episodes if it's kind of long and we
have a lot to say on some of the topics
so just a heads up we're gonna we're
going to start with the ones that were
submitted generally first and kind of
make our way through like we usually do
and go from there sound good all right
let's do it let's do it all right
Daniel blank starts us off hi Doc's just
finished watching a hell of a gem
advanced hypertrophy lecture series of a
great pleasure to have some questions
many of them have possibly no real-life
applicability I'm just looking to deepen
my understanding of mechanisms and
principles my apologies for a lot of
text no worries that's why I'm here
number one one shouldn't add new
exercise in the middle of a mess oh but
what if it is already in but on a
different day Monday exercise number one
exercise number two Thursday exercise 1
exercise 3 would it be okay at some
point to add exercise 3 to Monday is
there any advantage to not having
exercise number 3 on Monday from the
beginning yes there is so James and I
don't like to add exercises on during
the Mezo because it throws off both your
stimulus and recovery to a significant
and unpredictable extent it can alter
the rest of your mouth cycle so for
example if you through a new exercise in
you have two questions one are you
recovered enough to get a lot out of it
from before or have other muscles that
you've stimulated before actually
precluded you from hitting the target
muscle really well and - how will
recovering from that exercise affect
downstream exercises for example let's
say you have an exercise for tricep
extensions that gives you a real big
forearm pump you throw it on a Tuesday
while Monday you trained forearms it
turns out that now on Tuesday doing this
new tricep pushdown exercise you
actually are it looks it looks like your
forearms
eliminating factor because there get
such a big pump and then because your
forearms get fatigued again Wednesday
normally train forums again and a
Wednesday forearm workout sucks because
you're so tired for Monday and Tuesday
so if you plan all your exercises out
ahead of time and know you know you know
what you couldn't recover from you can
get a real good feel for what's going on
if you start throwing in new exercises
in the middle of your mezzo they can
have unpredictable effects and the thing
is is that in the first week of
exercises if they have weird and strange
effects you could move them around a
little bit you can increase and decrease
the volume all that stuff can be shifted
but if it's the middle of the mezzo
you're in the momentum phase already
where you're having good workouts good
workouts you're tracking them our V's
everything is just in line if you throw
new exercise in then it can really throw
everything off and be like well it did I
hit my tricep but Murphy is it really
alarms you're too pumped and then you
can't answer a bunch of questions so
it's a really really good thing to set a
bunch of really good initial conditions
and then wiggle them a little bit in the
first week and then week 2 3 4 5 etc
it's just the coast go and if you mess
that up then it's a big deal James yeah
and I like that you came at the question
from a question of like exercise
variation which is a good good way of
thinking about it but this is actually a
more fundamental problem in my car
detailed it which is just consistency
across week so it's not so much that
it's the same exercise and there's not
an issue of variation it's the fact that
you're just radically erratically but
it's like you're making a major shift in
your exercise paradigms which is going
to have downstream effects as Mike
already said on recovery and performance
so that's really the issue so doesn't
weigh if it's a new exercise and you're
changing it around that's that's a
two-fold problem in this case it's just
a one fold problem just from the
structure but the consistency is really
really important I would say way more
important than that variation
consideration and this in this
particular case yeah number two with
three times a week training and three
exercises for a muscle group what would
be the difference between doing all
three exercises on each day doing only
want to exercise on each day doing pairs
1 + 2 1 + 3 2 + 3 troubles with matching
volume may arise but let's say we manage
that well so I think that if you do all
three exercises on each day you're in a
chill problem if you're doing an
excessive amount of warming up and
getting a feel for stuff you're using an
excessive amount of gym equipment which
is just inconvenience you can have my
muscle connection problems so for
example let's say you do two sets of
bench two sets of incline and two sets
of dips like only your second and third
set of dips and incline
bench are really gonna be the awesome
ones you feel your technique is really
crisp you really settled in you're
getting great connection if you have to
switch exercises often it's like every
set every single set you do is kind of
really awkward right in there's a
counter argument if equai so if you're
getting really great connection from
dips and bodybuilders sometimes even if
folks aren't overly intellectual about
this to say you know incline bench wants
so great today we just kept doing more
and more sets and we didn't do our usual
flies and stuff like there's something
to that like once you get settled into
an exercise just keep fucking going it's
great you already warmed up for your
mind muscle can actually your motor unit
recruitment is amazing for that exercise
not James and I've talked about before
there's a point at which that bridges
and then overflows but that's usually in
like a five-set range the guinea beyond
five sets one exercise kind of gets a
little crazy but generally speaking like
you know much more than that is probably
bad but much less than that it's like
why are you why are you trading on the
off the exercise and it could just be
like you know you would have better
result if you just kept going because
you're so tuned into that exercise on
the other hand you know if you do all
three exercises or you're you're doing
only one exercise on each day that's
it's fundamentally that can be okay as
long as the number of sets doesn't
greatly exceed fives I think up to seven
sets of one exercise is fine you're like
bro if you're doing eight sets of leg
press like for the love of God it's
probably time you just get a better
steam list of fatigue ratio if you
switch exercises after like five ish
sets right so I think of the of the
things you described to sort of
depending on the volume let's say the
volume is going up to ten sets
precession I would say the 1 + 2 1 + 3 +
2 + 3 the Paris thing is actually really
good pepper that with some modulation of
load like when you do the same exercise
it's at a different loading range like
sometimes it's in a 15 to 20 sometimes
it's in the 10 to 15 and then you have a
really really great formula so I think
that middle ground is probably best yeah
I agree and I think the all three on
each day this is going to kind of a
funny situation where even though you're
training three times a week you're
actually gonna start running into wear
and tear related issues especially if
you don't mind some of the rest that's
another one so that's down sign with
that micro D nailed the one exercise on
each day just probably not unless you're
doing a shitload of sets is probably not
stimulative enough and then you have an
S fr issue when you're doing too many
sets of one thing so the best option is
think is probably do
the pairs that all being said training
three times a week
man we're really splitting hairs at this
point so I don't think that you're gonna
see like profound differences between
those three strategies but if you were
to try and make the most of doing three
times per week I would say about the
latter once the better one in James I
think he brought up the most important
point which is a point I had in my brain
and then forgot when I started talking
that the wear and tear is will have a
problem with training each exercise
every single time you go in and it will
result in roughly identical hypertrophy
in any one mezzo but two or three mezzos
in doing like that your joints are going
to start to feel it like the great thing
about the hack squat among other things
is it's not the leg press Ric if you
just do everything every single time
it's gonna be like your tissues never
get a chance to heal and remember
connective tissues heal slower than
muscles so the really good thing about
doing leg press one day hack squat one
day high bar squat the other is that the
particular ways in which they irritate
the joints are only replicated once a
week so you have one whole week to heal
every single joint structure but the
muscles are hit every time and the
muscles do he'll just every few days so
that really really could fits in super
well yeah definitely do we get all that
yeah we did okay yeah number three
person with three to five years of
proper lifting with no underlying
conditions in limitations Jim quatrain a
few times a week using the follow
exercises heavy squat five to ten
moderate squat 10 to 20 heavy light
press five to ten and moderate leg press
ten to twenty if there's no intention of
using pre fatiguing raw stimulus
magnitude and SFR are as expected and
comparable no exercising if we better on
these metrics as technique and three
options to structure day which one would
you recommend our seats twice okay
Monday heavy squat heavy leg press
Thursday moderate squat moderate leg
press Monday heavy squat moderate leg
press Thursday heavy leg press moderate
squat Monday heavy squat moderate leg
press Thursday moderate squats heavy leg
press so we can take Thursday out
completely right now because moderate
squad coming before heavy leg press
makes no sense you always want your
heavy work to come before right so we
can just just option C is gone right
James you with me so far definitely
super and then we have options a and B
option a is heavy squat heavy leg press
and then Thursday his moderate squad
moderate leg press and then option B is
heavy squat moderate leg press heavy leg
press moderate squat I think either one
of those is fine
yeah I would prefer you so there are
definitely a couple of questions about
this I would generally prefer from more
so for intermediate sionis I think it
doesn't matter for more advanced folks
and the way intermediate should
eventually train because they become
advanced probably option a is better and
here's why um you only have so many
really heavy lifting sessions in you per
week and if you do heavy squats and
heavy leg presses into Monday you won't
be fully recovered from a connective
tissue nervous system perspective but
you can get through moderate squats and
moderate like presses on Thursday just
grind the reps
however for option B we have the heavy
leg press on Thursday you've sort of pre
damaged the tissues and made yourself
really tired doing heavy squats and then
moderate like presses on Monday and
those moderate like forces come brother
usually very high volume so taking that
high volume but high amount of soreness
into Thursdays heavy leg press is not
something else we were comfortable if
the good thing about Monday heavy squat
and heavy leg press is you probably
won't get that sore from those things
but your connective tissues are going to
be a little bit compromised and so is
your top and performance but that's okay
because you need neither one of those to
be amazing for moderate squats or
moderate leg press and then after that
workout you get sore butt you recover
extra and then next month you come back
in an in so my bias is a little bit
towards option 8 but I don't think it
matters a ton option c however is just
out of the gate bad idea because the
heavy leg press comes after an ottoman
squad james yeah i like option 8 i do
like this the setup of option b and i
think you can make option a a little bit
more like that when you're only lifting
three times a week it might be in your
benefit to have a little bit more of a
variety in each one you don't have to
certainly I think it might make a
difference for some and not others so
you could say like heavy squat meaning
like kind of what we normally would say
like 5 to 10 and you could say heavy leg
press as like maybe like 10 to 15 maybe
not in the 10 no that's funny
and then you do the other you kind of do
the same thing over here moderate squats
like 10 to 15 and then this moderates
leg presses like 15 to 20 s just break
it up a little bit yes something like
that doesn't yeah you
the idea better I agree hi every
completely there's a bunch of
improvements James than I could make to
these as well but for the purposes of
the exercise I think that's a pretty
good answer
number four during D load should one
auto regulate arrest between sets with
which will 5 + re are make it close to
non on some exercises or intentionally
pasted down and make it closer to usual
rest times um I don't think it matters
much but I think your deal it should not
be overly stressful so if you use pure
auto regulation of rest you might make
the workout much shorter but the workout
is still pretty tough and you probably
don't want that so what I would do is
intentionally rest a little longer so
that you're never really that challenged
that's what I'm saying I just spilled
tea all over myself
god dammit yeah I also think part of the
deal owed is is a psychological break
from some of the rigidity of your normal
training so I honestly don't even
fucking think about rest times on my
deal of because it's meant to be like a
relief for me so I'm not really thinking
about I just go in do whatever I feel
like you know whatever I had set for
myself and then I just kind of do
whenever if I want to watch you know
five minutes of Instagram nonsense
that's fine I don't care it's just deal
Odom just do whatever I want so it's not
saying that's the best way but I think
there's a good incentive to break from
some of the rigidity of the normal
structure number five increasing
frequency for money so to the next by
adding a new rep range will be the
difference between adding a new rep
range with an exercise that's already in
the program versus a new exercise if
exercise is suitable for that something
like going from lateral raise of a
dumbbells an attempt to 20 range flat
Arizer dumbbells and look for 10 or 20
20 30 range versus adding cable lateral
raises for 20 30 rep range or similar
example with benchpress and push-ups
first exercise feels great with a big
concern for release injury and let's say
that a two week active rest after that
mezzo to further decrease the
probability of overusing staleness much
appreciate your time well so actually
answer your own question I would say is
if you don't anticipate over using
stainless catching up with you towards
the middle or B or end of that third
mezzo then you could absolutely repeat
exercises especially if they're feeling
really baller like you're just really
getting awesome awesome everything with
your lateral raises pocket do them twice
a week um but if you're at some point
where like at the end of mezzo two
you're like ooh should I use a new
exercise or should I use more lateral
raises you're like man I don't know a
lateral raises are like I hope they just
go okay for this next last mezzo then
definitely add any one so it's really
anticipating and actually if a technical
answers this what do you think you'll
get your best eye so far like will you
get your best SFR by adding a new
exercise or will you get your best eye
so far by keeping this current exercise
so if you're really well in the groove
of this current exercise you're saving
major PRS your stimulus feels amazing
your fatigue feel super low that might
be your best option because you don't
have to intro a new exercise because
remember we intro a new exercise
sometimes it's not so far takes a little
bit of time to go up because you still
got to groove it in but if it's really
feeling like dogshit then the answer is
a you know that I will tell you guys
um there are really only two cannot even
to the the fundamental concern with
variation is sfr like the question of do
I add a new exercise or do I keep the
old one is like which one's gonna get
the best SF r / are you still
progressing really well like and those
two are very very linked anyway so
people you know if you're amazing SFR
and you think like look I could switch
to hack squad but black presses are
going amazingly and I honestly don't
even think hack squat would be better
what if fuck would you do it right but
if you're like oh man like my leg press
is feeling like total shit should I do
hax well well will it be a better
workout in
that's the 9 scientific way of saying it
so far I'm gonna be better and like yeah
hack Scott would you totally better then
fucking do it that's it yeah so I really
agree with dr. Mike here it's just for
me there's kind of two two main things
and microti nail the first one which is
just an issue of like SFR and staleness
so if the movement is going flat for you
that's just a pure independent reason
why you would change exercises
regardless of whether you're increasing
frequency or rep ranges or anything like
that so that's by itself if it's flat
you can swap it out but more to the
point on increasing the frequency of
muscle groups and changing exercises the
only other condition is if you have an
exercise that's just more appropriate
for the rep ranges that you're trying to
work in so you might have been doing
really really well on your squats in
like 5 to 10 and you're just kicking ass
on squats but 10 to 20 on barbell squats
or 20 to 30 on barbell squats man that's
a rough day at the office so you might
find that for 10 to 20 having a light
press in there is a really good option
or for 20 to 30 like the knee extension
and might be a really good option
something that's just slightly more
appropriate for the rep range that
you're gonna be working in so that would
be an incentive reason to add a new
exercise based on frequency and rep
ranges but you don't have to and if
things are going well and you're you
have like a movement that's been solid
and it's gonna stay pretty consistent
across however many
you're working you just leave it in
there's no reason to take it out unless
you kind of hit those two conditions
where it's like okay well now instead of
doing five to ten at my last mezzo I
moved my heavy work up to like 10 to 15
and I'm having a hard time doing sets of
15 in the squat okay there's a reason
but you don't have to yeah that's a good
point
okey doke Irene solo alright real quick
Irene quit double post and your
questions it's very confusing I'm
looking through this and I see you for
it let's do the same question let's do
the same questions again quit doing that
just if you post it once it'll get on
there don't worry about it we'll get you
we got your back homing just once it's
good well you know it's an improvement
for a reen who used to post these on
Instagram as well luckily we got him
just to doubling up on our p+ all right
number one I really really like
deadlifts for strength measure I can do
six to seven reps with hundred forty
kilos and I'm 165 5-8 however my main
goal as muscle size how can I do it
affecting my hypertrophy goals as a
whole a whole lot well that you first of
all you want to do them in the right rep
range so you want to stick to sets of 5
to 10 and not go into the you know under
5 reps and you want to make sure that
you're doing deadlifts um in such a way
that they don't meet you to shit for the
rest of the week or beat you to shit for
the rest of the workout so I would limit
the amount of volume you do in deadlifts
to something that can allow you to sit
for example you do a couple sets that
deadlifts in a 5 to 10 rep range and
then you go and do a hamstring curls and
you go to delight process and it's great
you can do both of those great still
which one do you like 8 sets of
deadlifts bomb it up blood and then quit
and be like shit it's really affecting
my per trophy so those are my two
biggest recommendations I'll make sure
the rep range is right for in perjury so
it's a 5 to 10 no lower and also just
making sure that you know ideally even
wanted to 8 sets of deadlifts or ifer
trophy it's more ideal to not cause too
much of summit fatigue for you to do
them and you know 4 or 5 sets and that's
what I would do
yeah the kind of the root of the issue
here is um for the deadlift is when is
it because when is the systemic fatigue
restricting you from doing other things
that's when you know it's interfering
with your hypertrophy training so if
you're doing so much dead lifting that
you can't train back you can't train
legs you can't do whatever else
throughout the week or your forearms are
shot that's what you know you need to
dial it back and so this is the kind of
classic intermediate conundrum it's
going to self-correct at some point
where you're going to get so strong at
the deadly
that doing those deadlift sessions
you're gonna try and do the same volumes
you happen doing and all of a sudden
you're like man I feel like I'm just I'm
so wiped out what is going on well you
got stronger and now it's just taking a
bigger toll on your body and that's a
good time to kind of maybe re
restructure some of your programming but
for now you mean not no no shame here by
just looking at your numbers I think you
could probably do plenty of dead lifting
and get a lot of really good gains for
the next couple of years and it probably
won't be a huge deal yep number two can
I just use the volume slash landmarks
for strength as well or does power
lifting up something special when it
comes to sets yeah it does in our book
scientific principles strength training
actually talks about the rough set
guidelines the best for power lifting
and even better than that more updated
as Chad Wesley Smith's work specifically
his YouTube videos on how much volume
you should probably be doing as a power
lifter and I would say Chad Wesley Smith
juggernauts German our training systems
volume strength training typed in into
YouTube and you'll get a great first
well great channel with a great guy and
him and max ADA really have their stuff
no you know they're just better at
training people for strength and James
and I on every conceivable capacity and
they have dialed the volume landmarks
and for strength very very well so I
would look to those guys do not do the
hypertrophy landmarks restraint you will
die yeah so that's what that was my
point the volume landmarks apply to all
sporting scenarios all conditions they
always apply but they're scaled
differently for different activities so
in the case of strength training they
are significantly less than what you
would use for hypertrophy and that would
also include like frequency and things
like that as well likewise if you're
doing like sports training they get
scaled down because you have things like
technique explosiveness power speed all
that stuff right so they always apply
it's just contextual utterson well heavy
deadlifts and squats for my Bleek's to a
point where they would make my waist
thicker almost certainly not easy um
number four what's your recommendation
on form training since we probably don't
make hypertensives forms how to
structure my training at hypertrophy hub
we have form training guide look it up
it's got all the details you want you do
make a whole message just for forums you
would just do them probably towards the
end of a workout three just six times a
week usually just do one exercise per
session and our forums is one of those
that like you can do eight sets of the
same exercise and be totally fine this
is
stomach fatigue is minimal also resting
between sense reforms it's like you're
at five to ten seconds you're totally
good so it's actually very easy to train
you just have to be diligent it's
fucking boring but it works my forms are
gotten a lot bigger since I started
training them about a year and a half
ago okay if you want bigger forums
training like everything else so for
arms the cabs of the upper body that's
probably one of the stupidest and there
are some good number five how much coke
zero is too much will certain citrix in
it affect tooth health what about the
fork acid is relation to bone health so
there's almost nothing to the bone
health thing that's almost total
bullshit almost certainly total bullshit
the tooth healthiest diet cokes not that
great three teeth it's better than
regular coke and better than anything
with sugar in it but it's not ideal for
your teeth so you know that's actually a
very dose-response relation find of
thing but if you have like three to five
diet cokes a day mmm very dentists are
gonna tell you that you're like ending
your life and your teeth are gonna be
total shit if you have like ten and
maybe you're getting into some renal
risk of you and you're 50 years old your
teeth can be not so great and then as
far as anything else systemic they're
not really found a realistic limit now
you can certainly drink about twenty
diet cokes a day every day and be a
hundred times under the level of
anything they found to be deleterious to
health so how about it yeah actually the
dentist's have a condition they called
Mountain Dew mouth from people who drink
a lot of like sugary soda but that's yes
so it's mostly sugar yeah sure the
carbonation is not that great free tea
from what I understand but it's not
nearly as bad as the show I've noticed
what when I I've had like um tooth
sensitivity become an issue when I was
drinking a lot of diet soda and I've
dialed it back and started using the
likes a more fancy toothpaste in it's
helped a little bit
nice I only drink carbonated sodas
towards the evening I have like one or
two in the evening and I usually do
there to clean water or like the
squirty's light or teas are good
squirty's are awesome because it makes
her water not born also the way cheaper
than taking a bunch of diet cokes yeah
number six how can I get the most of the
growth of AB training to my rectus
abdomens
without any a much oblique growth and
what would the benefit be of Julie
vacuums I have no idea the vacuum
question I literally have just no idea
anything I mean if that you do the
vacuum makes you better at doing vacuum
which is nice it doesn't actually make
you very smaller
good practice means you get to pull it
off and as far as how do you get your
rectus femoris there's actually gonna
answer this question you train them
directly by doing flexion loaded flexion
exercises and don't do things like the
oak walk and stone carries and all this
other shit and planks because that all
trains your obliques as well as your
rectus femoris I would just do
variations have loaded crunches and
sit-ups that's the best way to directly
and also like what's the harm with
training your obliques here I don't
think I think like you're under the very
strange assumption that like if your
obliques get trained then they're gonna
make you look like a like a barrel or
something but I don't never saw anyone
lose a bodybuilding show because their
obliques were too big unless I'm missing
something
yeah he changed number seven and number
eight so let me go down let's scroll
down James to his last summon because
I'm here is not a question but it
actually has a question on those repost
so you scroll down here
number seven yeah so this isn't really a
question but isn't the spike well
actually does a question because you're
asking something yeah
isn't the spike of HGH during fasting
due to the hormone tablets and faster
shooters absolutely that's absolutely
correct so it's not actually anabolic it
can't be anabolic because there's no raw
substrate for you know mobilize so yeah
there's a lot of people say like oh
fasting is anabolic because it spikes
growth hormone no growth hormone you
spiked because it's a fuel mobilizer its
spiking because it's like hey I'm
fucking starving to death let's get some
fucking shit in the bloodstream so that
my brain doesn't shut down that's that's
really it and then you have to look at
it on the net balance to where it's like
okay well you were fasting that whole
time what was the catabolic effect over
the course of the day versus the net
anabolic effect of the tiny spike of GH
yeah no can you explain why l-carnitine
is over hi gifts as researchers just not
some doesn't do massive effect sizes
like if I ended you had to tell me like
very confidently what is if I if I take
out carnitine what's gonna happen you'd
be like well hypothetically yeah I tried
like everyone else though I was doing
the supplement experimentation back in
the day I tried l-carnitine it's awful
it's kind of like like leucine where
just doesn't fucking mix in anything and
it doesn't do dick so it's just worse
worthless I want to go back and address
that one on previous number seven here
drugs are illegal RP doesn't support
their use just yeah keep in mind like it
depends on where you live in terms of
fair illegal or not in the United States
they are illegal RP like if you talk to
any of us like Mike and I have been very
candid about drug use over the years we
I don't want to speak out of turn but I
think I'm confident saying that Mike and
I don't have any moral objections that
people want to use steroids to to
enhance their bodies great there are
ethical considerations however based on
the law and based on if you compete in
sports and so I think we both agree that
if you if you value the that part of the
law very rigidly then you probably
shouldn't do them and if you value uh
you know a sport competition and its
purest sense then and it says that's not
allowed then you don't do it our P
doesn't really have a position stance on
and outside of that people should be
obeying the laws in the cities and
states and nations that they live in and
don't cheat us form and don't cheat you
know so just keep that and that's that's
the bat came up last last week just
because there were some really really
specific individualized questions about
drug use and we just decided that it's
not a good look for us to talk about
something that is illegal it's like like
if it would be like if me and Mike
talking about like work where can I get
some cocaine and do cocaine how much
cocaine should I be doing it's like yeah
it's not a good look you know what's
really wrong I came down to or sure all
right
Payton downs number one I asked about
not training on D loads last week my
question was misunderstood that was my
bad so here it is I've heard y'all say
that not training at all on a week-long
Kyoto's fine are not much different
compared to doing d load workouts when
I'm on a bulking diet and hit dealing
week I do not train at all that week aha
okay it helps me a lot mentally so I so
can I do the same thing on a cutting
diet when I D load obviously me in this
calories that week for the cutting deal
yeah I think that's fine I don't think
it's gonna be optimal but I think it's
gonna be quite good so he's saying he
just doesn't she doesn't train at all
yeah I think that's worse on a cut than
it is on a mess but I don't think it's a
huge deal I mean it's just like me being
nitpicky about it as long as you're
really going to maintenance ya know if
you're hypocaloric and you don't train
real real bad idea
yeah and what age can humans start
retraining and will it really stunt
growth so there's actually the there's
no reason to believe that weight
training of any kind stunts growth that
turns out to be almost entirely myth
based on literature we have now and more
literature might come out later
actually the stunt growth but the
current evidence is just a somewhere
between highly convincing and
theoretically impossible for example the
forces people say it's too much force
for kids growth plates if a kid jumps up
and down it's like six three to six
times body weight force and like you
can't squat that much when you're a kid
so I don't know what's going on there
it's very unlikely as far as what age it
actually has much more to do with
psychology that it has to do with
physiology you can get kids moving
around heavy objects if they think
they're fun from age to three as long as
they don't drop on themselves but as far
as weight training in the sense of a
rigid highly boring to children activity
I would say a great time to start kids
on it is when they express interest in
it and you start there with a very very
fun kind of like mini kids strongmen and
then if they once they grow up and
they're like 12 or 13 there might be
like man I want to start training with
barbells on machines okay that's what
you want and you give them a little
kiddie routine and then slowly but
surely by the time they're 1617 their
training like more or less adults
I think pushing weight training out of
children in any other form just gonna
make them fucking hate it and hate you
and the whole thing sucks and weight
training is boring as fuck there's like
what you know when's a good idea for
children to start a counting like maybe
never you know but you know certainly
you know you don't start with kids who
hate the idea of sitting down and
concentrating for 30 seconds that idea
for both accounting and weight training
James yeah I think I haven't looked at
this in a little while but the the since
the last time I've looked at it it's
really more about managing their
training loads than anything else
because you get gymnastics people who
don't lift any weights as children and
they're incredibly tiny people when they
grow up it's probably more of an issue
of like how much pounding and how much
exposures are they getting rather than
the actual lifting of the weight and the
resistance on their body
so as mike said like impact forces from
doing like a backflip off a balance beam
is gonna be way more high way higher
than anything you can put on your back
and squat up and down so my
understanding and again I might be a
little out of date here but it was it's
more about like just managing their
training loads and not giving them an
adult-sized training regimen as children
in terms of any of those growth related
issues okay have you all ever signed
autographs for a fan because I'm doing
that shit when I see you doctor might be
ready lol yeah a few autographs
good god that's a terrific experience I
don't take myself very seriously so I
highly suggest you you don't either
number four might you have any idea what
really sure you might do no I don't I
want to take leave so I could come watch
please do not waste your leave watching
you fuck up another bodybuilding show
he'd always look at pictures bitingly
show some pictures are better anyway the
only person that has to come with me to
bodybuilding show us the most because he
wants his chair feather she's really my
coach folks if you've never been to a
bodybuilding show it's awful like it's
fun to see your friends and people you
know compete other than that it sucks
it's like if you've every second if
you've ever been to a wrestling meet she
it sucks it's always of watching people
you don't know do stuff and your climb
out here this blows
it's don't go don't go peace from shitty
South Korea shady motherfucker are you
out of your mind South Korean when the
grace nations on earth you look if South
Korea shitty where the fuck is not
shitty that's why I wanna Philly yeah
hey Lake Philadelphia is so much better
than the soul I really you're kidding
fuck out of here alright the one who
hacks Daniel hacker if an individual has
a higher memory for muscle let's say 25
to 30 sets as an example are they better
suited to choose less exercised variants
and perform said variants multiple times
a week and change the rep range but
would it be a better practice to
increase the variation or the course of
the week it would all come down on the
watch at the end of the medal cycle
because if one chooses the former they
will likely have to rotate their
exercise selection more often because
the movements will get stale faster if
one chooses the latter they are likely
to be able to stick to those are
exercises for more muscle cycles in a
row since the overall volume for each
exercise is less to give some numbers
I'm characterizing less exercise
variants it's two to three exercises
versus four or five it was Chris
variation is your answer also
experienced dependent
intermediate-advanced own copying errors
here yeah I mean I think you kind of
nailed it James that's why James and I
have like we literally our exercise
recommendation for a week is I believe
two to five like in the upcoming every
book so it either one of those ranges is
just a trade-off of exactly what you
said like if you use a lot more of the
variants then you can keep that up for
longer if you use very few variants you
can't keep but not for longer but you
get to rotate them so it's really it
really comes down to again two SFR a
start with some exercises and the ones
that lose their SF are competitively
relative to other ideas
other exercises you can put them in and
what we don't want you to do is use that
4 to 5 if you only have 4 to 5 top-tier
SFR movements then there's nothing to
replace them with so if you have like 8
to 10 to 2 3 versus four or five eight
to ten exercises you can potentially use
two or three or four to five is the same
fucking thing but if you have four or
five exercises total that are good then
gee-whiz like so for example let's use
like legs you know like you have can say
you're a gym where you have like high
bar squat leg press hack squat and lunge
maybe leg extension that's your five
exercises right there if you use all
five in one measure what the fuck are
you gonna do in some of those start
returns fail yes I the love of God if
it's literally no there's no answer to
that what if they all go still close to
the same time what do you need take a
break like that then two to three
exercises about it then you would do
like heavy squats light squats heavy leg
press like leg press and later you have
hack squats and lunges and leg
extensions to weave in at various points
I agree and I find that there's a sweet
spot there because like um you could
also say like okay well don't use that
many variations and then you have kind
of like wear and tear related issues
like we talked about before where it's
like okay I'm always doing lateral
raises all the time and at some point
like there's just a threshold where I
just can't do anymore lateral raises I
find that using the different rep ranges
is almost just as good as sometimes
getting a different exercise so if you
have a movement that's it's good for you
a good SFR movement in the 5 to 10 rep
range you're probably still going to be
a good movement for you in the 10 to 20
range if not even better in some cases
right so in those cases you might
actually find that if you have limited
options or if you're just trying to
conserve some of the variance cuz you
want to use some of your better ones for
the next block just using a different
rep range on the same movement can kind
of extend the life of that movement a
little bit more the downside is that
you're using the same movement which can
increase the wear and tear on the
structures involved so but again it's
lighter so you kind of mitigate some of
that risk as well so for me that's a
really good sweet spot where if you're
trying to conserve some movements just
use the same movements and different rep
ranges throughout the week and you get a
very similar benefit all right
[Applause]
next question from Daniel hacker is when
did you both learn to really think for
yourselves in regards to fitness and
nutrition allowing you to challenge what
would have been knowledgeable people in
the field and ultimately allow
yourselves to think freely enough to
actually develop your own concepts
wreckin answer for myself first I have
always been like that
for as long as I can remember my only
qualification for believing people as
does what they say makes sense and so
they say stuff that makes sense I say
wow this guy really knows his stuff I'm
gonna do that if if and when people said
stuff that I don't think makes sense and
mmm every level of forever about fitness
if someone said something I didn't make
sense I would ask them to clarify be
like well as you see this but what do
you make of this and sometimes they
would answer very well a bit well
they're actually you're correct or
sometimes they would answer very poorly
or tell me to go fuck myself and they
don't think you know what that is make
any sense and then I would arrive at
what I thought my best guess for was
going on including no guess at all and
just picking something at random because
I better pick something in random isn't
something that's I think it's
demonstrably wrong so that is how I had
to be just like I don't know genetically
or some shit comes to me is I never
believed any button on just the word or
that they were saying I have almost no
capacity for faith whatsoever as you can
imagine I abandon the idea of religion
quite quite early so genes yeah well and
just part of being an academic you're
taught very early on to be skeptical and
to use critical thinking right and so
what you find a lot in in exercise
science and academia in general is just
somebody will say something and it's
true or largely true in one situation
but not in others and that's where
critical thinking comes into play
especially an exercise science where we
say like yeah that seems to make sense
here but it doesn't explain the same
such the same thing in a different
situation and that's where like being
able to weigh the pros and cons of ideas
and say like ok I can see like dr. stone
was really good about some the basics
where he'd be like overload it matters
there's no way around overload and
you're like ok that makes perfect sense
there's there's no situation in which
you're talking about exercise or sport
and the overload principle does not
apply right but he did say something
like tans and you're like okay why tends
why does tends matter and he'd be like
cuz of hypertrophy and work capacity
like which one and he's like
and then you have to think like okay so
what is more important right is is that
the actual muscle gaining size is it
actually gaining a tolerance to training
or is it somewhere in the middle like
where how do those apply to the things
that we're trying to do just an example
like and so you just learn to not just
take things at face value because you
supposed to have a skeptical mind but
also thinking about like how could it be
true and how could it not be true what
are the conditions in which it can be
applied almost universally or not at all
so that's part of it it's not Mike and I
are not unique in this way we just uh
were just crotchety when it comes to the
things that we're really interested in
and when somebody says like I think you
should do glute blasters for good glute
development so you could be a good
sprinter we will take every point along
that line and go mmm I don't know let's
think about this a little bit more let's
talk about each of these points you know
that's just just the type of people that
we are so TLDR you can do that whenever
you want and either you will be shown
that there other person is correct or
that they're not and like you might not
have the knowledge base so like I'm not
gonna dislike I might be skeptical if
somebody says something regarding
economics I don't know if I can take
about economics and I'm entitled to my
opinion but for me I'm not gonna speak
out and say like well here's James
theory of economics that I just you know
what I mean it's like if that's an icon
cloud right you just know your role like
you can stay in your lane like if you if
you have a lot of knowledge on something
and you can piecemeal things together
really well then think great speak up on
it and put your ideas out there and if
not go back to the drawing board and
figure it out yeah all right from the
peoples nation of Brazil
Raphael Sorge is that name but that's my
guess Raphael so yeah I think so all
right he says I would love to read might
read all of some Brazilian accent but
I'm not gonna dr. micha dr. LaRouche oh
that's right hello it's me again the
poster boy from Johnny Walker Black race
humor oh my god there's actually a
Brazilian MMA fighter named Johnny
Walker by the way that's true it's what
it is so so weird like that's the most
American name meanie ever it's really
intense and then he says still still
walking as if my life depended on on his
fat still melting all right excellent I
already think I already think Mike and
Instagram and he respond picture that
miracles do happen
James personally well kind of fuck out
of here
alright let's go to the questions number
one as I mentioned previously doing a
lot of cardio still I wanted to know how
is the best strategy to lower the car do
- nothing if you want or need to without
gaining too much fat ah yes
right I will be after diet doing what
you guys suggested but and I want to do
five days the week half my cardio two
hours what is the option today is that I
do not walk like this two hours should I
decrease calories or the amount that I
eat kind of lost there what I'm saying
is how can I eat more move less and keep
the body fat as lean as I got you can't
that's fuckin physically impossible but
what you can do is eat a lot of healthy
food that fills you up a lot of lots of
fiber lots of protein lots of more raw
foods foods that have high volumes and
foods that aren't super super tasty so
what you end up is you feel like you're
eating a fuck ton and physically volume
of food you can eat a lot but you just
don't gain a ton of weight so don't eat
a bunch of junk food and you could be
halfway there and less cardio you do
then the less aggressive you can get
with your diet but I think you'll be
pleasantly surprised how easy it is to
stay relatively lean by doing just a
modicum of cardio and not just going
insane with eating the way people
rebound on diets and get super fat as
they stop doing all their cardio in the
junk junk junk junk junk if you eat like
a junk a little bit here on there you
eat mostly clean you keep your calories
in check you do a little bit less cardio
and a little bit less I think you'd be
totally fine and if if you're not
totally fine either eat a little less or
increase the cardio or just get fat
those are three options yeah and
sometimes like if you've just burnt out
on doing that much cardio it might be
just a good time to pick a new hobby
like Mike does Jiu Jitsu I'm not
currently but I was doing kickboxing for
a long time that's a good way of just
staying really active and you get the
benefit of just a lot of meat and meat
to eat a lot so that's a good option if
you are kind of if you've been low on
your hobbies so ramping those up if you
don't want to do cardio but there's
ultimately no way around it those energy
expenditure and energy intake is gonna
be the the main determinant there so
sorry buddy yeah pick one which do you
like to start over do you want to
exercise more number two I have a good
understanding of body Millie after
stalking you guys for a couple of years
but there is something I can't figure
out I think I'm an outlier in volume
weight sceptical James filtering being
applied
I can do a lot of work in most muscles
pretty rarely get sore I did get sore my
hams Kwas really but the upper body if I
do like 12 cents per session max I can
do a lot of weekly volume like 40 sets
of benchpress in the last week no
overreaching do large volume jumps and
recover just fine I'm an experienced
lifter so I think I know my are close
enough I do not get sore but I go like
crazy it's just a never had a muscle
that did not grow well I had a problem
with my arms in relation with the rest
of my body because I was training like
we do here like Dennis vano style and I
wonder what the fuck that is but after I
saw Mike's video frequency and got in
tune with the Russian sapiens about
volume and frequency my arms got much
bigger and I was the last two years
almost on a constant can Laura deficit
had to lose 40 kilograms last two years
and still growing to 3 centimeters
without the fat wow I don't understand
what happens I can get great gains I
feel the muscle tired I experienced some
lag of performance but almost never gets
or should I try to bump up more volume
no because you don't want to do lack of
performance right it's because the fiber
type conversion from the diet how am i
growing then clearly growing your
caloric deficit so here's the deal man
not everyone gets super fucking sore a
lot of someone else has to do with your
immune response a lot of sources student
structural stuff and muscle insertions
how you execute the exercises some of
it's just not under your control we're
really just not worried about getting
sore were worried about is that you're
doing enough volume and progressing and
volume to make sure you're fine ERV and
MRV has nothing to do with soreness MRV
is only defined and stated and detected
and acted upon based on performance so
as long as you're slowly and gently
increasing volume but you're still not
declining a performance it's stable or
increasing you get to go so you should
be able to calculate all your my reviews
on performance anyway and look if you're
hitting your Mr D's on performance you
can't possibly do more to chase soreness
because it's not possible to be more and
benefit so if you never get sore all the
way up to your MRV motherfucker you just
never gonna get sore it's not a fucking
problem
but like if you know and as long as
you're not doing any crazy life take it
a ton advil or some shit like that like
you know a ton I do profane or you're
getting good sleep and stuff like that
if you don't get sore some people just
don't get really sore and if you're
growing not getting sore but you're
pushing the volume actually I'll tell
you this if you're growing really well
fuck all the shit don't do anything
differently that's what I'm like what
are you complaining about world's you're
recapping like a motherfucker you're
whatever you're doing
right that's it that's this guy's
probably on that bomba train you know
what I'm saying
yeah it's not taking so much bomba or
those acai bowls those are fucking
amazing same thing all this also bomba
number three I can do so much following
that I can train my back and legs on the
same session because I'm Harry
authorizing arms I'm thinking after this
last diet cycle finally starting adding
to a day training like you guys
recommend in the revive stronger podcast
ok very good
there are people that don't get sore at
all yes yeah it's like I'm a compound
big side delt fiber what got me nervous
that I might might be stupid is the
volume landmarks I can double the
recommendations all muscle easily
without without hams five sets of that
I'm fucked for a week if I didn't grow I
could say I'm doing something very wrong
but I do grow a lot that my caloric
deficit sometimes severe one should I
push more volume uh yes this is actually
really much the same question I feel
effects of fatigue the burden I do these
performances is absurd as I absurdly
progressive volume but I do not get sore
solved the puzzle please there's no
puzzle you won you already figured it
out you're winning figured it out as
long as your performances increasing or
stable during the mesocycle it's not
falling you're doing in an appropriate
amount of volume so you're totally fine
and you can do a little bit more volume
and if it still doesn't decrease your
performance great you probably just grow
more so it's okay to be a bit of an
outlier like we those recommendations
that we post are meant for the general
populace and there's gonna be people on
both tales of the spectrum there and
you're just on the high-volume side
that's fine too tight I know people who
get really sore they don't even get
great results but that sucks we had
that's way worse all right James said
something very interesting about the
proliferation Brazilian clients your
ideas are starting to spread here slowly
but Brazil is very very fit country we
lack of knowledge we compensate an
effort but good part of the population
do not have the ability or intention to
go after information that's most of
America most of us do not speak English
at all actually most of American don't
want information but they do speak
English as a priority I perceive in
Brazilian social media that the more
intellect in Incline
you are using your in methodology a base
form and trying to make profit for your
effort and being serious I do not watch
alright of my boundaries like he's
saying like if you're if you're coming
off as an intellectual then you're not
like a hustler is that a problem okay
yeah in any way shape or form we have
great
Arkana fitness area dominated by morons
and fat people you guys help me think
help me and I think you could dominate
the market here you guys help me and I
think you could dominate tomorrow I feel
pyramid scheme coming on yeah seriously
we trained like cavemen your book will
be marvelous for people here if you
think people want to be fit in America
you have to come from Brazil the problem
is we lack the tools to do it and a
title of exemplification intermittent
fasting just got here and people are
going crazy fuck so funny as a friend I
don't want to lack a real meaning of the
word but putting in better terms as a
grateful non paying customer that use
your knowledge if you feel interested I
would enjoy helping you guys as much as
I could I'm a lawyer I do not know about
publishing rights etc but that can
easily be solved I'm a taxation lawyer
so I can be of some help no charge at
all this is not my intent just to help
be furious with your book was
plagiarized by some clown that doesn't
understand a thing
whatever translator it will be it will
be allow McDonald's book a guide to
flexible dieting which played rise like
four years ago by Fitness influencer I
had already read it and got me furious
because basically translated without
reference to a credit author oh wow
that song hasn't changed that's the
level of ignorance we are dealing with
here on a happier note I saw an RP video
and Mike said he can rap man get out of
here it's not my native speaking
language but I will drop you some bars
damn he's my bro for us together you got
a you got to read it as if you were
rapping my cool let me before I do that
just to respond here Howell to your
question um thank you so much for the
offer will absolutely consider it we
have some folks that may be in the
market to translate our work for Brazil
James that is so we'll give it some
thought that's always a always a thing
yeah all right so I'm your rap nemesis
now sink to my level okay that's not
part of the rap mmm
why so serious you better be religious I
will get you cook I hope that was I've
talked for a second yeah you said you
beat Jared feather is he mute or rather
come to me let's go to war in this rap
battle I will show you what the be
resilient
doesn't stand for Brazil recently you
won't you won't go far I will submit you
in this rap with a flying armbar you
said in the breakdance a joke like squat
with a wide stance boy you're at your
MRV don't even try to go against me I
will slap you with your croc slippers I
am the third world river show me at your
crib leave like an Ethiopian strip boy
going downhill quickly but I well surely
I win this hell it was easier than
learning from Thomas Sowell my inclusion
my inference let's see what you can spot
with all your podcast references mic
drop
[Laughter]
we got served I mean he met her he
better be breakdancing after that one
we got surf I am omigod you seriously
that was fucking baller shit
you just got elevated to like rp+ god
status oh man
RP + OG that was amazing why are you
doing this to us
no Rafael by the way James and I have
like really we work on our Brazilian guy
impression so let us know and then if
you watch did you watch this webinar let
us know how we're doing like as far as
Brazilian garlic look what you moved why
you can no can have weisstein a file
there's a a comedian here in the United
States his name his his stage name is
head not Ola Rajah he basically just his
whole shtick as he spooks Brazilian
people and he's so good that he'll lie
fighters engineers are guys yeah he'll
she's so good that people don't realize
that he's not Brazilian but he's just
putting on an act so look him up he's
really funny he's met these more for
like the Jiu Jitsu crowd but his
Brazilian guy impression is so good
you'll you'll appreciate it amazing
alright Stephen Kucera
Caserta hi I'm 5-4 140 pounds 29 years
old I've been training since I was about
18 19 years old I really strengthened
some CrossFit more recently I've started
hyper tree biting my style training I've
been watching and reading everything dr.
Mike puts out I recently with the help
of the hypertrophy training guide
articles at the at-home workout program
as well as the free at home
program have designed a program that I
will start next week during quarantine
I've acquired some equipment like
acquired equipment fell on the back of a
truck hmm during this writing I have
come to acquire several and some spray
some spray cans that's right I am a
barbell at 196 pounds of weights for my
strength this covers most of what I need
in order to fall into the Papa rep
ranges for each muscle group my biggest
struggle will be quad growth as that
weight isn't enough for me to bring
close to failure with a proper rep
ranges last time I maxed out at a
backhoe out of 355 okay my question is
what can I do if anything to train my
quads with barbell reaching failure in
the 5 to 10 rep range given that the
weight is currently limited I was
thinking adding pauses or even switching
to some sort of single leg movement the
single leg movement said idea there's
two promises problem number one when
you're pausing the 5 to 10 rep range
paused is metabolically equivalent to
the 10 to 20 range not paused because
the total time under tension and the
amount of tension is actually the same
so that doesn't solve the problem of 5
to 10 rep range isn't the magic it's the
force that's the magic now the force
would hypothetically be solved by single
leg movements but unfortunately they're
still so unstable that they're probably
not maximum force generating even if you
get them into a 5 to 10 rep range so
those I don't think are very good
solutions and I mean after so he says
another question but I think my best
answer is for the duration of the
quarantine and I can I can bet with
current trends it won't last very long
and almost any place um I think that
you're better off just training plenty
in the 10 to 30 rep range and then you
know you don't need ever actually to
train a 5 to 10 rep range for excellent
gains you probably need some of your
training for optimal games but you go
years without ever touching anything and
if I just haven't get amazing games so I
would just say gee lots of possible odds
front squats high bar squats heel
elevated squats with that weight and
some walking lunges and stuff and you
will have fucking jacked quads by the
time the quarantine is over I wouldn't
even bother going the 510 wrench James
yeah I was actually gonna say the same
thing I think you'll do with that amount
of weight you could add pauses you could
do closed dance you could do front squat
and you can probably actually still get
a pretty pretty good well you get a
great stimulus but I was saying I was
thinking we should do some exercise
variations like that you probably will
be in like the 10 to 15 rep range which
is still pretty pretty freakin good
I really wouldn't even sweat it I think
you'll do just fine if you're not
hitting the the five to ten on high bar
squats up change the exercise variation
a little bit you'll probably get pretty
close to it another question if I'm
performing a movement and trying to stay
within let's say 12 rep range on the
first that I hit nine and then eight
should I decrease my weight to stay in
the rep range on the next set or keep
the weight constant a lot of reps to
fall out of the rep range I appreciate
all your help all the hard work you guys
put in thank you so much thank you so
much to you as well um so there are some
technical reasons why you might want to
stay in that range for all of the reps
but that's usually not the case he
letting the reps fall is just fine until
and unless they get to us that's a 5 or
less then you boost them so I think it's
fine to start on any rep range and let
your reps drop by any amount and unless
they get below 5 James yeah and another
thing you might think about is like your
pumps and mind muscle like if you're
dropping your reps are dropping and
you're just kind of feeling blah if
dropping doing a down set would get you
back into a good mind muscle good pump
situation that's a good incentive to do
that you don't have to do that I usually
with like beginner clients I'll say more
rigidly like I want you in this range
just so they kind of get used to rep
ranges and our IRS and as they become
more intermediates I'll kind of expand
that out so if I said you know if I said
8 to 12 and they get the first set is 15
next sets 13 next that's 10 that's fine
you know what I mean if they're an
advanced client as long as their first
set is basically in that goal rep range
whatever else happens from there is fine
for the most part as long as it doesn't
go below 5 alright Xiao Chen Lu says how
I doctor my dreams Thank You France many
questions last week it was very helpful
I have a question regarding compound
versus isolation exercises I feel a much
better pump from flies than benchpress
and did a failure I feel my pecs have
been way more taxed and flies than a
benchpress would it be correct in saying
that a fasoulas PEC upper trophy flies
is a much better exercise having elbows
bent enough so that the biceps an auto
manufacturer and the only advantage of
benchpress has will reply is the reduced
risk of injuries to me that might not
even actually please
so after Mike's video I know that sets
of six to eight is the major factor in
stimulating faster twitch fiber and
hypership in general doing the flies
curls hamstrings lash curls hamstring
curls and other eye selection exercises
where the targeted muscle fails before
the supporting muscles for that exercise
in the 68 rep range
seems more injury prone for muscle
connective tissue tear that's the only
reason we're not focusing on them I mean
yes I can get big pecs if I was
mentioned 140 kilograms for 20 reps but
wouldn't it be more time-efficient focus
and flies instead imagine on bigger
impacts would be if I was flying 70
kilogram dumbbells for 20 reps thank you
John Chen Lu big pecs lover so I think
that your ingredients is actually quite
unusual
most people get better pumps and that
our feeling of attention perception in
their pecs with lower weight during
compounds but because at least for flies
you happen to feel that flies are a
really really great exercise for you
because you feel your pecs are really
super taxed and because the deals like
pecs failure is occurring that I would
for you as a recommendation and James
and I are very sort of not big fans of
holdouts like hi honey I'm at a webinar
just let you know so you know James and
I really like to say okay never do this
again and only do the thing that works
but you know if James and our
programming for you we would program
much more flying and much less pension
does that mean no benching no probably
not because if you don't match for a
while you do very little benching
benching as far as a marginal
improvement to your training is actually
quite good like because it's it's you
sprinkle it in it's just doing too much
of it of something you don't want to do
so I would say yeah do plenty of flies
but don't write off the bench completely
and if you are you know for other
exercises like hamstrings and and and
biceps if you also feel that isolations
are doing good that's totally fine as
far as doing them heavy usually that's
the injuries not a factor until and
unless you feel like holy fuck if I do
like this heavy like my tendons do not
feel right my positioning doesn't feel
right it feels like I'm gonna get hurt
if that's not the case you're totally
fine um just don't do anything stupid
really control the eccentric and the
descent and that will make sure that
injury risk is much lower
the thing is interest is not the number
one factor that precludes us from
programming isolations and the low rep
numbers it's usually that most people
just don't feel a fucking thing if they
do that yeah and also the compound
movements just tend into the more recent
terminology just tends to have a better
STR stimulus to a time ratio where in
terms of like if you're going to work
your delts and your triceps and your
pecs all in the same day like the bench
is just a more efficient way of kind
hitting all those checking all those
boxes where it's like he just he flies
then you're gonna have to have a
distinctly different warmup period and
exercises for your triceps same thing
for your shoulders etc so it's not that
one is good or bad like in terms of SFR
and bodybuilding purposes you can kind
of pick and choose if the flies are
really good for you you can prioritize
them absolutely but it doesn't mean that
you should take bench out necessarily
because also think about this how many
variations on bench press can you do a
shitload
how many variations on flies can you do
a bunch but not that many right you have
your flat your incline and then kind of
in between ones and then cable after
that you're gonna run out of options so
you might exacerbate some of your s your
highest SF our movements relatively
quickly whereas with the bench you can
do dumbbell bench at a number of
different angles you can do barbell
medium grab Close Grip wide group
incline medium Close Grip wide grip etc
so you get a lot of a lot of options
with the barbell whereas the flies are
gonna be a little bit more limited I'm
sorry with that with the with the
compound pressing okay de much Hado says
hey there docks remember here thanks for
the free bunch by the way new that's
another shot cuz I commented nonetheless
Simon are thinking that was where you
guys get your questions from but it
turns out it was here all along but for
the YouTube people it is for our P plus
members you found it anyway my first
question is regarding assessing
performance while doing bodyweight home
workouts let's say I'm bulking in my
performance on pull-ups in week four of
my last nazo is the same as my
performance in week four of the current
meso considering the fact that I'm
heavier is it reasonable to consider
this progress of performance oh yeah of
course it's progress oh yeah if you're
more force done for the same number of
reps that's great that's the easiest
question will answer all day my second
question is regarding metabolite
training I'm wondering if there's any
problems doing metabolite phase well in
deficit no there's not my home gym
situation will get a little bit worse in
the coming weeks and I figure hurry like
losing a piece of equipment and I figure
if my bench press is dieting then I
figure I could use metabolite training
and higher reps to choose a better
stimulus with living equipment but also
planning a starting cut at the same time
there's anything you'd recommend is it
worse equal or just wondering where your
thoughts on it
so you know like we've sent to a couple
of other related question askers
starting a cut on metabolites is
something we usually don't recommend so
if you anticipate your gym situation
won't get much better for months and
months then cutting on a metabolites not
the greatest thing in the world but if
you anticipate doing like one mezzo and
then gyms opening up then you're totally
fine James yeah I agree it's just not
something you want to spend months and
months and months doing but as kind of a
quick fix until things are back on track
I think it's fine all right okay so hey
Mike real quick we're at page 12 of 27
and we've been going for about an hour
how you what are you thinking yeah let's
let's do this as a two-parter let's get
through ernõ toy finish and eise mar 6
hours I had a copy and paste that when I
was like I'll be yes it's my stick in
orbit
and we'll get through those two guys and
then we'll save hating done and the rest
for maybe we'll court tomorrow or
something cool yeah sounds great
all right Brno toivonen hi mr. doctors
from Finland again you know appreciate
if you ask questions from somewhere else
we're getting tired of you being in
Finland boring us alright number one
thanks for answering my sleep fatigue
will WTF problems just to add so ok just
real quickly this is funny and honey I
swear to god I'm not like I'm not saying
it the 60 response my wife is
exclusively manipulating objects that
have the loudest crinkle factor ever
like I don't even know we had like
there's new plastic baggies that it's a
good thing when you go to I love you
baby no hard feelings you know like when
you go into James you ever try to eat in
like a large lecture hall with a
professor and you try to open up a bag
of pretzels if you're like is this a 20
decibel bag of constantly did they
somehow get an airliner noise into the
pretzel bag you can see it
remember when Doc Stone did that when
somebody was presenting in one of our
weekly meetings and I think Howard
finally just snatched it out of his hand
and opened it all the way he's like
fussing with the project
minutes in Howard was like just give me
that money back because it's like you're
trying to open it quietly so you want to
do less forceful but that just means it
takes a lot of sticks forever and then
into the worst part as we people sigh of
relief when you open the bag but then
you start eating the pretzels as a kind
Wow yeah that's funny
all right so Pretoria and says say they
again honey baby you can do it it's not
it's not a big deal at all I just meet
myself when I'm not talking thanks for
answering my sleep fatigue with no but
you have problems just to Anna James
comment about the prescribed sleep
medicine
I've been prescribed doxepin in a very
small dose honey what's doxepin yeah she
says dr. Fitness a medication used to
treat major major depressive disorder
anxiety disorders chronic hives and
trouble sleeping it's a goddamn it's
like a shotgun pill
it's okay what's wrong with you like
actually I don't care here's doxepin to
treat that shit I like there's the
little references in there to some what
I'm guessing that was a copy-paste job
from Wikipedia yeah
and trouble sleeping for hives it is
less preferred alternative Danny
histamines as a mild to moderate benefit
for sleeping problems and is used as a
cream for each enos due to a topic
dermatitis or lichen simplex chronic us
man sounds like some Sheen don't want to
have man you got to get on that fucking
there's like lunesta and what's the
other one
ambien you got to get on that ambien bro
crystal says it's usually not the first
line um see it see if you didn't get
upgraded to fuckin ambien lunesta and
Andi and it's like the last line of
sleep defense well no it actually it's
not valium is I'm gonna point the
microphone at her while she's singing
your life
[Music]
say the insurance company actually
rejected a like lunesta
whatever and the insurance company
rejected by alternate medication because
I needed to try the first line which was
blue mascot or ambien here first folks
okay at that lunesta you know I will say
that first of all I'm fascinated with
medication names I think they're
beautiful and because I fascinated with
Big Pharma but like when I hear the name
lunesta I want to go to sleep because
it's derived from Luna which means moon
it's just like lunesta I don't even have
to take it I've also never taken it I
have take an ambien on a flight from
Korea it was an unbelievable experience
it just sort of made me want to go to
sleep it didn't make me feel like like
you know like James some some sleep
stuff like any histamines there just a
crush you there's like like farm it just
Yoshi's you down you can't even open
your eyes this was again I'm kind of
sleepy I closed my eyes I woke up three
and a half hours later what the fuck
where the fuck was I and then I went to
go pee cuz the medication was like seven
hour half-life it's like super still
like you know you know in the blood I
felt normal just a little tired
I peed because I was on a plane I just
peed out in the aisle because I don't
use the plane bathroom such as people
ever want and then after I got back from
the bathroom peeing I laid down or was
it I guess like sleep is over a half
hours isn't bad I closed my eyes and I
woke up another three and a half hours
later I was like whoa holy fuck like it
was really pretty and after that I
didn't even have any like I was a groggy
or anything I was really really
impressed yeah I've never met somebody
who has used those drugs and did not
think that they were awesome
not I don't mean that in like an obesity
they just like they had troubles tiger
women no more now they're great yeah
that's fucking sweet alright he says
maybe it helped a bit but just maybe in
only if it's so I'm not sure if it
reality gave any help but I will try the
CMA yeah that's okay it's you know like
it'll make like I said it when you fall
asleep you're out cold it doesn't help
you sleep like it does help you fall
asleep but when you do fall asleep it's
like go on drinking yeah you guys are
commanded taking two weeks a very loud
active rest followed by four times a
week with a very low volume training and
plenty of calories and focusing on sleep
and falling for a few months
does this very low volume mean example
40 a weak MBT using only the first
week's set numbers and only progressing
and wean and lowering REO throughout the
Missouri yes that's exactly yeah number
two I've been thinking of doing the
front squats after many years some
coaches have said the front squats
should be done only in short sets maybe
five to eight reps often since often
supporting muscles are the ones getting
out first causing the posture collapse I
think James and I were both those
cultures I agree yeah what I conclude
from this is that front squat isn't a
very good I purchased the exercise since
the quads giving our first example
earlier but front squats only be good
for people who are strong on supporting
muscles and have only quads is a
limiting factor yes they would
definitely be better for those people
mm-hmm
what's your take on this I don't think
I'll be doing front squat since as a
high fatiguing exercise doesn't go well
with easing on the training advice you
gave me last week smiley face but I'm
just asking out of curiosity
yeah totally uh front squat you know
people like it's interesting if you just
look at it from like a external view of
like what the exercise looks like people
like front squats are great for quads
and it's like yeah are they though and
the answer is probably not like anything
front squats can do high bar close dance
all bright squats where the heel can do
probably better for quad hypertrophy
purposes and probably for strength and
poly for athletic development to be
honest front squats are and most weight
lifters will tell you this front squats
are an exercise used to practice the
front squat which is a weight lifting
movement like during the clean-and-jerk
like weight lifters usually just use
back squats to get stronger legs so you
know yeah I want to say too much and
piss off front squatter's but it's a
limited exercise front squat is great if
you could do it at the same volume
intensity frequency as your back squats
the problem is that the majority of
people cannot do that that's that's the
thing so as an exercise is it's no
different than anything else if you can
do it in such a way that is stimulated
then you'll get robust growth the
problem is that if the more often than
not your lower back or your hips or your
your trunk muscles are gonna be the
limiting or your actually I mean even
just the rack position is a limiting
factor for men even your shoulder joints
are limiting not even the muscles really
yeah so lock your shit up in that so if
you be it's not that it's a bad exercise
for hypertrophy per se it's just a hard
exercise to incorporate into the
hypertrophy training that's really the
limitation if you can do it
and
in a way that is not subject to those
limitations then it's it's gonna be
great it would be like any other
squatting movement at that point it's
just another variation but it's not for
most people that's the problem
yeah okey doke he says I need to give
you guys a shout out again for the help
you're giving it isn't isn't it so cool
how you have helped literally thousands
of people he helped hurt you know right
I always gonna hurt people you're just
fuckin up and helping them instead I
always feel like we're just bullshitting
that's really what we're doing it's
that's how it feels to me and not to
sound like indignant about it but it's
nice to hear when people say it's
helpful but like when we log on to these
annoys like hey Mike what's going on bla
bla bla bla it's just mostly us shooting
the shit for her little high for sure
for sure I'm glad you guys are getting
some models yeah we're glad you enjoy
all right it's Mar is Margaret sick you
know a bitch alright hi dr. Mike Anne
dr. James and dr. Mike if mike wants to
guess why I'm from quick-tip the name of
the country has an and has a and O
Serbia in graduate or something
no son Montenegro hmm this is bothering
me hasn't and there are two countries in
the Caribbean that are usually Trinidad
and Tobago yeah he's not from that so
there's still two separate company
because I can I guarantee you he's from
Eastern Europe
let's see Bosnia and Herzegovina those
aren't two separate things now this is
one country oh well that makes a lot of
sense yeah everyone who has that
anything ovitch or vaq is is from that
area of the world alright which by the
way is populated mostly by like six foot
tough six foot five tall models people
look absurd oh they're better every
sport than everyone else
fuck all you guys for being better than
us alright also their country is fucking
gorgeous
like yeah alright it's not like
Philadelphia where people are not six
foot five models and Philadelphia is not
gorgeous or good at a lot of things or
good at most things I just
I have just six questions I feel they
belong more in sports scientists
sneaking off when is the new podcast
coming out fuck if I know you mean the
new sports scientists episode yeah I
don't know we haven't recorded one
sports I don't don't don't you worry
about when that's coming out it'll come
out sporadically when Marcos decides he
wants to do a sports scientist number
two how does joint crackling cracking
affect lifting seems to me there's a
psychological for instance if I crack my
neck it feels more free I can crack my
neck several times a day but sometimes
maybe once a week my right shoulder
feels weird it pulls and I can pop it
into place if I should add that my right
shoulder is fucked up from unnecessary
grinding long story short turns out to
be my psychological ache I was feeling
hot for instance when I do military
press my shoulder blades don't elevate
to the same height I think you got to do
whatever makes you feel comfortable and
whatever kind of swag you got going on
it probably was very largely
psychological there may be some cracking
is cracking as a displacement of
oftentimes of like internal joint gases
I believe and there might be something
to aligning the joints a little bit more
optimally for cracking our post cracking
my wife who's a sports medicine doctor
says yes so but I wouldn't you know I
would definitely get all your cracks out
before he lifts heavy the hilarious
thing is like when you start lifting
heavy the cracks come out anyway I would
just prefer they come out before the
lifts and during like if I like a lob if
I squeeze my glutes together I can
actually crack my lower spine area like
my sacrum and stuff if it happens during
the lift oh my boy fuck did I fall apart
but if it happens before I'm like I am
okay yeah I think that's just something
you can incorporate into like an
individualized warm-up like just kind of
your pre lifting routine for any given
day or sessions or movements that you're
gonna do I think that's fine but I don't
think if there's much to it outside of
just individualization number three you
mentioned that large amounts of fruit
post-workout wasn't recommended since
its strawberry season we have a bunch of
them and sometimes I pull a lot of them
and my post-workout shake how much is
too much sugar grams of strawberries
what we said is like I don't mention the
large amounts of fruit post-workout lake
we don't want you to blend 50 trillion
different fruits super concentrate them
and then eat them but if you're having a
shake full of strawberries the number of
strawberries you have to eat in order to
shut down muscle growth from their
antioxidants is like more than you could
possibly eat we don't want you to do
down fruit extracts and vitamins and
stuff like that today my post-workout
meal
was a protein shake and 130 grams of
carbs from melon like I had to GI in
bowls of honeydew melon like I'm not
worried about muscle loss from that so
no realistic amount of strawberries you
know yeah and the only thing I would
think was uh like there's probably some
fiber limitations to depending on which
fruits and stuff you're eating you might
not want to be blasting like a huge
fiber dose after your workout that might
make you a little little get a little
rumble in your tumble but other than
that totally good
your small Arnold comes I don't always
think telling you to keep eating this
fruits exactly really got a strawberry
handy knocks it out of your hands get
the fuck out of here
Mel doesn't like it when I eat fruit
because I get real gassy man Mel's got a
problem if she's got a problem you get a
gassy cuz you're like the origin of all
gas in the universe I know I've been
real bad like sometimes I'll wake up and
in the room just smells like eggs and I
just know that I've been just letting it
rip all night you know
oh yeah that's awful dude I'm gonna tell
you man my kids like my eventual kids go
to school they're gonna come back and be
like Miami daddy I heard that intrical
acted collisions caused the formation of
gas and that brought two planets of
exacts bullshit your school's lyin your
uncle James
he hit me last time when he was over
good probably deserved it I don't know
he's doing it right cuz he's mr. gas
mister gasps like I have spoken
[Laughter]
another WI Coldwater immersion pelant's
muscle growth but why is wim hof so
jacked well I said a couple of ways
women hops not that jacked a second
answer is genetic variations a
motherfucker any prophet trains a lot
and he would be more jacked if he didn't
do Coldwater immersion
also the Coldwater immersion blunting
effect if I her trophy is notable but
small he probably got to his current
level of Jack NIST pretty cold water
immersion yeah not from cold water
immersion and then he says JK what are
your actually was it truth be told what
ha yeah
wim Hof's not be it not very jacked at
all but he does cool breathing shit
what are your pings not cold showers
after workouts and her in the morning
far from the workout would you say it
has the same effect to see Tobias off
James hit that pit I know that I mean
that's it's not a huge deal at all I
would say normally for first of all for
Cole to even really be a detriment to
hypertrophy or if to any kind of like an
Apple ism or recovery type stuff you
have to actually have enough cold
exposure in terms of time and the degree
of coldness so that it can actually
penetrate down deep into the muscle so
that means you have to have enough cold
exposure so that it goes through the
superficial part of your you know your
skin and actually deep into the muscle
where it actually starts to have more of
an effect cold showers are not even
going to be remotely close to having any
of that type of effect in the ice bath
you have so much surface area coverage
and you can make it so cold that's when
it starts to become more of a thing but
for a shower I honestly don't even you'd
be hard-pressed I would be hard-pressed
to think that a cold shower would have
any of those types of effects if at all
it was just it's just not on I'll stand
there and get super fucking cold yeah I
think you probably I'm not sure I don't
have a strong opinion on that but I
don't think it has the the penetrating
power to affect the muscle enough hey I
heard that advice actually penetrating
power yeah luckily al doesn't mind so
much number five in one of the RP
lectures regarding rests Mike mentions
that you should start your next session
when all checkboxes are checked CNS
respiratory etc let's say that I checked
those boxes after 90 seconds of my reps
or 18 13 11 when our sauna in 20 seconds
the same exercises of my reps are 18 15
12 yes we don't count reps as our volume
the count sets well that being said we
have the same load but more reps in 120
second rest example meeting more volume
load are are these couple of reps
irrelevant if we just stick to one rest
time do they wash out if we use the same
rest time and focus on progressing over
time I think that they definitely wash
out I think that you will get a much
slightly tiny bit more Heather perfect
stimulus if you rest longer
but is it worth thrusting way more time
to get this like 1% boost on hypertrophy
no especially because instead of
arresting you could just do another mini
set save tons of time anyway and get
even more growth right so at the end of
the day there's a trade-off between how
much arrest versus just doing another
set here's the thing after you check
those four check boxes growth is so
similar between any sets you do after be
at right after or minutes after that
it's just not worth waiting in almost
any circumstances
and if it is worth waiting it's worth
just doing another set and getting even
more out of them yeah totally and this
is just I would say favorite consistency
in this case like whatever you guys for
your exercises just keep doing if
there's no incentive to change it unless
you've unless you're just experimenting
and that's perfectly fine but even then
you would experiment by changing it in a
consistent way across a mesocycle or two
not just one session so consistency
can't and prefer like internal
consistency to the effect of once all
four boxes are checked go last four
boxes are checked go that way it's easy
to track MRV and performance over the
weeks because you know that if your
performance starts to dip it's not
because you're resting lasts arresting
more it's you're resting always
relatively to your performance and once
you're good to go you're good to go
so that way it standardizes the rest
time it's it's this miracle of
standardization with Auto regulation
late because over standardization means
you might not be ready to go but you go
anymore all two minutes is off even
though I'm breathing heavy but if you
wait for the four checkboxes to clear
and then you go right after they're
cleared then it is a form of
standardization but also on a regulator
to each workout so it's a good really
really good mix and this is and I'm not
trying to be dismissive of your question
here at all that's not my intent but I
feel like the rest times thing I don't
know if it's just like a recent thing
where people have been really particular
about the rest times guys this is like
such my new show really it's one of
these things like it's easily fixed by
just Auto regulating your rest times if
you don't want to think about it more
critically I mean think thinking about
it and being thoughtful with your
training and using the box check system
is a really good way to do and that's
how it recommended but at the same time
are you gonna have terrible training if
you are not doing that would probably
not you probably get pretty good
training too
I don't think what I'm thinking I think
what I imagine people doing is using
times and things like all ir as an
excuse to I don't know it just feel it
feels like it's that unnecessarily
constraint on themselves to just do hard
training sometimes you know what I mean
they're gonna it's like a mathematical
excuse to not just do more and sometimes
just the answer is when you're ready to
feel like you're ready to do another
heart set fucking hit it yeah hit it
waiting a long time after you've been
already ready stop fucking doing that
and don't perseverate over things like
rest time is not worth not worth fussing
about that much it's mostly a wash
consistency greater than anything else
yeah
number six the book sparked by John
Ratey concludes that around twenty
minutes of cardio boost mental capacity
it doesn't tell you why in a second what
does literature say about lifting heavy
shit in the gym and the effect on our
brain i intrinsically know what the
sport has done to my mental state but
i'm curious to know what has been proven
so the thing is is like these studies
that are being cited in these books at
twenty minutes of cardio boost mental
capacity this just incredibly shitty
external validity on all fronts you know
you have to ask the nature of the study
it's like twenty minutes of cardio
boosts performance on an IQ test well
let me because just gets the juices
flowing a little bit maybe twenty
minutes you're more alert ization yeah
like 20 minutes of lively conversation i
do the same thing it might even do
better you know so in a boost mental
capacity for how long you know what if
you just started doing stuff and after
20 minutes your mental capacity was just
as high as you have been do cardio but
you already got some work done
she went to capacity has an on-ramp
effect that may be accomplished by
cardio and may be accomplished by doing
slightly some more simple tasks for
example instead of doing 20 minutes of
cardio and then getting heavy
intellectual work done why don't you do
20 minutes of checking emails and you
actually get something done work wise
instead of just pissing away time to get
cardio and then by 20 minutes of working
on emails your brain is already at max
capacity and you get that boost and then
you go to your heavy lifting your actual
work before you do very intellectually
demanding things so a lot of these
studies I'm like extra sorry is good for
brain that could just really throw away
fuckin studies eat a good meal make sure
you're nice and energized if you feel
like a walk around the block or two that
boosts your mental capacity great for
many people that does for some people it
doesn't but for many people just calmly
getting into the work and so the
building up work effort over time and
then taking breaks after that and doing
more work it's really just the way to go
what is lifting to do about the brain if
it doesn't affect your brain fucking one
way or the other all the effects are
transient it's not bad for the brain
is that good for the brain exercise in
general seems to be good for long-term
brain development of health and all this
other stuff but lifting probably has no
special effects I just this is a to beat
James in his own game here this is
something I would look at even less than
the rest times and again we don't mean
to demean you in any way this is a very
very good very legitimate question but
the answer is it really just not a
fucking hill of beans difference between
any of these shifts so you know do what
you do intellectually and if you feel
like lifting really helps you be sharp
lifts before you do your electro shit
but if you don't don't be surprised but
I thought it was close to boost it like
these are not results that can be
replicated unanimously among all people
yeah and there's a couple other
confounders too so using the cardio and
the walking as an example that's one
that's been studied a lot and one that
is something that does seem to be very
true is that taking a brief walk is very
positive for your mental state so it
tends to increase your mood make your
mood and effect more positive which is
good which can be misconstrued too
thinking that you are more in a higher
mental state or higher capacity and you
also just are raising your level of
physical arousal at that point right so
anytime your arousal goes up you're
going to be a little bit sharper at some
of the things that you're doing that
just is just a natural that's why you
warm up for sports that's why we do all
sorts of stuff so I wouldn't put too
much stock into it I know that there's
been a lot going around recently and I'm
not my my wife is a neuroscientist I
certainly am NOT I know there's been a
lot of stuff going around lately about
lifting and parenthese to prevent
Alzheimer's disease and some other stuff
but I mean I don't know about any of
that I think it's mostly about like
living a good healthy lifestyle yeah
how's what what mitigates a lot of the
risk factors and you know things like
that got something to say did you hear
that yeah that's pretty clear actually
yeah so that makes a lot of sense can
you ask Mel to stay in her Lane please
no you need to stay in their Lane no
I used to one mark for James Dean Johnny
can you say to al-malki just like I'm
just like not now can you just like it
just just just like not yeah she's
shaking your head like Oh Jabba the
Hutt's assistant oh alright / well what
does that thing my parent monkey parrot
worms frog thing whatever I love that
thing that's my spirit animal uh and
then it's mom says thank you guys thank
you very much for everything you gave
are giving and willing to give us oh
I've got stuff to give you this model
necks gonna give it to you that's right
I wish I could hug you guys well we wish
we could hug you back six feet from yes
so James let's cut this one off now
we'll pick up tomorrow at Hayden done
and tomorrow we'll hit up YouTube as
well okay that sounds good I've put a
mark on my thing to remind me where we
left off folks thanks for tuning in with
us today we didn't get through all the
questions but we will address the rest
of the questions probably sometime very
soon this week keep subscribing to the
RP YouTube channel if you haven't done
so already there's tons of good stuff
Mike actually just posted a bunch of
videos like I think there were so some
back ones recently and oh boy we've all
bunch of stuff RP podcast going strong
so subscribe and keep asking those great
questions we will see you next time
[Music]
you're serious about your goals and the
RP diet app is here to help it creates a
diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
world fun
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today folks we're back part two of the
weekly webinar we head up fuckload of
questions this week that's right I
dropped the f-bomb and we didn't finish
last time so we're gonna finish this
time dr. Mike shall we just get right to
it
let's get right into it inside it let me
bring up the YouTube stuff for later was
the video video was webinar with Mike
and James Oh joke now that I have that
brought up let us get into Hayden done
Hayden done has a couple of great
questions he says I had a few clarifying
points about my question for last week
about rep ranges for each microcycle it
was interested to see what would change
if that would change answers in any way
for a refresher you all recommended them
for four days a week I spend one day in
the 5 to 10 range one in the 10 to 15
one of the 15 to 20 and one in the 20 to
30
I understood the rationale but I wanted
to apply this to other factors I don't
believe I was clear and it will be
running 12 sessions a week as a cycle so
six days a week and two sessions of a
based on 12 session template dr. my foot
so here are the questions that come with
that since I'm doing six days a week as
opposed to four should I spend two days
in each rep range no because this twelve
session has a cycle that I wrote is
actually only four sessions per muscle
group per week so it's actually exactly
what we told you but what's the
confusion was the way sothey trying to
expand the the idea of four into six
days a week is that I think it's a so
for their medical he's running it's only
four sessions per month but we can't
answer a more general theoretical
question of if you have X number of days
how should you split up the rep ranges
and honestly the best answer you get
from us is like you know first point
relatively evenly so like if you have
three days it's one day five to ten one
day ten to twenty one day twenty thirty
second point biased towards your best sf
ours so if you really respond well in
the 5 to 10 range for any given muscle
groups you might want to have two days
of that and only two days of the other
two ranges combine so like five to ten
then 5 to 10 then 10 to 20 then 20 30 if
you like most people respond best to the
10 to 20 range you should have more days
of 10 to 20 so for example let's say
you're training 5 days a week
first day could be 5 to 10 second day
can be 10 to 20 third day can be ten to
twenty fourth day can be ten to twenty
and then 50 can be twenty to thirty
right or if you respond really well of
twenty or thirty which is you use pretty
unusual then you can do more days of
that but generally speaking there are no
hard there are no hard rules right it's
just a spectrum and you want to bias the
spectrum to two factors two ways one you
want a good spread in to you want to
bias towards your best eye so FAR's and
that's gonna be different for every
muscle group so like for hamstrings
you know I essentially have like usually
it's mostly five to ten and a little bit
of like you know sometimes 10 to 20 but
I almost never go 20 30 with hamstrings
sometimes I do and that's not for very
long so it's one of the situations where
it's really gonna be based on muscle
group but in general you go from heavier
to lighter all the way through the week
and and that's that yeah and I think
that came up on last week's webinar too
at some point maybe it was the same
question yeah and then he says should I
still progress through the week
beginning at lower upper ranges and
moving my way up and scatter these rep
ranges throughout as long as each body
part is getting some exposure to all the
different rep ranges so there's a so
what you want to do is for any given
muscle group it should probably go
wherever you start with five to ten it
could be in the middle of the week it
goes heavier to moderate to light and
then there should be some distinct
period for longer than usual rest and
then it goes back to heavy again
okay now that means you can start like
legs could be Monday heavy but like
maybe you do chest on Wednesday first so
you might do chest Wednesday heavy and
then Friday moderate and then Saturday
or something else a Sunday you do chest
they could be light and then Sunday to
Wednesday is a nice big rest so that
that's how that would probably work so
what we'd really say is for any given
muscle group make sure that it proceeds
in heaviest to lightest followed by if
you take whatever a so cuz we always
recommend a little
asymmetry in the programming in the
within the week there should be a more
distinct arrest each time with a little
bit more rest
we recommend that that occurs after the
light of session so that way you're
really really overly recovered for the
having session which is what you need to
be recovered yeah I agree with dr. Mike
here and I think the only new issue
ahead was maybe the phrasing were move
my way up or scatter these rep ranges
throughout like so you don't want to
scatter them you generally want to
follow up the pattern dr. Mike said
there are gonna be instances where like
if you do heavy push on Monday you might
have some other muscle groups like
biceps for example that you might be
doing training light but really that we
want for the for the major the big
compound movements are ending the big
major muscle groups we want to find that
pattern as much as we can throughout the
week and sometimes for the accessory
movements you'll find yourself doing
twenty to thirty maybe on Monday on day
one but you're gonna have a heavier
session coming up later in the week yep
yep yeah which you definitely don't want
to do is have like the week go from
light to heavy cuz that just makes no
right you will quickly find out that
that makes no sense
number three since the specific template
lays out layout spreads the entire body
out very well even lean consistently
would this protect me from extreme
intersession systemic fatigue if I were
to complete days in a specific rep range
do complete days in a forever example do
in two days wherever exercises five to
ten or twenty or thirty range actually
yes and in fact this template that that
I made is so high frequency that the per
session volume is really small so you
probably only need usually one exercise
per session in one exercise you can
absolutely do in one range that's
totally totally fine and that's the rest
the question is to that end so yeah
absolutely and and now you guys can
start to see the benefits of smaller
sessions but more frequent sessions is
that you can really send a very clear
message with a given session and you
don't have to worry a ton about session
to session fatigue or intra session
fatigue rather that's why jeans an hour
ask that the famous question that we
made fun of about a trillion times now
like hey how come you guys don't have to
add a two two session per week advanced
hypertrophy splits and we're like well
we don't write six hour workout smarter
you aren't advanced that right exactly
so you know our twelve sessions
appropriate for everyone no absolutely
not you will deal with lots of problems
with a twelve session routine that make
it very unsustainable for anything more
than about
cycle but one of those problems will not
be that your intro session fatigue is
very high in fact you would get great
great workouts the big problem is that
your workouts are so great we're getting
it fucked up doing that many great
workouts within a period of a muslin
sack yeah and the only thing I would add
on this one is I can't tell if he meant
like if he was applying those rep ranges
rigidly across all muscle groups for the
session or he just meant for like though
whatever muscle that he was training
within the set question good question so
so the jeans that's an excellent point
our response to that is probably like
just focus on one muscle group at a time
so if you have a situation where one
muscle group is 5 to 10 and another
muscle group later in that session was
10 to 20 or 2030 that's actually great
there's a matter of fact that's that's
better than having an entire day of 5 to
10 yes because you can only really have
one maybe two exercises in the 5 to 10
range before you were two weeks to
capitalize on that range and just
smashing more volume as a better idea so
yeah your session should go each session
if you have three exercises should go
like 5 to 10 then 15 to 20 I'm sorry
then 10 to 15 then 15 to 20 or something
like that you know if it's 10 to 20 then
you do 10 to 20 10 to 20 then 20 to 30
right you you're gonna you know you know
ever want to go lighter to heavier in a
session that's really really stupid yeah
that was my only concern there and I
think I think if he meant just for with
further for the muscle groups in
question then that's fine but if it's
for rigidly across all all things being
trained for that day that's probably not
a good strategy because then you just
gonna lose opportunities for good
programming throughout the week and then
the the muscle groups are sooner for you
with each other a lot and then he says
another question he says he saw someone
talk about James his arm specialist
specialization cycle and heard him
talking about drudging through crazy
high volume I didn't know if James would
ever put the specifics of program or not
I was very interested look into that
there's nothing really all that
interesting it's frankly I mean I could
put it out there but you guys would be
probably just disappointed the only
thing that was interesting was that I
was doing a mass phase and I'm like a
high high volume tolerance type person
and I auto regulated until I felt you
know my performance was hitting my
harvey's and so for me that I mean it
was just a arm specialization delt
specialization phase where I was just
training on some elements of arms almost
every day and so it ended up being like
biceps and it being like five times a
week I think tries were like four and
there were some delt movement it wasn't
always
lateral delts or
front delts or rear delts but there were
some delt movement basically every day
and I tried to do him in a way that was
non-overlapping or didn't interfere too
much with each other and I just went
until my performance went down and for
me that just meant I was doing like 50
sets towards the end and it's not all
that interesting and in fact you'd
probably look at it and be like he's
doing this at home workout he's doing
seven sets of you know easy curls and
then you know another seven sets of
reverse curls and then you know it's I
could write it down I could show you
guys but honestly it's not that exciting
it's just an issue of specialization
massing and autoregulation and for me
I'm just like a high-volume person
that's just how it worked out all right
he says I defer as a corona test subject
if need be and then awesome right on and
then some more questions
you touched our super conversation in
terms of actual muscle fiber size last
week and how long it may actually take
to occur I've always know the research
and countless anecdotal examples of
strength portion of super composition
and I will find a resource on every side
of this number one were some studies
that you would like you recommend a
reading to look into actually about
better than a study just Google the
first clear evidence of delayed
hypertrophic super compensation written
by Gregg knuckles and April 20th and the
stronger by science a great website that
you should be looking at and Gregg does
better than just one study he talks
about a bunch of the studies that of the
room that's kind of an important
take-home that you just hit on there
like so it's very rare that Mike and I
will ever recommend any single studies
for you guys to read on anything and
it's very rare that we would even
remember even if there was like a
meta-analysis or a review article I mean
like I wouldn't remember that shit off
the top of my head I would have to go
back and I'd probably saved it somewhere
and I'd have to go back and find it but
like there's no just in this I'm not
trying to try to turn to knock you here
but this is just one of those things
like if you ask for a single study like
weird it's just we're never going to
tell you because a we don't think that's
a good way of going about learning out
and B which is not gonna remember that
shit that's it this this might get this
more than I do but people will be like
did you see the paper 2018 by dildo at
all and I'm like I maybe I don't
remember do you know how many fucking
papers I've looked at over the years
guys yeah I don't know maybe and
somebody be like well they had a they
said something different to something
that you said I'm like okay great
honestly like we've got a man much as
can when we talk about something I know
I knew people in in grad school and I've
had professors that would name drop
people's first and last name in their
studies and and they were also say
things like because it's really like you
get to wag your dick about how fucking
in the know you are they'll be like
listen and this uh this comes out a
helmet slab and like oh wow it's out of
his lab like it's published as that let
me ask you other than to fucking
radically bias yourself how is that
relevant the fucking matter where it
came from
as a matter of fact it shouldn't matter
because the fundamental you shouldn't
care it's all data like all it's came
out of fucking this in that guy's lab so
it's gotta be like oh why you're so cool
you know all of the scientists like rub
their fuckin jizz off your lip for the
love of God agreed
alright number two for you all
anecdotally have you ever experienced
the delayed muscle growth other than
immediate glycogen replenishment if so
how long after mezzo no clue such growth
is so small as to be undetectable and
it's very difficult to experience any
kind of growth from anything that you
know is distinctly from some bad thing
yeah and I think there's evidence like
there this is a very anecdotal evidence
of that you know when we make jokes
about like old man strength stuff like
that like that's evidence of like a long
like a long time coming someone who has
been doing physical activity and
accruing muscle mass over a long period
of time that maybe was transient over
several months or years from a stimulus
that they had gotten from a long time
ago
maybe but there's no way that like my
could I could ever say that like oh yeah
we for sure gained muscle on this cut
that we did that manifested six months
later in the subsequent mass phase like
this there's no way that we can possibly
confirm or deny yeah says are these size
differences noticed normally after
ordering a D load or a longer our times
of lower volume again no clue it's
impossible to you know you can notice
size it is very difficult to say what it
came from before does any of us research
possibly lead to believing that taking
longer bouts of training in a dilatory
sensitization phase originally thought
not yet but there's some hints that
maybe that could work and then number
five do you believe these size
realizations come after muzzle cycles
taking place in hypo or hyper
work states or just one of them I have a
suspicion they take place in all of the
states I've seen people do really hard
training during hypocaloric diets
clearly just lose weight the entire time
and then when they end those diets and
begin massing they get really crazy all
time PRS really really fast into a mass
yes and you're like wow there's no way
that your strength converts so quick
from gaining muscle in the last week the
something definitely happened and they
look bigger and leaner than ever then
and they have once they fill out with
glycogen so yeah over the course of an
entire fat loss phase I have seen people
make what are essentially muscle gains
that I don't know if that's really
delayed super compensation or if they've
been gaining muscle the entire time but
the but the fluid component of muscle
was really sort of like downplayed who
knows but more just like Ghostly
the phenotypic expression of the muscle
that they gain from all the hard
training maybe now comes to manifest in
better energy conditions who knows
there's like so many things it's hard to
put it yeah and he says hopefully I
haven't a girl evidence myself comment
to the end of this mass or possibly even
mastering upcoming do you learn oh yeah
good luck good luck teasing that apart
thank you kind sir as gains be with you
you as well all right Kyle min Chao says
hello docs rugby scumbag here yeah bara
G's ahead of time for a very long
question however I want to make sure I
cover all my bases I'm a firm believer
another for client could perform a full
range of motion safely without pain in
while maintaining good mind muscle
connection achieving a pump and muscle
disruption checking all the boxes of
stimulus to fatigue ratio I think of an
exercise has benefited individuals goals
that it was a courage to perform that
full range of motion especially in terms
of hypertrophy I understand that in the
power strength and speed trick you fuck
hold on a sec one sec I gotta write
something down Oh
note to self yeah dr. Mike's like note
to self full range of motion I'm like
what the fuck
post leg press video yeah actually I I'm
gonna make a video right off this topic
and the video will be called the case
against full ROM because there's there's
a lot of there's a lot of people who
present various cases against full range
of motion and some of them have decent
in input and some of them are just total
garbage so we're basically going to be a
dissection video but in any case let's
do a preview of that video now
okay and he says uh inspection chosen
her trophy I understand in power
strength and speed training there can be
great benefits to limiting range of
motion such as specifically for
powerlifting it would be more beneficial
to train the competition range of motion
for the squat where you strength and
power phases instead of ask to grass I
try to keep an open mind to new ideas
and concepts especially those proposed
with individuals with phd's in the
exercise field that being said I've run
into a lot of confusion when looking at
a lot of Joel Seidman PhD and can see
algae ideas behind the optimal squat
you're not the first to run into
confusion James have you ever seen Joel
Seidman Instagram I I have seen his
stuff though I admit that I've been
trying to not be on social media as much
the last couple years so I'm not like in
the know and a lot of these things it's
terrible it's terrible in every way you
could think and he goes correct me if
I'm wrong but I have taught for many
years that not all squats will look the
same for various reasons where the
appeal in proportion goals mobility
restrictions etc I read you'll see
demons 100 squat truths wow that's a lot
of squat truths I don't think I know
that I don't even know if I have the
hundred points to discuss on the squat
when he explains why everyone should
squat the same I got more and more
skeptical of these truths with each one
as I read as he emphasizes proper 90
degrees squats maximize hypertrophy
that's by the way not evidence from the
literature and it's actually counter
evidence from literature continue on
there is more muscle activation by
stopping at 90 degrees also false
you should not track over your toes on
the squat false and that squatting asta
grass is good if your training goals are
decreased strength increased joint pain
degradation to natural body mechanics
herniated disk static issues chronic
lower back pain blowdown knees you know
this is where I would recommend you go
look at this is stuff this is like the
antithesis of what the full range of
mode like this is what partial range of
motion gets you for sure honey like it's
like - yeah really the opposite yes
something so I've actually had at you
know public debates with the barbell
medicine folks about them essentially I
don't think their injury averse enough
and theirs too brazen with their
recommendations but they are an
excellent because they make a lot of
great points they're excellent
counterbalance to this kind of thinking
like there's all kinds of people that
gel like gel see if I'm gonna say if you
don't do something exactly this way
you're just kind of fucking die the body
is highly fuckin resilient first of all
in second row like James said it's
probably better to do a full range of
motion to get all this kind of stuff
I think like you could make a case for
strength certainly like if you this is
just a specificity issue right like
emphasize a certain range of motion then
you get stronger in that range of motion
right but there's nothing that says that
you can't do full range of motion and
get stronger and then maybe even
translate that into partial ranges
emotionally yes much better one way than
the other way yeah it's much better
it'll it's much easier to learn how to
do a partial after you can do the full
vs. the other way around trust me you
want to be squatting - dude when you're
powerlifting prep starts rather than to
shallow very good point and then he says
he goes on to list multiple of more all
of which if squatting with proper ass to
grass technique in a controlled manner I
disagree with what my ears are lifting
and training I have found a lot of
benefits of success with increasing
ankle hip and thoracic spine mobility in
order to squat any much larger range of
motion I've also emphasized the floor
inter ocean on the spot can improve
joint health when performed correctly
specifically tied per trophy I believe
that loaded eccentric contractions is
very beneficial to muscle growth in a
phone each emotion iconically strive to
sorry just want to jump in real quick so
I'm with you I'm with you buddy for the
most part but I also find that people
spend too much time pursuing mobility in
the in these instances for its own sake
or as what I have found and I think dr.
Mike will largely agree is once you
start training for full range of motion
those things tend to start working
themselves on their own and that over
months and months and years and years of
training you've got all the mobility you
need and then I think a lot of people
just take it to the nth degree where
they say I'm doing training for mobility
in the squat where it's like okay well
you could have just you could just train
the squat and skip all that and you're
good you know what I mean so don't
that's just one issue I have with that
but other than that you're right on
percent understand says iconst least try
to improve my training skills and don't
want to throw dr. Seidman under the bus
I would love to hear both of your
thoughts on these squat truths 100 of
the squat truths
probably would be that part of your
bullshit bullshit bullshit wrong and
what science would promote or discourage
these teachings thanks for all the help
and knowledge well so the actual science
on that was which I'm quite familiar
with and so is James is that essentially
nothing he said so to his his
pronouncements about the squats there's
almost exclusive all into two categories
one demonstrably false
via research and biomechanics inference
and to make belief that has no basis in
reality like at
best the things he said or like um maybe
50-50 chance of that being true but if
you're asserting a 50/50 chances 100
you're making a 50% categorical error uh
it's like telling someone like you know
50-50 chance and cards you're like
you're gonna win every time that's
ballsy
it's like Trump right like at best he's
batting 50% and then exactly yeah
whatever else comes naturally just like
it's either it's either Makemake belief
that no one can can can justify or it's
wrong so so unfortunately dr. Joel
Seidman is is is uh how would I say I
would say his best role in the fitness
industry if I was being charitable is as
a skeptical as a skeptics saw sharpener
like that you go to his shit to see how
good your skeptical science swag is and
how much you know so I would do is read
his posts and see if you can refute most
of these things in your head with
knowledge of studies and biomechanics
and physiology think of like with a
polite questions you would ask him if
you were at a formal debate with him
like so you said that is as bad for an
eHealth you know is it we to understand
that there's literature describing how
this happens and also describing that
this happens and then your next question
be like okay so I guess we're just going
on biomechanical inference okay so I'm
under the impression that biomechanics
actually implies that knee health is
fine through a variety of raisers motion
and here's a paper summarizing that and
by McCann Cheryl what do you think of
this and I guy I don't imagine he was
gonna answer these in a very convincing
way I'll tell you that there's like this
cake you know like um sort of mild
consensus of folks on the big issues
like my you know Brad Schoenfeld James
Creek or Gregg knuckles Meno Hanselman
Sam you know Eric Helms and all these
guys I guess I'm in that like little
group of people and none of those people
that you don't want to be my fucker
we offered you Fame and you swatted it
out like Christina Aguilera monsters
well great I love that she like there's
the Christina Aguilera spider crawled up
and the only thing she said was daddy or
Christina Aguilera monsters house mark
has made me laugh so hard I thought it
was dying at various points where they
come up with shit weirdos with all this
covert stuff I think they're gonna drop
like a CO vid bomb I think like all for
sure once this kind of dies down all the
way I think they're gonna just unload
something it's
good so that whole like whatever
evidence-based community like consensus
on the basics none of those people are
Miller than me none would ever consider
what semen is saying remotely close to
the truth it's not like nuanced where
the kiddos bärbel medicine guys have
very interesting views about injury risk
they could be right that could be wrong
there certainly are intelligent they
very well read I'm a literature they
present their views very eloquently I
think they're a little bit more wrong on
some things a little bit more right on
others and there's some disagreement
with those field but but for Joel
Seidman there's not okay so just you
know and that doesn't mean much so at
the end of the day we could all be wrong
and he could be right but you'd be
hard-pressed to support his position
eloquently I'll put it that way if you
got someone you can convince someone
really smart that he's correct that also
knows this shit good god a message Brad
Schoenfeld and ask him please don't do
that Brad I get a fucking heart attack
if you do that it'd be tough real tough
I mean even on the knee health one I
remember since before I was teaching at
Temple I had a great review article that
that was a over viewed like the the
depth and biomechanics of squatting and
clearly show the full range of motion
was better than none it was so I'm
assuming I haven't looked at it for a
little while but I'm assuming it's
probably even more information on that
since then cuz that was probably a paper
from I guess eight years ago or so that
was out of Rosenberg's lab right James
he's a great guy
Rockabye no but I'm sure there's more
paper since then and more reviews and
meta-analysis that show the same all
right so uh beyond are so I don't know
where it Fiona's from but I'm imagining
this name to be very Irish and like very
IRA like thing oh you fucking cunt
he's got no Ireland oh sweet greetings
from Ireland yep so you got your all
might at least yeah per set I'm obsessed
with I elated think everything's great
everyone's accents great I just love it
love it love it love it I wanna like
I've probably seen like 12 movies about
like various IRA terrorist type shit and
it's so funny because just don't sound
like terrorists is there like oh we're
gonna kill Don
and I'm like you know I know that's a
Scottish accent paquimé company some
fucking slack and then it was just like
I'm just like why I can't I can't be
offended I can't consider them evil
Irish are great it was so nice when
Jason Finan took us around and like
drove us around the whole fucking
country practically it was so cool
getting to see it and meet some people
and it was there awesome I love can you
imagine a five finds Fionna I don't even
know how to say it I finally got it you
got to tell us how to save it can you
imagine if find adjacent were brothers
his name it was fine fine him well that
would be probably at least one guy and I
remain that mmm-hmm yeah there was a I
was listening to Michael Bisping's
podcast the other day and they had an
impersonator call in and pretend to be
Conor McGregor and he was so but his
accent was like spot-on if you if you
weren't like paying attention and you
were listening he'd be like oh my god is
that Conor McGregor that's the love of
you all right
hello a morally superior jack friends
greetings from Ireland SBD 1rm is 117
five kilos seventy two point five kilos
140 kilos training for two years male 26
101 oh close question I was like what
the fuck it was he telling us how many
months old you are as well like this
week I love it when my kids are really
attached to that age you're like how old
are you buddy like 10 years and six
months look wow that's really big man
you're definitely better than people who
are any younger than you even by months
exactly alright
closer to death I'm just kidding I don't
tell kids shit like that that would be
funny I started cutting for aesthetic
purposes around the 1st of March at 80
kilograms at 173 centimeters and now as
of the 24th of May 76.5 kgs this equates
to around 0.3 kgs per week which I felt
fairly slow fits with my lifestyle still
living with parents etc I am now three
days into maintenance period that will
be followed by another cut and I'm still
fairly high body fat kind of a skinny
fat looking love handles small gut
etcetera how long should my name is
period B well let's see how long was
this diets 1st of March to the 24th of
May that's like 12 weeks yeah so like we
can give you the blanket recommendation
which is usually 2/3 - 1 times the
length that you spent dieting that's
kind of a good place to start
and then after that it's individuals
individualized concerns like are you
still having ravenous food cravings are
you still dreading the next time you're
you think about cutting things like that
then you might consider going a little
bit longer if you don't have those
things then you might be good and you
know two thirds time and that's great
yeah I would say you know two weeks of
maintenance with some good high quality
you know I would say like the first the
first month of that you could train
fucking hard and use a little rebound
from cutting to gain some muscle the
second month train more for strength
with lower volume and to let your body
really cool it on the volume and then
after that eight weeks you'll probably
be in your condition very very good
candidate for diving again and then hit
another twelve one yeah sounds good
alright number two during that cut while
my calories are relatively high I
struggle with a kind of dizziness
lightheadedness between meals that was
distinct from hunger I assume as some
sort of low blood sugar issue that I
wasn't eating very much in the morning
especially is this to be expected on a
Cotter am I just morally weak individual
both is this an indicator that I should
eat more carbs less fat no you know what
man sometimes he gets kind of wacky when
you're cutting man your body doesn't
have enough food you know I would say
just you know check up with your doctor
and make sure all your blood work is
good that you're healthy
get up get go Gus you know a fasting
glucose test done and because you've
been that's by the way like it's not an
extra special test they do it every time
anyway by default and it's like super
straightforward like you're probably
fine I just I don't want to tell you
fine and they discover there's a fucking
massive tumor eating your heart dr. Mike
and Ames said that I was fine so just go
to doctor get don't get it checked out
just get it just a good physical and
some just normal blood work and you can
tell the doctor like you've been a
little bit dizzy when you're dieting it
he'll probably look at you and be like
well yeah sometimes that happens so you
know 99 chance out of a hundred that's
totally fine and you just make sure you
eat some food before you go train hard
so you don't feel like that when you're
training yeah and maybe consider if
you've been eating more moderate to high
GI carbs maybe try and swap out for
lower GI carbs and see if that makes any
difference for you sometimes if you're
just getting like a big what's it called
if you get the post sugar crash kind of
thing going on and you might be
lightheaded if you had like a big bowl
of cereal or something as your
post-workout carbs who knows so I would
say like that might be a good thing to
try to see if it makes a difference if
been doing a lot of like white bread
white rice kind of stuff switch to brown
switch to whole-grain switch to fruits
to see if that makes a difference
yeah number three do you have a
systematic way to learn to gauge our IR
I have consumed a decent amount of your
material about us and it seems that the
skill is movement specific not super
exacting you get better at it by
actually going to or very close to
failure I find deciding me to 2 to 3 are
very difficult
other than assumed you three are as
moderately difficult you are a bit more
difficult currently training push-pull
legs at home with 50 kilogram dumbbell
gyms in Ireland open back up in August
our IP so I would say this the user we
have a recent YouTube video on the RP
strength YouTube a Renaissance
transition YouTube I suppose where you
watch these and that video is about
progression on hypertrophy and it
literally it's like the rep the match or
beat rep system that is the explanation
the exact best answer your question but
it's not so systematic but it is an
excellent way to learn to gauge our AR
and in many respects dare I say it makes
precise gauging of our AR pointless lake
all you got to do is shoot that two to
four RI our age and Mike recycle one and
then you just make things a little hard
a little hard a little ardor and
eventually you go to failure its
inevitability so I would check that
video out is it really just it's the
only weak one of any hypertrophy program
that you really have to do just somewhat
decent job and then you go from there
it's uh I tell you what's the exact
analogy that it can be used let's say
you're like a three plate eater at the
buffet like all-you-can-eat Chinese
buffet let's say you can eat like three
plates like the question is like how big
should your first plate be like you know
what man like just some decent amount of
food because if you just really didn't
get enough food you can always put more
on your second plate and you'll know
much better how hungry you are then so
don't take plate just one slice of
orange and don't put so much food on at
this food falling off and you can't even
finish it right that would be like going
really close to failure microphone but
like it's just a decent amount of food
and then the second and third plate
you'll be way easier to auto regulate
cuz you own the exact
and better and better and better as you
get fuller you'll know exactly how much
more food you want that's how much for
more food to take same idea would you a
decent roughly three our estimate the
first microcycle and then you just add a
little rep add a little weight I'll wrap
a total weight and sooner or later you
will hit failure and it'll be very that
whole March from roughly the three RI
arches your RR even if it doesn't occur
exactly linearly doesn't fucking matter
yeah very much agreed and you know this
is one of those tough things were I wish
we could just give you a very quick
straightforward like here's the five
step process to figuring out our IR but
this is ultimately kind of a trial by
fire type situation where you just got
to go and try and the more experience
you have the more it'll become refined
and like dr. Mike said it's longer
shirts basically in the ballpark it
really doesn't matter all that much so
we get this question a lot and I feel
like people are so hesitant on this
issue of re are at some point you just
got to go in there try like if you start
and you get at you tear on a five-week
mezzo and week one you hit two rir oops
oh well what are you gonna do next keep
going just keep going you know and then
the next time you'll figure it out a
little bit better and the next time and
the next time and the next time etc so
it's just one of these things like I
wish that there was just like a simple
like here's five steps to figuring out
three or four are ultimately like we can
kind of walk you through it but it
doesn't matter until you go out and try
this is one of those things there's so
there's a word for it this is kind of
it's not it's not productive
procrastination it's just one of those
things where you're like trying to
overly prepare for something instead of
actually doing it I don't there's so if
there's enough raising for that I can't
quite put my by the way James you're
currently displaying your inbox sorry
nice basically my work one and not my
personal one yep so okay actually I've
just edited this document to reflect my
answers to the next question and James I
would love for you to chime in because
our political years were largely
identical
he says 'bonus politics question for
Mike I'm fairly sure I disagree with you
on a number of issues what book should I
read to better understand your point of
view I assume Atlas Shrugged but if you
have any other recommendations
especially economics that would great
well so thing is that Shrugged is a
novel that's written to incite your
passions if you already mostly agree
with it and if you don't mostly agree to
think it's fucking just awful and got
off all thousand pages of bullshit iron
Rand insanity
I happen to think that I to me the the
book Atlas Shrugged is almost a
religious book to the extent that it
invokes a great deal of positive emotion
and negative as well in me I'd have a
tattoo of the fucking book on my
shoulder but I wouldn't exactly use that
book to convince anyone of any kind of
views I would use those five books that
I displayed right there I think that
these are a really good start Skeptical
environmentalist by Bjorn Lomborg basic
economics by Thomas solo the myth of
rational voter by Bryan Caplan the blank
slate by Steven Pinker and by Pinker
again enlightenment now these books like
if you read all of them they sort of
tend to blend a general consensus about
how things work like logic is good
reason is good science is good
capitalism works empirically and on a
moral level really well and with just a
few extra special conditions and
externalities fundamentally logic
science and freedom are the best ways to
do things and I don't know James I miss
anything big there that you want to add
as far as books as you've been doing a
whole lot of reading lately yeah
actually I made like a dr. James reading
list it's on my my link tree thing in
the my Instagram so if you go to my
Instagram there's a link tree link and
then there's one of them that says dr.
James reading list and there's sports
science stuff there's you know social
political stuff there's anime manga
graphic novels anything you think that I
anything that I thought was interesting
is on there some of its not always uh
what's the right word and once they
clinically present yeah some of its not
always politically correct and there's a
disclaimer on there but any of them
stuff that's on there I thought was at
least thought-provoking and interesting
and worth considering yeah and if you
want to tackle one of these first to
really get the broadest understanding of
my views I would say it's between basic
economics and the blank slate there's if
you read the blank slate and you look at
sort of the modern SJW movement you get
like oh my god they're factually wrong
about almost everything and you look at
the modern conservative movement I don't
know if anything means everything that
it does in Ireland that it does in the
United States right wing you're like oh
my god they're wrong about almost
everything and then you see that you
know there's a nice furry middle there
that's really nice in basic economics is
like if you think you're very very
convinced that you know what's right and
wrong as far as regulating big business
you know antitrust law minimum wage once
you read basic economics you be like
that damn it the shit is a little bit
more complicated than I thought and it
turns out businessman aren't always evil
and so on and so forth
yeah it's kind of a tough thing I like I
have been reading a lot and I there's a
bunch of books that I that I would like
to share but um the last couple times I
posted votes people like I got outraged
and it was kind of really upset bucking
weird and I read a really good one I'm
in the middle of reading dan Crenshaw's
book and he's a conservative he serves
in some branch of the government
honestly I forgot but he's a
conservative guy he has like a really
interesting stories a Navy SEAL he's got
blown up by IEDs yeah and he um he's
like he's like a Christian conservative
guy so obviously we don't see eye to eye
on quite a few things but I thought his
like story and perspective are really
good and I was gonna post it on
Instagram just like oh hey I read this
book and then I but I held back because
I was like I know somebody's gonna be
like look at this Fitness people and
they're all bright and like I keep
getting that and it's like you don't
fuck you fuck off this is yeah I can't
win and so I didn't but anyways that's
another one that I read recently that I
thought was interesting that you guys
just want to sort of quick summary of
what James and I think about some of
these things we think that sjw's are
coming from a really good place with
intention but are often wildly misguided
they think were evil and we think that
conservatives are often coming also from
a good place but are so wrong as to be
inconsolable with any reason so you know
that that's the deal so you will not see
James and I get offended we just don't
get offended because getting offended is
not something to pat yourself on the
back about you know you can analyze
issues in the world if you want to help
a certain issue a long way you do what's
logical and reasonable and do good
advocacy good work people pat themselves
on the fuckin back or they just love the
outrage culture or something James and I
have a huge fucking problem with like
we're outraged by it we're not but it's
just it's a sad because people are like
you're a fucking the sexist racist this
foe that oh man those things may
actually be accurate or they're not but
I usually usually give people the
benefit that like for example with a
conservative says some crazy shit we
don't just assume he's a Nazi
and if some sqw is like the poor should
have more resources we're not like
communists
you're gonna put us in fucking death
camps like hey you know we want to hear
you out maybe you're right so yeah and
just on that note if you guys want a
really good read on outrage and call-out
culture the coddling of the American
mind by dr. Jonathan Hyde is very good
focuses a lot on like what's going on at
universities but it's transient across
other issues as well and that's on my
reading list super alright two things
I've been called independently of one
another Harry small really his name
that's pretty sweet
Amy fucking small any oh my god so he's
got to be Harrison small alright and
that he goes by Harry was Harry and the
Hendersons a full name Harrison no
that's not that's true Harriet is fucked
up this is a camellia lithic fucking
ancestor and he's looks like could
potentially be wildly violent and
obviously the families basically
oppressing him at that point right like
he's there they're not letting him be
himself yeah I guess that's probably
true is he free to leave the household
I wonder it's unclear I think Doug and I
watched Harry and the Hendersons once
just to see how nine he is out it was
and holy fucking shit
we were like good late 80s Christ is it
just life is just very different they're
like it was just like wow their interior
decorating was like this is the gaudiest
shit I've ever seen in my life I would
you ever make a house look like this oh
my god we were house hunting in Montana
one of the houses looked like it looked
like a place where in the 90s you would
go to do coke parties it was like yes oh
90s gaudy place we'd ever seen and we
were just like oh my god this is too
much can't take love it I love it Harry
smile says hi Doc's hope you're well my
first question is regarding full body
training splits during quarantine up and
using this approach it I've really
enjoyed it and have managed to maintain
good Thompson muscle tension with as
little as three or four sets from us
group rode in I was considered bringing
this approach to the gym once they're
back up what would be your thoughts on
this I was with the volume up
appropriately over the sessions a
similar way to Eric Helms and Jeff
Nippert and therefore would still be
training with a corporate volumes
between MeV and MRV do you believe there
are any significant drawbacks to this
method if programmed appropriately gee
not programming heavy squatting on the
same day or day after heavy deadlifts
yeah so like that is probably like if
you can if the if the interference
effects don't get with you much that's
that's super cool another thing is there
a consideration of warm-up times like if
you train legs every day you have to
rewarm up four legs which takes a while
every day and then you have to warm up
from
back and chest and arms so sometimes
clustering muscle groups together
training them two to four times a week
as opposed to six is a better because it
lets you like once you're warmed up for
chest you hammer chest a little bit
harder and then you can move on to
something else you're your total ratio
of training time to warm up time over
the week and proves but if those things
aren't super relevant to you you really
enjoy the full-body training it does
have its advantages just to be clear air
calms and jeffing upper two pieces of
shit I hate them bill if I disagree on
everything ericom's knows that I don't
like them it's been very clear from the
start that's funny oh by the way yeah I
was like I was gonna say I was gonna let
you say it but I was like he's real good
by the way the only thing that you run
into too is when you do like the that
frequency and that full-body split and
this is this is of course me being
skeptical James is um more often than
not you're just doing MeV training you
think you're doing like ma vie MRV
training and you're really not you're
just training at MeV because you can get
by doing that once you really start
pushing up to the nav and MRV values you
find that there's just not enough
recovery time when you do a lot of those
full-body splits now and certain some
situations that's perfectly okay because
like if you're cutting really all you
got to do is maintain that muscle mass
which is relatively easy to do but for
other situations you might find that
that is less appropriate like massing
especially if you're trying to put it on
a lot of size all around you'll just
find that there are recovery limitations
when you are pushing the boundaries so
if you're just doing like you know
full-body training every single time and
you're like oh yeah I'm getting an okay
pump it's like yeah you've probably just
training at any of you probably could do
a little bit more okay and I says also
I've been struggling to carve my back
training and seem to be able to recover
a lot more volume for chest
for example 25 sets of chests maxing out
at 16 for back is this usual or do you
think you could be linked to axial fatty
reach from a Murphy before a local and
then as a consequence interfere with a
back training so access fatigues
actually can be caused by back training
but usually doesn't affect it it affects
leg training mostly because that's where
most of your vertical spinal loading
occurs proper back training involves
very little vertical spinal loading
because you don't remember standing up
and if you do your back rolling wrong so
I think that if you're training normally
with lots of vertical pulling and
horizontal pulling and your back MRV is
what it is but it is what it is
unless you're detecting axial fatigue
and the way he would detect that is
you're
forehead presses your squats your front
squats your stiff legged deadlifts your
good mornings any lifts which requires
fine to be vertical and resist against
force if those lifts start to really
take a fucking dive at the same time
that your back seems like it's literally
limited then maybe there's a connection
otherwise I wouldn't initially suspect
that folks here's the thing James and I
call on these rants every now and again
but and we're not attacking you by any
any means Harry just a bit of a
opportunity to get some some knowledge
out folks there's if you're MRV is XYZ
there's almost certainly nothing wrong
with you it's just a different damn it
you beat me to it
yeah totally agree it's just it's it's
it's like so in this case it's like oh
my chest was twenty five in my back was
sixteen so there's no value judgment for
James and I to make there at all yeah
that's if that's just it is what it is
maybe you are choosing less making less
good SFR choices for chest and really
good SFR choices for back who knows
there's or that's just maybe you're
doing good a good job for both and
that's just what it is and that's fine
doesn't mean that you're doing anything
wrong ya know you could also be doing a
bunch of stuff wrong but we can't
immediately tell from that that you're
doing stuff wrong there's extremes in
which we would get skeptical James like
if you said your back em or your leg a
quad MRV was 40 but you're four member
of you is 10 will you'd be like but
still that could be a thing yeah alright
Luke
Hennigan Anna Kenna can hey docs want to
start off by saying I really appreciate
them knowledge less information you guys
put on off and find myself out knowledge
in my h es buddies awesome what what's h
es I don't know how's health existential
is health exercise science hey daddy-o
health and exercise science maybe yeah
you're right that's really good that's
much better than my guess after bulking
for about fourteen I've school exchange
students okay guys I know stuff they're
like I don't speak English
okay I know more than you about
everything MRV yeah what do you think of
that like okay the kid learns English
gets hired for like $250,000 a year
coding job you like I guess he was
smarter than me fuck god damn immigrants
taking her job
they're after bulking for about four
years I am on my first cut I am a 21
year old male 195 pounds five nine and
ten weeks into my cut having lost ten
pounds he bolts for four years my man my
dog I've been lifting for six years for
which have been someone intelligence my
ratio is not nearly as great as yours my
goal is to be somewhat lean before
putting on more sighs I'm thinking that
will be somewhere around 180 185 just a
quick reminder you don't know where
exactly that's gonna be it's fine to
have a goal and thinking you may be
leaner much earlier than that or much
later so keep an open mind
my program is legs chest back Oh legs
chest and back arms repeat off I have
okay
so push pull upper lower and arms cool I
have cut my volume from 18 cents per
week per muscle to 12 cents per week per
muscle I noticed I have to deal with
every fourth week as opposed to every
sixth oh this is turn cutting got it I'm
still learning how much to cut back on
volume as I said my first time cutting I
am beginning to question all of my
lifting decisions this week was fresh
off with D load I noticed my bench has
started to slip I am usually able to get
to 55 4 3 by 9 and a 7 to 9 RP the plan
this week was to get through by TANF
possible however was only did we get to
to 255 for 2 by 8 and 235 for 1 by 8 but
all RP 9 to 10 this kind of freaking out
because I'm fresh off a deal owed and my
other lifts are going well i'ma still
Haiti PRS on them is there something you
need to worry about any volume air
conditions for cutting so our volume
recommendations for cutting here go
between your everything NMR being you
don't know what that is only you do so
make sure you're getting good pumps and
getting good heart training you should
be fine and then look benchpress takes a
fucking huge get hit when you're cutting
it does that for almost everyone so just
remember that it always comes back so I
wouldn't sweat that a ton but yeah you
maybe just make sure you're getting good
hard workouts and generally recovering
from them and you're doing the best you
can
yeah I was gonna say don't sweat the
bench too much just because it's it's
like again it's like I remember back in
some of the early days of RP when we
were really working with a lot of the
strength sport athletes they were like I
want to be able to cut and not lose
anything on my bench and it was kind of
like we always have to just tell them
ahead of time like look you're if you if
you lose you know 10 kilos it's very
likely that you're spends just going to
go down a little bit not like that's not
gonna be horrible
but it's gonna go down a little bit it's
just normal especially even for a
powerlifting even more kids just losing
size mass from your body now you can
actually go lower on your touch right
unless you got a big belly bench going
so don't sweat it it seems like it's
kind of still within the operational
range for you I don't you know if your
other lists are good then if you've had
other lifts that were suffering like if
you're squat or you're you know back
stuff was also going down I'd be a
little bit more like ooh yeah sounds
like maybe gotta go tweak a few things
but it's just one lift and it's the
bench totes
Harrison hotdog says hello doctors Mike
James haven't posted in a while it's
gonna be back now for some questions
number one I took about four weeks off
training after what was the most
stressful period of time in my life to
date pretty much I lost all appetite for
food I went from asking to barely be
able to eat a normal meal without an
auger during the first few days I lost
my appetite for training I trouble
sleeping through the night and I would
wake up at 1:30 or 2:00 after going to
bed at 10:00 or 11:00 it took about two
weeks before I slept eight hours
straight now things have finally
resolved I gotten back to a new normal
would you have suggested something
different than a wholesale break from
training given a large amount of home
stress well you know II got a time
machine and I'm just kidding I think
would shit it really really hits the fan
little taking some time off of training
is totally fine yeah you know like it if
possible we would say you want to do
maintenance training but sessions a week
yeah lifts five to ten reps but it's
perfectly okay to say you know I have
bigger fish to fry I have bigger
priorities in my life right now
something's got to go if it's lifting oh
well you know you can make those
decisions and if when you make the
decision you should do it definitively
and firmly and and understand that you
have trade-offs to make and that's this
is a trade-off it's temporary and it's
it's for the better and that's perfectly
fine going back in time I would say try
and get two days a week and Vees like
not much it's like two sets for muscle
group recession but you did what you had
to do and that's probably you probably
are better for it so no worries Oh
make sure you ease back in now that
you're getting back to Ghana I think you
might be asking that next what our
recommendations for beginning training
slash what was dumb about to structure
in a apparel bullying 2.0 program start
a four-week bridge block this will be
Sunday May 31st what I've done so far is
just well we're too late what I've done
so far is just go in and not follow a
plan but do what feels fun Saturday May
23rd was my first day back I maxed out
on snatch that was the stupid Oh
Oh gonna hide a five-pound PRF 210
Sunday because I didn't film Saturday's
PR maxed out again on snapchat at 2:15
bro what are you doing Monday at PR by
front squat by 30 pounds stupid stupid
idea through 65 and this caused my
hamstring to feel a bit off wait a
minute now how does that make any sense
maxing out when you first came back at
your heard not just once but several
times Tuesday at bench 4 by 10 with 135
with a flat back versus arched feet up
slow eccentric with a pause surprisingly
as my bench max is 380 this was more
difficult than I thought it has given me
some earlier Dom's
yeah it's cuz we're D trained then on
each of these days there was a lot of a
warm-up routine followed by a few
accessories what our recommendation is
beginning training or what was dumb uh
you started way too hard and it cost you
at hamstring injury comeback super easy
light weights very few sets very few
reps the next half week increase all
that the next half week increase all
that in the next half super slow it
should take you a month to ramp up back
to normal training volumes and loads and
any strength you gained or maintained or
retained won't be affected by this
process is all all good huge chance of
injury is coming back strong you did
what I would describe as just one
technique shy of trying your best to get
hurt I would add one more thing there I
would say some a shirt with like eight
sets of squats for tens and then try to
max out on the snatch right after that
that would be the only thing that I
would say with increase your injury risk
more than you did so you definitely
screwed the pooch on Iowa no big deal
James and I have done way worse with
ourselves but that's what the question
you asked yeah and so I would also go
ahead and get back on some kind of a
regimen like I know you're just kind of
going by feel for now and that's okay
but the points of getting back to normal
is also getting into a routine of some
sort right so I would say don't just
don't just train intuitively or Byfield
go ahead and get back on like a you know
whatever it is like a four or five day
program where you say
okay Monday's bench Tuesday squat
whatever it doesn't doesn't matter get
back into a routine and kind of start
getting a feel for what your old
training used to be at like dr. Mike
said much reduced volumes and
intensities than it was before and
you're gonna slowly work your way back
up but the thing is it's like you're not
doing yourself any favors if you spend
this time kind of for more lack of a
better phrase and just fucking around
and then you start the juggernaut yeah
you know program which is a very good
program and you're basically still not
prepared because you've been doing
unrendered training the whole time and
so possibly injured then you go and you
just Fox you just fucked again for no
reason so I would say don't do it
intuitively go ahead and get yourself in
a routine like you normally would and
then when you transition into the harder
training program it won't be quite as
abrupt for you so with the new power
building program my comp benchpress is
based on one-armed percentage I know
that for the best hypertrophic response
exercises should be done with a slow
eccentric full range of motion and a
small pause when it comes to my comp
benchpress should ia do them normally
for a strep paused and the rest
touch-and-go with competition arch and
do my accessories like dumbbell bench
press and flies with all the range of
motion and timing stuff or be lower the
weight do all the slow eccentric full
ROM and pause well so you're doing a
power building program which means you
should do them actually normally would
be first rep second rep third repet
cetera pause I would just not do
competition bench for a minute yeah well
so he's doing the power lifting program
power building program you might not
want to do that so return to Fitness
first yes but if you do a powerlifting
program that jogger or not I add one is
a great great program I would I would
you do your competition bench I would
just do every rep pause so yeah yeah if
you were if you were somebody that I was
working with we would be doing return to
fitness maybe some dumbbell work maybe
just some like push-ups just to kind of
get you back into the groove
moving into the more stressful like the
last thing I would do for somebody like
you is put them into their competition
lifts maybe just for technique purposes
but not for training purposes
yeah number four similarly for squats
should I do them full ROM slow eccentric
and pause or use about squat and hack
squat to do that well so if you're again
if you're doing a power building program
you gotta do squats if it's probably
says if it says competition squats you
do them like you do in competition if
the exercise just says squad that you
could do it
our normal and then if you got all the
other now when you do use the machines
if it says belt squatter hack squat then
you do do them just like you described
you yeah I think the belt squat is
perfectly fine but if your goal is to
get back into powerlifting I would
probably choose a barbell squat
variation or a hack squat and then if
you have accessory days the belt squat
might be okay but again like ease into
these things and I certainly like again
I'm trying beating the dead horse here
but I certainly wouldn't start you doing
low bar squats I would say why don't we
get going on some high bar and then work
our way to low bar in the next couple
months yeah number five Tuesday my
mid-back felt a little off probably from
maxing out to my god damn it and I
decided to use flexion rows in the back
extension machine to get some blood in
the back what are your thoughts about
using a back extension machine i thinkin
of the one where you have a handle in
front of you and you pull back on those
handles to move the weight stack should
this exercise be done where you arch
your back at the top and really Cho it's
the actual machine I thought he meant a
45 degree back Lee yeah no I think it's
a fine machine just do it slow and
controlled and have a real distinct
maximum arch position and really round
your back at the bottom and I think
you're totally fine I personally had
very little of it i yeah I found this is
just me personally I found that machine
to be largely useless I don't have an
objection as an exercise it I don't have
any objection to it I just it's like
it's the same way I feel about the
reverse hyper where it just like just
yeah they could fuck most of us for what
do you do this why are we doing this
flexion rows are better yeah exactly
exactly six I compete with the sumo
deadlift DC any utility of dues someone
deadlift hypertrophy the hips no because
the hips are bones I'm fucking with you
it's actually true the hips are on bones
but yes the hip musculature is
absolutely you sumo deadlifts especially
deadlift
from a deficit is excellent for
hypertrophy of the glutes and the
adductors and so on and so forth
context I did halting deadlifts four
sixes twelve a few count the partial
poles as a rep I felt a tremendous burn
on my hips and glutes and thought sumo
deadlifts might be useful and
hypertrophy there yeah I don't know what
you mean by hips but glutes yes and if
you mean by hips you're a doctor complex
then yeah totally
and honestly look again saying the same
point over and over again I would maybe
start with a variant of a deadlift maybe
like a stiff legged deadlift or
something where the loading isn't quite
as high and the strain is not quite as
high I think going into the competition
style lifts right off the bat would be a
bad move yeah you're very lucky even if
even if you did a little return to
fitness your work capacity is gonna be
in the toilet for a little while and
moving into those those movements like
the comp bench the low bar squat the
sumo deadlift your systemic wear
capacity is just going to be in the
toilet for a little while and you're
just going to overreach prematurely all
the time it's gonna suck number seven
I've decided against doing US EPA or our
Nationals is here and want to focus on
body composition I related a lot to
Brandon Armstrong's question last week
about burden is and body composition
versus competition experience at this
time I'm trying to run having abs that
have been massing on and off for three
years without of me fat loss faces
because of I'm in this here's a general
plan that I'd come up with hopefully
prepare for us a PL rod nationals 2021
it's far away let's find out for weak
bridge blocks GPP maintenance starting
body weight eighty six ten weeks of
hypertrophy and a fat loss diet cold
body weight eighty should my rate of
lost be less or more looks fine probably
pretty aggressive I'd say less my body
fat I guess is around eighteen twenty
two percent on five eleven probably a
little bit less for weak strength block
meanest diets body weight eighty I want
to avoid adaptive resist burger growing
a mess is this turn around long enough
yep absolutely
eleven weeks of hypertrophy mathematical
body 84 plus point three five kilograms
week totally fine
is this a good middle ground yep totally
it just just a for the rate stuff like
this is stuff that would have to
calculate in terms of rate of gain or
loss check out our PT a 2.0 for all that
stuff yep four weeks straight flock
maintenance diets
any tips for me that's during the
holidays don't be a fat piece of shit
but enjoy food and you'll be fine yeah
stay active if you want to eat a little
bit more like keep on your feet do some
extra cardio some extra work or
whatever you got to do just don't sit on
the couch and pound that fucking
stuffing yeah for weak strength block
and then 15 weeks of hypertrophy I would
like to see a mini cut after that for
extreme block because you did 11 weeks
of hypertrophy and then another 15 weeks
of hypertrophy with no cutting
gee-whiz you're gonna get real fat in
like the strength block because I mean
it's definitely lower volume but it's
still like a very heart it's still very
hard training so I agree I think the
mini cut would would be beneficial from
a training standpoint - yeah and he says
this is pushing it in terms of massing
length yes it is I've ever RP podcast
the idea one week D load dieting where
you take one week off and do maintenance
after four or five weeks of steady
dieting would it be worth my time to try
that or just stick to 15 weeks you just
have to play it by ear
at that point it's a judgement call 13
weeks of strength and the peaking of the
Pilar - competition at the end
maintenance diet etc 13 weeks disease
enough length of time to actualize my
gains and muscle yes but maybe not after
gaining that much muscle I would prefer
to see yeah you should be fine so you
have led to strength blocks each one's
eight weeks and then you have another
five weeks left for peaking yeah that
should be fine
and then he says ten weeks of further
strength into peaking with potential rod
nationals 2021 plan to start taking
creatine monohydrate next week because
any problems they know if we're taking
it from multiple years no also Hugh
consider coming off and around
competitions - Laura how much water your
story yes you want to lose strength - so
no I wouldn't do that yeah that seems
like a fine plan just reconsider that 11
weeks massing four-week strength lock 50
weeks hypertrophy I would just say 11
weeks of hypertrophy and then a four or
five week mini cut 1 or 2 weeks of D
load / active rest and then go into
hypertrophy again for 15 weeks or maybe
even less like 12 generally speaking
when we mass within a single macro cycle
the earlier
massing phases are longer than the later
ones right so you 111 weeks of
hypertrophy and then 15 weeks after I
would like to see you flip those two and
have a mini cutting between James agreed
yeah cuz it's like you get less and less
out of it as you do it so you shouldn't
do it for a longer time you just get
really fat 8 one of the areas of growth
and focused on hypertrophy time is my
shoulders or they are really weak point
the bench I saw a video from Mattie
Rodgers about learning how to do
handstand and eventually learning how to
walk in your hands would you see this as
a fun way to build shoulder strength no
not for powerlifting yeah it's a cool
technique to use your existing shoulder
strength to do cool stuff I would say
it's a highly inefficient way to build
shoulder strength yeah I mean this is
it's just a gymnastics thing at that
point it's just learning how to do it I
think that would be a huge waste of your
time and probably possibly
counterproductive possibly injurious
yeah number 9 lastly I'm vacationing
Montana and early to mid July I heard on
beers with Chad that dr. James are
moving in Missoula area soon
yeah even there by then and I'd be able
to take you out for coffee and a blowjob
I give amazing my job seriously I'll
suck out all of holy shit Harris and
what the fuck
sold to the man giving blowjobs so in
Missoula there's a restaurant called
cafe dulce I've heard it's very good
just passing in a recommendation thanks
a million here's khatam thanks Harrison
oh I don't think I'll be moved I don't
think it'll it'll work out timeline wise
because I will not be fully moved in
until basically July I'm at like one
third of the way there and then midway
through this month we were doing it like
2/3 and at the end of the month we're
doing the last third and then my wife
has invited all of America to stay at
our house during that time so
unfortunately I don't think the timeline
will work out but I really appreciate it
and I definitely appreciate the
recommendation on the cafe and maybe we
can meet up another time I can't wait to
go there and there's another web and I
really Harrison cafe Dolce sucks how
many times has that happened to us
specifically where somebody said oh
you're gonna be over there try this
place we go there
sucks and we're like right here so we're
not saying your place is gonna suck but
we're not saying it's not gonna suck we
get that we get that a lot yeah
excellent questions Harrison thank you
Scott really good all right jack Madoff
achieve the natty professor the natty
King the natty esteem and vault ah son
of the natural I heard that when Jack
danovich stands
- like a Bulgarian juiced-up olympians
that they are able to pass drug tests I
feel like this is like ass like a Chuck
Norris type joke situation here comes
that Chuck Norris drank a bottle of
liquid Dee ball and then when they did
blood tests he had none in it because he
shook jaquenetta bitch's hand we could
go this is like definitely meme meme
where these kind of stuffed hay Doc's
hope all as well or as well can be right
now with you guys I'm a weight lifter
but since I don't have access to barbell
right now and likely won't for a while I
purchased the gym free templates to
maintain some muscle and have some
structure training to do I have a set of
thirty pound dumbbells and shopping bags
that I fill with cans for smaller
exercises like lateral raises some of my
exercises in the template or sumo squats
deadlifts they have great squat down
from technique not to brag when my feet
around shoulder width apart if I go even
a little wider even with no weights I
can't even hit parallel all I feel is
discomfort my groin area and not a hot
way and nothing in any muscle I've tried
to address this but it seems like sumo
squatting elephant just isn't in the
cards for you totally fine dude it's not
for a lot of people including myself
yeah totally is it okay to switch the
sumo exercises out for other exercises
from the twice-daily at home training
PDF yes absolutely
oh yeah better hit the target muscle and
caused me less discomfort while
maintaining the amount of variation for
them so that is actually an answer that
is correct for every single hypertrophy
program I'll ever do there is never a
marriage to a single exercise ever ever
ever yeah don't sweat that at all
so my quad exercises a normal goblet
squats and same our shoulder xbox would
it be enough variation due to goblet
squats in normal shoulder rack squats or
should I also add our greater heel
elevation or narrow-sense you can add
those things if you feel like you need
the variation if your stimulus to
fatigue ratios math if shirt is getting
really scale add some variation but you
absolutely don't need it and it also
might be good from a loading standpoint
where I'm sure you're you got some
pretty strong legs as a weightlifter so
adding that super heel and the narrow
stance might just be better for you to
maintain a more challenging or
challenging load my glute exercises are
sumo deadlifts and glute bridges can I
replace Asuma Dedalus of walking lunges
yes or is there better not steal
exercise glute exercise that I can do I
mean in our regular deadlifts with four
thirty pound dumbbells and God knows how
many of those will do I can do stiff
legged sumo is just fine oh cool so
hamstrings aren't an issue very cool yes
really fine or you could do like one
legged single leg sift like a deadlift
stuff like that
yeah to feel free to mix it up Thanks I
was gonna say you could do like snatch
grip pulls but then I was like oh hey
doesn't even have a barbell nevermind
right pretend they're smash gripped
poles by using your triceps to really
hold the dumbbells out as far as you can
on the side and that's like there's a
fundamental miss loading you know like
do you think you're training this muscle
you are not know Matthew Piersall says I
lift in the morning about 60 minutes
after getting up and after drinking a
protein shake with some faster distant
carbs swear to measuring and wonder
whether it makes sense to cut that
pre-workout carbs or save calories later
in the day my workout lasts about one
hour I don't want to get hurt my
performance but spending the carbs
pre-workout and make it harder to stay
at my daily caloric target later so it's
really just a matter of trade-offs right
why don't you try this
cut your carbs in half and see how it
affects your performance different
performance is fucking grand then great
you just got half carbs and a later as
you get really really hungry at night
and you want to cut more food out you
can cut all of the carbs out and see how
your performance goes if your
performance goes straight to shit
put the carbs back in if it doesn't and
everything is hunky-dory then you're
good I personally even when I'm massing
often don't have pre-workout carbs
because as long as my glycogen was
loaded from the day before my workouts
are fucking phenomenal and as a matter
of fact today I did a leg workout and
when we do high-volume legs
I literally especially when I'm massing
and I'm currently sort of like massing
just a little bit mostly maintaining I
actually can't eat anything before a leg
workout like last time I did legs I had
a protein shake and I had I was dry
heaving so I just had like decaf coffee
and water and that's all I had and I
didn't throw up so sweet but like my leg
workouts like no problem with energy so
our glycogen was loaded your fucking
holder yeah I agree and I actually have
the same kind of training schedule as
you Matt I usually wake up and then
train about an hour later after I have
you know do some emails if energy drink
and I never eat anything beforehand just
because like Mike said like if as long
as I ate well the day before I'll say no
differences in the morning whether I
have free or not and I'd rather have
that food later in the day when I'm more
prone to being hungry so it's just a
personal choice and a matter of
trade-offs in terms of performance
hunger satiety things like that yeah
whoo man there's a lot of questions all
right
lemme screen share and we'll get into
the car there we go
and screen share zoom to fix this
you're a fat cunt if you could be this
lean asshole athlean-x alright let's
pick a question Montes pili Buddhist
who's almost certainly either from
Latvia or from Lithuania let us know
where you're from
how important are abs and calves in the
broad jump would it be a good idea to
never train those muscles directly is it
okay to train different types of
activities and force velocity spectrum
in the same set of those are two
different questions okay
how important are abs and calves in the
broad jump Jameses might get my guess is
that almost complete they're not
trainable with weights in a way that
actively is a limiting factor and i
think that training hip extension
exercises and the extension is way
better so squats and ii poles and all
the stuff right yeah i would say like
the abs is really a non-issue that you
whatever a trunk component you need
you'd get from practicing and then cabs
made me like if you have weak calves
it's just gonna contribute to a less
forceful triple extension but again if
you're training broad jumps i think you
get that and if you're doing like you
know any kind of ripple extension
movements in your training like a clean
pole or anything like that you're
probably good yeah
alright let's answer a couple more these
questions is it okay to train different
types of activities on force velocity
spectrum in the same session
I've been following similar program in
Texas muffin on Wednesday I do 5x5 or
some broad job variation powerclean
variations cooperation I have light days
and Friday on Sunday I do since the five
of the same lifts gradually lower the
reps and increase the sets when
progressing in the mesocycle interesting
would it be a better idea to not do all
of us that's with the same reps try to
adjust the reps to hit some same re are
in the session James it's perfectly okay
to have like different activities of
different force velocity characteristics
on the same day so long as you're
ordering them properly so typically what
we and I actually had a lecture series
on rp+ basics of strength conditioning
and one of the videos I don't member
which number it is but deals with this
directly
so in terms of exercise order you
typically are gonna go for your highest
velocity things first move your way in
down and to like power type activities
move your way down into strength
activities move your way down into like
you know hypertrophy endurance work
capacity type activities and so on down
the line
so usually you want to do your most
explosive and fastest moving things
first and kind of work your way down
those are going to be the most sensitive
to fatigue but yeah you don't have to
separate them it's not a terrible idea
to have them separated but you're also
going to make it needlessly complicated
so if you're training like a sprint to
our jump you can absolutely do a heavy
squat at that same day the only problem
is when you've started to run into
increasingly less congruent goals where
if you're doing like jumps and then
you're trying to do hypertrophy squats
it's like okay why are you doing those
in the same mesocycle anyway doesn't
seem to make a lot of sense but
generally if you're doing something like
strengthen hypertrophy if they're kind
of like one rep range removed it's not a
huge deal at all I wish you were more
than one rep range removed for me oh
damn that one hurts that was a deep pack
Jake Isaac says hey Doc's went in a hypo
caloric phases or any changes to how
athletes should progress in a messy
cycle in terms of increasing load and/or
reps love the webinars by the way so I
think that you have to understand that
load progression or rep progression is
essentially just roughly targeting a 0
or 1 progression in rir so you start our
three next we should be either our r3 or
r2
the week after that should be there our
r2 or r1 and so on and so on and so on
until you get you know 48 weeks later
you reach our zero and you d load so the
real question is how how is your
performance going to be over the course
of a cut cuts are two things one
inherently more fatiguing because you're
in a chronic hypocaloric state and
incrementally more fatiguing because you
usually your calories get cut even more
as you go through so the real answer
there is you probably won't see your
abilities progress as much during the
cut so if you want your cut to last as
long that is going from 3 re artists
you're re are the last as long you
basically are going to have to make
smaller jumps whether you usually add
two reps and that means adding one rep
or usually add five pounds that means
attitude
half it's probably gonna be the thing
now you can auto regulate all this stuff
you can say like okay I did ten reps in
the squat last time I want to do ten
reps again this time and still have
another couple weeks left in the tank I
wanna hit like roughly to where I are
based on how I felt last time it based
on how I feel this time I'm gonna tired
I'm kind of hungry
should I do ten pounds one last time or
five and most people that are not
fucking and say anybody you know what do
we air on the side of five right like
technically adding any weight over the
course of a cut is really really good
and just err on the side of less is is
our only thing and that's gonna apply to
sets as well in case you're curious yeah
I was just going to touch on the sets
thing to so during a cut the main
difference is that you're mev at MRV
window is smaller so you start start
slightly more aggressively than you
normally would and you end slightly less
aggressively than you normally would and
so there's we have a whole bunch of
stuff in how much should I train
specifically on the differences in how
you would approach a cut versus other
situations yeah yeah yeah yeah oh yeah
all right last question here synergy
training do you think leg extensions are
useful with power lifter during a
hypertrophy measure or is it better to
exclusively use compound movements to
target the quads I feel I can get more
total quads that's per week if I include
leg extensions as they are much less
fatiguing systemically than compound
movements obviously you're not hitting
glutes hands etc but if I'm not sure if
the stimulus is a carryover to squats
makes them worth the extra fatigue my
answer to this would be like if you
really get a lot of like sanctions like
you've seen - and like James seems to
when you can include them in a very
early hypertrophy phases of powerlifting
but I wouldn't expect them to transfer
very quickly so it's something I would
do for the first month of a three-month
hypertrophy plan and in a second month I
would switch to more compound movements
and even if you do it for two months
straight maybe don't do it for three in
addition it shouldn't comprise the vast
majority of your extra quad volume so
don't just squat do leg extensions squat
do planing hack squats leg presses and
you show a little bit of leg rest
anything can be included that's for
people that really get a lot of the legs
tension if you don't get a lot of leg
extension there's really no good reason
to use it because as far as transfer is
concerned it's very very poor transfer
so if that poor transfer is to be
justified it has to be justified with a
very high stimulus to fatigue ratio if
you get that on a leg press or leg
extension great you can use a little
but if you don't then really is nobody
use for that yeah and I was you made a
good point there even if you are
responsive to the knee extension you
still want to buy us your quad volume
towards the other movements like the
squats and stuff and if you have a
little bit left in the tank then you can
certainly use and benefit from those
knee extensions but what would be a
mistake is if you had let's say you
started with three sets of squats and
three sets of knee extensions if you
started biasing your progressions in
volume towards the knee extension
instead of towards the squats that would
be like a pretty clear mistake for
powerlifting specifically you would want
to start increasing your squats and
basically when you can't really do much
more squatting than you would start
increasing your leg extensions further
100 percent hundred percent I mean I you
know can have all right yeah we're gone
James that's it holy Sh mouths out that
was a lot this week alright folks we had
great questions from our three plus we
had great questions from YouTube thanks
so much for engaging with us make sure
you guys subscribe to the RP YouTube
channel and just any of the RP stuff in
general Mike you got anything on their
way out here I'm about to go do cardio
and I've heard a sure there's protesting
in my neighborhood today so wish me
Godspeed mmm it'll give you it'll help
you get your heart rate up a little bit
I got any cardio running yeah both I got
nothing so I think we're gonna wrap this
one up folks thanks for engaging with us
and we will talk to you next time