people have this like what I call it
like a rocky baloa mentality where they
purposefully give themselves more
difficult things to do as like I need
the challenge like you're not good with
challenge Susie you need to just get
here i' have a lot of conversations with
people on airplanes when I travel you
know sit next to someone that looks like
me and you start apologizing for not
training I'm like I swear to God
everything's fine I love you just like
another human would but they're like you
know got to go in the morning right 6:00
a.m. and I'm like no my God no who told
you that they're like but that's what
everyone does you drink the eggs and you
go run so schedule the time in the day
to something that's convenient for you
and another one is try to look at your
calendar and actually throw your lifting
into the schedule hold yourself
accountable to it if you say well I'm
going to work out twice a week this week
and someone's like oh yeah when are you
going to do it you're like I don't know
maybe Thursday you're done