alright hey guys so here's a little
quick snapshot of what the physique is
looking like currently 14 weeks out from
my pro debut and natural bodybuilding
trying to bring the best conditioning
that I've ever brought to the stage in
this video I'm going to be discussing my
training split and the basics of the
training protocol that I'm currently
following under Eric Helms of 3 me and
JJ I don't want to delve too deep into
the actual nuts and bolts of the
programming itself but what I will do is
give you guys a general outline of what
it is that my training looks like and
provide a few details here and there so
the current split that I'm running is a
legs push-pull and so I'm training 6
days per week
it is a bodybuilding focus once a week
Dez lifting once a week and bench
pressing twice a week and I'm also doing
a front squat in a Romanian deadlift
once per week
so with these main movements I alternate
between hypertrophy strength and power
the rep ranges according to what you see
on the screen there and so on my pull
day is one of which you're seeing here I
start with the pen delay row and so the
pendulum roll is sort of like a strict
form barbell row where you have pretty
much a zero degree back angle or the
back is kept as parallel to the floor as
possible so that you have a pretty
strict control on where your range of
motion is following this
and I do actually think that this is a
really good lift for one it's really
easy to track your progression since you
can be so strict with your form and also
it is just a really great exercise to
hit the scapular attractors like the
lower traps of mid traps the rhomboids
and it can be a great flat exercise as
well and if you want to turn it into a
more lat dominant movement I would
advise that you just take a underhand
grip since this will train the lats more
through shoulder extension as opposed to
transverse shoulder extension which is
what you're performing when you do the
row with the double overhand grip like I
was doing just that so then I move on to
weighted pull-ups which are probably my
favorite exercise for both the lats and
the teres major and in case some of you
guys aren't familiar with the teres
major muscle it's basically that little
chunk of meat that sits on top of your
lats and you can see it here just above
my lap because I'm about to go into a
rear lat spread and you can probably see
it a little bit better here on Phil
Heath but I really do think that this is
a muscle that when developed really adds
and brings a more complete package to a
physique from the back and not really of
any practical purpose here and noting
this since the teres major does
performing back to the same primary
function as the lats which is shoulder
adduction but I do think that you know
hitting the lats through pull ups and
also the emphasis that's placed on the
terrace here is slightly better than
hitting them through lat pull-downs
just because it really does allow you to
overload pure shoulder adduction in that
frontal plane and the frontal plane is
just that imaginary plane that divides
the body into between like a front side
and then a rear side so it's sort of
going down through the middle of your
body and what you want to do is imagine
your body just moving
and down directly in this plane as you
perform pull up and what you're seeing
here is just the last couple of reps
that I couldn't get with the added fifty
pounds so I just stripped the weight
back and did Vaughn you eight to finish
out the eight reps that I was doing so
then after the pull ups I moved on to
one-arm lat Poland's which are probably
my favorite lat isolation exercise if
you can call it isolation exercise and
for me this is just one of those sort of
fun pump exercises I do find it's really
easy to get a good mind muscle
connection with the laughs when doing
this movement and I also feel like I can
always get a good pump probably because
of the constant tension there with the
cables and also because once again I am
directly hitting the lats in that mid
frontal plane now I will note that I did
take a little bit of poetic Liberty and
slightly stepped outside of the confines
of my three dmg routine in this workout
mostly because of some limitations that
I had in the gym that I was training in
and this isn't something that I usually
do but I will every now and then and so
what you guys want to do with these is
imagine that your arm is just extending
out in a straight line in continuous
with the cable which again should divide
your body evenly into a front half and a
back half and the motion should be pure
shoulder adduction so no different than
just bringing your arm closer to your
body like the opposite of a dumbbell
lateral raise except in this case you
know you're bringing your arm down and
you're bending your elbow of course and
but this is basically how you should
visualize the movement
but I'll usually add at the end is just
a little crunch into the direction of
the poll and I've just found that I can
get a little bit of a stronger lat
contraction when I do this not really
sure why it's just something that I've
picked up on and this is a movement that
I did learn from progressive fitness and
that was a tip that they gave me on
those so then it was on to rope face
poles and this is something that I've
been experimenting with quite a bit
lately I've been trying them out from a
bunch of different angles and in
different positions and this week I just
tried forming them half lying and I'd
been doing these for the last couple of
weeks and I actually find it to be a
really nice variation I sort of
eliminate some of the leaning and
cheating that you can do if you do them
standing and I'm going to be pulling
from a high cable like this I will tend
to retract my shoulder blades and turn
it into more of a trap exercise but this
is a neat way to to do the face pull and
if you haven't tried them like this I
would recommend giving it a shot so
after three sets the face pulls it was
on two barbell shrugs and I really do
think that having some scapular or
clavicular elevation movements in your
routine is really important so today I
did three sets of barbell shrugs which
I'll tell tend to alternate with
dumbbell shrugs through the training
week or from week to week because I do
think that there is some merit to having
a slightly externally rotated shoulder
position that you can get with the
dumbbells but then it's also difficult
to overload with the dumbbells my gym
only goes up to the 120s and I can knock
out a pretty solid 15 to 20 reps with
the 120s so if I really want to overload
within that say 6 to 12 rep range then
I'm essentially forced to do barbell
shrugs which I think are a good exercise
in
themselves as well so after this
exercise was on to biceps for biceps I
did easy by our curls to failure and
I'll always do a couple sheet reps at
the end of that set so that I can extend
failure just a little bit of momentum on
the concentric and I always control the
eccentric and then I finish off this
workout with some rope hammer curls and
then Bayesian cable curls which is a
variation on the regular bicep cable
curl where you face away from the cable
machine and hyperextend your shoulder I
find that with this movement I can get a
really good stretch on the biceps and
theoretically this variant probably
allows for better matched strength
curves and tension curves and this just
means that in any lifts there's going to
be a point where you're the strongest
and where you're the weakest and you
want the amount of resistance to match
up well with this so that you know no
part of the lift is too much easier than
another part of the lift and vice-versa
so this is a really good exercise for
that purpose and sometimes I will do
them with the hammer grip instead of the
fully supinated grip alright guys so
that's it for this video I really hope
it was informative and I hope that you
learned something if you did like this
video don't forget to hit the thumbs up
button and to subscribe if you're
enjoying this sort of content thanks
again for watching guys
see you next time