[Applause]
[Music]
I actually haven't inted the Vlog yet
probably do it welcome to the Vlog we
are in Toronto it is May 27th and we are
just finished up our first day at the
Expo and we are exhausted and we are
eating ice cream and life is good I was
absolutely blown away like how many
people came out to see us at the rise
Booth so if you did come out say hello
show your support for the channel thank
you so much I actually had a super fun
day it was probably like my most
enjoyable Expo day it's really nice to
meet people face to face and see that
there are people watching my videos who
are well educated and like really do
appreciate the science behind what I'm
doing so um if you guys leave me a
comment below let me know what you're
studying what you're doing that' be
awesome we're going to take like a
2-minute nap back at the villa which I'm
going to show and then we're go for a
workout we going to try this transition
for the first time do together oh you do
do together I'll do it all right we'll
see you guys at the house yeah at the
Villa see you guys at the Villa see you
guys okay guys we're back at the Villa
want to give you little bird's eye view
this is like the main living area this
is like a really modern place this is
our room in here yeah it's a pretty
sweet spot a quick little
tour they have like the weirdest light
switches I swear I don't know how they
work
is this for me oh nice thank you maybe a
pre-workout meal we're not too sure
exactly what we're doing yet we still
training you want to do a do you want to
do a hotel room Villa workout hot room
like at home here at home workout you
don't want to go at the gym it's just
it's it's late it's like what time is it
9:50 is the gym even open minutes we go
I think it's 24 hours ah it's 24 going
to have this pre-workout meal train back
je camera is like a and this is like
science Brandon give me your number one
bro science tip for my Channel people
who think Science Matters science
actually like proven that if you train B
every day your cars grow your cars grow
it is so this is a pre-workout meal
chili rice cheese guacamole sour cream
yeah I have one right now throw
it it had a k my I honestly feel like
you could up these are these are weird
kiwi I mean I've had a lot of kiwis
these are not these are not hairy though
is a different kind of swe snuggle you
taking bre I'm going to take high volume
yeah like that goes without saying I
take high volume just a go to help me
out a little here high volume 30% link
good
description it's a compliment I'm sure
if people think you are like he have a
compliment I'm sure it would be annoying
but it's people find a way to say it in
a way that like kind of bites like
they're not just like your physique is
so impressive you must be using anabolic
steroids it's it's more so like you
cheating lying [ __ ] [ __ ] [ __ ] it
hurts your soul a little bit I get
people comment on my pictures how tall
is
Jeff a something unrelated yeah I still
got people at every Expo being like I
didn't realize you were so short I'm
like you even Fu you follow me my
name I do not know this I cannot
possibly this more I don't know if it
was like the beans or what but that
burrito
challenge okay to do a KFC burrito is
700 calories KFC KFC burrito this is
another part of the Airbnb got the fish
tank the office in
here this is high volume yeah I forgot
my high volume yeah you want me to make
like a little funnel make a m I'm just
going to take to the face the honest
thank you sir right
oh going on ham
it's so good I never had this flavor I
know yeah I didn't either I just had it
like a couple days ago what is it two
scoops flavor what do you think I really
like that actually yeah I didn't know we
had that flavor to be honest better or
worse than cotton candy I think it's
better in my opinion Travis P doesn't
matter so right now I would say maybe a
little bit better but because it's new
right exactly the novelty Effect one or
two two
please where's the where's the one go
potential for clickbait is too
strong please
you
sh the
gy that's the intro to my video right
there I've never heard of this plan it
work plan workout can't really see the
out check it out are we going to all go
in there with the with the cameras or do
we want to like assess the situation
first or got the Ronin the very discreet
situation this is either happening or
it's not I don't have a
camera man this is actually a pretty
sweet spot there's like a lot of cool
looking machines here to be honest so I
wasn't expecting much out of this gym
it's like a 24-hour gym in Toronto that
I I never really heard of before but
Mark scouted it out and there's lots of
machines here so we're going to hit a
back workout we get into that right now
[Music]
doing my first working set 10 to 12 rep
I basically just use the first two
warm-ups to get a heal for sort of like
what the stack is like based on my first
set hopefully I'll be somewhere in the
10 to 12 range leaving about like one
rep left in the tank let's say I
overestimated it so like I can only get
like six or eight reps then I'll know
okay I'll Auto regulate that drop it
back a little bit and then I'll aim for
something like 10 to 12 reps on the next
one and then try to match that again for
the third one with the third set being
the one that I finally take to failure
based on how my second warmup went I
think that this will give me about like
10 to 12 reps uh but
[Music]
see my forearms would be limiting if I
didn't use these I don't think I'd be
able to use that weight my grip would
just give out if I want to train my
forearms then I train my forearms on the
days that I'm training back I really try
to focus on letting my back do the
majority of the work nice
man so on the first one I think I like
overshot the weight a little bit let the
form get a little bit too loose even
though I did get 12 reps shating a
little bit more than I like to so drop
the weight back another couple plates
this is going to be my final set so I'm
going to take this one to failure I'm
not going to go to the point that my
form really starts to break down control
it and maybe get a couple Force
excentric now the last couple
[Music]
[Applause]
reps greasy at the end all right here we
go let's go come with you let's go come
on nice
let's
go come on all right easy easy let's
go come
on come on Mark come on let's go Mark
come
on one more let's go control control
good one more here we
go good man nice
I I feel like I should say man like
introduce you to my channel so guys this
is Brandon Hardy he's a rise athlete a
rise athlete it's been like a lot of fun
just like hanging out and training with
you like um you're one of those people I
don't know if like we should give people
a perspective of how big he is so like
this is what we we just look like just
like relax standing next to each other
so he's one of the people that look like
look impressive on social media but like
is bigger in in real life I'm I'm going
to do a warmup first
[Applause]
[Music]
th and thick man come
on
yep that's it let's go
good St man good man I like I'm liking
the field of equipment it feels really
smooth this girl is going to be staring
at us the whole
workout um going feel like I don't know
12 15 12
[Music]
[Music]
let's go let's
go yeah all
you yes let
[Applause]
go more you I'll see you for the next
one man
[Music]
bro there's a basketball thing we need
to go we need switch
Sports get it man oh yeah
[Music]
let's go let's
[Music]
go
man that was better yeah way
better let's go
nice Brandon what are you thinking next
I like I mean we just did a low rbe like
a machine
R yeah wide a wide grip row yeah let's
do that I like we do this and then jump
onto like a dumbbell like a like a
dumbbell run how about we do two sets
here and then two sets there just so we
get like a bit of variety but the volume
isn't like ridiculously I'm not crippled
tomorrow it's like it's like 12:00 and
we have to be up at like 5 6 to get
ready for tomorrow close at 9:00 we have
to like get up bring up breakfast and
everything like that so you're going to
be no excuses man no excuses going to be
dead my mind so we're going to do this
apparatus here just because I haven't
really seen this in any gym before have
youed have you done this before Mark
yeah like one arm at the time
[Music]
that oh
nice back is looking sick
man looking good bro come
on let's go
SS let go easy let's go five more here
we go come on six keep it going two more
two more nice
man that's heavy man it's not heavy when
you picked it up mental yeah easy oh it
is though
yeah more 10 more 10 more 10 more let's
go two
three come on four let's go five five
more five more let's go let's go one
let's go two let's go three two more two
more one let's go squeeze squeeze
squeeze squeeze squeeze squeeze
squeeze go
let's go come on 10
more roll it roll
[Music]
it 10 more when you get left yeah I know
that's me two I'm with you come on three
two more get it Mark one more I'm with
you let's go come on
[Music]
Dam okay that was like the main
shot that's a
shot come on
[Music]
so guys for our final back exercise
we're just going to finish off with some
high rep dumbbell row two quick sets
there and then we're going to move on to
some biceps finish off with
that this is
perfect
easy nice biceps are
toast That's it man three w three more
let's go three
more two more come
on
yep last
one yes
nice that's going to conclude the
workout two things that I like really
took away from this workout one is that
these guys that I'm training with like
really train with a high intensity um um
and I just like more and more I'm
thinking that that's a really important
thing um for Progress just as an athlete
generally but even especially as a
bodybuilder um I think it's important to
like know your limits and to flirt with
that boundary every now and then and
training with Mark really reinforced in
my mind that you probably do have a
couple extra reps in the tank sometimes
we tend to like judge where that point
of failure is you know you'd be
surprised if you have someone there with
you motivating you you might be able to
crank out those extra couple of reps so
every now and then having those sessions
and reminding yourself of what you are
actually capable of um is important and
also no excuses accepted with these guys
basically we spent the whole day uh at
the Expo and then still came out here
like for a midnight workout could have
very easily just chocked it up to like
being too late um or not having eaten
enough or whatever instead we came out
and got in the gym so um two quick
things that feel like I really took away
from this workout
[Music]
everyone uh first of all just want to
say thank you so much for watching the
video I hope that you liked it de and I
just got back to Tampa Florida from the
Toronto Pro Show and I just want to say
again how much it meant to both of us uh
to have such a positive reception at the
the rise Booth um so thank you to
everyone who came out to show your
support and give us your words of
encouragement and everything I really
does mean a lot to me uh so thank you so
much I have two super quick
announcements so the first one is that
I'm going to be taking a break from the
vlogging for a little bit I really want
to focus on producing more science-based
content and I'm going to be coming out
with an upload schedule uh so there's
going to be a certain day of the week
that I'm going to upload a fancy science
explained edit and then another day that
I'll either upload a vlog or just a
standalone informative video where I
just talk about a topic so I'm not going
to end that now but I will in my next
video uh so you can stay tuned for that
I was also featured on the sigma
nutrition Radio podcast last week for an
interview about intuitive eating and
body recomposition and this is really
special to me because I've been a huge
fan of this podcast for over a year now
and I've listened to so many of the
episodes so to be invited on as a guest
was a real honor so if you guys would
like to hear me talk about intuitive
eating and my diet and losing fat and
building muscle at the same time you can
check out the link in the description
other than that uh if you did like the
video don't forget to hit the like
button subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
next time