here are three new exercises in phase
two of my pure bodybuilding program
first a meadow style incline lateral
raise where you alternate between going
behind your back and in front of your
body these are so good because by lying
against an incline Bene you get most
resistance from the dumbbell while your
delt is most stretched second bottom
half Smith squats these are brutal
because you never get to rest at full
walkout your quads are just continuously
hammered in the Deep stretch actually
somewhat look forward to doing these
though they're a fun new challenge each
week if you want to get tortured with me
check out the link in my bio third Moto
cable Rose because your whole body is
braced against the floor these give a
very secure feel and because this cable
is free to move you can lock into the
plane of motion where you feel your lats
the best for me that's with my elbow
more tucked into my side