K had to lose fat using the most
up-to-date scientific
research welcome back Dr Milo wolf PhD
in sports science breaking down how to
lose fat in 2024 in this video I'll be
breaking down some of the tips that I've
learned about during the past few years
looking at both the research and my
experience as a coach have you ever
heard the saying that weight loss is
mostly diet or that you cannot outtrain
a bad diet well when it comes to weight
loss that is likely true a 2012 study by
Foster Schubert and colleagues looked at
exactly this question putting inside the
control group the exercise group
performed 225 minutes of cardio per week
at a moderate intensity the diet group
went on a low calorie diet and finally
the fourth group combined the low carry
diet with a moderate intensity cardio
each week as far as weight loss went
while the exercise group did observe
some weight loss the diet group observed
much greater weight loss and the group
combining both diet and cardio observed
of the greatest weight loss and this is
generally the trend while exercising can
help with weight loss exercising alone
is unlikely to really dramatically cause
you to lose weight and generally based
on a review paper endurance training
appears to be better for weight loss
compared to lifting weights but even
then just exercise alone won't cut it
pun intended cutting get it so the main
thing is going to be diet and
specifically a calorie deficit when it
comes to losing fat importantly we don't
just want to lose weight we want to lose
fat and specifically speically there's a
risk of losing weight too fast that
we're going to lose muscle alongside the
fat conversely though if we lose weight
too slowly we risk essentially just
wasting time and having the diet and the
cutting phase be longer than required
most people are losing fat not just for
health reasons but also for aesthetic
reasons and for both of these goals
maintaining our muscle mass while we
lose fat is an important goal
considering these issues how fast should
you be losing weight well a recent
review paper suggested rates of weight
loss of about 0.5 to 1% of weight loss
per week generally if you're higher in
body fat you can likely be closer to 1%
of weight loss per week whereas if
you're lower in body fat you likely want
to stick closer to about 0.5% of body
weight per week equally consider how
well your lifestyle and your general
physiology lends itself to losing weight
faster or slower if you're someone who's
highly stressed is not really in control
of your food environment has a lot of
outside stressors has po sleep and
generally struggles to lose weight
without being super hungry consider
going a little bit lower or a little bit
slower in terms of your weight loss Pace
conversely if you're someone with low
stress with a great food environment
that you're in control of you can
essentially dictate what you're putting
in your mouth at all times and you have
great sleep and you generally don't
struggle to lose weight you can probably
go as fast as 1% of body weight loss per
week and be just fine in my opinion if
you're in any doubt regarding this
question go closer to 0.5% of body
weight loss per week it's the safe bet
well now that you know how fast you want
to lose weight you also need to figure
out how many calories to consume as as I
mentioned earlier the main way to lose
weight is going to be to establish a
calorie deficit but how big should your
calorie deficit be there are three steps
to figure in this out so follow along
first we need to calculate your
maintenance calories look up any total
daily energy expenditure calculator
online put in your stats and you'll have
the results while these calculators
won't be perfectly accurate they'll give
you a pretty good ballpark of where to
start as far as your maintenance
calories go importantly stick around
until later in the video where talk
about how much you should work out and
whether or not you should incorporate
cardio to accurately fill out this
questionnaire now that you've determined
what your maintenance calories are we
want to determine how big your deficit
should be multiply your percentage of
weight loss goal per week times your
body weight if you weigh 90 kg for
example and you want to lose 1% of body
weight per week multiply 90 kg time 0.01
which gives you a pace of weight loss of
900 G per week as a good rule of thumb
to lose a pound of fat you would need to
be in a deficit over time of around 3500
kilo calories conversely for a kilogram
that would be around
7,700 calories so multiply the amount of
weight loss that you want to achieve per
week times this amount and that gives
you how much of a deficit you should be
in on a weekly basis or your weekly
calor deficit then to make it really
simple divide this by 7even to give you
your daily calorie deficit and finally
now that you've got your estimated
maintenance calories and your daily
calorie deficit goal you can subtract
your daily calorie deficit goal from
your estimated maintenance calories and
you have your target daily calor int
take to track this use an app like my
fitness pal or Mac profactor and you'll
be able to track your calories based on
the food you consume now that you've
established your calorie intake let me
give you a few tips that are really
important to make sure that you
successfully lose fat and to maintain
your muscle first make sure you have
sufficient protein as far as your diet
goes this is one of the bigger things to
pay attention to based on met regression
in 2017 by Morton and colleagues having
around 1.6 g of protein per kilogram per
day is going to be beneficial when it
comes to gaining muscle mass or
retaining muscle mass during a diet
ideally spread this across three meals
or more per day if you can't do this due
to Lifestyle constraints don't worry too
much the main thing to focus on is daily
protein intake in fact one recent study
by trlin and colleagues did find that
even having 100 g of protein in a single
sitting didn't waste protein there were
still positive effects on muscle
anabolism my next big tip is to have
plenty of fruits and vegetables and more
broadly any foods that have a high fiber
content and a low energy density there's
a few reasons for this one these foods
will typically satiate you more for
instance one metanalysis is found that
the lower the energy density of the
foods you consume the fewer calories you
tend to consume by about 200 to 300
calories additionally a higher fiber
intake has been linked to better overall
health outcomes and I have a whole video
on fiber intake for Health it likewise a
higher consumption of fruits and
vegetables has also been linked to more
positive Health outcomes and as far as
managing hunger during a diet goes
consumption of fruits vegetabl
vegetables beans lentils pulses in
general is going to be helpful as they
usually have a high fiber content and a
low energy density both things that
generally satiate you next up set up
your environment for success make it
easy for you to stick to your diet and
harder for you to go off your diet that
means a few things make your diet
convenient visible accessible and more
make it convenient by mostly consuming
foods that require a minimum preparation
or minimum amount of time and hassle to
consume cutting down on cooking or
Preparation time can be really handy
when your life gets busy and you still
want to stick to your diet make sure
those foods are visible if you see those
Foods you're typically more likely to
consume them and finally make sure it's
sustainable by Simply Having foods that
you generally enjoy and are happy to eat
consistently for a few weeks or months
while you lose fat conversely when it
comes to foods that aren't as conducive
to your diet success you can think of
Highly palatable highly processed foods
typically try to keep those ideally
outside of your apartment which then add
an additional barrier to entry to going
off your diet however if you can't keep
these Foods out of your environment
altogether consider making them less
visible for example putting them in an
area of your pantry that you're unlikely
to go to often so at the very least
you're reminded of that food's existance
within your apartment less often you've
probably noticed that if you just have
snacks lying around in your house it
makes it a lot easier to consume without
really thinking about it whereas if you
hide them away it makes it a little bit
harder so generally just make diet
conducive foods easy easier to consume
and non-diet conducive Foods harder to
consume an additional tip that I've
recently become aware of is to
potentially have more of your calories
earlier in the day a line of research
suggests that having more of your
calories earlier in the day say in your
breakfast and lunch generally leads to
higher energy expenditure across the day
compared to having more of your calories
later in the day so essentially when
given a choice try to frontload your
calories more so into your breakfast and
lunch versus having most of them in the
evening it's not going to make a night a
difference but it is a small hack that
can potentially increase your energy
expenditure a little bit and add up over
time my next big tip is to weigh
yourself regularly people who weigh
themselves more often typically
experience more diet success if nothing
else it gives you more data to go off of
when deciding whether to make
adjustments to your calorie intake for
example personally during weight loss
phase I try to weigh myself nearly every
day if not every day then if I'm ever
stuck at a certain weight I look at my
7day averages by drawing averages of my
past 7 days I'm able to wash out any
major fluctuations in body weight
day-to-day and this gives me better data
to go off of when deciding whether or
not I should reduce my calorie intake to
facilitate further weight loss in
general as a rule of thumb if your 7day
average weighin hasn't been dropping as
fast as you set out for it to for a week
or two in a row generally 2 weeks is a
better time frame then I would reduce
calorie intake by 1 to 300 calories a
common mistake I see made by many people
is to be very quick to drop calories
very fast when they don't lose weight
for a day or two in general your weight
can go up and down day-to-day due to
fluctuations in sodium water weight
fiber and a whole host of other things
but looking at 7-Day averages and being
a bit more conservative when it comes to
making adjustments can really help you
out generally try and eat mindfully it's
not a huge game changer but slowing down
the rate of eating and focusing on the
act of eating may help you a little bit
when it comes to managing hunger my next
tip is to consider taking creatine
monohydrate this is known for a while
but many people are under the impression
that when you're cutting you shouldn't
take creatine creatine is just as
beneficial during a cut as it is during
a bulk just because it can cause an
initial increase in weight does not mean
it isn't beneficial and in fact that
increase in weight is usually a sign
that it's working as creatine binds to
water within your muscles potentially
making you look a bit more muscular and
importantly creatine improves your
performance within the gym potentially
helping you to maintain muscle mass
during a cut the final section of this
video will focus on training advice
working out has two primary objectives
when it comes to Fat Loss the first is
keeping your hard earned muscle where it
is so they don't cut down to nothing and
the second is to increase your energy
expenditure potentially increasing your
caly deficit and making you lose fat a
little bit faster ultimately exercising
for energy expenditure is definitely
secondary in importance to establishing
a deficit via your diet as far as
training to maintain muscle mass goes
train at least twice a week for each
muscle group with at least 5 to 10 sets
per week per muscle you can go higher
than this if you've been trading for for
a while and it's recommended if you want
to maximize your chance of maintaining
muscle and depending on how fast you cut
potentially even gain muscle recomp is
absolutely possible depending on the
circumstances but generally training
each muscle twice a week with at least 5
to 10 sets per week is a good starting
point for beginners and over 10 sets
maybe between 10 and 20 sets per week
per muscle is a better starting point
for more advanced traines your training
doesn't need to look different when
you're in a surplus versus when you're
in a calorie deficit and aiming to lose
weight with that being said if por
reason that you're losing weight is to
finally see your abs then consider
direct AB training as well the ABS or
Theus abdominus are like any other
muscle groups when you train them
directly they increase in size making
them more visible and impressive so
train them twice a week at least with
maybe 5 or 10 sets per week per muscle
at least train them close to failure
train them the exact same way you would
train any muscle group one common
mistake with AB training is to Simply do
very easy exercises for Super High Reps
and never actually going close to
failure instead train them with sets of
5 to 50 reps with weight if necessary
and go close to failure on each set
while I spoke about protein intake
earlier as being helpful for maintaining
muscle keep in mind that lifting weights
has by far a larger impact on retaining
muscle so even if you can't have a
perfect protein intake do make sure that
you're lifting weights at least twice a
week to maintain your muscle drain cut
equally do not be too worried if you
lose some muscle dra cut regaining lost
muscle is a lot easier than gaining it
in the first place I have a whole video
on muscle memory here that you can check
out now let me give you some guidelines
on working out for fat loss besides
lifting weights which is helpful for
retaining muscle mass but not
necessarily as helpful for just
increasing fat loss or burning calories
there's two primary ways in which i'
recommend exercising for fat loss the
first is getting plenty of steps in
download a step tracker and set a daily
goal for how many steps you want to get
in I recommend between 6 and 12,000
depending on how much time you have
available how Physically Active your
lifestyle is and your preferences the
main thing with your step goal is going
to be consistency consistently reach
your goal walking has many benefits it's
sociable in that you can go for a walk
with your family or friends you can even
take a call while doing it it exposes
you to sunlight which potentially helps
regulate your circadian rhythm and there
are many studies now finding a
beneficial impact on health of getting
more steps in importantly getting more
steps in can have a pretty profound
impact on your rate of weight loss if
you go from getting no steps in at all
or next to no steps a day say a th000 or
2,000 consistently getting in 10,000
steps or more for example that could
increase your weight of weight loss by a
pound a week or more over just 12 weeks
that would be an additional 12 lb lost
if you want to estimate how many
calories you burn while doing Steps A
good rule of thumb is 1 kilo calorie per
kilogram of body weight per kilometer
work now let's say you're busy and you
can't get more than about 6,000 steps in
or even fewer than 6,000 steps what can
you do instead well you might want to
consider formal cardio sessions if
you're only working after a fat loss
consider forms of cardio that are easier
to recover cover from generally those
are going to involve minimum impact so
running is out of the question and fewer
Ecentric contractions and so generally I
like cycling and like the elliptical
machine if you're going to be doing
cardio within the gym a good approach is
to set a calorie expenditure goal within
each session while those calculations
aren't perfectly accurate they will be a
good enough thing to aim for for example
you could do four weekly sessions of 300
calories of energy expenditure on those
machines and this would result in
potentially an increase of a third of a
pound of fat loss each week
alternatively do your physical activity
in any way you can for example team
sports or group classes are a great way
to get more physical activity in even
though it's not as easily trackable as
far as energy expenditure goes and it
may involve some Ecentric contractions
and impacts the main thing is that
you're becoming more physically active
and these activities have other benefits
like you're more sociable and generally
are very health promoting ultimately
though the impact of more physical
activity or working out specifically for
expending energy is generally going to
be secondary and importance to dieting
but that doesn't mean you shouldn't do
it for instance a recent metth analysis
found a pretty meaningful association
between how Physically Active you are
each week both in terms of moderate
physical activity and vigorous physical
activity and the likelihood that someone
is going to suffer from ill health my
final piece of advice is that if your
sleep is currently very suboptimal and
there's something you can do about it
consider doing it generally very poor
sleep has been shown to negatively
impact how much fat you lose versus how
much muscle you lose during a diet and
so to increase muscle retention during
weight loss phase improving your sleep
can help out that is the video I broke
down a lot of the relevant signs and
explain to you how to lose weight and my
top tips in 2024 to do so if you enjoyed
the video please leave a like down below
comment subscribe I know many of you
aren't currently subscribed and I would
really appreciate it if you did likewise
hit the Bell as well and that helps out
the channel if there's any other topics
you would like to see me cover leave a
comment down below and I'll get to them
if you'd like me to coach you consider
checking out the link above and I could
become your coach in the meantime have a
fantastic day and I will see you guys
next time peace