[Applause]
[Music]
okay welcome everyone back to a new
episode of technique tuesday this week
we're going to be looking at how to
perform the fantastic good morning
exercise with perfect technique but
before we get into the technique itself
let's have a quick look at the anatomy
and biomechanics involved first so with
the good morning we're going to be
targeting primarily the glutes and
hamstrings through hip extension as the
hips straighten out there'll also be a
strong isometric lumbar extension
contraction occurring where the spinal
erectors of the lower back contract to
keep the spine neutral and because the
bar is placed on the upper back there's
also going to be an active thoracic
extension isometric contraction as well
handled by the spinal erectors of the
upper back so even though the good
morning can be thought of as a glute and
hamstring movement it's also going to
target the back quite heavily as well
and as you can see here from the side
view unlike the squat the good morning
creates a much greater lever arm at the
hips and for the low back making it an
incredible strengthening exercise for
these muscle groups however because of
the increased torque requirement you're
going to want to load the movement very
light at first until you allow those
muscles to strengthen and as you get
comfortable with using a full range of
motion i actually think the good morning
is one of the most underrated exercises
out there because of just how unique it
is the basic movement pattern is going
to target and develop the hamstrings and
glutes similar to how a romanian
deadlift would however since the bar is
being held up on your back it's going to
have much more strength carry over to
the raw squad now generally i recommend
loading the good morning with more
moderate weight in the 6 to 12 rep range
as loading too heavily is usually just
going to turn the movement into a squat
morning allowing the knees to bend too
much and taking the hamstrings out of
the movement also when you're still new
to the movement you're going to want to
load much much lighter than you would on
a squat and even as you get more
advanced generally you won't be using
loads over 40 to 50 of your squat max
and as usual it's much more important to
nail down the technique before you start
worrying about loading more heavily so
the initial setup for the good morning
is exactly the same as a low bar back
squat you want to set up the bar in the
rack at about armpit height and grip the
bar slightly wider than shoulder width
going too close might cause you to feel
shoulder pain or tightness and going too
wide is going to cause you to lose upper
back tightness as you lift place the bar
in the low bar position with the bar
resting down on your rear delts if
you're new to this position it may feel
as though the bar is going to slide down
your back at first however if you keep
your upper back tight and create a shelf
with your rear delts that the bar can
sink into it's never going to fall as
long as it's resting there properly as
you can see in the image here from mark
ripito's starting strength a common
mistake is to let the bar rest on the
hands putting unnecessary strain on the
wrists and elbows so instead you want to
grip the bar with your hand above the
bar allowing the weight to rest fully on
your back and while it can work loading
the bar in the high bar position up on
the upper traps can often cause the bar
to shift forward up toward the neck
resulting in a more unsafe bar position
now at this point with your feet
centered underneath the bar you want to
push your hips forward to stand up with
the bar and take three steps back until
your feet are even and planted with
about a 10 to 15 degree foot flare you
should use a stance that feels
comfortable to you
just make sure that your feet are at
least wider than shoulder width and at
this point you should be applying even
pressure across your entire foot your
weight shouldn't be shifted too far
forward onto your toes or too far back
onto your heels you want even balanced
contact with the ground and just like
the squat your head should be slightly
extended with your eyes gazing straight
ahead your elbows should be pointing
slightly back not directly under the bar
which can lead to wrist and elbow pain
so now that the lift is set up we're
going to begin with the bracing lowering
and lifting phases so to brace you want
to take a huge breath deep down into
your gut actively pushing your air out
against your belt if you have one while
intentionally bracing the spinal
erectors of your lower back by thinking
about maintaining that natural lordotic
curvature of the lower back you also
want to make sure you're keeping your
upper back extended by thinking about
driving your back up into the bar before
you descend initiate the eccentric by
pushing your hips straight back while
keeping your shins as close to vertical
as possible unlike in a high bar squat
where you want to break at the knees and
the hips at the same time with the good
morning you want to break at the hips
first and then allow a slight bend in
the knees as the bar comes down and
forward you can think of the eccentric
exactly the same as a romanian deadlift
where you're moving the hips back as you
feel a strong stretch in the hamstrings
on the way down now unlike the squat
where the bar needs to stay centered
over the middle of the foot on the
negative with the good morning we're
allowing the bar to come more forward so
that at the bottom position the bar is
more out in front of the toes once you
lower to the point where if you go any
lower your spine is going to start to
round you want to reverse the motion by
driving your hips forward while
simultaneously driving your back up into
the bar now throughout the concentric
you want to maintain that same upper
back tightness by keeping your shoulder
blades retracted and your spine neutral
and exactly how low you go is going to
largely depend on your hamstring
flexibility and hip mobility some folks
can go all the way down to 90 degrees or
their torso is parallel with the floor
while others may want to stop shy of
parallel to avoid any lower back
rounding i personally like to cut my
range of motion just a bit shy of
parallel especially as i still have a
bit of a lower back issue that i'm
recovering from i would say the most
common error that i see in the good
morning is allowing the knees to bend
too much turning the movement into more
of a squat type movement while some
degree of knee bend is fine and you
don't want your knees to be fully locked
out if you bend the knees too much
you're going to seriously reduce the
contribution from the hamstrings on the
lift and you want to remember that the
squat isn't a great hamstrings exercise
but the good morning is
as long as you keep a more straight leg
another really common error is lack of
upper body tightness so if you find the
bar sliding down or up on your back as
you lift you're probably not really
mashing the barbell into that upper back
shelf that's created by your rear delts
and another thing many people struggle
with is getting comfortable with the
proper good morning depth one solution
as you learn the lift and get
comfortable with the range of motion
is to set the barbell up on the safety
pins in the squat rack get into position
and then begin the movement with the
positive allowing the pins to set a sort
of safety cap on your range of motion
okay so guys that is all that i have for
the good morning i would say it is one
of my favorite exercises for the glutes
hamstrings and for squat assistance um
so it is used in the first wave of my
new upper lower program uh so if you
guys are looking for something to make
this all a little bit more actionable
that's a six day per week intermediate
to advanced program with every body part
being hit three times per week and you
can pick it up or learn more at
jeffnipper.com um so that's it for this
one guys uh please leave me a thumbs up
if you enjoyed the video don't forget to
subscribe so that you don't miss future
technique tuesday episodes and i'm still
deciding if i'm going to do technique
tuesday every tuesday moving forward or
if i'm going to do it every other
tuesday i'm not totally sure about that
yet but the series is back and i'll see
you guys all here on a tuesday very soon
[Music]
you