[Music]
hey folks dr. Mikan spell here for
Renaissance period ization hypertrophy
made simple video number four if you
want more details check out the
hypertrophy guide central hub on our
website and all the YouTube videos that
we have that are longer form that
explain all the stuff in much more
detail here we go how heavy should you
lift for hypertrophy well from the
scientific experiments and the theory we
know a couple of things
anything under roughly 30 percent of
your wound or petition max lower than
30% of your 1rm does actually grow
muscle but not very efficiently per
working set it's just not a ton of
muscle for working set so it's very
inefficient you have to do a ton of sets
to get the same growth and it causes a
lot of systemic fatigue who's a bunch of
the reps you're doing aren't even
hypertrophic a lot of the reps only get
to be causing lots of muscle growth
towards the end of a set if you're doing
a set of 50 the first 40 reps are sort
of more waste of time than not and this
kind of training tends to convert your
muscle fibers more towards slower to
experience which actually later don't
grow as much as faster switch barium so
it's kind of a self exhausting
self-defeating strategy you may think
okay we'll go heavier anything greater
than 85 percent plus of your 1 RM 85 to
100 percent or more if your 1 RM does
absolutely grow muscle but not very
efficiently poor working set you want to
grow muscle doing sets of 2 you're gonna
be hitting the gym for a really long
time it takes a lot of sets of two it
converts the sets of 10 or something
like that and this kind of training
causes a lot of joint and connective
tissue fatigue you could want to put on
size doing doubles and singles but you
will beat your body up to an absurd
extent and on that very same note the
injury risk is much higher so maybe
lifting less than 30 percent 1 RM is not
a great idea and lifting more than 85% o
ram is not the greatest idea which
leaves us with our first recommendation
you want to train with roughly weights
and the 30% to 85% everyone RM range
that will cause the greatest muscle
gains what that really means is sets of
roughly 5 to 30 reps close to failure or
absolutely your best bet for hypertrophy
it doesn't mean that's under 5 don't
work they just don't work as well so
that's over 30 do work they just don't
work as well
number three some exercises are really
just best suited for a variety of
reasons which we explained in other
videos for more like the heavier five to
fifteen part of that range
anti-gravity exercises which you have to
support yourself against the load and
gravity Bros squats deadlifts overhead
press and stuff like that better for
lower reps on the other hand machines
and isolations and other exercises like
that dumbbell movements are better in
the fifteen to thirty rep range so you
get a good mix doing different exercises
and lastly using a variety of loading
ranges is probably the best bet so you
might want to do most if you're
intermediate especially most of your
training in the 10 to 20 range maybe 50%
of it and then 25% of your training you
know the volume per week that you do in
the 5 to 10 range and 25% in the 20 to
30 range a good mix is good the best
thing is to find the ranges that seem to
hit your muscles individually really
really well stick to those and when they
get stale switch it up folks thanks so
much for tuning in see you for the next
video
[Music]