okay welcome everyone to episode number
two of the science applied series my
goal is to borrow from the anatomy
biomechanics and some of the exercise
selection science from my science
explained series and package that in two
discrete workouts that you guys can go
and apply in the gym right away so in
this episode we're going to be covering
a pull workout we're gonna be hitting
mainly the back biceps and rear delts
and again this is meant to be worked
into a push-pull leg split which would
look something like this
so without further ado let's dig right
into today's workout so we're gonna be
kicking things off with two sets of 15
to 20 light reps on the one arm flat
pullin and regular viewers will have
probably seen me do these before and the
basic rationale here is to sort of pre
activate the lats I think I should
qualify that this isn't a term you'll
see much in the scientific literature
but it is based on scientifically sound
principles and most of the research on
this has actually focused on the glutes
where in 2016
Fisher and colleagues found that doing
glute pre activation drills had
activation carryover to heavier compound
exercises like the hip thrust and I
think it stands to reason that these
neural changes should also apply to the
lats especially since a lot of people
really struggle with establishing a mind
muscle connection with them and I think
the mind muscle connection is
accumulating empirical support lately
with one study published just this month
finding that using internal focus or in
other words just thinking about using
the muscle that you're trying to
activate led to greater biceps muscle
thickness across an eight-week training
program and at the very least I think
doing these serves as an additional
warm-up helping to increase blood flow
to the muscle improving pumps and
potentially reducing injury so in terms
of execution here I like to think of
this movement as sort of the opposite of
a lateral raise so in a lateral raise
you think about raising your arm up and
out to the side it's something called
shoulder abduction well here you'll want
to be performing pure shoulder adduction
so basically driving your elbow down and
in towards your sides and this should be
happening in the mid frontal plane so
you want to imagine driving your elbow
down in the plane of motion that would
evenly split your body into a front half
and a back half
you can also crunch laterally into the
direction of the pole for an even
stronger lat contraction
since the lats do weakly contribute to
lateral spinal flexion and again the
idea here is to avoid failure just want
to be using lightweight with mindful
purposeful lap contractions okay so to
get into the actual workout proper we're
gonna start the main loading with three
sets of six to eight reps on wide grip
pull-ups and well in 2013 doma and
colleagues found no significant
differences in lattic tavae ssin between
the lat pulldown and the pull-up the
pull-up did come out on top for the
biceps and the erector spinae and given
that we're trying to target all the
pulling muscles in this workout it
stands to reason that you might get a
little more bang for your buck with the
pull-up especially as a sort of main
heavy movement where the goal is
generating maximum tension and overload
also pull down machines can vary in
terms of how they're loaded from gym to
gym so if you do tend to hop around from
gym to gym like I do you might be better
off going with the pull-up which can be
consistently applied from an overloading
perspective as long as you have a simple
bar that you can hang off of also I
think if we're really being honest
pull-ups are just harder and I think
there's something to be said for taking
on movements with higher degrees of
difficulty at times since this is meant
to be a heavy compound movement a
bodyweight may not be enough to get you
sufficiently close to failure and that's
six to eight rep range so you can use a
loading belt to add resistance as needed
to get you in that target intensity zone
which should be somewhere around an RPA
of eight or nine so leaving about one to
two reps in the tank per set and you can
optionally take your final set to
failure if you really want to crank
things up a notch if you're newer to
pull-ups
or at a heavier body weight there's no
shame in using the pull-up assisted
machine now to get you more in that
target intensity zone so in terms of
execution I think the main two things to
focus on our range of motion and tempo
now so the goal here is to go all the
way down to where your elbows are nearly
fully extended and then pull yourself up
as high as you can comfortably go now
usually that means at least clearing
your eyes over the bar you want to be
aiming to bring your chest up to the bar
even if it doesn't actually
touch it and I should say you don't want
to actually disengage at the bottom and
enter a dead hang you'll want to
maintain some degree of tension and
tightness at the bottom without
shortchanging that bottom end of the RET
and as for a tempo you want a steady and
controlled eccentric or negative but
still controlled concentric or positive
in a follow-up article to a 2015
systematic review and meta-analysis dr.
Brad Schoenfeld wrote that a wide range
of lifting durations or tempos can be
used to maximize hypertrophy but
concentric shouldn't last longer than
three seconds since slowing them down
further may be detrimental to growth and
each Centrex should be performed so that
the load is controlled against the
forces of gravities and simply letting
the weight drop fails to provide
sufficient muscular tension so I think
that while using a variety of tempos can
make sense for these heavy compound
movements in particular it's probably
better to focus on loading them more
heavily over time with a normal tempo so
say roughly a one-second concentric in
one second eccentric with good control
being the main criteria also between
sets here I like to do a little bit of
stretching for the lats and I find this
just helps get them a little more
loosened up and allows me to get a
little bit more of a pump and there's no
reason to think that if you're only
holding these stretches for say five or
six seconds between sets that's not
going to hinder your performance on
subsequent work in any way so up next
we're doing three sets of ten to twelve
reps on The Meadows row and we can think
of this as our main heavy row for this
workout and this movement has really
grown on me lately for a few reasons
first because you have the arm more out
to the side the plane of motion is
basically directly in line with the
fiber orientation of the mid trap fibers
and you should be maximizing recruitment
of the mid traps and rhomboids here as
you perform scapular retraction
squeezing your shoulder blades together
you're gonna hit the rear delts pretty
well - through transverse shoulder
adduction and while I haven't seen any
research on the meadows row itself
research from Lehmann and colleagues
showed that seated cable rows yielded
greater lat activation than lat
pull-downs with more trap activation as
well granted seated rows are performed
using a neutral grip with shoulder
extension while Meadows rows are done
with a pronated grip and horizontal
shoulder adduction but still I think the
point
is that rows are really going to slam
pretty much the whole back musculature
including the lats so here I like to
load using 25 pound plates just so I can
get a little extra range of motion at
the bottom and you want to stagger your
stance so that you're able to row pretty
much directly out to the side with a
fairly flat back meaning you're pretty
bent over at least this is how I feel my
mid traps working the best and you can
also modify the exercise to be more lap
dominant by standing more side on to the
bar and rolling back so it's almost like
doing a dumbbell row but with a barbell
so depending on your area of focus lats
or traps you can choose what way you're
going to do these ok so up next we're
doing 3 sets of 12 to 15 reps on the
Omni grip lat pulldown so here we're
going to be using three different grips
doing one set with a wide grip one set
with a medium grip and then a reverse
grip for the final set and just looking
at the research as a whole on this there
isn't a strong trend for favoring wider
or narrower grips for optimizing lat
recruitment but there is a large degree
of individual variability meaning in
practice using a variety of grip widths
makes sense
and in 2010 lusca Tao showed that using
a supinated or underhand grip was worse
for recruiting the lats but I think a
plausible explanation for this is just
increased biceps involvement with the
underhand grip leaving less work for the
last to do and this is why I think the
sequencing of grip variation is
important you want to start with a wide
grip when your lats are most fresh and
then move into a closer grip allowing
the biceps to do a little more work as
the lats accumulate fatigue and then for
the third set you go with the reverse
grip getting the biceps even more
involved so this will basically allow
you to maintain the same weight across
all sets while hitting the lats from
slightly different angles and ensuring
you have sort of all of your bases
covered so up next we're doing a rear
delt try set of rope face pulls reverse
PEC deck and band pull apart with
minimal rest between these sets just for
the sake of squeezing in a good chunk of
rear delt volume in a short period of
time with the rope face pull you really
want to think of this as a high row and
this is the main multi joint movement of
this tri set so you want to go fairly
heavy here and maybe use your foot as
support against the upright so you don't
have to worry about any balance issues
when loading heavily and your goal
is going to be hitting really everything
that's back there so the rear delts
traps and the rhomboids so don't be
afraid to squeeze your shoulder blades
together hard on every rep now with the
reverse PEC deck you'll want to load
this a little bit less heavily and get
more of a mind muscle connection with
the rear delts as here we're trying to
really isolate the rear delts so you
want to think about driving your arms
out and back using your rear delts
rather than trying to squeeze your
shoulder blades together with the face
book so we're trying to minimize trap
involvement at this point and when it
comes to hand position you might want to
play around with both a pronated or
palms down grip and a neutral grip with
the palms facing each other for what
it's worth 1 2013 study found that the
neutral grip was better for increasing
average EMG activation over some
subjects saw more activation with the
pronated grip and I think I'd personally
fall into that camp myself since I do
find I can get a better mind muscle
connection with my palms facing down and
to complete the tricep we're doing band
pull-up hearts and I didn't have the
best band in the world for these but
really the goal is just to sort of burn
out the rear delts generate a high
degree of local metabolic stress and
provide a slightly different tensile
stimulus where with the PEC deck there's
pretty much consistent resistance
throughout the range of motion whereas
with the band we're getting peak tension
at the top end of the range and I
personally like to externally rotate a
little here as well as the rear delts do
assist with external rotation ok so -
just about round out the pulling muscles
we're going to be hitting three sets of
six to eight reps on the EZ bar bicep
curl and given just how much pulling
volume we've already done I wouldn't say
that doing assistance biceps work is
required here for biceps growth but I
would say that it's a good idea if you
want to sort of optimize their progress
and since the biceps really only provide
an assistance role than the other
movements they're not going to be taken
to fatigue and so I think it's important
to hit them with some heavy weight here
at the end and I prefer the EZ bar just
because I find it easier on my wrists
that you could also use the straight bar
and similar to the pool down there isn't
much activation difference between
medium and wide grips
however some data suggests that a very
close grip could decrease biceps
involvement and could put unwanted
strain on your wrists so I'd avoid that
if you can and given that the long or
outer head of the biceps
be smart to shoulder abduction using a
wider grip could lead to more
involvement of that outer head so I tend
to favor this in my own training I also
like to use a little bit of moderate
cheating on the last few reps and as
long as I can maintain eccentric control
just to ramp up the intensity a few
notches with this movement now here you
can optionally add in two sets of 15 to
20 reps on the incline dumbbell curl
depending on how much arms are a
priority for you but the main idea here
is to actually just fatigue the biceps
with higher reps and get a greater
degree of stretch on the biceps by
having the arm back behind the torso you
want to keep your elbows back keep your
upper back against the bench and do both
arms at once to save on time and
generate fatigue in a more efficient
manner
and finally to really finish things off
we're gonna be doing three sets of six
to eight reps on a below-the-knee rack
pull you're gonna include these on your
pull day that actually suggests
modifying the split so you have at least
one day of recovery between doing these
and any lower body work so you can run
it as a pull push legs rest and repeat
since your lower back may not be ready
for the heavy squatting or dead lifting
on a leg day after doing these but
anyway the main idea here is to get a
good heavy isometric stretch on the
upper traps and also involve the spinal
erectors running all the way up the
spinal column keeping the spine extended
and stabilized now of course here you
could go with the above-the-knee rack
pole which I think will free up your
lower back quite a bit keep that from
being a little bit too involved and
provide a little bit more of a loading
stimulus on the upper traps at least
isometrically since you will be able to
load that exercise more heavily however
I think that since we're trying to
target more of the whole back
musculature I went with below the knee
rack pull on this one and I think
they'll also have a little more
carryover to dead lifts from the floor
which I don't include here because I
tend to classify those as more of a
lower body exercise and a back exercise
and you can feel free to use straps and
a belt here in my opinion that will only
aid in the safety of this movement and
allow you to move more weight resulting
in a greater tensile stimulus overall
and contrary to popular opinion a belt
doesn't really significantly impede and
meant of much of the core musculature so
in my experience the upsides outweigh
the downsides for using a belt on heavy
sets of squats and deadlifts and in this
case rock deadlifts and again here you
want to avoid failure so leave at least
two to three reps in the tank and focus
on really perfecting your technique by
first pulling the tension out of the bar
before lifting you don't want to just
walk up and yank it off the rack and by
focusing on keeping the bar centered
over your mid foot throughout the full
range of motion as the chest and hips
rise simultaneously to lock out simply
lift the chest up and that's it okay so
guys that's gonna wrap up episode number
two of the sign supplied series I hope
you guys really liked it before we go I
just want to say that once again I'm
gonna offer a discount on my back in my
arm
hypertrophy programs so those are two
pull focused training programs that you
can get on my website and if you want to
save 30% off both of those programs you
can just use the discount science
applied to at checkout which will knock
down the actual price to something like
fifteen or twenty bucks a piece I'm so
if you were thinking about getting these
programs from me now might be a time to
grab them show your support for the
channel and increase the amount of gains
that you can make in your pull workouts
in the process thanks again guys for
watching this is a highly requested
video so I hope that you guys liked it
and you can stay tuned for part three
coming next month and until then please
leave me a like if you liked the video
subscribe to the channel if you're new
and I will see you guys all here next
time