I just like going heavy as shit and
going to fail your baby first heard that
Philosophy from Mike
mener what the's up with this Mike mener
Resurgence bullshit you know like what
did Albert Einstein think about fashion
I don't fing
[Music]
care there is a YouTuber by the name of
Max Taylor lifts and it's a name but
also a claim he claims to lift but does
he maybe an expert Super Brain IC Sport
and exercise scientist such as myself
well I may Pat myself on the back for
that I could only reach my shoulder and
what the hell is up with all this
disgusting body hair Dr Mike apparently
you have Butlers and Lamborghinis go get
you something done with that hair I know
noted I'll take care of it at some point
but in the meantime we are going to
assess and analyze and pick apart and
maybe even put back together Mr Max
Taylor's lifting and oh yeah I'm a a
professor of exercise and Sports Science
at Leman College in the Bronx in the
United States of America where is that
it doesn't matter because America period
cut to scene we are one month out from
our bodybuilding show Max it would be
quite strange for me to analyze your
appearance because the good Lord decided
to bless me with no head on my hair
facial featur that can only be best
described as grotesque and enough body
hair to create a thousand carpets for
children to sleep on of the third world
and with all due love and respect
remember guys when we do any of these
videos it's just all jokes bro no
offense ever intended unless you're Dr
Oz in that case you for
real max what's up with that mustache
man you look like
um yes lowlevel Orlando Florida ecstasy
dealer in
1992 the headband the cut off and the
mustache completes the look so if I'm
trying to get wacky on some maybe pills
that maybe will make me wacky and I'm
happen to be stuck in Orlando Florida in
1992 I'm a see you man I've seen you
before what's up homie you got that shit
you got that work in any case apparently
this is what ticktockers look like
nowadays uh but quite a handsome
man shave the mustache my friend take it
for me a person who knows nothing about
physical appearance
because run and hide the females do and
and males and children and most
animals I just like going heavy as shit
and go in a failure baby every single
damn set it's a pump sauce baby oh my
pump sauce so it looks like Max is is
not first rodeo with conalingus this is
10 G and then I crank some Himalayan
salt in there sodium water fast
digesting carbs equals good pump okay
but there's no water in there so what is
that even I'm inclined to believe it has
the exact same look and consistency and
color as what was that thing uh
seen I like to get warmed up on the bike
for legs just to get the blood moving
we're not doing cardio we're doing 12K
steps for cardio brilliant beautiful
agreed on all counts I love it when
you're cutting you want to just
Progressive overload pretty much work
output increasing step SL cardio I hate
cardio I'm never stepping on an
elliptical or any of those stair stepper
bullshits again yeah the tides are
changing in bodybuilding it turns out
that if you just increase your number of
daily steps with a step tracker mine has
a Halloween themed spooky uh band on it
um then what it ends up doing is it
burns slightly more daily energy for you
your diet and your training your
training continues to keep your muscle
on your body maybe grow a little bit of
it when you're doing a fat loss phase
your diet make sure to supply you with
enough energy to continue to at least
maintain possibly gain a little bit of
muscle but you're taking a calorie
deficit out so most of the fat loss
comes from diet increase your activity
via step tracker from something like Max
said 10 to 12,000 steps a day you just
Coast on that and that just provides
kind of like a humming burn which uh
last time I saw my gynecologist was how
he described what I was feeling
downstairs um and that sort of
background calorie burn doesn't fatigue
the shit out of you like many other
cardio modalities that are more intense
it doesn't cost you leg strength and leg
size which is terrible you don't want to
lose you work really hard for your legs
you don't want to lose them during
contest prep having a higher step count
than usual and just coasting on that
maybe increasing it sometimes when you
need to burn a little bit more fat the
stimulus to fatigue ratio of doing steps
tracking cardio is amazing another
really big benefit is everything you
kind of do during your day counts so if
you tell yourself like oh like it's Fat
Loss phase but I got to go to the store
and I got to like get groceries for the
next week well that's like 3 or 4,000
steps which adds to your total and it
allows you to take a real holistic view
and say okay I know exactly how much
physical activity I'm doing because it's
just tracked right on my wrist and thus
because I know exactly how many calories
I'm taking in I can match those two
together generate exactly the deficit I
want and the amount of fatigue I
generate is minimal and it also includes
the rest of my life so that when I do
chores it counts for me rather than
against me cuz if you're just doing
traditional cardio you're like man going
to the store sucks I have to do 45
minutes of incline walking on the
treadmill later or elliptical or some
shit I wish I didn't have to go to the
store but now doing all your chores is
extra awesome because not only do you
get them done but you end up burning a
crapload of fat too win win win and all
counts same principle like I've said
before 3 second of centric you want to
make sure you pause at the bottom this
guy's the man this is like the Dr Mike
Playbook here is he reading my mind
where where have I put these ideas out
not on the internet there's no way he's
getting them there or he beat me to the
punch and he actually knew the shit
before I did that's probably true get
that full stretch full muscle activation
full muscle breakdown equals more gains
baby preach that good word my man you
know what 1992 was a great year I take
it all back and Orlando is a great place
and ecstasy is you know I'm not going to
endorse drugs in this channel we do that
enough with the other kind of drugs if
you know what I'm saying I'm trying to
see you go
[Music]
the music choices are always fascinating
to me I can't ever tell especially in
people's reels and shit on the grham and
on Tik Tok and shit I can't ever tell if
it's like people actually like the music
that they have playing or if it's like
ironic like sometimes I'm like what the
and they're like isn't that funny and
I'm like oh oh oh we're being funny yes
that music is terrible it's
hilarious Yo he's got big legs I know
his calf training but godd damn what the
up them quads and hams bro somebody drug
test that man
now after you're done pressing make sure
you're slowing and controlling that
negative cuz you still got more baby
accurate my man make sure you're getting
a full stretch right here none of this
like half rep shit I see people stop
like right here and kind of do whatever
the this is I like to go all the way to
top give a good pause make sure I'm
feeling the contraction same shit 3
second Centric on the way down and then
full stretch this ising great also I
love the old school coloration of that
leg extension machine I'm only going to
do like one set per exercise warm up
from here on out cuz my legs are pretty
toasty I love it so what he just said
was he's going to he warm up extensively
for his first exercise but once his legs
get nice and warm he only does one
warm-up set before the working sets for
all the other exercises after that's a
really really good idea and a really
common question we get at RP is like how
should I do more warm-ups we have a
video on that got the video guy I think
we can link
it don't fing sigh on me did you just
sigh oh I have to do work at my yeah but
in any case when you're just warming up
for the first exercise in muscle group
you probably do like three sets of
warm-up set of 12 set of eight set of
four and then you do your work set when
it's the second third fourth exercise
for that muscle group in that day you
might only have to do one warm-up set
because you just do like kind of a set
of five with what you think is a little
bit lighter than your working weight and
then you're feeling good the muscles are
warm the joints are warm your movement
patterning is good you just need to
familiarize yourself Jay Cutler um
former Mr Olympia a super pro
bodybuilder calls calls these feel sets
just to just to get the feel and I think
that's great and I think that's what Max
is doing here so three cheers on all
that what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
[Music]
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
[Music]
now very very impressive of physique and
I did notice the tattoo of what looks
like Kid Goku on his arm and when it
comes to like Dragon Ball Z characters
and who's the
best
Vegeta King Vegeta number one in the
conversation for sometimes maybe also
number one is Broly Goku is nice and
actually a person you want to emulate
because Vegeta's evil and terrible and
hates himself but that is inspiring
Piccolo above Goku I say Piccolo first
up there Piccolo somewhere um under ated
and just nerfed I hate when they Nerf
Piccolo it's the worst thing in the
world Kid Goku is somewhere just above
Kid Gohan who is somewhere considerably
above teen Gohan who ising annoying and
terrible and should have never been
written into anything and I hate him and
then say a man Gohan can just you know
expletives I just pretend I never saw
that series part in my brain ever so max
I love the DBZ shit kid Goku if we ever
meet up in real life you're going to
have to explain that shit leg press baby
my legs are fucking warm after that set
you want to set your feet as low as
possible on the platform the lower you
can put your foot the bigger of a
stretch you're going to have on your
quads accurate this guy's the man my new
favorite person let's be friends in real
life Max I want to H hug
you all the way down here with my heels
still on the platform go as low as you
can without your butt moving out of
position and your heels coming from the
platform I would reiterate what he's
saying but he said it so well I'll just
shut the up and do more react content so
his leg press depth is absolutely
lacking but I'll tell you why it's just
because the machine he's using blows and
yeah can tell he's doing his goddamn
best in that dog shit machine problem
with leg press machines and many other
machines is the people who have seemed
to engineer them nine times out of 10
have noing clue what they're doing we
can't all work for Atlantis um and then
so there's just a lot left uh to be
desired but for the machine that he's
using he's doing a real good job I just
God damn it you just need to angle that
foot plate this way more and then angle
theing backpad back this way more and
take the safeties completely out of the
design damn he must be pretty close to
his contest cuz uh he's in shape you can
see like all the when you in the leg
press and you can see how little veins
riddling your shoulders like yeah you're
lean and also just from this perspective
alone hopefully Max uh our our Max Max
stne uh child editor no that sounds
exploitative child prodigy editor the
doogy Houser of editing he uh hopefully
get the same clip I'm looking at but uh
Max's tricep here looks like straight up
like a sign that says drug test me God
damn that is an impressive tricep holy
shit yo Max you got any tips on tricep
training bro I'm about to watch that
shit I like to add this band resistance
profile so you'll find at the bottom
half it's heavier when you put this
instead of being harder on the lower
half and easier on the upper half it's
kind of even throughout ah yes so polite
disagreement if Jared feather were here
saying this it would be an Anakin
Skywalker red
lightsaber sound not polite disagreement
the band absolutely does everything that
Max Saida does in the hack squat but
that's everything we don't want to do
there is quite a bit of literature now a
crap ton on animals more and more on
humans that the stretch especially that
bottom stretch especially under heavy
loads especially when that's the hardest
part of the movement grows
disproportionately more muscle than a
more even Force curve and definitely
more muscle than a force curve that
biases to being harder on the lockout so
the hack Squad is actually ideally
designed without the band to give you
exactly the force curve that you want or
damn close to give you the best gains in
your quads it's supposed to be harder at
the bottom than it is at the Top If you
make it a little bit harder at the top
and thus exactly like Max said even out
the force curve you're actually yes
evening it out but making it a less
effective movement for hypertrophy the
ien hack squat almost everything aaran
makes is amazing that's why they're out
of business the fitness industry blows
dicks this hack Squad particularly I
know very well unfortunately it doesn't
let you go as low as I would like and if
this is my personal home gym then I
would put like five pads on it to make
sure that I can get up higher now one
hack you can use if you have this
machine at your gym is you can get those
yoga pad situations and put them between
you and the actual uh shoulder pads and
then it pushes you down instead of
putting the platform up and then you can
get a deeper stretch so I would I would
highly advise
[Music]
that hey Scott the video guy I noticed
that he has a bunch of cool angles he's
filming from you you don't do that for
me
why I don't film cool angles are you
serious Mike maybe it's I quit good I'm
going to hire someone that films cool
angles you son of a bitch hey if you
guys like this video so far you might
like our Extended Cut but you have to
have a membership pass and you can get
one by clicking on YouTube things
members also get a ton of other bonus
features a ton more intellectual videos
and the raw real most uncut version of
this video that we could still post to a
public medium click buy things I know
you guys see me pushing to failure every
set and I talk about one set is all you
need and just pushing to failure is all
it takes first heard that Philosophy
from Mike
commencer I have a question for you
folks that maybe you can help me answer
what the's up with this Mike Menor
Resurgence bullshit it's like it's like
this like goddamn Roman Empire shit was
the one question they asked like it
turns out most men think of the Roman
Empire several times a month or
something like that like what the
remember last time I thought of the
Roman Empire I mean the Gladiators were
super cute but other than that like all
of them standing around me and me on my
knees that's what I would think about
but nothing to do with that um I don't
get it I don't get the Mike mener
Fascination please let me know what it
is uh the thing is like uh Mike mener
was a swell guy and had a very
interesting idea uh that wasn't his
originally it's Arthur Jones idea
originally and noted to shit on him I
mean not all ideas are original most of
my ideas are not original they're just
shitty repackaged versions of What
smarter people have said but um you know
like that one set of failure shit like I
I I my suspicion is that like because he
was like clearly probably autistic and
and kind of weird and um never really
kind of got the recognition he deserves
like a permanent Underdog and he was
like a bit a bit of a systematizer and a
precise person and kind of really zoned
in and one set to failure makes you all
testost out and really like then maybe
that's what people like about it there's
been this whole hit in Mike Menor
resurges we do have a video Scott the
guy link the video amazing uh about hit
training and uh you could watch that and
so I give a a pretty balanced
perspective but uh I just I just don't
get it like um I I saw a video pop up on
my recommendations on YouTube of like uh
it was something about like nutrition
and like what Mike mener thinks like do
you know how much more we know about
nutrition since Mike mener just wasn't
around anymore like almost everything
like you know like what did albertt
Einstein think about fashion I don't
care
bro that's a bit exaggeration but uh you
know I just I just don't understand tell
me why Mike mener is great people tell
me pushing to complete failure or to
where your muscle cannot complete
another rep safely at least is working
the muscle to its full extent and is the
prime driver and muscle growth it's not
the prime driver and muscle growth
getting close to failure over many sets
has the exact same effect as getting all
the way to failure with slightly fewer
sets over the longterm and hypertrophy
not only this but Mike mener lost
bodybuilding competitions to guys that
did not go to failure and most of the
generations that came after him did not
go to failure nearly as often and they
got bigger than him so just if you're
really on the Mike mener train even
that's not convincing going to failure
is dope and every now and again it's a
really good idea to make sure you're
really pushing it because being close to
failure is where it's at it's a one
thing to say look look train it to
failure versus not train failure it's
just kind of two different ways to skin
a cat as always say the cat hates both
uh and kind of No Love loss between the
two both really great approaches it is
another thing to say that training to
failure has some kind of categorical
superiority over not training to failure
um and it's just unlikely that it does
it's just unlikely that's the case if
training to failure was the shit I would
do it all the time uh I used to do it
all the time I I I trained a failure
almost exclusively for about 10 years of
my career when I stopped doing it I made
Mega hella better gains and everything
just went more swimmingly that's not the
case for everyone some people do rir
training and they don't really like it
and they switch to failure training and
things go better for them but remember
it's upsides downsides it's not like
well train a failure is clearly better
and some of you are just your vaginas
are too big to allow you to train a
failure take it easy ladies it's
euphemism and is the prime builder in
strength that's definitely not true for
strength uh the same met regressions uh
published by Zach from data driven
strength uh amazing amazing uh data
driven strength just Google that they'll
take you to all their Instagrams and
YouTube they're phenomenal folks um
strength training particularly getting
stronger is seemingly categorically
better done with reps in reserve staying
one two or three reps shy of failure is
actually better for building strength so
all total respect Mr Max but uh that is
the state of the evidence as I see it
this will still be six to 10 reps
technically compound but yeah slow and
controlled go down to however far you
can go with getting a full stretch
you'll feel your hamstrings get really
tight and restrict you from going
further yes excellent point so uh people
ask how deep should I go on the stiffle
deadlift and the answer is if you set up
your back nice and tight if you push
your butt back and you keep your knees
nice and far back not locked out but
close you will know because you will get
this painful crazy stretch in your hands
and then you won't really be able to go
much further without bending your back
or something like that or bending your
knees when you've hit that point and
you'll figure out that point in just a
couple training sessions that's your
depth over time your depth can improve
and it can get deeper and sometimes when
you're tight it'll be shallower but when
you feel that gnarly gnarly painful
stretch that's when you know like look
you've checked that box you can come up
now but yeah we're going to get warmed
up and get rocking rolling I use straps
on these too I'm not focused on building
my grip on a leg day you feel me so
110% agreed some people just get their
egos mixed into everything and they're I
don't use straps I don't need a crutch
mother the gym is a crutch if you're a
real man like during the Roman Empire
you get strong lifting rocks and swing
in the sword pussy but you're out here
in the Techno super gym with all this
manufactured equipment you're already in
a crutch Scott are you serious you got
your phone ringing during recordings
it's on silent and it still Rings thanks
Apple I mean honestly Scott like I know
you were boys but there's like a certain
level of disrespect I just don't deal
with on
set oh I love it really good technique I
would like to see him try to keep his
chest up a little higher and his back
arched a little more this is me being
very nitpicky and I wonder why not
wearing a belt now a belt's not
mandatory for this but if you do wear a
belt it can essentially make your back
more supported by that belt take it a
little bit more out of the limiting
factor part of the equation and allow
you to really focus on your hams more uh
just just open comment I'm not saying
it's a bad thing he's doing but you sure
shit will get a strong back doing what
he's
doing I love it slow super control knees
back glorious and his hamstrings are
hanging off theing bone amazing somebody
drug test that man Max Taylor lifts and
dare I say is a professor of sport and
exercise science he lifts very well and
I'm super impressed and super jealous of
his haircut and his mustache and his
bandanna and I hope that uh the early
90s are a good time for him and uh I'm
not allowed to hang out in person with
people as young as him crazy
misunderstanding through the legal
system uh baseless allegations I tell
you my lawyer says don't say anything
more about that or you'll really get
canned but on my way to getting canned
um if you don't already follow Mr Max I
would say he seems like a great person
to follow on the YouTubes and I'm sure
he has a Tik Tok because he's well young
and everyone young is a registered
member of the Tik Tock
Community um
38.5 out of
41.69
3 pretty God damn good
see you guys next time hey if you like
this video then uh this video right here
is apparently a video of the algorithm
thinks you also might like so give it a
thought to click on and you might have a
good
[Music]
time