one of the best ways to hit the chest is
to stretch it super super deep at the
bottom if we touch the dumbbell to our
chest you're going to limit your range
of motion so for example if I'm touching
my chest with the dumbbells in the
bottom I can go to here and that's cool
not a big stretch for the packs actually
less of a stretch than with a barbell
but dumbbells can afford a bigger
stretch if you touch to the outside of
your shoulders so instead of doing the
dumbbell press like this and touching
your chest which limits the range of
motion and can let you use more weight
instead touch to the outside of your
shoulders and you have to use less
weight for this but it works super well
come out as you go down and touch your
side delts and even your biceps if you
can all the way back out out and down
and oh my peex I can feel it I'm going
to do a few more reps just cuz it feels
so amazing and it feels like such a big
stretch especially if you slow that
descent