morning guys we've got meal one good day
whoo breakfast sandwiches turkey bacon
one whole egg some egg whites on bottom
there's a cheese slice so there's a
couple of egg whites in there and one
whole egg which is this type of egg so
it has supplemental DHA in it I only
bought these because they were on sale
as you'll see there's only 0.075 grams
of DHA in there we recommend getting two
to three grams of combined epa DHA per
day so you would have to eat about 30 of
these to hit the DHA requirement but
still better than nothing I guess and we
don't need a lot of fatty fish so any
little bit helps so guys I've started
drinking a sugar intro workout so the
stuff is super cheap way better than
like any carb powder you can get up like
a supplement or something like that
it's sugar so glucose fructose glucose
and fructose because they use different
transporters for absorption kind of
allows for like a sustainable energy
source if your workouts last longer than
an hour might not be a bad idea to bring
some sort of intra workout carb source
you
you're getting more assistance from the
band's towards the top towards the
walkout typically on a row where the
resistance is equal throughout the
entire movement your strength / you're
the strongest here or the weakest here
isn't matched with a resistance curve
you add the band
it creates extra assistant the further
you get towards the end of the range of
motion so it makes more of like a
constant resistance for the movements a
really nice feel so you can ring it up
present meal to is going to be a protein
shake yeah we had to drive home it takes
about a half hour so I try to get some
source of protein in within a half an
hour just we're not totally convinced
that there isn't any advantage to having
some form of fast digesting protein
within a half hour to an hour of your
workout I think it's a good idea so
here's the post-workout food meal and
see some sour cream some salsa mixed in
and about 30 grams of grated cheese
brown rice from Uncle Ben's I think it
is and then just some diced up chicken
100 grams of chicken it's the next meal
guys so we've got a pc low-fat chicken
nuggets left over from the Raptors game
last night 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 8 of these so
that is and we've got 8 so that's 13
grams of protein in 4 so we're looking
at around 26 grams protein and that's
all I'm really concerned with at this
point I'm not I'm not really tracking
macros or calories or anything I'm just
kind of eating according to my appetite
and just making sure that I get at least
you know 25 to 30 grams of protein in
each sitting and try to eat probably 5
or 6 bolus of protein
perdón Apple is this they're called
ambrosia apples you're super good Robin
pictum Oh mmm guys for my last meal
before my protein shake before bed
I've got some top sirloin steaks a
massive top sirloin steaks on the grill
here broccolini so here it is guys I've
got my top sirloin steak I've got some
broccolini over here and some Cady just
finished my steak and kraft dinner meal
so I'm going to finish it off with a
nice bowl of heavenly hash for the last
meal of the day I'm going to finish with
some barbecue
miss Vicky's kettle chips these are
delicious and a protein shake that I
haven't mixed up yet and I'm editing the
podcast that I did last week with JP
kouchi for JP kalki forget
impressive but we recorded a podcast
about cutting weight for a powerlifting
need it's a really good conversation I
will put a link to the podcast in the
description box below if you guys would
like to go and check that out this is
going to conclude this vlog so thank you
guys very much for watching I hope you
guys learn something if you did like
video feel free to give me a thumbs up
down below and subscribe to the channel
if you haven't already and thank you
guys very much for watching
you'll sleep like we are in Vegas could
give a [ __ ] if they hate us from people
about the purple like their party the
Lakers no salt and pepper shakers for
never [ __ ] with a trade or anticipated
my latest audacious idea phrases people
behavior told you it wasn't having
missed when a favor either rapping orig
and I'm opening up a bottle and Bridal
until I'm wobbling rockin and sushi