what's going on everyone I'm just out
here shooting some hoops and I figured
I'd share with you guys a little sneak
peek into a few of what I thought were
the best pieces in this month's issue of
mass or monthly applications in strength
sport uh so the first piece was a
summary written by Eric Helms of a 2017
paper that looked at the effect of
adding 28 G of whey protein pre and
post-workout and 16 trained young males
who were in a caloric deficit so they
were cutting so basically they split the
16 subjects up into two groups and one
group consumed 28 G of whey protein pre
and post-workout and the other group
consumed 28 G of carbs pre and
post-workout and while other stuff was
measured the most interesting finding to
me was that body fat was only lost in
the protein supplemented group whereas
lean body mass was lost in the carb
supplemented group um so in other words
according to this study it seems that
supplementing whey protein around the
workout is a good way to sort of spare
lean body mass and this may not be that
surprising given that we know from
previous research that increasing total
daily protein while in a caloric deficit
is a good way to sort of spare muscle
protein however that previous research
really only focused on comparing a high
protein diet like 2.3 G per kilogram of
body weight to a low protein diet like 1
G per kilogram body weight and while it
wasn't well reported in this study it
turns out that the subjects in the carb
group were eating about 2.6 G per
kilogram while those in the protein
supplemented group reading about 3 G per
kilogram both of which would be
considered high according to all the
current standards that we have in the
literature so it seems unlikely that
increasing a protein intake from an
already high 2.6 G per kilogram to a
marginally higher 3 G per kilog would do
much in the way of preventing further
losses in lean body mass so then the
question is why did the protein
supplemented group outperform The carb
group if both groups were consuming what
would be considered sufficient protein
intake for trained young men in a
caloric deficit according to all the
standards that we have in the current
literature well Eric hypothesized that
it's most likely a protein timing effect
that's being seen in other words the
results could suggest that for trained
individuals in a caloric deficit taking
in protein in the pre and post-workout
meals could be a viable strategy for
preserving lean body mass on a cut of
course this seems to stand in contrast
to the now famous 2013 paper by shenfeld
and colleagues which showed that as long
as total daily protein intake is
sufficient doesn't really matter too
much how you time that around the
workout however Eric points out in the
piece that 19 out of the 25 studies
included in this meta analysis were done
on untrained subjects and he further
highlights some other research
suggesting that perhaps it's more
important for trained individuals in a
caloric deficit it to time their protein
around the workout and there are a bunch
of other important details about the
steady design that I'd recommend reading
if you're subscribed to mass um but
that's the general overall gist of this
one another piece that I really enjoyed
in the June issue was a summary also
written by Eric of a 2017 paper by
Trexler and colleagues which looked at
the postc contest period for 15 natural
bodybuilders physique figure bikini
athletes four to 6 weeks following their
competition and I thought that this was
really exciting because until now all
that we've had are the study that I
reviewed in my last video on mass and a
single case study looking at one male
natural bodybuilder so three interesting
findings that I'd like to quickly
summarize are first and unsurprisingly
metabolic rate recovered just fine once
weight was regained and fat was regained
and this seems to further suggest that
the best way to recover metabolism after
a prolonged cut especially a contest
prep is just to regain the weight and
regain the fat back to a healthier range
secondly I thought it was interesting
that at the one we post contest Mark 2
kg of body weight had been gained but no
body fat had been gained so their body
fat percentage didn't change at all and
on the surface this seems to suggest
that in the postc contest period you're
really primed for anabolism or muscle
growth but on second look I think this
is most likely just water gain which
does count as lean body mass gain as a
result of the massive increase in
glycogen that you see in that one we
post competition cuz by the four to six
week Mark post contest 2 kg of body fat
had been gained and no more lean mass
was gained indicating that maybe you're
not really primed for anabolism after
your competition uh but rather just
glycogen storage and once those glycogen
stores are filled up uh you just gain
fat as normal and finally as we all know
testosterone takes a nose dive with
contest prep and unsurprisingly in this
study it was found that in the four to
six weeks following competition
testosterone increased as body weight
and body fat were regained what I found
really interesting was that the
magnitude of testosterone recovery was
less for the men who gained more fat I
would have expected more fat gain to
correlate with better testosterone
recovery but there seems to be a comp
heating mechanism at play here where if
you gain the fat back too quickly or
just gain too much it seems to impair
that increase in testosterone and
similarly if you gain it back too slowly
uh your testosterone also doesn't
recover as quickly as it could Eric
highlights some earlier research from
2014 showing that when men were fed at 1
1200 calorie Surplus for 4 weeks their
testosterone decreased so I think that
what we can take away from this new
research is that yes it's important to
refeed and to gain some weight back in
the post-contest period however
excessive over feeding and excessive
weight gain can actually dampen that
signal to increase testosterone and in
the issue Eric makes specific
recommendations in terms of how fast is
too fast and how slow is too slow uh but
I'll leave that for the mass subscribers
and leave my quick monthly summary at
that for this one um so thank you guys
so much for watching if you're
interested in learning more about this
sort of thing and staying completely
relevant and up to dat with all of the
current literature on how to get as
jacked as you possibly can I'd recommend
subscribing to mass and you can do so at
the link in the description I just make
sure that use that link as that's a way
that you can support me in the process
of subscribing also I've got a full
science explain video coming on how to
increase testosterone naturally I think
you guys are really going to enjoy it so
stay tuned for that one also I released
my May favorites Spotify gym playlist as
you can check that out at the link in
the description uh show me some support
and like the video subscribe to the
channel if you're new thank you guys so
much for watching and I'll see you in
the next one