hey guys dr. Mike is racquel here for
Renaissance period ization and rp+
membership site bringing you a video
today that has a lot of information that
I get asked really really often I'm very
very happy to finally make this video so
that a lot of the folks that asked me
about this particular topic can get the
information that they need and enhance
the outcome of their training and the
question and thus the topic of this
video is how to balance lifting lifting
weights with a combat sport particularly
with Brazilian jiu-jitsu just as a
background I'm a professor of sport
physiology I used to be a competitive
power lifter I'm currently a very
mediocre for a competitive bodybuilder
and I do train with weights a ton and I
started with weight training and then
eventually picked up the hobby and now
passion of Brazilian jiu-jitsu and I've
been doing that at that sort of the
filming of this current video for about
four years and I'm currently a purple
belt in balance of studios Philadelphia
under fill' and Ricky meglio Reis and
Josh Vogel so I have a little bit now
pretty significant amount of experience
in Brazilian jiu-jitsu I'm a trained
sport scientist and I have a lot of
experience with lifting so I'm currently
pursuing a competitive bodybuilding at
as high of a level as I can manage and I
do compete in jiu-jitsu quite a bit so
my perspective here and the purpose of
this talk is basically how to balance
your lifting inner Jitsu to get the most
out of both no matter how much each one
is important to you so we'll get into
the specifics right away just as far as
what we're going to talk about because
this is going to be a lot of information
the first thing we have to discuss is
trade off some priorities exactly how
much do you want to value the
weightlifting side of things or the
lifting weight side and exactly how much
you want to value getting better and
competing in Brazilian jiu-jitsu we're
going to talk about how to get the most
out of both fundamentally and that
that's really the goal
we're going to talk about how what the
most important factor to consider with
all of this and people often ask me how
do you balance BJJ and lifting I can
actually give like kind of a one-word
answer or one acronym answer that gives
most of the bat most of the ways to
balance this and there of course way
more techniques than that but this is
kind of a big main point you all have to
come to a realization of it's going to
serve as the baseline of our
architecture of making sure we get the
best out of both then I'm going to go
through recommendations how to modify
your actual training sessions for both
lifting and for jiu-jitsu to get the
best balance how to modulate your daily
training structure to make sure you get
the most out of both your weekly
structure and your monthly / yearly
structure even to make sure that you get
the most out of both we're going to talk
about some just common basic nutritional
strategies to enhance the ability to do
both sports or both pursuits at the same
time then we're going to talk about two
kind of extreme cases one case is sort
of in depth with a good list of
recommendations for both one case is
going to be that if you were really just
invested in the sport of Brazilian
jiu-jitsu you are not a weightlifter you
have no plans on competing whatsoever in
a strength sport or weightlifting sport
at all you just want to use weight
training to make you a better jiu-jitsu
player for your competitions we're going
to talk about how to basically arrange
some things to make sure you're getting
the most out of your weight training if
jiu-jitsu is your number one goal on the
other hand we have the opposite end of
individuals that are competing in
strength sport regularly whether it be
the physique sport or any of the barbell
sports or strongmen and they are
interested in dabbling in Brazilian
jiu-jitsu possibly exploring it as a
hobby but want to make sure that the
jiu-jitsu minimizes its effect as far as
limiting them in their current strength
board or physique sport participation so
we're going to have a lot of
recommendations for you folks that want
to try a new Jitsu but don't want to
mess up your sport or wanted to mess
with your sport minimally and of course
after that we'll have some closing
thoughts hopefully you guys will get a
lot of this video and at the very least
we'll be food for thought for how you
can balance lifting weights and
Brazilian jiu-jitsu better so
let's get into the content here's the
deal it all comes down to trade-offs a
concept called maximum recoverable
volume basically says something that
probably is a surprise to no one is that
the amount of total training you can
recover from let's say per week is
capped it is not an infinite number
there is some amount of training which
would be too much and if you did more
than that you would get worse instead of
better or at the very best case just
stall out in addition to that you only
have so much time to Train and
specificity principle in training theory
tells us that especially if you're
already very good at a sport the more
you train another sport your body tends
to start adapting towards that sports
direction of demands and away from your
current sports direction of demands so
that fundamentally if you want to be the
absolute best whatever it is you picked
you've got to focus
pretty much all if not the vast majority
of your training on that goal and then
if you take two goals at a time you're
going to reach your divergence at some
point where you're going to have to make
some trade-offs of do I really want to
be that much better at lifting weights
for example or that much better at
Brazilian jiu-jitsu so we can only train
so much in total the more we train for
one goal the last we can train for
another just like share time if nothing
else never mind recovery capacity and
the more recovery one goal takes the
less is left for another so if you're
busy recovering from a ton of weight
training you're super sore you're going
to have trouble recovering from
jiu-jitsu as well because your body can
only recover up to a certain point it's
recovery systems are limited inherently
and another really nasty real-world
concern about trade-offs is that
injuries from one goals training will
harm the other goal right no matter what
you're doing right so if you get
injuries from Brazilian jiu-jitsu and
you still want to be the best lifter
possible now you have to train their
injuries and the other way around
alright so there's definitely some
trade-offs there and the specificity
thing is that the more we excel want to
excel at one goal the less that takes us
away from the ability to apply to be
excellent exactly specific training to
what it is overall
trained for so for example you know yes
lifting weights reducing makes you
stronger which is better for the sport
but what if you're a physique athlete
and you're using time you could have
spent resting instead to Train calves
did this calf training have a lot of
transfer jutsu odarg is almost none we
do you have really really big calves and
that's what's gonna you know allow you
to do got really great guard passing
probably not so there are some things
that even in lifting just don't transfer
to jujitsu and vice versa
so we have to be mindful of that and we
have to prioritize what does that really
mean exactly for those reasons because
we're fundamentally working with limited
resources but unlimited desires and plus
you don't want to be the greatest
possible lifter and jujitsu practitioner
ever which is you know I think all of
our sort of sort of quote none of us
would really scoff at that if a genie
granted us that wish we have to choose
because of those constraints and here's
what we have to choose from basically
five points on a spectrum and here they
are so you may want something like to be
the very best possible at lifting thus I
would highly recommend you do zero
Brazilian jiu-jitsu because any time
you're on the mat is at the very least a
potential for injury risk and even if
someone wrist locks you really quick and
then you can't bench you a little bit or
if you slip on the mat during no gain
it's wet and you tweak your knee you
know if someone's really wanting to be
the best power lifter ever and they're
damn close I would tell them to stay the
hell off the mat people get hurt on the
mat it's not what the man is for but
that still happens at the very least if
we want nothing to do everything to do
with being as great as we possibly can
and put everything into lifting juju
this is not a good idea if on the other
hand we can go up the spectrum a little
bit we might want to be really good at
lifting but just dabble in jiu-jitsu a
little bit that's a fine trade-off to
make it's going to come with different
arrangements of training etc we might
want to kind of take the middle of the
road we want to be pretty damn good at
both me personally I'm somewhere between
B and C I'm some between those last two
where I want to be really really good at
lifting and dabble in BJJ / pretty damn
good at both
ah that's a fine thing to want a sort of
point D here the fourth option is you
want to be very good at Brazilian
Jujitsu but still pretty strong sort of
over and beyond your BJJ game like
you'll see guys and girls at the you
know literally on the mat and go between
roles or after rolling or before the
instructor has arrived and they're
warming up talking about how strong they
are how much they can Banshee do
pull-ups and they'll talk about it in a
not that this helps my jujitsu game but
kind of as like for its own sake like I
want to be able to do 10 pull-ups and
you can and I said to them like to use
it to make your game better and they're
like no I just kind of want to be strong
like yeah I know it'll help my game but
I just want to be probably bit stronger
than maybe even would help my kind of
game and there's nothing wrong with that
it's just another trade off in the last
kind of trade off you can make the very
end of the other spectrum is to be the
best BJJ player possible and then you
have no interested lifting outside of
the fact that is able to increase your
BJJ performance in that case you
actually are recommended to do lifting
so there's not getting any way you still
need to lift if you want to be the best
BJJ player possible but your lifting is
going to be very limited and we're going
to talk exactly much later in this
lecture about how to do that and how
that's going to be structured so really
really clear you don't have to choose
any one of these in particular but
you've got to choose at least one at a
time so if your goal for the next three
months is to be as good at jiu-jitsu as
possible then you got to structure your
training and your trade-offs to fit that
if your goal for the next three months
is to just dabble in jiu-jitsu with a
minimum impact on your lifting which is
very serious to you
you got to structure your training for
that and everything in between so
everything starts with these priorities
but no matter the choice you made you
still want the most total so the sum of
jiu-jitsu excellence plus lifting
excellence is still going to be
hopefully about the same no matter which
priority you choose you still even if
you want to get amazing and lifting just
pretty good at Jiu Jitsu or the other
way around or 50/50 or both you still
want the most out of everything and
that's totally cool now a lot
of these sort of trade-offs are a lot of
the trick to getting the most out of
both is to just admit the trade-offs and
train within the confines of the system
we'll talk about more about that means
basically finding how much you can
recover from total and not exceeding
that number but there are still some
important interaction effects that
precisely how you arrange your training
and to some extent your nutrition that
means these interaction effects
basically how much especially the
negative interaction effects of how much
one of the sports negatively affects the
other can be minimized significantly if
you follow some more intricate
guidelines rather than just don't train
either one of them more than you can
recover from we're talking about levels
of the macro cycle and mesocycle at the
microcycle at the day particularly at
the session so on the mat and in the gym
recommendations and of course
nutritional strategies so let's jump in
and learn how to get the most out of
your goals no matter which priority you
choose of how much better you want to be
at one sport versus the other so let's
get to it so by far the most important
ingredient which should be the start for
everyone who wants to ask the question
and get it answered of how do i balance
my jiu-jitsu in my weight training is to
find your total MRV MRV is your maximum
recover volume it's just very simple to
understand is the most amount of
training you can do and still recover
from recover means you come back next
week and you're still able to perform at
your usual high level if your
performance starts to degrade because
you're training too much you're training
in excess of your max and unrecoverable
volume so maximum Recaro volume is
really super easy to define in something
like bodybuilding because it's just the
total volume such times reps times load
and with all the exercises added up it's
just how much you spend at the gym you
can even quantify that with a number of
kilograms total lifted per week with
it's a little bit more intricate with
combinations of activities but the
fundamental principle is just the same
you want your MRV for this particular
instance to beat
some nation the addition of all of your
training demands including jiu-jitsu all
of it how much you do per week weight
and if you do any kind of cardio to get
either get yourself better or Shafer Jiu
Jitsu or better in shape for weights or
just to pursue physique goals or your
health all of that has to be added up
that's your total weekly MRV of sport
training combination training that
amount is super important to know you've
got to keep track of your totals of all
of those things and once you have an
understanding of how much total training
you're doing you can experiment by
slowly raising or lowering each one to a
little bit more weight training maybe go
from 3 sessions to 4 sessions a week or
a little bit more or less jiu jitsu
maybe go from 2 sessions of jiu jitsu a
week to 3 or 2 4 to 5 or +6 slowly one
at a time and throughout these
manipulations note if and when you have
trouble recovering the way you do that
is really your performance drops off
it's going to be very clear on the mat
you're going to start to not do so well
in your matches you're going to feel
really really beat up really tired and
you can be very honest with yourself
about how your rolls are going and
especially about how athletic you're
feeling super easy to keep track in the
weight room are you hitting the numbers
you want out of progressions you've
built in your routine or are you under
cutting your progressions by a longshot
and it may be even regressing and doing
less weight or less reps or less sets
than you could previously when you make
note of those alterations then what ends
up happening is that you find out kind
of your usual limit
all right you notice that okay if I
stack for lifting sessions per week
pretty hard ones with for jujitsu
classes with for cardio sessions that's
about my MRV like I can train old just a
little less than that pretty sustainably
no big deal make great gains but if I go
to that number you can only do that for
a week or two until I burn out and if I
go above that number by a long shot I
can't even make it a whole week until I
start to feel really really beat up in
my
formance really is degraded over the
long-term so get to know that
understanding for yourself that total
summation of how much training in the
weight room on the mat and in cardio
that you can do and still recover from
know that number pretty well and you can
absolutely subtype if you're more
advanced okay so that means if you want
to track your list not by session number
but by total volume of sets x reps x
weight maybe even x distance
totally cool if you want to split up
your jiu-jitsu into counting number of
live roles or plus counting technical
sessions or time spent on the mat
drilling technique that's totally cool
if you want to track your cardio by
duration and intensity not just by how
long you know or sore the length of the
cardio like how many meters you covered
not just by the amount of time you spent
doing it that's totally fine but
remember to have that general
understanding even if it can be more
specific but it should least be general
of how much you can do and still recover
from you have an understanding basically
that's your usual limit work almost all
of your training within it it's okay
every now and again for a week at a time
or so to hit that limit but you should
really be at that limit or below for
almost all of your trainings it's okay
to train a little bit less sometimes
considerably less especially if you
really beat up but it's almost never a
good idea to train more than your MRV so
as long as you know what about your MRV
is of everything combined and you keep
it to that so for example if you if it's
a one-to-one trade-off in your
experience like a hard rolling sessions
about as hard as a hard lifting session
if you've had four hard rolling sessions
this week or you have them planned
because maybe there's a new instructor
in town or you're visiting a friend who
has a great Jitsu school when they do
open man all the time maybe instead of
lifting four times a week like you
usually do if you're doing one extra
roll that week maybe you can or one
extra rolling session maybe you can go
to three days a week of training those
kinds of adjustments mean that all of
your training is within your ability to
recover and not excessive to it as long
as you're doing that
you are taking care of a huge fraction
of the trade-off I mean this is a huge
part of the trade-off more one thing
less of another
and so forth bounded by your total
ability to recover now because details
matter once we're all ready if you're
not doing this part all this other stuff
I'm going to tell you is barely going to
make any difference but if you're
already very adept at gauging recovering
knowing how much is too much and how
much is good anything less than that
then you can be really starting to focus
on exact recommendations to do in the
session over the course of the day the
week and so on so here they are first of
all some recommendations for you for
designing your training sessions to get
to both most balance out of both so
number one and some of this is going to
be really obvious stuff that if you
involved in jiu-jitsu for a while it's
going to be pretty obvious to you some
of this if you've been involved in
lifting for a while is going to be
pretty obvious to you but a lot of you
folks that are starting lifting because
you want to get better jujitsu even
though you've been rolling for a while
or a lot of you that are starting to
roll for the first time or for the first
month or the first year and have been
lifting for a while this could be a
pretty good revelation so number one
you're going to get really strong in the
weight room that's what the weight rooms
for don't use jiu-jitsu training as an
opportunity to increase your strength
you don't need that do you see training
is going to be what improves your
technique so don't muscle stuff on the
mats if you know that you're going let's
say against a weaker opponent and you're
trying to get a guard past that you know
it's sloppy and you shouldn't be getting
it they're just weak don't muscle
through it if they do the right
techniques to try to stop you and you
can just bulldoze through them don't do
that
turn your strength down a little bit
switch your pass or improve your passing
technique to get the past the right way
so that you learn more because when you
come up against a really strong opponent
you won't be able to bulldoze through
them and you'll have to know that
technique anyway and because you get
your weight training at the gym anyway
there's really no point of muscling
people outside of a few kaykai scenarios
that I'll talk about later number two
when you're doing your jude's techniques
even in live rolling you might want to
use something like 75% strength right
use your technique primarily use speed
and use endurance and training now the
thing is for a lot of us meatheads who
are transitioning to in jujitsu that's
takes away one of our biggest weapons
that we have but the real question you
have to ask in jujitsu is are you there
to learn to become better and ultimately
more effective or either to score ego
points by beating up white belt girls or
something like that
there's people that do that stuff all
the time so what you want to do is cap
your strength to maybe about 75% to
still use a good deal of it because
we'll talk about in specificity that's
what you're going to have to display on
the mat eventually in competition but
most of the time just cap it at about
75% we're really focused on technical
perfection or execution with good
technique speed because the faster you
put your techniques on someone the
faster the less likely they're going to
react properly and thus they're going to
pay for it by losing out in that
particular situation and endurance
what is endurance mean in training how
do you train endurance and training it
means you keep up an aggressive pace now
for a lot of us meatheads that sucks but
that's the very thing that we can really
benefit from so what does an aggressive
pace with high speed techniques means it
means you put on the technique super
fast then when one's not working it gets
blocked you switch to another one right
so if you want to do some kind of pass
but that doesn't work you move the legs
of the other direction and pass from the
other side for example and you go back
and forth until you get the pass that
you want if you're on bottom and you
stuck on bottom let's say bottom side
control you continue to move and assert
yourself putting in under hooks etc the
entire time to make an effort to get out
that is going to be SuperDuper hard it
works crazy at your endurance but it
also works on exactly the same thing you
need as opposed to bench pressing
someone off of them which you can
already do anyway if you have to if you
have to part is critical to mention here
so there's an exception here you want to
use 75% of your strength on average and
training until and unless you're a
couple of weeks out from BJJ competition
and competition nobody gets rewarded for
pulling off a technique really crisply
they only give points if you achieve the
positions and the Mac ends if you get
the submission and vice versa if you get
submitted to match that is not in your
favor so you're going to want to bring
all of your weapons to competition you
don't stand around afterwards you be
like well if I use my strength that guy
would have lost you got to use it all
and to use your strength properly you
have to
used to using your strength because if
you never use your strength enrolling
ever at all you always cap at 75% into a
little bit of a situation where the
first time you try to use your strength
you're not used to your body moving like
that for example if you try a leg drag
pass for 75% you're used to a certain
amount of resistance and you can crawl
up the leg to make the pass out to the
outside but if you're in a competition
setting and you like drag like your life
depends on it that might actually wiggle
the guy's whole body in the opposite
direction all of a sudden you have a
clear open pass but you're like three
feet away from the guy because you
dragged him so far that he's now wide
open and the thing is you don't know
what to do from there because you're in
a position you've never really been
before arm training so you have to make
sure that in the weeks several weeks
probably 2 to 3 leading up to an
important competition for yourself you
got to get at least some rolls
usually with strong people that you're
going to meet in your weight class if
you can and turn up the gas on those
rolls you use your strength but because
you already have a great technique
basing you've already been applying
force it's not going to be super tough
within a couple of weeks you're going to
really know how to use all of your
weapons it'll be a fun time but it's
going to be a time that shouldn't be
sustained because remember we're just
doing that to get ready for competition
as soon as competition is over we go
back to prioritizing what we really need
which is technique learning makes sense
point number three if you're going to be
lifting okay within a lifting session is
use good lifting technique especially
full range of motion for two big reasons
one good lifting technique without
heaving and hoeing and doing all kinds
of weird stuff and cheat curling it's
going to keep you less at risk for
injury so if you're Brazilian Jiu Jitsu
individual is coming to the gym for the
first time or first couple times to lift
weights don't do itto stupid dumb
because that's going to get you hurt and
then people are going to be like hey you
want to have a roll like I can't roll
today hurt my bicep curling 95 pound
dumbbells no look at you and be like
even Chrome 95 look well not really I
was using mostly my hip musculature and
that's when I realized my bicep was a
limiting factor and it decided to get me
a good old pull so by using good
technique you keep yourself less likely
to get injured and thus better
just doing more jujitsu instead of being
sidelined in the gym which really suck
as a remember if you're using the gym to
get better it reduces the last thing you
want is the thing you want to make you
better actually making you worse second
reason that we need to make sure to have
really good technique and who usually
comes with full ranges of motion
full ranges of motion have an incredibly
awesome transfer to Brazilian jiu-jitsu
the bro at the gym who does bench
presses half way up and half way down
that might be just fine for him and
probably better if you did a full range
of motion but he's just too broke the
gym he doesn't fight other people for
fun and he's never going to be put into
an amerikaner into a Kimora where he's
never going to sit in someone's closed
guard and have to really open up his
chest and try to produce force to
lengthen out their limbs to make room to
pass that's not a concern of his if you
do skull Crusher's for example and you
just go from here to here you're not
going to have as much strength because
of specificity starting from this
position but where do you start from if
someone passes your side control and
you've got your your guard up you're
right here at the very bottom of your
skull crusher ability and if you're not
that person will push you to the very
bottom of your triceps range of motion
so if you're lifting in the gym if you
do full range of motion full squats
especially for your Barre and Bolin and
bottom players if you do full squats
full pull-ups back rows all the way
stretching and all the way to the chest
full range of motion bench presses
overhead presses tricep moves that way
you're going to get strong to the full
range of motion to which in jiu-jitsu
exposes you which is everything as again
if you don't want to be in a certain
range of motion good enough opponent
doesn't matter they will put you into
that range of motion if you're still
strong from everywhere you have that
much more of an ability to get out one
of my favorite moves is stack passing
the triangle for example so I literally
force someone's legs kind of behind
their head to where their knees are
almost touching their face and I'll tilt
them up and use that to pass what can
they do to defend that move well if
they're significantly strong in their
legs especially in their glutes and
their quads
that real far-end range of motion they
can give me a crapload of trouble but
your ballooning knee right off of them
or at least pushing off the long enough
to reassert their guard but if they
don't squat at a full range of motion if
they don't do lunges in a 4 inch of
motion if they don't leg press letting
their knees come all the way down and
outside their chest when I put them in
that range of motion even if they're
pretty strong through some range of
motion they're going to be very exposed
and I literally felt that before on
people pretty strong people I put them
in an awkward position like an IR I can
guess that they don't train with a full
range of motion but when you are going
up against people to train to the full
ROM not only they more effective against
you in a variety of positions but their
ability to give me a pain in the ass to
defend things you thought were a sure
thing are really really awesome full
range of motion training super highly
recommended for that reason next really
want to avoid and this goes for almost
everyone ego-driven other strong guy on
the mat challenges outside of
competition prep or in competition if
you're prepping for a competition and
there's a guy visiting from another
school and he's the same way class and
he's also stronger there's a girl
visiting and she's pretty jacked you
know mess em up use your strength show
em who's boss at competition you got to
use everything you can but because you
want to reduce your fatigue and
likelihood of injury on the mat if
there's another jacked person or
something like that
do your normal jujitsu technique with
them if they happen to muscle some
things in win a couple of you know fake
match points that nobody counts points
at training right but if they manage to
get a couple positions on your
submissions off of you just by muscling
stuff you got a no outside of comp prep
that if were to really hit the fan
and if you really wanted to use your
strength they don't have the technique
to back up what they're doing but you do
there's been numerous times where I've
been pretty well mauled by jacked-up
white belts if I wanted to turn on my
strength I would have blown them into
pieces but I'm not in the business of
doing that I would pro serve in my
really good technique and sometimes they
just bull rushed right through it that's
okay because I don't have a ton of II
walk a oz I have a ton of ego issues but
I'm able to make sure that when there's
another jacked guy
us to play jack guy let's bash our head
against the wall white Bell stuff with
me I'm not you I'm not usually allowing
that because I just don't want to get
hurt
right we've all been in that scenario
where a crazy psycho white belt with one
stripe comes in from another school and
he's 250 pounds and he wants to kill
everyone and you can roll with that
person just fool with them safely
execute your technique if you get into
these kind of gede ragging Bowl matches
where you're grinding your face against
each other that just enhances your
chance of injury and then what are you
gonna do you going to get back to the
gym like I was going to train back and
biceps but I pulled one of my forearm
flexors and one of my lats just messing
around with a huge guy him and I learn
anything from that session no but even
if he asked the yes was well it's how to
apply my strength in a competition
setting do I have a competition coming
up no so what the hell do I need that
for see where I'm going with this so I'm
going to crazy ego stuff know when to
say when warm-up for both lifting and
jujitsu okay
warming up is going to reduce your
chance of injury don't just jump in
there and start doing hard rolls I would
recommend taking a first live role as
just a flow role or just an easier role
the cool thing is is if you're already
strong from lifting weights you can roll
with a lot of people and make the roll
on your terms and we'll talk about a
specific kind of game in just a second
that you can tailor to if you really
like your strengths and really want to
reduce injury risk in jiu-jitsu if
you're super strong a lot of rules can
be easy rules for you if you just hold
on to the person a bit more and are a
bit more passive because they can't
really do much to you if you're playing
a defensive game so the first match you
might want to play a more defensive game
a little bit more relaxed let them get
some points keep your guard and then in
the second role when you're nice and
warmed up then you can start to turn on
the offensive game and get a bit more
dynamic lastly and we're going to talk
about this much more later much more
particular recommendations if you're
very strong into fairly in your reverse
okay so if you're a power lifter or a
body builder or seriously involved in
strongman and you want to keep being
seriously involved in all sports so you
really don't want to get hurt you get to
but if a passion for jiu-jitsu and you
want to be good at it and you want to
compete a lot of what I'm into for
example you might want to try to tailor
your jiu-jitsu game and this is a
something that blue belts and up will
probably understand a bit more white
belts you'll have to worry about a game
yet you just learned your Jitsu and then
it starts to grow after you blue belt
usually so you might want to change your
game to one that is more conducive to
your strengths and one that really
reduces the chances of injury and that's
what I would call one of my teachers dr.
John case also another one of our
consultants Renaissance she's a black
belt under Jason Berkshire in Kansas
City she's won Pan Am's before at other
belt ranks and and master's world and my
current coach Josh Bogle was so so Jen
case calls us the barnacle game like you
know that thing that sticks to ships and
moves really slowly or my current coach
the great Josh Vogel from balance what
he calls the sloth game and it's
basically the same digits as everyone
else plays but it doesn't have a lot of
open dynamic guard passing not a lot of
crazy upside down antics it's not super
fun to watch it's actually quite boring
to watch this kind of give unless you're
a jujitsu player and especially if you
play the game that game relies on
strength and meticulousness of technique
to stay really close to your opponent
and crawl up them in strategic ways
occasionally getting a bit more dynamic
kind of taking what you can get and
scooting and freezing taking what you
can get scooting the freezing creating
an opening scooting and freezing that
way you're not on your feet a ton you're
not passing super dynamically or
sweeping super dynamically it's the
dynamic stuff that works really well but
as a really much higher chance of
getting you hurt if you really don't
want to be messed up by jujitsu but you
really want to do it you're lifting
super important try to work in elements
of that slower more meticulous game your
strength is going to come in super handy
because you're going to be able to crawl
up people real slow and they get real
claustrophobic is they can't do anything
about it it's on your terms now it
really does favor your strengths but
because it's a slower game and
because you don't open much a distance
between your opponent your chance of
injury goes down a lot a consideration
if you really really value your lifting
and really don't want to get hurt from
jiu-jitsu keep that in mind we'll come
to it later so that's for session
structure that nonetheless benefits most
everybody daily structure also
recommendations for pretty much everyone
involved in both lifting ng Jitsu there
are some more stuff to say so one big
thing is to split your sessions as far
apart in the day as you cannot that
usually means that if you need some food
in your stomach to train in the morning
you want to breakfast before you go to
Train and you almost certainly want some
food before you go to sleep at night so
you don't want to wait train at 6:00 in
the morning when you wake up at 5:50 and
do Jiu Jitsu up until ten fifty you know
p.m. and then at eleven you go to sleep
right after you shower you might not
want to do that you want to leave some
meal intervals in there but generally if
you have sessions in jiu-jitsu and
lifting you want to split them as far a
part of the base possible that gives us
two distinct advantage one you can
recover more from every training session
that you do because you have more time
afterwards to recover and thus you set
up greater ability to adapt right
because we train right after another
training session the signals for
adaptation get really muted from the one
we did first so if you lift a lot of
really heavy weight you go right to
jiu-jitsu afterwards the lifting is
still going to work but it's going to
work less than if you ate and rested and
recovered after for a while secondly
second sessions quality is going to be
much higher if you're rested imagine
going and doing a crapload of jiu-jitsu
and then doing lifting right after how
well is lifting we're going to be beat
up it going to be so tired depleted
exhausting dehydrated you're barely
going to be able to make a stimulus and
lifting
so whatever sessions you have and this
is tough I know it's tough from a
schedule in perspective real world
especially for those of us who have
nine-to-five jobs
try it as much as you can as many times
in a week as you can just split that
daily structure pretty far I would say
if you're getting anywhere between four
to six hours between the end of one
session let's start of another you're
doing real well for yourself much over
that's probably a bit of an exaggerated
benefit second point in any particular
day I almost always recommend to do
weights first
in the day and then later in the day do
Jiu Jitsu in most cases why first of all
if you're really tired from weights it
allows you to use a lot of technique
because people say hey don't use your
strength you know good news I just did
legs four hours ago I don't have any
strength left great you just have to
rely on technique second thing it lowers
your injury risk first of all because
you're not dynamic enough intricate
anymore you don't have any energy and
second of all it lowers your injury risk
during weights a lot Jiu Jitsu beats you
up like nothing else literally and if
you do weights after do jutsu training
you'll notice that your ability to do
weight sucks you're way beat up during
weights and that means that if you have
someone pulled your arm a bit too far in
Jiu Jitsu when you start over loading it
with bench pressing you can actually
pull a muscle because it's pre pulled
already if you switch the tool around
that little mini injury would have more
time to heal until your next training
session the next day and secondly Jiu
Jitsu beats up your joints it kind of
makes them a little bit sore and stiff
for at least about a day maybe half a
day so if you lift weight earlier than
that let's say you do Jiu Jitsu at 2:00
p.m. and then at 6:00 p.m. you lift
weights then what's going to end up
happening is you're going to barely have
any energy to provide an overload which
is why you're in the gym to begin with
by the way and everything's going to
feel like total crap you don't believe
me just give this a shot you'll realize
pretty quickly what's going on you may
want to switch this a couple of weeks
before you're just a competition prep
engine is a competition prep what you
want to get used to doing is you want to
get used to playing jujitsu with your
energized ready fresh in the morning
self because that's how you're going to
compete in competition they give you
plenty of time to rest between matches
more importantly you show up to the
competition and you're fresh you got to
be able to compete with your full
strength so last couple weeks before
competition you might want to really
tone down your lifting we'll talk about
that later it's a really good idea
anyway and we
structure your daily training so that
your juice is first you hit it fresh you
get a feel for what your body's like
when you have all of your energy and
then you lift much later you can do
extra cardio adjacent to Brazilian
Jujitsu
so you can do extra cardio pre or post
jiu-jitsu um if you do extra cardio pre
jiu-jitsu so for example you have
jiu-jitsu but you also need to do a bit
more cardio because you're getting ready
for bodybuilding shor physique
competition you can show up to the gym
gym the weightlifting gym and get on a
piece of cardio equipment burn you know
4 or 500 calories and then put on your
key and go to jiu-jitsu right after
that's totally fine really make sure to
hydrate super well and consider a an
electrolyte drink okay to make sure you
get all of your electrolytes your salts
that you lost because you want to
hydrate during the cardio and after so
that you're fully hydrated jiu-jitsu if
you're dehydrated Jitsu 2 things are
automatically increased your risk you're
going to perform poorly your energy is
going to suck you can have shitty
practice and your chance of injury goes
up so you want to stay super hydrated if
you do cardio after your jutsu
you can stay hydrated just find doing
incline walking dehydrated not much of a
problem unless it's clinical levels plus
you're going to be thirsty after jujitsu
anyways you will drink a bunch of water
it's just going to suck to do cardio
after jujitsu but if I had to pick I
probably do cardio after jutsu
because you know cardio is always you
just get it done jiu-jitsu stuff and I
want to save most of my energy for that
another really quick consideration if
you do cardio especially if it's for
your legs and then you sit in a car for
five minutes drive at a jujitsu or 10
minutes or 20 minutes or something or
even if you walk over to the judo gym
which might be down the street or the
same building if there is a bit of
stiffness that kind of occurs after
cardio you know you like incline walk
for a while order the elliptical or the
bike your legs feel kind of pumped and
stiff
make sure you do some dynamic stretching
for really loosen them up stretch them
out before you get to rolling because
you don't want to get hurt
that's daily structure what about weekly
structure so how do we structure our
week this is a bit more of an advanced
discussion to get the most out of both
jiu-jitsu and lifting and here's
a lot of us won't have a flexibility to
take all of this advice because
sometimes liquid can either train on
Saturday and Wednesday or we don't train
at all but to the extent that you can
take this advice that your schedule
allows I would highly recommend it so
first things first you don't want to
schedule your Brazilian Jujitsu sessions
especially hard ones before your biggest
lifting days right because if you do
that you're going to be so beat up for
your big lifting day that if it's truly
a big lifting day and you're providing a
ton of overload lots of force lots of
volume she just is going to hammer you
like crazy from doing that I would
schedule your a lot of your jutsu
sessions a third day of later after a
big lifting session or the day after or
something like that why because you're
going to be low on energy for sure but
you still can execute all of your
techniques it's not going to be a
problem and because you're not able to
use strength as much you might be a
little bit more inclined to pay
attention your technique to win the role
is usually not to win and in addition to
that you are giving time so basically
you know it your juice is going to mess
you up a ton anyway and if you train
your heaviest sessions really write us
or the day of couple hours after you do
your so you do your heavy lifting and a
couple hours after you do your hard you
do to stuff your harvest of the week or
you do it the next day that gives you
that couple of days to get really messed
up so that the rest of the week isn't
going to be as messy for you and you
have a distinct time to recover that
brings us into point two is they should
probably have or at least try for some
semblance of three distinct parts to
your training week part one is where you
do your hardest lifting and your hardest
jujitsu all in the same stretch of two
to three days I know it sucks it'll be
tough times the second part of your week
should be moderate weight training
it's not as hard and modern in jujitsu
maybe more drilling some lighter roll
something like that to start bringing
fatigue down or at least not increasing
it any further but getting in more good
work and lastly the last part of your
week or however you choose to structure
it in the sequence the sequence doesn't
really matter you want to have a time
for either distinctly very easy lifting
/ to do - only drilling or only
technique learning no rolling or maybe
just super easy flow rolling or with
lifting super light super low volume
stuff or and a total day off and I would
recommend at least one day off from
everything jiu-jitsu n weights in the
week that allows for the following to
occur your fatigue and stimulus will
peak at some point in the week then
we'll have a distinct time to drop off
and really really reduce and then you
could hit it again and go back hit it
again and go back and that's a principle
of training called SRA stimulus recovery
adaptation the body progresses best when
it has a rather distinct times to get
really messed up and really distinct
times to relax and grow and progress and
acquire techniques and then hit it again
just like a work week is a real Monday
through Friday you grind the weekends
you rest if you mix it all in something
is lost and fatigue accumulates more
quickly so what you don't want it's like
every single day of the week to be some
combination of hard to Jitsu light
lifting or the other way around that you
never really get a true day a true time
to bring fatigue down so fatigue just
keeps going up like this up and up and
up and after a while your training isn't
as good as it could be so some
pulsatilla t to the week is probably a
very good idea so if you are an advanced
individual in Brazilian Jujitsu you
really value BJJ you can change this a
little bit so you have part of the week
that is hard BJJ training and easier
lifting because your hardest BJJ
training is going to require amazing
recovery session to session day to day
and you don't want to mess that up with
lifting so you're going to want your
easier lifts to be there then you're
going to want part of the week that has
moderate - Jitsu for you so more
drilling or rolling against easier
opponents and your harder lifting
so we're kind of have this balance here
but you still want a part of the week
that has full rest days and or very easy
trading so instead of having a boom boom
boom kind of setup if you're really
advanced in jutsu maybe you can have a
boom super hard rolling hard lifting
plus easy rolling because you know the
lifting is not going to be nearly as
hard for your rolls or if you're really
advanced and then you have you're off
and off days and like training sessions
basically if all this is exceedingly
complicated what you can always take
away from it as this have distinct times
in your week that are easier and
distinct times that are all-around
harder that's going to be much better
than having everything spread out
completely evenly which is a temptation
but it's the wrong temptation all right
so an example of that you're going to be
able to see this on your screen
hopefully is just just a scent this is
not a golden schedule this is not dr.
Michaels Rochelle's secret sports
science jutsu schedule
this isn't even my schedule I made this
up on a spot just an example of how you
can apply this so Monday Tuesday we
squat on we bench and weights early in
the morning or something like that later
in the day we have hard rolls and
jiu-jitsu this might include class and
then open that or after or it could just
be open mats or something like that
whatever your schedule allows or
whatever your actual jiu-jitsu facility
allows so a ton of really hard stuff
notice really hard stuff Monday Tuesday
Wednesday we take a full break we don't
ask we just have so happens in the week
that it's a full break t can go down a
little bit Thursday we have deadlifts
and lower body accessory which is really
hard stuff and a little bit of easier
rolling and drilling and then on Friday
we have upper accesory notice that
Thursday and Friday so Monday Tuesday
that was hard stuff total it was really
hard
Thursday and Friday is already moderate
right and then Saturday we do easier
rolls and drilling no lifting on
Saturday and no lifting more digits on
Sunday so Saturday plus Sunday we got
that one off day we even had one on
Wednesday for sure we check that off
list and look all of Saturday so weekend
is just easier rolls and drawing oh my
god it's so awesome
that gives us that distinct 3 T or at
the very least two tiered structure
super hard stuff not so hard stuff
easier stuff and it doesn't have to be
in sequence it can be super hard stuff
easy stuff moderate stuff
anyway you want to do it just as long as
the three two to three day phases are
included the week you're good to go all
right so we got daily structure we got
session structure we got daily structure
we get weekly structure let's talk about
priority phases that last for weeks to
months okay
some recommendations first one you want
to pick your weight competitions your
weightlifting whatever it is physique
etc and your Brazilian Jujitsu
competitions
ideally putting them at opposite ends of
the year so if you have a lot of
tournaments in jiu-jitsu in the summer
try to pick your lifting competitions or
bodybuilding competitions in the winter
that means you're going to get a lot
more time to be really specific about
what you want to improve and you don't
have to peak for both at the same time
what's really shitty do bodybuilding
show on July 25th and really important
just competition on August 1st how the
hell are you supposed to get perfectly
good or maximally good for both of those
at the same time well the answer is
there is no answer that you just not
gonna be able to do it right and and all
the adjustments you'll have to make to
be the best body builder are simply not
going to be they're going to be opposite
of what you do to be the best jiu-jitsu
player so you want to pick your
competitions to hopefully at least have
some pretty decent space between them
ideally be clustered at opposite ends of
the year for your waste competitions if
you want when it comes time to do your
weightlifting competitions or your
bodybuilding competitions or what have
you want to take a couple of points
first you want to do more weekly weight
training sessions in the months leading
up to that kind of more as you go endl
longer sessions with more volume in the
gym and fewer Brazilian jiu-jitsu
sessions thanks Sam so far you want to
reduce the amount of live roll frequency
as the competition nears what does that
mean that means you can still do a lot
of drilling as competition years because
drilling is a pretty good cardio and the
chance of injury is like incredibly
minimal it's a good time to really drill
a lot of techniques but hard live rolls
really high risk of injury you just
don't want to get hurt when you're
already depleted already fatigued from
preparing from weightlifting contest
reduce lateral frequency as competition
years reduce live roll intensity so even
if you do take live rolls which is
totally cool don't go all out nearly as
much come
up close to a weightlifting competition
or bodybuilding competition one two
three weeks out of your meet in which
you're going to be competing in physique
or strength sport I would recommend
eliminating live roles altogether so if
you're going to come to YouTube just
drill know live roles you don't want a
chance it can you imagine spending six
months preparing for a strongman contest
and then pulling your bicep and a live
role week out that would be terrible you
just away six months of training for
what they don't just move the
competition you know five days later to
let your bicep heal it's on that day and
if you're not writing on that day too
bad you've got to come next year pick
another competition all together if it's
BJJ competition season you're peaking
for jujitsu competitions here's how you
do it you do more Brazilian Jiu Jitsu
weekly sessions so maybe usually train
three times you want to train maybe five
the sessions can be longer you take more
roles you can reduce the number of
weightlifting sessions you have maybe
usually train with weights four times a
week now it could be two or three and
you have less volume in each weight
training session so you want to take
exercises out take sets and reps out so
you really have just a core of
maintaining your physical abilities
versus improving them in the gym you
want to of course increase your live
roll frequency and intensity as the
competition nears because that's what
you're going to be asked to do a
competition and the week of competition
so you can train all the way up to the
week before a competition the week of
should be incredibly easy lifting so if
you compete on Saturday which is pretty
typical in jiu-jitsu Monday and
Wednesday you want to have two sessions
each one of which on average would be
about half the normal on a weight you
lift for like half the sets and reps
very low volume very achievable few
literally like a warm-up just to keep
you limber that's going to be awesome to
help bring down fatigue and of course
you should be tapering your Jitsu
training by that point to less and less
more intense sessions but fewer of them
so when you get to the actual
competition you can be maximally
prepared I've actually done competitions
before when I had a little bit of
different trade off about jujitsu
weights where I literally had done hard
leg workout the day before jutsu
competition I got away with it because I
was a wipeout I was stronger than
everybody else oh my god I really not
want to do that nowadays because it
would really interfere with performance
so take that for what it is alright so
we got through the training stuff
nutritional strategies what can we do as
far as super basics if you guys really
want to know more about nutrition for
performance pick up the Renaissance diet
I'm the first author on that a really
good understanding of performance
attrition from that it's a little bit
dated at this point we're going to be
issuing a volume to sort of a second
edition within a couple of months this
filming so by probably about November
2017 December 2017 the vol 2 should be
on it should be a really good book here
are just some really good basics to go
by nutritionally for to do certain
weights combination so first of all you
want to stick to the basics that's
number one grab a protein per pound of
body weight enough carbs to fit your
training needs if you want more details
there on the Renaissance diet and enough
fats and here's the deal if you are
lifting for just recreation then you
don't hit your macros and stuff all the
time either enough calories and we
regularly don't eat good foods um you
know you're just like look good not as
good as you could have or even you look
just as good you could have but your
progress in that fast and no big deal
you'd only lose out on much if you are a
jiu-jitsu player and you value your
Jitsu a lot every time you're not as
good on your diet as you could have been
is an opportunity for you to get better
faster that has been lost and when you
get beat next time maybe it will be
tomorrow in your foot mat and that one
big brown belt smashes you again you
could have not been beat or been beat
not as badly or even won if you
consistently applied nutrition and stuff
I it's very easy to talk combat sport
athletes into doing good nutrition and
stuff because it's less of you getting
literally messed up alright and more of
you winning you like to win more like to
be good at what you do you like to get
on the madame actually produce follow
your nutrition basics at the very least
I mean have to get psychotic about
everything but at least get the basics
in secondly timing is usually not very
important with regards to training but
in to time of day training especially if
you have weights in the morning and
jiu-jitsu in the afternoon or something
it gets to be pretty damn important so
at the end of training for that first
session consider a carb protein shake to
replenish to begin to reply
your glycogen stores to mute catabolism
to set you up to recover really well for
that second session in between those
sessions you might have you know 1 2 3
meals at those meals have lots of
carbohydrates keep your fats relatively
low and have plenty of protein that AHS
you replenish your muscle glycogen
stores which is a stored carbohydrate
that allows you to perform more highly
on the mats the Xplosive be dynamic and
have exactly what we want for jiu-jitsu
which is high intensity endurance it
means you can continue to be powerful
and explosive over and over over for a 6
7 8 minute round which is exactly what
you want if you are a low carb diet we
should not be doing for jiu-jitsu
basically ever or if you don't eat a lot
of carbohydrates after you train with
weights and before we get to jiu-jitsu
your performance is going to suffer so
make sure you plenty of carb containing
meals last tip for this one don't go to
sleep without getting some protein and
carbs post-training
and especially if you have training the
next morning so for example if it's
Tuesday night and Tuesday night you have
a bunch of rolls jiu-jitsu 9:00 p.m. is
when you get out 9 30s when you're
showered and ready to hit the hay and
then next morning at 7 you have a big
lifting session for example or a pretty
important lifting session if you don't
get a lot of protein and carbohydrates
after that you do too before you go to
sleep your recovery is going to be
seriously injured you're just not going
to perform at that session the next day
like you like kind of no matter what you
have breakfast pretty much after
jiu-jitsu I know a lot of these sessions
are later at night you're home you're
tired you might not even be hungry eat
carbohydrates eat plenty of protein eat
a nice big meal to recover you for the
next days everything ahead and it's just
going to prevent muscle loss even if you
don't have some kind of session the next
morning it's good advice all around and
I would almost never get home after
training session and just go to sleep
that idea stay away for a bit eat then
go to sleep you'll be just fine
supplements dharna magic supplements so
if you're looking for something like do
I have to take this and that to recover
the answer is no it doesn't exist eat
mostly healthy foods
which means what eat your diet center
around veggies fruits whole grains lean
proteins and healthy fats if you need
more about what that means
pick up the Renaissance diet book or the
understanding healthy eating it's
actually called understanding healthy
eating a book also authored by myself if
you want super in-depth details we have
a bunch of templates available around us
on speared ization which tell you what
to eat but fundamentally eat good foods
and a lot of you guys you don't even
need that stuff it's great hey listen
you know co-founder the company I make
money if you buy that stuff but the
thing is I'm completely honest with you
a lot of you guys know what good eating
really is you look at a you know like
french fries with potato chips dipped in
in coca-cola and go hell yeah that's an
athlete's meal eat well you'll get so
many vitamins and minerals that in all
kinds of nutrients that your recovery
etc performance will be pretty close to
maximize anyway without any kind of
exotic supplement so there are some
supplements you can take at work but
nothing crazy if you're looking for the
big crazy thing you might as well stop
now lastly pre during and post Brazilian
Jujitsu and weights hydrate and consider
an electrolyte beverage electron
libraries are really fully rehydrated
including all of your salts as well as
your fluids what I mean by pre is if you
are driving to jujitsu start sipping on
your electrolyte beverage get a couple
of big gulps down before you roll
because a lot of rehydration once you're
already dehydrated takes like 30 minutes
or hour and you're done with practice
buy them during practice in between
drilling between drilling and the open
mat rolls when after your warmup before
drilling starts take a bunch of big
gulps of that electrolyte beverage you
should probably finish about half of it
by the time you get to rolling and then
in between rolls you can sip on it at
etc but remember sipping on a beverage
between rolls doesn't really do anything
unless you're rolling for two hours
straight doesn't really do anything to
enhance your performance or keep you
hydrated during those rolls it's already
designed to rehydrate you for after
you're done that fluids only going to
start getting into the actual muscles
much later the hydration you have for
those rolls and that determines how well
they go in part is the stuff you do
before we get to jujitsu class during
jujitsu class in the early phases so
make sure
stay on top of your hydration if you
don't really feel like drinking a ton of
water and you look a little thirsty and
there's another half hour until live
rolling starts that's when you drink
don't be like I'll be okay because two
or three matches in their live role
you're going to be toast and then what
are you gonna do it's too late to
rehydrate because that's going to take
30 minutes to do all right so last two
main main slides to get through main
points to convey to you if you're really
focused if you're on one of the extremes
and you only want if you're watching
this video because you want to be the
best jiu-jitsu player you can you have
no special attachment to lifting you're
just doing it to get better jiu-jitsu
we have some cool recommendations for it
so here they are in your weight lifting
weight training program you want to
design it to have the big compound
movers pushing right exercises that push
exercises that pull flexion of the trunk
extension of the trunk movements pushes
and pulls of the legs in addition to the
upper body those are the ones the
exercises that are going to make you
core strong annoying strong painfully
strong you've ruled against people like
that we like I can't do anything
that this person I hate that they're
super strong you can be that person not
if you do alternating bicep dumbbell
curls and side raises and look in the
mirror and check yourself out but if you
do the Clark or heavy basics examples
this is not a complete list squats
incline presses pull-ups with weight
dead lifts Rose lunges upright rows dips
things like that if you can get strong
not four reps but four weight on those
exercises you're going to be a huge
advantage that's where you want to put
most of your lifting focus I'll say it
again and this is point number two you
want to focus on strength that means
most of your lifting should be in the
four to eight rep range and be
challenging in that rep range and you
want to get stronger in that rep range
right for a rep set for the most part
because you get your endurance while you
roll okay if you get just strong when
you combine that with your endurance and
rolling you're going to start to be very
very dangerous
another quick recommendation for folks
at a high level of jujitsu eat more to
get bigger you don't just lift weights
to get bigger you actually need more
food and eat a little less to get
smaller and let that process take your
let it take time because if you want to
drop like 20 pounds in a month to make
the next weight class you're going to
lose a lot of muscle you're going to
generate a lot of fatigue you're going
to suck much more if you have 20 pounds
to lose take three months lose it before
the competition starts so you can slowly
guide yourself in get used to rolling at
your new body weight then you'll be much
better same with gaining let it happen
slowly there is more advanced nutrition
and training recommendation available
for very advanced individuals we can do
specific hypertrophy phases diet
specific lifting but get these basics
down first before you advance yourself
into a more intricate strategies as far
as how much lifting to do this is kind
of last point four sessions per week of
lifting maybe 45 minutes to an hour long
each perhaps to lower body to upper body
sessions per week or for whole body
sessions is excellent more than enough
which you'll need to sort of help your
jujitsu game along if you're lifting
much more than that
you're just kind of lifting for its own
sake at that point and not maximizing
that time for your total MRV to spend
more time getting actually better at
reducing by rolling and drilling for
sessions per week is great if you can
only do three and fit it in that's
totally cool too in the spinal several
weeks of tournament prep I would take
that down to two sessions still train
hard and heavy in those two but then
you're just trying to maintain as soon
as the meet is over and you take a week
of rest or something you go back into
training work back up to three and four
sessions a week you'll be getting
stronger and more annoying for your
competition
now a lot to say about this one if you
are really involved in lifting you want
the most to can--it of lifting if you're
a bodybuilder or a weightlifter or
anything you're at a high level of
competition then how do you go about
involving yourself or training jiu-jitsu
if you want your Jitsu to minimally
impact your lifting you don't want to
get hurt you don't want to get fatigued
you've got big lifting plans but you
also want to give jujitsu a shot and
it's a passion of yours maybe a couple
of tips eight in particular number one
this is a painful tip you want to
prioritize technique class over open
that rolling
there are times
and you're going to go to a technique
class and when they're going to roll
after you're going to leave are you
going to sit around and watch other
people roll why because rolling is
incredibly fatiguing and higher injury
risk you have to do less rolling if you
want to prioritize lifting more you can
still did technique which is a little
bit more boring but it'll make you
better at jujitsu you're gonna drill
plenty which again is boring more boring
than rolling you're going to roll less
in general okay the more you roll good
hard rule the more you roll the more you
roll hard the more energy you SAP away
from your lifting progress and the more
likely you are to get hurt and that's
going to screw you over and lifting -
that's a point number three is when you
do roll this is kind of a weird one
because you might be a super guy person
choose on average to roll with smaller
and less aggressive training partners
basically people that won't get you hurt
is often and roll in kind which means
what you're jacked all right don't use
your strength and weight like a psycho
and get people hurt or just be mean now
what I'm not telling you to do is to
seek out the teeny tiny lower belts and
just smash them to bits
seek out the smaller lower belt ranked
individuals or even just the smaller
individuals at high but rank that know
how to flow roll and go how to not be
nuts roll with them on a technical level
cap your strength and make sure that
you're getting good rules and you're
nice and kind of respectful to them
you're not hurting them just like you
don't want them to hurt you avoid most
of the time rolling with the person in
class that's 200 pounds and goes to Pan
Am's every year at jujitsu and wants to
tear everyone's head off because he also
fights MMA that person's awesome that's
the lifeblood of the sport that might
not be a good idea for you roll with
them all the time because they're not
trying to get you hurt but if you want
to up to their level and give them a
good shot you may get hurt in the
process
alright number four you want to cap your
strength at about 50% at all times
because remember you're involve lifting
you're really strong to begin with 50%
that sucks you can't really show off
showing off gets you hurt more so can it
saps away the glycogen and the all the
other elements of fatigue that you could
be putting into your lifting so what
does that mean that means if you're
trying a technique on some
one at 50% of your max strength and it
doesn't go because they've successfully
blocked it you need to work around and
go to try something else that's it so if
a techniques not working and otherwise
you'd be like oh I can muscle this and
it'll work don't do that because
muscling is not for you you want to save
your fatigue and save your injury risk
if you're really worried about this not
working you're just totally sucking yeah
if you don't know much you'll suck for a
while remember a lot of people it
incredibly high level in jujitsu just
aren't that strong and they've beaten a
ton of people
the name kayo coyote comes to mind right
this is a guy who weighs like I don't
know like 130 or something maybe even
less he's a teeny tiny person and he's
one absolute at worldwide tournaments
before beating everybody
it sure as hell wasn't with a strength
is not a strong person
all right there's tons almost everyone a
dude's competition is stronger than him
right so how does he do it with
incredible speed precision timing and
unbelievable technique and strategy work
on those things that you can get much
better so that if you ever choose to
walk away from a high priority of
strength sport to jiu-jitsu you'll have
an unbelievable box and the strength to
unleash on that and remember learning
how to use your strength is a matter of
a relatively easy transition learning
the technique with which to use it takes
a years right so cap that strength and
if your techniques not working improve
your technique or try another one number
five when you're rolling avoid dynamic
moves especially when they're not needed
you don't have to do a headstand to pass
someone's guard don't even if you have
to depend guard don't anyway okay you
the more dynamic you get jumping guard
passes things like that flying arm bars
if you're not sort of thing the more you
have a chance to land wrong slip twist
something goes and then the rest of your
lifting is really really off to a bad
start
nasty one especially for your former
wrestlers that you are now involved in
lifting his limit stand up quite a bit
stand up gets you her judo gets you her
like nothing else and we're talking
about really big injuries you're going
to pop your knee pop your hip ankle you
want to see some injuries ego watch in
judo class for a while you can just set
your timer it's going to happen sooner
or later someone yells out something's
missing they all went through
away and all of a sudden it's really bad
news if you need to do like four
squatting sessions a week because your
weight lifter you do not have any time
to beginning ACL tears doing judo so
you're going to have to limit your
jiu-jitsu game to standing bystanding
very infrequently maybe not at all start
all the roles on your knees most schools
do that anyway and if someone wants to
go standing with you be like hey listen
I'm gonna start on my knees you can
start standing if you like I'll try to
drag you down don't go standing too
often the less you go standing the less
chance you are to get hurt tap early if
someone's armbar on you and they've
already drags your arm out and their
legs on your face and you know there's
nothing you can do except just buy time
tap even though your arm is only about
this much what the hell are you going to
get out of them bending it this much
just a higher risk of injury at the very
least if you resist the whole time which
you should be because if you just stop
resisting they're gonna blow your elbow
out the other way you're just going to
get a ton of muscle damage and soreness
it's just going to hurt you and lifting
later so if someone catches your arm and
starts to open you up and you already
don't have any other ways to get out
except for muscling the move just tap
right then and there I tap two arm bars
one arm is right here right that's it
here's a better advice don't get armbar
don't get put in that position use your
technique not to be in that position but
when you're in a position already you
already lost the role as far as you're
concerned because you don't want to have
to do what it take to get out of that
you may under competition circumstances
have to so really crazy hardline roles
you might have to practice that but if
you really want to minimize your chance
of injury because you really want to be
as good as you can at your weight
lifting your body composition sport you
want to make sure you tap SuperDuper
early and you want to pretty much avoid
or minimize your exposure to very
vulnerable positions positions that can
lead to high degree of injury for
example for acute injuries you might not
want to get heavy on the leg game
especially against people who are
dynamic fast and put on leg submissions
fast you only got to get heel hook once
for basically that to end your entire
strongman career across right and if you
know you're getting ankle locked a ton
if you're getting knee bardet on that
potential there for injuries is really
high even if you're rolling at someone's
super well intentioned
all you have to do is be me barring you
and then slip and put too much of their
shoulder
and there goes some of your hamstrings
just walk away from a hamstring tear
that's going to mess up your lifting for
maybe several months if you're lucky
maybe forever if you're not leg attacks
and stuff like that other high risk
games like super dynamic standing guard
passes you might just not want to do
that stuff for me personally when
someone gets my ankle most of the time
I'll just tap right away and they're
like I didn't even put it on yet I'm
like I'm not getting out of here uh and
I'm not going to do what it takes to get
out of there you know I try to but you
know push the boot through and all that
stuff but if it doesn't work I don't
wait until I'm screaming in agony I cut
it off early I don't even get into that
leg game as a matter of fact my entire
game is often based on forward facing
the opponent and I keep my ankles talked
away real far back especially if it's
someone good and especially but someone
new in our gym that's visiting because I
don't want them to get an ankle on me
look at a guy like my size you have to
roll against me you think well I
get an ankle it's all the same and
that's totally true a great way to take
apart my game but I know people are
coming for them I don't put them out
there as much as I can if they get
caught out there which happens I tap
right away I'm not in the business of
getting my ankle snapped off my body
it's going to impact my squatting just a
little more than I want chronic wise you
don't want to have to rely on elements
or games that chronically beat you up
sometimes you have to make that
trade-off for example if you have a
barren Bowl if you have an inverted
guard game that is really a big part of
your game it just is
isn't that really good for your back no
I know like five people turning into
discs because they've been playing
invert game so long especially at the
heavier weight classes that sucks but
it's a trade-off you might have to make
if you want to be as good as you can be
if you're mostly into lifting just a bit
in jiu-jitsu avoid things like getting
pretzeled up underneath people all the
time because chronically the wear and
tear might get you hurt after all lastly
mention this before consider whether you
have people have called Barnicle game or
slaw game elements if you want to roll
harder or compete especially but you
still prioritize you're lifting a tongue
you don't have to be dynamic to be good
at jujitsu you can have a slow sticky
meticulous game of occasional pops to
switch positions so you slowly crawl up
somebody pup
me through now you've almost passed
their garb slow leg drag pop and now
you've got their head and now you scoot
around on your side control things like
that minimally expose you to injury they
rely heavily on your musculature so they
are pretty fatiguing but because most of
the time you're not squeezing like crazy
you're just there if they try to push
you off then use your musculature can
actually be a pretty economical game and
one that works well for you it's not for
everyone it's not the best game or
something like that it's not even the
best game for people that are muscular
and strong strong muscular people a
strong muscular person puts a dynamic
gain on you that is really scary
they're like guys throwing me around all
over the place but that comes at a
higher injured risk to him theoretically
so if he wants to reduce his injury risk
you'll really be good a strange sport
physique sport you might want to reduce
how much of that kind of game or those
elements he does and just do the Barra
girl approach most of the time what that
means is this if you really need to win
a match you've got to get dynamic to do
so I think it's okay every now and again
but if you have the choice to do a slow
crawl pass sticking close to that
person's body and that's open or a super
crazy dynamic pass and it's open and you
tend to date that an emic passing more
often you're putting yourself at a risk
you may not be comfortable with so
closing thoughts to wrap this up
hopefully you guys got a lot out of this
here's the deal never kid yourself it's
always about trade-offs people say well
how much should I train as much as you
can brother you're the more the better
false if you can't recover from training
and more you're doing too much so if you
want to add lifting into your already
insane Jiu Jitsu schedule you're going
to have to cut some jujitsu out
somewhere if you want to add Jiu Jitsu
to your already insane lifting schedule
you might have to cut some lifting out
somewhere it just has to have do your
best when you can okay train well eat
well do so intelligently and you'll get
a lot of benefits no matter which path
you choose another tip that we didn't go
through but it's really good idea to
mention take active rest one to two
times a year for about one or two weeks
at a time which means you get away from
both lifting Andrew Jitsu about twice a
year for one or two to two weeks at a
time each time just a you know to use um
so you a euphemism that was an ad as one
set as a playing touch but in the park
right you can just run around and have
fun and don't do anything super physical
stay off the mat stay out of the weight
room if you're in a matter the weight
room just do the easiest stuff ever like
your body really heal for one or two
weeks especially after big important
competitions so that you can reset your
body's the number of injuries and little
tics and twitches that it has backed
close to zero get another productive six
months to a year of training if you're
hurt stop doing what makes it worse
I see people with their arms taped up
doing jujitsu totally fine if that
taping up your arm doesn't hurt your
shoulder but I've seen guys wince in
pain still show up to do some practice
let your injuries heal before you start
hurting them more because there's
nothing worse for an injury then re
hurting it over and over when it's still
not healed because that exaggerated the
healing process months and years
possibly forever it doesn't mean never
be the same shoulder again because you
started on a - earlier you never quit
so if you're hurt stop doing what makes
it hurt do something else or nothing at
all if everything makes it hurt
fundamentally use your brain not your
ego and do what's right you have a lot
of information now I'm sure you've had a
ton before you know your stuff really
well a lot of the times jujitsu and
lifting and the combination it's about
doing very intelligent sport sciency
things but I think more of the time it's
about not doing dumb you already
know is dumb you just lay here you
go get the bus to save ego for
competitions stay ego free on the mat -
the best kind of training eat well
thanks so much for tuning in folks see
man
you