holy every time I see Brian Shaw never
does it not strike me hoing gigantic he
is you and St you're you're a podcaster
brother you can't take your microphone
with you pussy I love it I love it more
[Music]
please hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and today we
are going to talk about about what
matters more in a fight strength or
skill and I have a little bit of insight
to bring to this topic I am a professor
of sport Science and I teach an advanced
strength and hypertrophy course uh at a
master's program at Leman College in the
Bronx and I uh used to be a not so great
competitive powerlifter but I've coached
a lot of quite good powerlifters I'm a
decent competitive bodybuilder at the
amateur level and I have a brown belt in
Brazilian jiu-jitsu from Mr Josh vogle
at the jiujitsu company in Philadelphia
Pennsylvania so I have quite some
experience with fighting and quite some
experience with strength and I am myself
5'6 and roughly 240 lbs at something
like 10% body fat let's take a look at
some videos of gigantic people fighting
smaller people that know things and
maybe while we look at these videos
together I can sprinkle in a bit of
attempted wisdom to explain what the
Dynamics of a fight are actually like
and how much size and strength really
matter compared to
K technique and that was Jiu-Jitsu by
the way in case you were
unfamiliar Dustin holy shit every time I
see Brian Shaw never does it not strike
me how fucking gigantic he is Dustin
porier is an adult male and multi-time
World Champion
fighter Ryan shaww is bigger than the
heavy bag how does that work
unbelievably impressive I've seen Ryan
Shaw a few times though he doesn't know
about these times at like the Arnold and
the Olympia when you see him in real
life compared to other also very jacked
people there's no describing it if
you've ever seen Brian Shaw or someone
his size which of which there maybe one
other person haor Julius Boron uh the
guy from Game of Thrones um it is just
it's disconcerting and it there's no
context your visual field doesn't make
any sense your your ape brain can't
contextualize what it sees oh oh my God
and fighting him is probably the last
thing that will ever enter your mind I
am walking into your world brother now
we're in my gym now yes and uh we're
going to get some Bag work we're going
to get some grappling some fundamentals
of kickboxing let's go Dustin do not
teach Brian Shaw things about fighting
that's scary keep him ignorant so that
some of the rest of us can pretend to be
able to beat him up in a real fight what
are you doing lead hand gotcha step and
Lead hand jab so that's a one now we're
going to do a one two jab
cross and then we're going to do a one
two three jab cross H all right so this
is just clearly for the cameras and it
makes sense cuz they're making a YouTube
video but if you were to teach someone
how to fight the jab by itself is
multiple sessions of instruction The
Cross by itself is multiple sessions of
instruction and a hook is all together
very different teaching three punches at
the same time you can tell Brian's like
what huh what's that it takes a long
time to be able to learn how to
fight that bag's still swinging you know
you might not have any technique but
when you weigh 440 lbs and you're oh the
World's Strongest Man shit happens is
there a way I can hold a pad while you
kick it oh yeah I love that Brian's just
there for the experience he's like I
want to feel what like a real Pro
Fighter kicks like I feel like we should
do that I want to feel the
power
that's fucking scary you know when it's
fast on slow motion it's really fast in
real life I have never fought MMA but
I've trained Jiu-Jitsu with lots of prma
guys and I've been around when they've
been doing their striking practice and
it's just legitimately scary there was a
gentleman in the Philadelphia area Pro
fighter named Paul Felder I believe and
I saw him work with his coach once when
I was doing Jiu-Jitsu and he was over in
the corner doing his striking and every
time his kicker punch landed there was
this like low grade boom that went
across the entire gym and I was like but
but but if my bone was there it wouldn't
be there afterwards fucking scary so if
you ever think you had a shot at the
title and some guy's like a pro MMA
fighter or a top top ranked amateur and
you're like I don't know he looks small
fuck him there's just one leg kick
between you and the realization that you
had no idea what the fuck you were
getting into fucking freaky
now I used to do some striking training
back in the day and we used to do leg
kicks to each other to at least
familiarize ourselves with what that
feels like let me tell you what it feels
like it feels like your leg has become
disconnected entirely in function from
your body but all of the nerves that
used to tell your leg what to do have
been rewired into the pain nerves and
the pain is this weird dull allaround
Sensation that screams ouch but not like
a paper cut it screams something is
wrong with you get really scared and
begin to hyperventilate it's awful and
getting kicked in the leg just the leg
you would think oh it's just a leg kick
is really really debilitating which is
why and I'll probably get to this a
little bit later if you are interested
in true unarmed self-defense now if
you're interested in self-defense RIT
large first thing I'll tell you is this
become exceptionally competent with a
firearm get a license for it see you can
carry it out wherever you go and be
ready to use said firearm in
altercations that you think are life or
death that's true self-defense there are
layers to self-defense there is what's
happening far away there's what's
happening closer there's what's
happening right with you now if somehow
someone was to breach all of the layers
then you should be able to be competent
with your hands and then the best kind
of self-defense in the street has to
come from something like at least two
perspectives perspective number one is
what totality of techniques tactics and
strategies keeps you the safest and
perspective number two is of those that
keep you the safest which ones are more
likely to result in no legal action
against you slash no needless killing of
some drunk frat boy that just thought
you looked like someone else and he took
a swing at you Muay Thai is number one
for self-defense why one of the best
parts about getting competent at Muay
Thai for self-defense if you had to
learn two moves for self-defense one is
the teep it's just a front kick to the
chest stomach maybe if they're short
enough like me head area and it's not
designed to project a lot of force
really quickly it's a low impulse move
it's designed to push people the fuck
away from you with your leg now often
times they fall sometimes they get
really hurt it's a distancing move you
keep somebody hard enough most people
psychologically in remotely sensible
State of Mind even remotely will be like
holy shit fuck that I don't want that to
happen again clearly that person knows
things I'm out or if they come back in
then at least you gave them another
chance to reconsider that whole
situation so as they come back in they
might be like uhuh I don't want that to
happen again and then as they come back
in then potentially you can deploy the
second skill which is uh some sort of
sidekick to the anywhere between the
shin knee and uh thigh area
just generally called a leg kick the
where you hit them isn't so important a
leg kick is great for a few reasons one
it is insanely effective at destroying
most people's ability to ambulate so
that is walk towards you if you leg kick
and back up most people if it's a well-
landed leg kick they'll fall and they
won't get up because the pain is
excruciating and your muscle seize up
and they just they don't don't work
anymore your leg just doesn't work a
competently placed leg kick on someone
who doesn't train they're just going to
fucking stop and wrie in agony that's a
really big deal sometimes you can break
shit and then they're for sure not
getting up if you didn't drop them
they're going to start limping and
they're going to start being really slow
and it'll put the fucking fear of God
into them so the best way to be
competent in a street fight self-defense
scenario is to learn basic Muay Thai
subcategory of that is to learn to teep
and to learn a leg kick and if I said
anything wrong please correct me in the
comments all right back to the video
okay so Dustin is clearly acting for the
camera he could have stood there and
taken that kick the sheer mass of Brian
Shaw's leg is impressive let me get to
my next rant here if you have someone
who's very skilled at combat sport black
belt level which Dustin is absolutely
Way Beyond that and you have someone who
completely untrained but very athletic
and very strong and enormous like Brian
somebody who's insanely well trained
absolutely gets the advantage in any
kind of fight street fight uh definitely
in a technical match in Jiu-Jitsu Studio
or anything like that they're they're
going to win almost all the time
technique allows you to place your hits
where you need people that are technical
also have huge gas tanks because they
don't waste too much energy and they're
used to this kind of stuff a lot of what
happens in a fight is really
unceremonious when untrained people
fight normally after about 15 to 30
seconds they're almost completely gassed
out they just run out of air and then
the fight just is them stand you you
fucking pussy like oh why don't you come
over here and say that they're like fuck
you and they're all gassed out out so
huge advantage to the technical guy now
here's the the caveat to that the caveat
to that if you get Brian Shaw 2 years of
going to Muay Thai class for two
sessions a week on average Brian Shaw
would be devastating the number of
people that want to get kicked anywhere
especially in the leg by Brian Shaw if
he just has one or two years of
Competency in basic striking is fucking
nobody that shit is scary as hell so
it's absolutely true that skill beats
strength and skill beats power most
times but if you take that person who's
really really really big and strong and
in Brian's case the biggest and
strongest and you give them a basic
level of Competency that can take them
into a situation where most black belts
given the opportunity will be like you
know that I'd rather not fight that guy
the submissions are
next oh boy now here's the thing about
Jiu-Jitsu striking everyone has what's
called a puncher's chance hands somebody
like Brian who can bench press 500 lb
for reps if he just throws a hay maker
and it lands it doesn't matter who the
fuck you are you're going night night
that's just too much to deal with in
Jiu-Jitsu in grappling in the
ground the toolbox you have to randomly
win is much smaller and arguably doesn't
exist ground fighting is slower There's
an opportunity for more complex
techniques to be executed and the the
disproportionality between technique and
strength/ size in Striking is techniques
much better in ground fighting and
grappling it's way higher still so I
haven't seen this yet but I assume
Brian's going to be able to do diddly
dick and probably get his back taken and
get choked the fuck out 1
2 and notice Brian actually successfully
got up and and people will say see he
got up but you have someone on your back
who's choking you now what are you
supposed to do about it and then people
who typically don't know how to fight
will say well why doesn't Brian just
jump up into the air and flip on his
back crushing and killing Dustin
underneath him first of all that might
work especially if there's some kind of
Ridge or curb or obstacle bad news that
thing though is people rotate when
they're in the air and people rotate
coming up and you could just land on
your own shoulder or hurting Dustin not
at all breaking your own shoulder and
then you're getting choked to death and
you're on the ground and one of your
arms no longer works big deal another
thing is with Brian Shaw size it would
suck total dick but even if somebody
lands on you and you're a really really
good Grappler and you have a choke C in
already H you probably won't pass out or
die you might break some shit in your
back but in a real street fight scenario
you probably still got that choke sunk
in there and as long as when you're the
guy on top you keep your head tucked in
so that when you are landed on your back
you keep your head tucked in and pushed
forward you don't jostel back and knock
yourself the fuck out which would of
course end the fight to Brian's
Advantage as long as that doesn't happen
you have a very high probability
especially in the life or dust situation
to continue to to stay into the choke
and as soon as Brian would fall back the
choke is in and it just takes a few
seconds like three until you're not
conscious anymore and then you lost the
fight
and it comes
in and that's it saw that one coming
yeah ready yeah 1 two all right so this
is interesting Brian is on top of Dustin
now Brian's shoulder is bigger than
Dustin's head I want people to
understand how enormous of a person this
is and at 440 lb this is never a
situation which you want to be let's see
what
happens yeah first thing he did was he
tried to reach across the arm and get an
underhook and he was like oh shit
there's a lot of delt there that's not
going to work he's didn't to probably
try to frame on the neck into the throat
yep and notice he tried to push away
really hard Brian is one of the world's
best athletes and way 440 so he
counterbalanced nullifying that
effort so Dustin's uh creating some
space there he's already got one arm
through so now what he needs to do is
punch out that arm flip over and turn to
face let's see if I get this
right Ryan's following along this is
excellent
oh
jeez I feel like this is a good position
this a great position all right so boy
did I predict that one wrong Dustin has
given up his back knowing that Brian
doesn't know what to do with it I don't
know if he's playing around who knows I
never judge these things cuz it's all
for camera anyway but this is if you're
Dustin and you're in a MMA fight or
you're in a street fight this is not a
good position this is bad news
yeah that's just the body weight is too
much that's too much oh there he goes
he's tapping yeah okay so he was clearly
faking cuz he could have gotten out of
that but if I ever get to speak to Brian
in person I should be like
Brian if you just spent two years
training in Brazilian jiu-jitsu you
could win blue Bel World
Championships how could you not could
you imagine being 155lb blue belt you're
the next star of the show and you're at
Worlds and your next opponent in the
absolute class weighs 440 and like he's
he's weak right fellas like he's the
former world's strongest man you're
going to do great like okay but doesn't
know Jiu-Jitsu oh he's been training for
2 years private lessons like oh my God
now there are there are tools you can
use against someone like that but when
you go up against someone sufficiently
big and sufficiently strong you
sometimes realize that the toolkit you
thought you had was not as sharp as you
thought you had
had just your B I'm I'm using technique
but yeah just your body weight smash me
is so hard on my diaphragm in my L
imagine yeah yeah that's called fatting
somebody out is when you just lay on
them and they just tap to pressure
absolutely happens okay so Mr Bradley
Martin has apparently got into the uh
the act of trolling professional
fighters of various kinds and asking
them if they think he could beat them up
in a street fight and so I believe the
gentleman he's talking to is a boxer
undefeated boxer that's a cool thing to
be able to say like hey what's your
record like I'm undefeated like you've
never tasted defeat you're way bigger
than me right like you should say you
weigh 260 260
Bradley Martin is a fucking specimen
he's like 6'2 260 lbs unreal fast
athletic quick lean strong as fuck scary
so whatever they're going to talk about
here I'll tell you this can most of the
guys that Bradley's going to talk shit
to beat him in a street fight abso
fucking lutely can they beat him in a
gym fight definitely somebody like
Bradley is so big has such huge reach
has such heavy fucking literally big
hands that all he needs to do is throw
one lucky punch and you're done it
doesn't matter who you are and unless
you're insanely competent Grappler if he
just tackles you and mauls you and just
sits on top of you and beats you with
his fist or hits you with elbows you're
also done he has a Fighter's chance
because he's so fucking enormous and big
and strong there's this world that some
people and there are very few of them
nowadays in the fight Community want to
live in and it's that like a Kung Fu
Hollywood world where if you know enough
techniques you can be a 10-year-old girl
and still beat up a 290 lb man that is
bullshit because if a 10-year-old girl
of any technical level fights a gigantic
man he just picks her up slams her on
the ground and she dies instantly
Bradley Martin can do that to a lot of
grown men so fuck fighting him in the
real world so when he asks people hey
like do you think you could beat me in a
street fight if he asked me I'd be like
honestly bro I don't know I'm not so
confident cuz you could really probably
fuck me up now cuz I'm a belt and
Jiu-Jitsu if I had to fight Bradley
Martin in the street to save planet
Earth I assess my chances is better than
50/50 I don't know like 65 35 fuck that
so all these guys are going to say
various things but most of them know
that you don't want to be fighting
people in the street period and
especially people that are fucking
gigantic and enormous athletic and
people think that like muscles like mean
something muscles don't mean nothing
like they do that's why there weight
classes in boxing sir no disrespect I
know you can beat the living shit out of
me okay when you have big muscles any
level of technique you bring to the
table is Multiplied magnified the only
thing that technique lets you do is put
the force you are trying to impose on
your opponent where and when you want it
but how much force you bring matters
because if there's a 10-year-old girl
somewhere in China or some shit that can
fucking punch you anywhere she wants
she's still 10 somebody like Bradley
Martin gets punched by a 10-year-old
he's going to be like ow what the fuck
else you got if you're a lightweight
boxer you can hit a guy even with no
gloves a couple times in the face and if
they're really big and they have a real
sturdy neck and a thick fucking chin you
might not even knock them out muscles
matter does it matter more than
technique hell no so hopefully this
gentlemen has more to say on that yeah
if I could jump on you then then maybe
if I could hold you on the floor sure
yeah the hold you on the floor comment
is interesting in a sense Bradley is
totally correct if he can jump and get
this gentleman down and hold him on the
floor bad news but also what is your
toolbox on the floor Bradley what do you
know how to do once you're holding
someone down you're holding them with
your arms otherwise they get away then
what are you going to do you're going to
bash them with your face I don't know if
that works you're going to try to Elbow
them but the distance is really close
even this guy on the ground with as good
of a boxer as he is if Bradley creates
some distance I bet you even from the
ground he's going to be like Boop and
there's a fucking knockout chance right
there sure yes but in boxing Noe I know
that's but even but even but even even
in a street fight I'd beat the out of
you in the street no I would I would you
bro I I love it no like for you think
out your weight what's your weight damn
it I want his l no so so 150 around 150
I would Maul you at 150 no so I am close
to Bradley Martin's weight I weigh 240
lb and I'm 5'6 so I'm considerably
shorter but I'm ground definitely not a
huge disadvantage anymore and my
Jiu-Jitsu Coach Josh V he coaches out of
the Jiu-Jitsu Company in Philadelphia
Pennsylvania Josh weighs something like
150 PBS and he's like a fucking geek
nerd Josh I love you please don't kill
me with fucking thick Rim glasses he
looks like a hipster in his big floppy
ears and if you notice they're all
cauliflower so you know not to fuck with
them but if you're just like oh there's
like an interesting looking guy like
whatever he's like I don't know he's
like 5'7 or something and like 155
you're like whatever dude this guy's
like a fucking skater dude like fuck him
I'm a brown belt if I have to be
completely in tune and using my aame to
keep him barely at Bay from killing me
and for years this is only something I
can say recently for years of my career
when I was at blue belt when I was at
purple belt I was going to gyms across
the country in the world beating a crap
ton of black belts Josh would fucking
toast me like I wasn't even there he's
155 lb 155 seems like a small weight in
gym culture that is absolutely enough
weight for a guy to fuck you up and a
boxer at 155 with distance management
with reach with cardio with with
jostling for position oh my God you
never even fucking touch him there's no
way Bradley Martin's tackling this guy
it's just not going to happen you cannot
take a punch though so like you're not
used to getting hit so I've been hit
though no no no no
no abusive relationships at home I'm I'm
joking I think but you've been hit by
you but you've been hit by regular guys
like guys who don't even know how to
punch true big difference uh I know
everybody thinks like oh well he's going
to if you grab me yeah but you have to
get to the point where you have to grab
me grabbing him is hard um if you guys
have seen especially lightweights like
this guy professional boxing matches
getting close enough to punch him
without getting punched is almost
impossible for world champion boxers so
for you and Bradley to this guy probably
looks like he's operating in slow motion
like when this guy
looking at how Bradley comes in he's
probably like and this guy's like Bop
and whap and whap WAP WAP and Bradley's
on the ground bleeding out of his face
so yeah getting a guy like this these
guys have footwork like you wouldn't
fucking believe and this guy fucking
bleeds just pure black athleticism this
is something you can't replace you got
to see it in real life to really be like
oh oh there's levels to this and this
guy's at the top of 20 levels and I'm at
level negative one no no no I'm going to
hit you so many times by the time that
you you do get to me I'm asleep no you
may not even if you're not asleep you
might just be I'm just going to you're
not going to want to fight anymore yeah
a lot of guys have to take a few hits to
the face that aren't dilars to their
Consciousness they've rethought the
situation significantly and then all
this guy has to do is back up a little
bit and get ready to take another volley
of yours and you're like ah ah what do
you know anyway I see myself out you
think you beat me in street fight Scott
that's Nate Diaz
right I love Nate Diaz Nate Diaz is
everyone's spirit animal and his level
of oh yeah no offense we're all all just
jokes here all just uh I'll just banter
as the British say his level of maxing
out his trailer park fighting abilities
is like he is the fucking trailer park
he's the Kingpin in the shit and one
thing you say many things about folks
that live in trailer parks particularly
of the ccasian race variety but they
don't give a fuck and like fear is that
something experience anymore and Nate
Diaz is the king of that I just don't
think he feels the emotion of fear I
don't think it's been probably forever
maybe never that he's looked at another
man and had that like your butthole
shrinks emotion where you cow or you're
like he's just like mouth the Gap like
so fucking what he'll fight anyone and
Bradley Martin is at a very very bottom
of a very huge stack of people that he's
already beat up and he's like who the
fuck are you I love this interaction
you in the street fight yeah you're
you're a podcaster
brother you can't take your microphone
with you pussy I love it I love it more
please I love I love it so the answer is
then yes yeah Bradley's great he's a
fucking great sport about all this of
course of
course the thing is the way Nate Diaz
fights in the ring is kind of like a
street fight like what are you going to
do just first of all is incredible
technical Jiu-Jitsu especially from the
bottom and also he's an unreal Striker
and he's got crazy reach advantages he's
a tall guy with long fucking arms so
Bradley's shit is nullified there and
also Nate Diaz like I don't know if it's
possible to really knock him out he's
got an infinite like take punches
ability and you can see with you know
his eyes doesn't he look like Jared
feather can we put up a picture of what
Jared feather look like all all the all
white trash looks the same I'm kidding
all fucking fun and jokes he's got those
odd that that you look at them and
you're like this is not a person that
punches can hurt it's not his first
puncher throwing at him it's not his
first 10,000 punch you grab a hold of
Deon Haney he's probably most likely
dead yeah yeah but you you gra a hold of
me you're dead yeah especially if you
grab a hold of him here's the problem
what was his name Devon Haney yeah the
boxer yeah like if if Bradley Martin
Scoops him up and dumps him on the
ground and elbows him maybe that's
lights out or if Devon turns around and
Bradley sinks in a non-technical rear
naked choke sure um if you get Nate Diaz
on the ground you were in his world
standing up you get him to the ground
you're also in his world where he's
fucking unbelievable he's put world
champions out on the ground you get him
on the ground it doesn't matter you're
big you're strong it matters if you're
big and strong here's here's Nate Diaz's
ground ability if you're big and strong
and you don't know any technique you get
this High not a harison I love straight
up I love it I think I might be able to
get you yeah yeah Bradley's really good
at talking that shit I would be
physically afraid to cuz like you know I
talk shit on the fucking channel here
but like I'm behind many layers of
protection in in our home studio I don't
ever talk shit like this to people in
real life my fucking all of my body hair
would stand on its ends if it if it
comes to a physical converation in real
life I just regress back to like Jewish
nerd hi don't hit me I've got a is my so
Props to Bradley for maintaining his
composure around someone who if he
decided could just walk over and
mercilessly kill you and you would have
nothing to do about
it you
won't dude one of these days we should
fuck around though tomorrow tonight
tonight oh my God Nate Diaz is man you
could like be anyone and be like hey I
challenge you to a fight you could be in
an airport he'd be like all right sweet
let's do this right now you're like hold
on hold on we have contracts and agents
and everything tonight bro I I would
love that let's go after this oh I don't
want to hurt you before the fight you
won't Scott did you get that I don't
want to hurt you before the fight you
won't it's not even a warm-up for him I
love it everything about that is great
all right take home points one size and
strength and athleticism absolutely
matter in combat but in addition to
technique they all multiply each other
so if you have size and you have
strength and you have athleticism and
you have technique all those multiply
into each other and they're not just
additive that is if you have any one of
those really a lot more than the other
they multiply the power of the others so
if you have a decent level of technique
but you're Ultra fucking strong you're
not going to be just a little better
than the guys with really good technique
you're going to be maybe almost as good
as they are or even sometimes better so
that's Point number one but when you
don't have any technique at all
multipliers of zero typically result in
zero and that's not EX exactly how it
works it's pretty fuck close so if you
have infinite technique which you have
zero strength and power yes you will
lose a fight to everyone because you
can't move by definition is if someone
is insanely technical at a really high
level and they're a competent grown
person adult they're going to beat up
almost everyone no matter how big or
strong they are because a multiplier of
10-fold beats a multiplier of twofold
almost any time next street fights are a
bad idea because they're illegal and you
can get really hurt and you can hurt
other people and you can go go to jail
and all the bad things happen so
generally try to avoid them but if you
want to get some kind of Competency and
self-defense I recommend learning basic
self-defense Theory tactics and strategy
learning how to operate a firearm
potentially learning how to operate some
other kind of bladed weapon though I the
legality of that escapes me at the
moment probably not a good idea to carry
around a long-bladed knife and you will
go to jail for shit like that if you
want our hand-to-hand combat skills that
keep you safe in the street learning
standup specifically Muay Thai
specifically in my opinion distancing
Maneuvers like teps and leg kicks is a
real good idea and also uh learning how
to hold your hands up and protect
yourself potentially jabbing and
crossing a little bit just to create
distance that's really good for self
defense the offense stuff you can learn
just for fun but most of the time you
won't need it slash is criminally
prosecuted if he executed in the street
and lastly Bradley Martin you're the
fucking man you got a lot of you got a
lot of nuts coming in and just getting
thrashed by Jiu-Jitsu guys and uh yeah
respect and I I love the podcast and I
love the fucking comedy but uh don't go
fighting pro boxers man you're you're a
good-looking guy let's keep it that way
you don't want to end up looking like me
alone hopeless even dogs turn away when
I look at
them see you guys next
time