here are three simple ways to make your
lateral raises more effective first
raise the cable height this will work
your side delts harder in a deep stretch
that's because tension is highest
whenever the cable in your arm form a
90Â° angle if the cable is low that angle
happens later in the range when the
shoulder is less stretched but if the
cable is high that angle happens earlier
in the range when the shoulder is more
stretched Second Use cuffs earlier this
week I did a Max rep test using a
conventional dandle and then again using
cuffs I got two extra reps simply by
using cuffs plus they give me a better
mind muscle connection I also like to
hold on to a lacrosse ball because it
increases wrist stability this is
optional though third stretch the cable
across your body instead of stopping at
your side this will increase the range
of motion and stretch the side delts
more