[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization our technique
super in-depth mistakes fixing videos
lateral raises i'm here with joey
satmary of sat strength check out his
channel on youtube and uh you'll find a
lot of really good stuff let's find out
how you can possibly be doing the
lateral raise wrong and let's find out
how to make it go right first off what
is the purpose of the side lateral raise
the purpose of the side lateral raise in
hypertrophy training is to make the side
delts bigger
number one
but a lot of people are really really
really concerned with taking the traps
out of the movement i have no idea why
show me when your traps are too big i
never seen a with traps too
big that just doesn't happen as far as
i've seen it and if you are afflicted
with this terrible condition you can
read up super advanced stuff
on how to make sure you are really
taking the traps out of movement my best
advice don't you worry about taking the
traps out get your side delts right make
sure you're stimulating them make sure
you're feeling the mind muscle
connection make sure you're getting the
metabolite burn and so on and so on and
if you're doing that they're gonna get
bigger and guess what your traps are
gonna get bigger too without you having
to do as much trap isolation so number
one goal grow the side delts and if your
traps get involved don't you worry about
it mechanically there's no way the traps
can actually raise your arms like this
they do a little bit of tilting the
scapula for you that's all they do so
there's no way your traps can take over
for a lateral raise it's just
anatomically impossible lift your arms
get the side that's going and if your
traps are involved no big deal now let's
get to the mistakes
here's a big mistake people do with
lateral raises it's super super common
it's when their range of motion is not
high enough
what does that mean that just means you
have to use more weight to get the same
effect crank your shoulders more the
good news is you get to be an
egotistical when people look at
how big and strong you are at the gym
but since joey is a high level strong
man he doesn't have to do that but let's
say he was show us what that looks like
a little three quarter reps or
something like that uh
yeah get those side delts maybe and you
know are your side belts getting a good
workout sure could they get a better
workout with less weight if you went all
the way up absolutely so the way we fix
that is we don't want to go and this is
going to be our next technique problem
is going too high we don't want to go
too high but we want to go higher than
we're going now if we're going that low
i would say a good rule of thumb is at
least break uh the horizontal line with
your arms so give us a just above
horizontal
up and down and that's it and one a
couple more just pass parallel there and
you're good to go if you want to go
higher can you totally we'll talk about
that in just a sec
next mistake is going too high in the
lateral rays now too high doesn't really
mean a whole lot without the context of
perseverative pain and discomfort if
your shoulders hurt your actual shoulder
joints hurt and they're crackling and
popping and it just doesn't feel right
after weeks and weeks and weeks and
you're going super duper high you might
be going too high give us a look at what
that might look like so way up there
right now if that doesn't hurt his
shoulders with his working weight good
enough then it's not a problem but if
you are going so high that it hurts but
going just above parallel or too
parallel feels 100 fine
just do that you get no extra credit for
going super high i would say to limit
how much weight you're using and get
through that whole active range of
motion of the side adults going plenty
high is a good idea right so you can go
nice and high show us what nice and high
looks like yeah that's great if you can
do that great if you can't go even that
high you can go a little lower just
around that parallel mark so go as high
as you feel comfortable with but as soon
as you experience consistent pain and
discomfort in the actual glenohumeral
joints maybe you're going too high it's
not any extra credit go a little bit
lower
next mistake is sort of the last big
range of motion mistake that we have and
the mistake here is an inconsistent
range of motion in order to know that
you're progressing in order to program
progression in order to see which
technique gives you the best stimulus to
fatigue ratio what you want to do is
make sure your reps basically look the
same you don't want a crazy different
range of motion every time joey could do
you know the wrong thing here and you
know one goes up nice and high one
doesn't go up nice and high one goes
even lower and then some of them go
super high yep just like that perfect
and at the end of the day what does he
write down in his logbook i did xyz
question mark number of reps who knows
how do you know you're making prs how do
you know it's time to move on to the
next weight well if he standardizes his
rom just above parallel for example
every time go ahead every single rep
looks basically the same and when he
gets close to failure he knows where
failure is show failure would look like
if you only got up a little bit of the
way
that's it that's not high enough that is
x that is not a rep the set is over you
rest you do another set you write down
how many reps you got and then you can
progress over time and know that you're
actually progressing
that standardized range of motion might
take less weight than you're interested
in using we are not in the gym to use as
much weight as we possibly can we're in
the gym for the series anyway to grow
muscle and in order to grow muscle use
whatever weight is appropriate right if
you want to use more weight get bigger
and then you'll be able to use more
weight by training correctly
next mistake is not controlling the
eccentric of the movement all right the
eccentric portion of a movement the down
control is a big part of the hypertrophy
stimulus there are probably pathways of
hypertrophy that are independently
activated during eccentric training that
are not activated during concentric
isometric we want all three okay at the
very least concentric and eccentric so a
lot of folks will use really really
heavy dumbbells and what they'll end up
doing is they don't want to piss away
the energy on the eccentric they just
want bonus checks for getting as many
concentric reps on the board as possible
what they end up doing is really just
not activating during the essential go
ahead and show us what that looks like
they heave them up and the up and the
heat home up and they fall down yep just
like that we don't want that because we
want the muscle to be active during the
eccentric that doesn't mean you do 50
light-year eccentrics whatever that
means you just have some modicum of
control show us what that looks like in
real life so you come up and then
control down and up and then control
down beautiful that's what we want
because we're being honest remember when
you do these you're going to be able to
get fewer reps than if you don't control
the eccentric
it's going to feel worse in a sense it's
going to hurt your shoulders more in the
side delt it's going to give a bigger
pump bigger burn that's what we want
don't run away from the stimulus run
towards it
next mistake is the tendency to have the
thumb start coming up as the lift gets
harder or even from the beginning
because what you end up doing is you end
up using the front belts more you can
lift more weight but remember the goal
the exercise is to train the side delts
right so show us what that looks like
your thumbs come up and you start doing
something that looks like that yeah i
mean yeah you're lifting a lot of weight
but your side delts aren't nearly as
active the cue there is to put the
thinkies up instead which really lets
you hit the side delts so pinkies up and
then you do that all of a sudden
everything is super corrected remember
during the set as things get hard you're
going to be tempted to put the thumbs up
so sometimes if joey's getting close to
failure let's pretend i'm going to say
oh oh pinkie's up pinkie's up pinky's up
and he's going to fix it and keep going
just like that
the next mistake is a super super common
one you've seen a bunch
it is body english using your entire
soul to heave the weights up past the
range of motion they need to be show us
what that looks like if you're a gym
hero yes use those hips use those glutes
to get a side delt workout who the hell
knows what's going on how do you fix
this two things
one
is diligence being a grown-up
and not swinging the weights you don't
have to swing the weights when you get
closer to failure you just fail there's
no reason to put your hips into it
because your hips are not your side
delts it's that simple number two is you
might realize with the weight you
usually lift
you're gonna be down to using like oh i
don't know
sets of five where you used to do sets
of 15 no longer the right rep range for
your delts and then all of a sudden you
are in a position where you might have
to lighten the weight that's okay
because remember the goal is to use the
weight we have to for the rep range we
have to in order to make sure that we
are getting done the hypertrophy
training we want to get done plain and
simple
take yourself to task make sure you're
not swinging especially close to failure
make sure you're being super strict if
you have a training partner make sure
you encourage each other for that and
second of all if you have to lighten
weight there's no ego to it at all
strictness is awesome strictness is what
we want but there is a level of
strictness that is no longer
ecologically valid for actual heavy
lifting one example of this in the
lateral rays is when we reach the point
where we're using such heavy weight that
our center of mass our center of gravity
has to shift to accommodate it when joey
is at the front of his lift at the
bottom the weights are going to be in
front of him
he has to lean back a little bit to
accommodate that otherwise he'll just
fall and as he races out to the side go
ahead his hips are going to come forward
a little bit so as you watch him do it
go ahead and do it yep there's no
cheating here it's just an adjustment of
the hips perfect so we want to be strict
but we don't want to turn into robots
that all of a sudden fall down we want
to make sure that we're being athletic
and we're letting our hips come back and
forward there's no swinging here it's
not purposeful swinging it's all you do
is you come a little bit forward at the
at the bottom and a little bit back at
the top that's it to accommodate the
center of gravity if you're using heavy
weights it's just something that has to
happen right so don't worry about
mechanical super pure strictness just
don't cheat yourself you know
when you're cheating yourself
two part mistake here elbow position
mistake number
whatever
mistake part a here the first part of
the mistake is to start bending your
elbows a ton so you can use more weight
because remember that reduces the lever
arms go ahead and bend your elbows at 45
degree angle and then all of a sudden
yep and just do some lateral raise like
that you bend your elbows a lot it
shortens the lever arm and you can use
more weight pause for a second
why
do you want to use more weight if the
mechanical loading to the side delts is
the same
you're just going to have more grip
problems and you're going to have to
upheave around more weight and it's
going to have more axial fatigue because
it loads you down more when you get
strong and use the 40s 50 60s just
lugging them out of the rack sucks you
don't want to do that so you want to
take an almost straight or straight
elbow position decrease the joint
advantage and make sure that you're
using as little weight as possible so go
ahead nice straight arms and all of a
sudden now you're doing a really good
job with minimal weight now part two of
the problem is thinking that unless your
elbows are completely locked out you're
doing something wrong with enough weight
people's genetics are different joint
structures are slightly different
sometimes it really hurts your elbows to
just keep them straight and just keep
them a little bit out of luck is
something that feels super good so go
ahead and show us a super straight looks
like yeah and all of a sudden it might
just not feel that great for your
shoulders or your elbows all of a sudden
your elbows and your joints are your
limiting factor for the lift and not
your actual muscles which is what we
want so as far as elbow angle there's no
magic angle just slightly out of lock is
a good idea and then for you it's where
you feel but most comfortable and where
you have to use the least amount of
weight that's it
next problem super common especially as
you get stronger is letting your grip
limit you on side lateral raises after a
while you can't hold the dumbbells
anymore sometimes it comes down to just
your thumb your thumb is not as strong
potentially as your side belts and traps
are so you don't want your grip to limit
you because then you're literally just
missing the closest reps to failure
which are probably the most hypertrophic
ones how do you solve that problem a
couple of ways one get your grip
stronger but that takes time so it's not
really a solution it's a long-term thing
and that should be happening in training
anyway and it's not much of a solution
because your side belts get stronger too
it might not be anything you can ever
catch up two get some chalk chalk is a
real good idea if your gym allows it you
can really grip in and it's awesome
get straps but better than that better
than all of those is the versa grip the
versa grip pro or whichever one you get
is
unbelievable because all you do is you
put your hand in here you wrap it around
the dumbbell and it's not going anywhere
your arms would have to fall off for you
to let that go it's an unbelievable
technology renaissance prioritization is
absolutely nothing affiliated in any way
with versa grips whatsoever at the
filming of this video
they're just that great
buy one and you'll see how awesome it is
consider that a personal recommendation
from myself and uh versagrips make a lot
of money awesome i want to see them take
over the world
next mistake
is
doing a technique that doesn't actually
allow your side delts to be limiting
factors and it might not even allow you
to feel tension through them
or metabolites accumulating in them or a
fatigue and tiredness a disruption to
the muscle which if you can remember
sort of our raw stimulus checklist
and you're sort of using a technique
what we would encourage you to do is to
experiment with different techniques
that might make that better that might
make you actually feel your side belts
for example
joey might be doing his side don't us
normally go ahead and do them right and
he's like yeah i sort of feel my side
delts nothing much happens good enough
and i might say you know what you might
want to do is tilt your hips forward
just a tiny bit and point your pinkies
into the sky go ahead and do that and
all of a sudden he's like holy i
feel my side dumps more is this a
different exercise not really it's just
a little bit of a tweak i have one big
tweak for you guys that might help you
feel the side delts a whole lot more
it's pausing at the very top for one
full second count go ahead and show us
what that looks like so you come up
pause and then down and come up pause
and then control down and you come up
one more time pause and perfect that's
it that might fry the living crap out of
your side belts in a way you didn't
think was possible really give you that
mind muscle connection but that might
not be it so if you're doing a technique
with side delt raises that doesn't allow
you to feel them a ton it doesn't
disrupt the muscle it hits other muscles
experiment with some slight tweaks
moving your hands moving your hips using
different weights and figure out what
works best for you
which brings me to my next mistake
the next and last mistake is using
inappropriate loading here's the deal
in some cases side delts can be done in
the 5 to 10 rep range but usually that's
such a heavy weight you end up losing
connection with what's going on your
shoulder your shoulder joints might not
be huge fans of that sort of thing and
what you end up doing is just doing a
bunch of weight it's really hard you get
dick out of it
the side delts are probably best trained
with this exercise
in the 10 to 20 rep range on a first set
or in the 20 to 30 rep range on a first
set would you think 23rd reps are going
to take me forever side delt raises
don't take that long because it's my but
and you're done so it's a really really
awesome to try those lighter weights
people will say the heavier push the
bigger you go that's the
heavier you push within the 5 to 10 10
to 20 and 20 30 ranges slowly over time
that's how you get size find the rep
ranges that best fit you that best hit
that stimulus that tension that
metabolite burn that disruption to the
muscle
if you find that and magically if you
manage to get your side dealt sore
that's a real bonus point it's very very
difficult to do
then you've got a good thing going do
you always have to train a certain
degree of intensity or certain degree of
loading no you can do some heavier work
and then some more light work and then
alter how much you're using your shrek
range but be honest with yourself if the
5 to 10 rep range is doing nothing but
hurting your shoulders do either less of
it or don't do it at all and if 20 to 30
reps is too many you just get tired but
you really feel sets of like 15 or so
most of your side dealt stuff
for this exercise give me sets of 15
remember you can always do other rep
ranges with other exercises like with
upright rows you can do sets of eight no
problem because it's a compound movement
usually safer and you'll feel it better
be honest with yourself remember we're
here for stimulus and to close this out
that is the huge kicker make sure that
your side delt training in this exercise
and any other
you're feeling tension in the target
muscles make sure that you're feeling a
metabolite burn in the target muscles
towards the end of reps if the weight is
light enough for you to feel that or at
least a ton of tension if the weight is
not light enough for you to get a burn
make sure that your muscles are
disrupted afterwards so basically what
i'll do is i'll do enough of these
lateral raises and then i can't actually
keep my arms at my sides anymore i have
to prop them on something because they
accumulate lactic acid just sitting
there something is wrong something
happened that's good a disruption was
caused make sure that you're feeling all
those things if you get sore in the side
notes after holy real bonus points
you might not get sore but at least
those other two factors have to be there
while you do this make sure that your
joint damage systemic fatigue and how
hard your you have to try to do exercise
your rpe are as low as possible
clinically execute focus on the muscle
modify your technique to get the most of
those on the stimulus side as you can
the least on the fatigue and you'll be
well on your way towards awesome gains
joey thank you so much for joining us
today
folks
see you next time
if you have exercises that you want us
to sort of take apart and put back
together with tips and tricks let us
know in the comments below if you have
questions about this
ask them in the comments below and if
you know what you're talking about and
you want to help others by all means
please answer everyone's questions it is
a community thank you so much for tuning
in and we'll see you next time