[Music]
all right welcome everyone to a new
episode of myth busting day where every
Monday we're gonna take a look at some
common fitness or nutrition myth look at
where that myth got started and then why
it's actually wrong based on the most
recent scientific evidence so this week
we're gonna be looking at the idea that
you shouldn't eat carbs past say 6 or 7
p.m. because at night you're so much
more likely to store those carbs as fat
so before we get into taking this myth
down let's first take a look at where
this myth got started so I think that
the myth comes from two main lines of
reasoning so we're just gonna look at
both of them one at a time and then bust
them in turn so the first theory goes
that your metabolism slows down while
you sleep and so you should limit your
carb intake within some proximity to
bedtime because you'll just be so much
more likely to store it as fat than to
burn it as fuel but before we can tackle
this I think it's first important to
clarify what we mean by metabolism in
this context here we're basically using
it to refer to metabolic rate which
determines basically your total daily
energy expenditure or tdee which is
itself a measure of how many calories
you earn in a matter of 24 hours and
there are four main components that
occupy your total daily energy
expenditure so the first component is
resting metabolic rate or RMR which is
basically the energy your body needs
just to keep its internal functions
going so if you just sat on the couch
all day long you'd still burn this many
calories and it actually occupies
roughly half of your total metabolic
rate and then the other half is split
between EI T or exercise activity
thermogenesis so the calories you burn
when you exercise any 80 or NEET which
stands for non-exercise activity
thermogenesis I'm so these are the
calories you burn through daily activity
but not exercise so things like just
getting groceries fidgeting at your desk
and then there's a small sliver for the
thermic effect of meals so when you
sleep you won't be exercising going to
groceries or eating any food so those
top three components won't apply and
what we're really concerned with when it
comes to sleep metabolism is resting
metabolic rate or rmr and I think that
the real question we need to ask is does
rmr during the day differ from RMR at
night because otherwise sleep in terms
of energy expenditure wouldn't really be
any different from any other time point
in the day when you're just resting and
as it turns out resting energy
expenditure during sleep doesn't really
differ from resting energy expenditure
during the day and this was shown by
seal and Conway who found that overnight
metabolic rate and basal or resting
metabolic rate are equivalent and in
fact research from Zhang and colleagues
showed that sleep metabolic rate does
tend to be lower than resting metabolic
rate for obese subjects but actually
higher than resting metabolic rate in
healthy non obese subjects I'm so pooled
together they ultimately found that
sleep metabolic rate and waking
metabolic rate were basically the same
with an average sleep to awake metabolic
ratio of one point zero zero one one so
they were almost exactly the same so
taken together it really seems to be the
case that eating carbs at night is
really no different than eating carbs
say at your lunchtime meal and then just
going back to your desk at rest
basically there's nothing special about
eating carbs late at night simply on the
basis of metabolic differences but for
all that I still think this is somewhat
of a misplaced notion to be worrying
about daily or diurnal fluctuations and
metabolic rate for a couple reasons
first of all transient changes in
metabolic rate don't ultimately
determine the fate of one's body
composition which is instead determined
by net caloric deficit across a 24-hour
or even longer period of time so even if
metabolic rate was lower in the night
time or while sleeping and those
nutrients that you ate late at night
were being preferentially partitioned
towards storage that energy would
eventually come out of storage assuming
again a net deficit was in place and it
is the net caloric deficit that's
driving these changes in body fat
not transient changes in metabolic rate
throughout the day secondly dietary
carbohydrate is not nearly as readily
converted to body fat as a lot of people
seem to think this is referred to as a
process known as de novo lipid Genesis
and it's actually quite rare in humans
under normal eating conditions and
instead what happens when you eat
carbohydrate is your body suppresses its
normal rate of fat oxidation so
basically less fat is burned which means
more fat is going into storage which is
a more dietary fat is going into storage
and then that dietary carbohydrate is
much more likely shuttled into muscle or
liver liver glycogen or burned off as
fuel this is a bit of a pedantic point
but I just bring it up to emphasize the
fact that there's nothing unique or
special about eating carbs late at night
even if the the rest of the factors were
true there wouldn't be anything special
about carbs that makes them inherently
more fat generating okay so for a quick
summary so far you shouldn't reduce your
carb intake at night because of concerns
about decreases in metabolism because
first of all metabolism doesn't really
seem to be any different during sleep as
it is during the day at rest secondly
its 24-hour net caloric balance that
determines whether fat is gained or lost
and thirdly carbohydrates aren't really
that readily stored as fat to begin with
okay so another theory for limiting
carbs late at night has to do with the
fact that insulin sensitivity is lower
in the evening now some research from
biston and colleagues does support this
when they looked at the insulin response
to a morning meal eating at 8:30 in the
morning in an evening meal with equal
carbs the insulin response was better -
the first meal however this is clearly I
think most likely due to the fact that
there was an overnight fast and there's
a lot of evidence suggesting that
fasting does improve insulin sensitivity
at the very least acutely and so it
would make sense that the insulin
response to the morning meal would be
better and then in support of this the
same paper showed that when they
compared a mid-afternoon meal
absence of a fast to a nighttime meal
there was no difference in insulin
sensitivity so it isn't so much that
insulin sensitivity is really uniquely
bad in the evening it's just more so to
do with the fact that it Peaks early in
the morning before the first meal and
then it'll be decreased for all
subsequent meals now I mean kind of like
energy expenditure and metabolic rate I
think that concerns to do with insulin
sensitivity should be focused on
improving it over the long term and I
think that the best way to do that is
through maintaining a healthy we body
composition through regular exercise and
a generally healthy diet and I don't
think you should really be too concerned
with timing your carbs around transient
fluctuations in insulin sensitivity
throughout a 24-hour period okay so with
those two basic theories busted I'd like
to look into some of the peer-reviewed
literature on the topic of nighttime
eating and in 2017 Fong and colleagues
conducted a systematic review and
meta-analysis wherein they narrowed down
121 studies to 5 clinical trials that
met their inclusion criteria which
included the use of ISO energetic or
calorie matched treatment arms and
excluded subjects doing shift work or
folks with night eating syndrome and
basically they found that four of the
five clinical trials did in fact show
that a smaller evening meal produced
greater weight loss compared to a larger
evening meal however when the individual
trial results were aggregated the
overall weight loss effects weren't
statistically significant and this led
the authors to conclude that given these
results we are not to make sound
conclusions about the relationship
between the evening meal and its effect
on intentional weight loss and our
findings challenge the popular belief
that eating a smaller dinner is
beneficial for weight management so
coming full circle on this I think that
the idea that you should limit carbs at
night for reasons related to metabolism
or insulin sensitivity can be completely
busted or pretty well busted at this
point and I think that what you should
instead focus on is a pattern of eating
that works well for you and by that I
mean your schedule and your preferences
and in my experience changes
apatite are highly individual and I know
that some people find that they don't
have much of an appetite in the morning
but it really ramps up in the evening if
that applies to you then I see no harm
in skewing your your calorie intake
including your carb intake to be eating
a little bit later in the day and this
won't hinder your fat loss progress in
any way and then on the other hand I
know that it's a fact that a lot of
people do struggle with late-night
eating or late night snacking and if
this happens to apply to you then it
might be a good idea from a pragmatic
perspective to cut yourself off a
certain time point in the night and just
limit any future trips to the cupboard
past that point all right so guys that
is going to conclude this week's
mythbuster I hope that you guys really
liked it if you did learn something or
if you found it to be helpful in any way
leave me a comment down below let me
know what you thought or at least leave
the video a thumbs up I want to thank
you guys very much for watching and I
will see you guys all here next Monday