all right so what is going on everyone
today I'm going to be doing the ten
thousand calorie challenge this is
something that I was initially going to
do on my channel when I hit 10,000
subscribers last week I hit 20,000
subscribers and realized that I didn't
ever do that so I figured now is as good
a time as any to do this see I basically
just got a bunch of junk food and stuff
to help me get the calorie intake just
for the record my typical average daily
caloric intake is usually around 3000
calories per day will probably be the
most I've ever eaten I feel like after a
bodybuilding show my appetite gets so
high that I could probably 20,000
calories but right now it's like pretty
standard so this actually is going to be
a decent challenge for me what I plan to
do is throw the video I'm going to
overlay the clips of me eating and stuff
with some informative content about a
nutrient absorption partitioning of
nutrients questions that I've kind of
gotten myself surrounding the ten
thousand calorie challenge so stay tuned
for that and I hope you guys enjoy
no cheese right cheese up top sweet
there's actually no calories in this but
it's what I have so I also don't have a
toaster here so I'm having to close
Legos in the waffle maker I'm not sure
how that's gonna turn out so there was a
double yolk in one of those eggs that's
too much alright guys so here's meal one
who Eggos done in a Belgian waffle maker
two whole eggs one with double yolk 75
grams of rapes two servings of crave
cereal with a cup of milk I'm gonna have
one serving of these chocolate-covered
almonds coffee and water so the first
question that I want to try to answer is
how much fat you can gain in a single
day and there are a few things that the
answer will depend on so the first is
your starting total daily energy
expenditure where individuals with lower
TDE
or so-called slow metabolisms I will
presumably find themselves in a larger
net surplus and store more fat as a
result second is your starting body
composition mean folks tend to have less
adipocytes to begin with and obese folks
who can have up to four times as many
fat cells so presumably leaner
individuals may simply have less of a
capacity to store additional
triglyceride at least over the long term
third factor is how glycogen depleted
you are so the more depleted of glycogen
you are the less fat you'll gain simply
because more carbs will be stored as
glycogen rather than as fat fourth
factor is the macro nutrient composition
of the diet in 1995 paper by Horton ita√∫
found that when subjects were put in a
50% caloric surplus either purely from
carbs or purely from fat after one day
of over feeding the carb only group
stored only about 10% of excess calories
as fat while the fat only group stored
about 60% of excess calories as fat this
effect leveled out over the course of
the following two weeks but in
Gordon Lee with the cute overfeeding the
higher carb diet showed significantly
less fat accrual than the high fat diet
and this makes sense based on what we
know from other research which has shown
that de novo love the Genesis or the
conversion of carbs to fats is not a
major route of acute fat accumulation in
humans and what does tend to happen more
readily is that excess carbs over the
long term tends to suppress fat
oxidation leaving more fat available for
storage and then the fifth factor that
will play into how much fat you store is
your predisposition for increasing
levels of meat or non-exercise activity
thermogenesis also known as spontaneous
physical activity as for things like
fidgeting just walking around more etc
and this can vary up to 10 fold from
person to person for example in 1999
paper by Levina tao found that
individuals eating an extra thousand
calories per day for eight weeks show
differences in meat ranging from
negative 98 calories so they actually
decreased their level of spontaneous
physical activity to positive 692
calories so this subject in particular
basically burned off 70% of the increase
in calories so with these five factors
in mind I'm going to get back to the
vlog and I will run a simple sample
calculation in the next informative
segment okay so that was meal one oh I
should see how long it took me
that's what was 11 11 minutes and 30
seconds I think that's a long time I
don't know I don't know naughty eater
really two downsides of that meal one
was that the Eggos were way worse than
it used to be because they were hard
from the Belgian waffle banker and I put
way too much maple syrup on them
actually I'm going to show you so that
was the michael syrup that i left so i'm
gonna track that as like 1/8 of a cup so
they were just like drenched in maple
syrup so they were like simultaneously
rock-hard paper-thin and drenched in
syrup so that was not best and then by
the time i set up all the stuff to do
with the filming of this the crave
cereal had gone soggy so two cups of
soggy crepe cereal what else went wrong
with this meal the eggs got soaked in
syrup because i didn't put a petition
between those foods of any sorts so
that was actually okay that kind of
tasted pretty good with a little bit of
syrup other than that everything was
pretty good I feel I feel warm from the
meal
I guess thermogenesis is increasing I'm
going to wait probably five minutes and
then have a few of those almonds but
that's a little bit of a shaky start
there's only 917 calories so figure
would be smart for me to try to get that
up at least to a thousand so if I have
seven pieces of the East oh and by the
way my appetite is such that it's really
low in the morning typically and then
it'll pick up throughout the day so a
night around like midnight I'll get
voraciously hungry that is going to play
to my advantage later on in the game so
I'll probably be like behind through the
day until my appetite picks up and then
at night I'm hoping to come through in
the clutch and cram it all in mmm with
almonds now I'm up to 1087 so I'm
tailing started I guess I just had three
mini crunch bars and I think I'm gonna
have a little bit of candy actually to
finish that off while I do some work
here I think I got the idea of these
from Chelsea lips pan taliking calorie
challenge from last year I think it was
I thought it was a very funny video but
I motivated to buy these from her I
think
have you got really sickening after a
while honestly I'll leave those for the
later I will even prom Ben was heading
to University of South Florida for a
little bit just like a change of scenery
a place for me to do some work and
that's where stuffies lab is so I might
check other little bit I realized that I
like super overdid it with like just
junky snack food and I didn't get
anything that's like substances that I
can be deal so I think I'm going to get
a firecracker chicken burger just like
750 calories and then couple it with
some of these draft foods here these are
so easy to smash that's like mono fight
and it's 170 calories in that little
thing so guys I just got here at the
University of South Florida 2:23 p.m. i
haven't really eaten anything since
breakfast I'm gonna go over here and get
a fire cracker chicken burger I think
I'm gonna get the Firecracker chicken
yes please this meal number two
firecracker chicken burger this is 750
calories okay so the second question I
want to try to answer is approximately
how much fat did I store as a result of
this challenge so let's just run a very
quick rough calculation so I plan to
take in 10,000 calories but first we
need to account for the energy that I
would just expend on a normal day anyway
so my estimated total daily energy
expenditure or so called maintenance
calories is roughly 3000 since I'm more
or less maintaining my weight at that
intake so subtracting my tdee from the
10,000 calories leaves us with the 7,000
calorie surplus next we need to account
for the fact that more food coming in
means there will be a greater thermic
effect of food just for the sake of the
calculation let's assume a macro ratio
of 20% protein
40% carb and 40% fat taking a weighted
average for the thermic effect of each
macronutrient gives us an average
increase in te f of 19 percent so 19
percent of the 7,000 calorie surplus
fields 1300
lost as heat now we're still left with
5700 calories available for storage
remember in the last clip where I said
that changes in need can vary from minus
98 to Plus 692 calories per day with a
thousand calorie increase in energy
intake per day I probably fall somewhere
in between this range and since I do
find myself to adapt quite strongly to
increasing food intake I'm tempted to
put myself
closer to the high end of the range
however it's important to keep in mind
that this was a long-term study
conducted over the course of eight weeks
so it's not clear from this paper just
how much meat would increase in only a
12-hour period like during this
challenge for example but based on
changes in leptin which is a key hormone
involved in the regulation of need which
was seen to rise only 40 percent in a 24
hour period compared to 300% over five
weeks in one paper it's probably best to
play it a little bit more conservatively
when estimating short-term need
increases and so for this reason I put
myself more in the middle around 200
calories burned for every extra thousand
calories eat let's assume again a
surplus of 7,000 calories so this would
yield a net extra 1400 calories burned
just from spontaneous physical activity
over the course of the challenge
so taking neat increases in to account
we're left with 4,300 calories left for
storage and let's just simply assume
that roughly 50% of this would be stored
as fat which seems reasonable since
carbs and protein will contribute some
but not very much at all to fat gain in
fat made up about 40% of the diet by
composition so cutting this in half were
left with two thousand one hundred and
fifty calories available for pure fat
storage or about 239 grams of fat or 0.5
pounds of fat so this was a little bit
of a more convoluted way of going about
estimating this I think a simpler
approach would be to simply just
extrapolate the results of the paper
that I mentioned earlier where people
were put in a 50% caloric surplus either
purely from carbs or purely from fat and
then it was measured how much of the
extra calories were stored as fat and as
you can see from the figure at the 1 day
mark the all carbs surplus caused only
roughly 10% of the caloric excess to be
stored as fat while the all fat surplus
caused about 60% of the caloric excess
to be stored as fat so assuming in my
case that there was roughly an even
ratio
of excess energy coming from carbs and
fats I think we can meet in the middle
and say that 35% of the excess might be
stored as fat so again given a caloric
excess of 7,000 calories we would just
get 35% of that which would be two
thousand four hundred and fifty calories
stored as fat or in other words two
hundred and seventy two grams or 0.6
pounds of fat but when looking at both
calculations we got a zero point five
and a zero point six pound gain in fat
and while about half a pound of fat
might not sound like a whole lot is
definitely noticeable and significant
especially visually when you consider
just what a half a pound of fat looks
like that's it for the calculation I
will be back in the next informative
segment to talk about absorption and how
permanent this vacuum might be there
took me 9 minutes 9 minutes 43 seconds I
don't know why this wasn't so I'm super
slow eater
yeah so I just finished that last meal I
just got a text from Stephanie saying
that she's coming with some more food
she got yeah yeah Andy did any like
thought mm-hmm there's a lot of chicken
home
oh yeah there's like how many pieces
it's a pound I need it think protein
that's why I thought that I was but I
had the firecracker burger so that was
chicken breast oh you're actually
meeting with Oh
oh my god these are seriously super good
I literally eat like $10,000 with those
they're so but just added everything
into MyFitnessPal 2832 calories eaten on
focus oh ma I have seven thousand one
hundred and sixty eight calories
remaining I have some more cereal access
pretty easy for me to eat we're going to
Train shoulders and chest or chest and
shoulders push as the chest shoulders
and triceps I'm going to make it like a
really high volume high rep push day so
that it'll hopefully stimulate my
appetite a little bit because yeah like
I said I'm a little bit behind as of
right now I'm going to get a bowl cereal
Cinnamon Toast Crunch and this this is
going to be necessary for this by the
end so one servant is 37 grams because
this is actually super
oh my god next time I prep for a show
I'm going to absolutely hate myself
forever idiom so good old you like I can
do another one of those nutella's things
that should do it
I put a tablespoon of intel on one of
these and I put it a Nutella on one of
these 37 there's just so much hate for
you right now that interesting
combination tire blew wash down some
milk
oh well I can't count those I know
people don't like milk and these
challenges but like all right if any
milk are you gonna count it oh yeah you
could dip the cookie in milk there's way
better fellas third mom I don't need
this move there 117 they're so tiny so
they're pretty good yeah I feel like
they're thick but I guess really it's
pretty thin like that's what the later
to tell you no reason
America for the craziest
right you like a water sugar I started
like getting like shakes is that one
good this is really good I bet despite
feeling this pose I am very good it's
gonna do this too
it's not a 18 and a half bridge it was
good
let's go victory huh how do you feel I
was a lot of Nutella just look that was
a full jar that's not bad
I'm sure there are people who are
watching her like I could smash that
like the whole jar yeah like this is a
small jar of people the large one I'm
now at a total of three thousand seven
hundred and seventy two calories alright
I'm having two servings of cinnamon
toast crunch and then we're gonna go
train uh tomorrow's large to have like
half pepperoni and a half with okay hold
on once again track though can I have a
large large pizza with on chicken okay
then I'll do that on half of it and then
the other half can I do better Oni
Benjen
bacon crust yeah sure yeah so it's gonna
be chicken on one side if you like it to
be stuffed crust oh okay go to the gym
now it's 6:30 so I've got a large pizza
coming from Tom house I should really
help because as it right now I'm going
into the workout I've still got about
1,500 calories left to hit guys we just
finished up with the push workout and
our here at Domino's this should make up
a good chunk of calories I have almost
6,000 calories left to hit and it's 8:43
p.m. so I feel like it definitely could
have planned this a little bit better
but I'm going to do the absolute best
that I can and try to finish this out
strong
all right so half pepperoni bacon and
half with chicken alone like a second
way is also good yeah I do
I'm gonna leave it off camera pretend
okay here we go
slice number one mmm let's actually
prove it I could totally eat that whole
beef oh my god yeah I don't do it for me
do you feel like people how long ma'am I
don't people say they can do this this
way Harper it looks on camera it's a
little bit bad feeling my arse like
Gilligan that does not pop I have no
sympathy for you as you should brought
this on myself hey guys this is good I
actually a decent Drive for how much
longer torso this is the damage so far
it's actually pretty good this is
actually giving me a jump is like 2500
calories in this thing a little bit of
pizza that size of cake that's I don't
want any more sweets knowing too many
too much sweets too early the good thing
is is that now the savory stuff tastes
it actually tastes really good that way
let's settle for like a half hour and
try to do some pastry more some things I
can't do anymore that pizza pie chicken
pizzas not that good
no that's regrows it I can't call that
quite a full content and I call that not
3/4 I think that's 3/4 call net 3 course
ok so I didn't throw the whole ice cream
thing in why they want to try so already
some the I didn't basement I would try
it
my case buds are like so desensitized
right now guys we just mixed up a pint
of Ben and Jerry's tablespoon and that's
how a three and a half I think
tablespoons of coconut oil oh and mingle
trip yeah it maple syrup and blended it
up with ice and water and it actually
comes to 2058 calories lets me at
exactly eight thousand calories I
finished that shake meal and then it
felt good this the like feeling of
fullness didn't start to hit me until
like probably an hour after it honestly
I was just like feeling super full it's
a lot harder than it looks on camera
like I've watched a few of these and I
feel like people are either more savage
with their appetites and I am or people
just make it look and easy make it look
easier for camera I'm going to finish
off with five lots of sticks the one
piece is 100 calories on five just 500
calories I'm also going to have a half
of this I'm going to blend this up with
more coconut oil 47 grams of this that
gives me
I think 400 calories somewhere Nutella
actually put this into a shake and
that's going to be the meal so in this
last informative segment I want to touch
on two quick things that I anticipate
people will ask the first is how much of
these calories do we actually absorb and
my short answer is that there's no
reason to think that you can't absorb
all of it absorption is really only
limited by the absorption rates of the
transporters in the small intestine of
which there are many and while they do
have max rates at which substrates can
pass through them for example the max
uptake rate for glucose is about 60
grams per hour keep in mind that when
massive amounts of food are consumed
digestion slows down massively as well
so that uptake can be spread out more
evenly along the entire length of the
small intestine and based on this and
without any evidence suggesting the
contrary I would say that the vast
majority of the 10,000 calories would be
absorbed with a few macronutrients
passing through in the stool there of
course will eventually come a point
where the body will simply reject
further increases in food intake at one
end or the other and this will vary from
person to person but I hypothesize it to
be at least in the ballpark range of
around 10,000 calories worth of food for
most and finally how much of the fat
gain is permanent
from this challenge I think that the
simple answer is none of it or well at
least it depends on how it is you eat in
the coming days as we know the body is
in a constant state of either anabolism
or catabolism and so imposing a
sufficient caloric deficit in the days
following the challenge would be a very
simple way to offset the fat gain and it
tends to be prolonged periods of
overeating that lead to long term fat
accumulation that persists over time so
that's it for the informative stuff for
this one guys and I really hope that you
enjoy the rest of the video I keep this
for you to eat more mozzarella sticks no
not tonight
obviously I don't even know a thing
about mozzarella sticks ever throw it
out so this is the final thing the 1214
calories this could be bad
what's really cold
all right it's gonna conclude the video
guys thank you so much for watching
that's really late so I'm going to go to
bed
enjoy the video if you learn something
if you found it entertaining at all
please hit the thumbs up button really
appreciate that sounds very challenging
but I'm glad that I finished it out so
yeah thanks again guys for watching and
I will see you in the next video