a little pose down here with the world
champ
[ __ ] my head you've got me on edge I'm
going out today hey dude I don't know
what's next
alright guys we are here in Sacramento
California we actually decided to come
down here for the natural muscle mayhem
show our support I always love coming
down to this show because I do think the
W mbf has probably the best drug testing
out of any natural Federation and it was
an awesome show last night I do want to
say we got rashon back behind the camera
let me show let me show the people bro
rashon or shawn competed last night he
did his thing in men's physique yeah I
don't know if the veins are really I
guess let's step in the light look at
that yeah so he did his thing in in
men's physique we said a year ago we
were at the show here with Pat and we
were like rashon you should get jump on
stage man and see what happens and he
brought his absolute best package I'm
super proud of him for following through
also my boy Marvin from Hong Kong I
don't know if you guys remember him from
the Hong Kong vlogs I also just met up
with him in Australia he ended up taking
the overall and turning pro which I
thought was awesome because he competed
as a lightweight I always competed as a
lightweight he ended up beating Brian
DeCosta I don't know if you guys know
him the Brian looked absolutely insane
like I haven't seen that level of
muscular development on a natural on
stage in a while
and Marvin ended up taking him down so
my hats off to both of those guys they
put on an incredible show both looked
amazing and then that brings me to Sam
so Sam oh canola was the 2017 world
natural bodybuilding champion so 2017 he
was the top guy in the whole world he
ended up winning the pro class at this
show looked absolutely insane as he
always does and now he's going to be
gunning for Worlds again this year and a
couple months so that's really not a
stretch to say that Sam is one of the if
not the top natural bodybuilders in the
whole world so we're gonna be getting in
a workout with him very shortly we're
gonna be hitting an upper body workout I
don't want to spoil too much for you
guys you guys are gonna see how nuts
he's looking got some leftovers here
from last night
Sean wanted to go to the Cheesecake
Factory so we had a nice meal over there
look at this beautiful pre-workout snap
oh
actually I don't know if I said this on
the channel I ended up getting sick in
Bali my last vlog was in Bali and the
last day there I ended up getting a
terrible stomach bug so I've been
struggling eating so I need to get some
calories in if I'm gonna trim this and
well he's probably on lower calories
than me even what I'm saying it's my
favorite chocolate chip cookie dough man
[Laughter]
[Laughter]
[Music]
the mass conditioning like everything
like a full body workout you might as
well huh - look imposing Hey
oh my god yeah yeah people don't
appreciate that like I remember after
this show five years ago I was sore for
my legs were sore for a week after foot
because you're just flexed the whole
it's just all isometric contraction past
three hours
oh yeah man up body mounted your legs I
want you to lead the workout okay yeah
so all right let's see what oh this is
the best plug of all time by the way
we've got the best natural body builder
in the world he's even running my
program for the last eight weeks oh yeah
so right before you go yeah I was
running my program is like full-time for
this week about what that's like six
weeks like but pretty much I think you
took my program and just like what it is
like makes makes it easy more efficient
aids comes to Jamie and I really
spending like an hour and a half two
hours and right not get out go back so I
think you have some people like oh yeah
it's it's I just want to go into
chambers want to go hard like bro you
know look you look at volume in terms of
like in a weekly volume that's like no I
just got to go home
same day I just got to go home I feel
like I killed it
so that kind of just makes it easier
makes a little more efficient - yeah
we're sure
spend my time wisely so yeah especially
when you have like limited recovery
capacity on you know it's good to be
able to get those workouts a little more
chunk down yes and just like you said
you still get the same weekly volume but
anyway today I want I want to I want you
to lead the way man so dig into the
archives here the Jeff Hoover Dyke
archives as you already got so lat
movement slept reactivations you know do
a lot of flexion into also try not to
crease back at that's a blog you know
about two three sets of this like you
know ten or fifteen other my super to
have you ain't blowing that
so one thing Sam was saying there about
lateral flexion the lats actually help
flex the spine laterally so if you just
stand with your arm out like that and
flex into it crunch into the direction
of a bull you'll feel your last contract
so if you're pulling in with the elbow
and crunching into it at the same time
you can get a really strong lap
contraction and then that carries over
to whatever we're gonna do next that I
find like you get that slight pump going
and then you can really feel your life a
lot better okay so we're gonna hit the
hold portion of the workout first and
hit the push portion after so we're
kicking it off with these lat Poland's
just as a creep reactivation move
through three or four sets they're
lightweight really feeling the last
contract
15 to 20 reps get into it
[Music]
[Music]
what are you what are you outside you
ready for this
what was chicken wings and some salad
okay not as exciting doesn't think it is
not that exciting
I was Elsa prio that's a warm-up and now
we do three sets five ten twelve ten
o'clock so how do you wait yeah I notice
that these you go really nice slow my
whole squeezing the tops right at the
bottom all right it bends into us
6-1 6-1 okay I thought you were taller
than that you look you look depends on
us okay okay fair enough
well anyway for a bodybuilder yeah
that's quite tall like you're probably
wondering tallest guys on the pro
circuit right absolutely so like you or
do you I got two questions for you do
you believe taller guys it's harder for
them to do bodybuilding is it harder to
build build muscle and be successful no
it's not you know I look at it as an
opportunity to fill out a frame right
now think it's mentality game two though
if you look at it all yes sorry I can't
I can't get mad because I'm a certain
height or I feel like you're not view
self in favor right like Cappin your you
know potential yeah I'm based on quote
unquote what you have in genetics would
not right so I mean I can I could use
that excuse like back in the day like
yeah I heard it for yeah yeah what our
efforts in it's what we will come out
with cuz you're one a few guys who has
that like longer athletic training yeah
but just over the how long you been
training like working out for I said
work they're like three years budget
line nine okay so say ten years yeah
over ten years you've really filled out
that frame to the point that now you've
got such a nice tapered physique like
yeah if you can fill it out as a tall
guy it does look very aesthetic
absolutely absolutely I mean you can
like say it's an opportunity right yeah
you know slab and yeah do I always get
asked this because I as a shorter guy
I'll get tall guys like oh you know I
wish I wish you could give more advice
for taller guys like is there anything
you would change or is it just the same
principles apply again the mostess or
you hear it's like a lot of total guys I
literally just had a guy before I mean a
DM today talking about this tickle
subjects like hey y'all you think a guy
like you know a totally back you thought
of Fame actually I'm like yeah you know
again everything stops the mindset it's
not something tality don't fall into
them I mean my calves is not the biggest
gas let's talk about that real quick but
I'm not gonna say because genetically I
don't have big cast I'm just gonna like
give up and start training them it's
just an opportunity like you know what
it's a challenge that I take personally
okay I like that and you see it as an
opportunity to grow rather than a
limitation absolutely that's nice
let the back recover a little bit okay
hit some incline chest press I actually
love this machine and the reason why I'm
doing this in terms of life development
of my development yeah I think if you
ask like will you really get awesome I
saw you have a week major PacSun like
that everybody gave me we all can use
hmm I can upper chest everybody exactly
so again one of the things I do is like
I'd are focus more like a lot of incline
movements just right I get a look like
the front delts and upper chest moving
back so yeah but yeah so we are gonna be
doing this we're gonna go I got three
sets draw ten its wall art be your life
a ninety eight depending on our feel our
be a bow feel both wise extension to
stop
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
lock it Thanks control good job good
lord uh trying to keep up over here
[Music]
today it's gonna be a casual working
workout day
the monster self raw how to kill me man
oh yeah oh
I don't know oh yeah you got it you got
yeah lock it out oh solid
we go - and that's control it's real
like a lot of horizontal role exercise
gonna kind of keep my elbows play a
little bit yeah most raps rear delt
that's one of the since I don't think
not talking about illusion any so Sipos
a lateral side chest
so from here physic just looks better
when you have a little bit like you know
really don't happen oh yeah the same
thing when you do like four right yeah
you can see through here it adds so much
more thick exactly yeah
and over to the point of be obviously
friend of Wyatt know if I said it's not
importance any opportunity for me to
like you know engage or you know include
or feel a little more like real life
more I mean real deltoids I try to
incorporate that so I'm like oh yeah
yeah for sure
up next we're moving back to the back so
we're gonna do a horizontal row chest
supported t-bar row three sets ten to
twelve reps one thing I've been noticing
about training the sand is his rep
cadence very controlled everything feels
very intentional he's yeah hey I don't
know if you're always like that but at
least you never know you want to get
hurt with mechanical tension you want to
execute movement as well as you can yeah
and slowing down a little bit and taking
the ego out of a prison helps me out
with control someone who has a
development who isn't just like genetic
anomaly whose got bastardized form you
know you your control is really good but
you're still strong but you're strong
with good form you know
yeah yeah I heard you find ways to like
you know do things a little more
efficiently yeah yeah all right man
pretty let's go come on oh yeah let's go
come on oh you like you lose your breath
yeah maybe it goes yeah doesn't think by
this way then when you pull your chest
cavity's yeah
[Music]
up next we're doing three sets 12 to 15
reps on our vertical press so Sam is
like Sammis one-day post show so we're
trying to do stuff that isn't gonna be
too taxing on his joints and that kind
of thing so mostly sticking to machines
today we're doing this machine shoulder
press over here one of my favorites live
dealio
you do like no HP's are moving but I
mean here's to it's a very tasking
movement when you think of show day it's
like a 12-hour day of just trying to
keep a pump they're always posing it's
kind of like a full day work yeah it's
not so here's recovery like even the
fact that you're crushing this workout
is pretty impressed most people are just
completely rest today try to keep over
yeah
oh yeah let's go
[ __ ] yeah good [ __ ] it's harder that way
geez no I wasn't ready for that
oh it's almost more like it behind the
neck press really yeah I'm gonna do a
little pose down here with the world
champ to get to Rusty in less than 48
hours 24 hours I'm delirious right
[Music]
huh
cardio we do a lot of research three
sets of the latter reasons I'm in
tomorrow a little more muscle group so
I'd like to go like higher repetitions
to 1215 presets and out with some
Glavine also aka let's go this
discipline part and again without going
for like heavy set to in like that so
rip it out
[Music]
yeah buddy
so Sam was just telling me he thought
his weak point
always was kind of his arms so was it
last year you trained them every day
yeah yeah you want to tell me about that
yeah so my arms are on size definitely
shrinks during during concerts prep and
which again when you strip all the fat
down it kind of uh I mean brings out all
the all the flaws that you had so I
needed like more arms of course we won't
look big only I like you know thirteen
percent body fat so one of my goals like
for the hopson's and just like trainers
arms increase the frequency as much as I
can so I train arms every day and I put
something on Instagram and think about
books I went crazy what the Train arms
every day no I'm not going like amrap
every day on the training you know I had
like a full day dedicated to just arm
training and I have that that's like you
know a complimentary walk out to a lot
of new movement it was sometimes on leg
day I might like to say right at 1520
exactly I've heard a lot of people have
success with that approach yeah and it
makes sense as long as you know you're
like you say you're not going maximally
every single exactly we were doing
seated bicep curls again nicely
controlled we see how we're gonna start
with 1225 again I want his quality over
just no time I guess minis were ever
reps possible
[Music]
as long as you're going to failure it
probably doesn't matter but I find that
extra rest in between reps there is a
study I can tell you about - so the
study was on lat pulldown and they had
two groups two three three sets of ten
one group did ten straight through all
the way to failure
the other group did five rested thirty
seconds then did another five with the
same weight but the group that rested
thirty seconds in between think about it
they did five that's probably not that
hurt yeah and then another five again
not that hard because they had the rest
yeah and the the group that did ten
consecutive saw significantly more
hypertrophy even though the volume was
exact same way same reps but that rest
in between heard their hypertrophy so I
think you know you can maybe apply that
to curls where you've got all this rest
in between reps you might not create the
same fatigue right so you're a round out
the work out some direct tricep work so
just doing press downs over here higher
reps again not trying to set records on
here and trying to guess much our
stimulation as possible two sets fifteen
twenty the moment I just did obviously I
started with just a normal like all
priced and and the reason why I lean
over it's almost like to mimic like over
I could faint curl or overhand extension
just a better contraction for me and I
can feel it more that's a nice little
adjustment to the basic attractive crow
I mean it extinction we're gonna finish
off with a little bit of light ab work
so do some hanging leg raises
I've actually got a video on AB training
with Matt Ogas on the way so you guys
can stay tuned for that we're gonna do a
couple sets
I usually go like 1012 reps on these I'm
good nice slow and controlled leg raises
it's gonna be a wrap okay man I came in
I didn't know there might be some people
who are skeptical you're natural or not
do you have a message to the to the
haters or to the skeptics or anything or
do you just stay in your own way
oh I have a message not being a
defeatist the way I look at it this way
is like when I see somebody that's rich
or does well I don't automatically
assume that person's got a handout in
life I assume they worked hard for what
they had that's always been my mentality
that might not be true but that's what I
allowed myself to brain I usually
believe me we've told me you naturally I
expect a test where you tell me the
truth and I have no reason to believe
otherwise I'm sorry guilty because I
have friends that are freaks and are
naturals I've seen that so of course I
know it's natural so it's hard for me to
see some ID it's unnatural like oh wow
I don't think so yeah put yourself in
situation to be allow yourself in
successful right don't sell yourself
short right look at as a motivation as a
possibility of what could happen if you
actually put time to it and you just
assume I'd rather you see that has a
genetic good genetics or good shape now
is enhanced ask the right question how
long you been trained in all do you you
might you might just have exact genetic
you can't choose your own genetics you
know if you're given what you have and
at the end of a just got to work with
the best we have which is you that's
really well said man I appreciate it it
was sticking with you bro
oh yeah oh yeah we didn't tell the vlog
decided to come to Chili's after
chick-fil-a let us down again Sunday man
I feel so bad why do we why do we always
want to collapse so we're it's so weird
like the owners particularly just like
laughing yeah I I appreciate you really
just believe but come on i watch the odd
one sauce to eat food I spoke to him I
don't know what he's been telling you I
was gonna be the chicken fajitas as well
please yeah and I would do the other
triple dippers Oh everything that's on
the this picture looks good
it's gonna make easy
why do you guys here's what we got some
chicken fajitas over here we got some
rice guacamole cheese looks absolutely
delicious Sam got the real good style
triple dipper chicken wing sliders and
our surveys well as promised wha we're
gonna dig in and enjoy charge the salmon
I want to put his Instagram right here
here on YouTube too right oh yes sir
yeah so I'll have that link down below
make sure you go check it out
show some love leave the video thumbs up
if you enjoyed it subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here
[Music]