going to start off with quad extensions
as always I'm not trying to rewrite
anything new not trying to hit any
records that's for damn sure right now
really good idea not to try a lot of
weird new stuff especially hit any crazy
PRS when you're prepping for a show if
you train really hard you will conserve
all of your muscle and step on stage
really well if you train extra extra
hard you might build 1% more muscle than
you usually would in that phase or even
5% more muscle but your probability of
injury and excessively High fatigue that
leads to a poor look at the show or not
making the show at all multiplies
considerably so on the trade-offs it's
just not worth it so it's one of those
things that's like is it a good idea to
talk to girls try to get to know them
and go on dates yes if you are at an
international airport and you're trying
to run onto a flight while Godzilla is
destroying the city behind you is that a
good time to slow down and talk to the
girl next to you probably not it's all
about
trade-offs Godzilla what a fun time