what are the best and worst chest
exercises for muscle growth well for a
chest movement to rank highly it needs
to tick three boxes one a big stretch
with high tension if it doesn't offer
high tension in a deep stretch I'm
putting in an F tier no exceptions two
it needs to feel good it shouldn't cause
pain and it should have a smooth
resistance profile giving a good pump
and a nice mind muscle connection would
be nice too three it needs to have a
simple progression if you can't
progressively overload by adding weight
or reps that's not good and after
ranking 20 of the most popular movements
from s for super to F for fail at the
end I'll Crown one exercise as the best
of the chest raising it to S tier plus
and one as the most inept for the pecs
sending it to F tier hell all right
let's get the worst out of the way the
hex press I'm not a big fan of these
first you never get a big stretch in
your pecs because your arms never
stretch out they stay tucked in the
whole time and they don't offer maximum
tension because your triceps will take
over there's no evidence that these
Target the in incs in fact I think
they'd probably be worse for the incs
than a standard dumbbell press since the
in PEC fibers aren't getting as
stretched here the hex press is going in
F tier the plate press is basically a
hex press that feels even more Awkward
with even less overload potential so
it's also going in F tier the dumbbell
pullover is a tricky one biomechanics
tells us that the pecs do help perform
this movement alongside the lats and
triceps and when you look at the
activation data the pecs do activate on
pullovers the problem is I simply don't
feel my pecs when I do this movement
whatsoever and more or less every client
I've ever worked with says the same and
I don't see many top bodybuilders
putting these on their chest day so
despite some theoretical Merit I think
pullovers are a much better lat exercise
than a PE exercise and for that reason
I'm going to put them in D tier all
right let's look at some better
exercises the bench press my ranking
might surprise you here it offers high
tension on the pecs as long as you bring
the bar all the way down to your chest
it's very easy to overload and you can
always add some weight over time as you
get stronger it feels good to me
although many people do complain that
the bench press makes their shoulders
feel a little cranky I suspect that's
because they're trying to lift more
weight than they should be lifting but I
still hear the issue commonly enough
that I do count it as a slight negative
so if it were just me I think I'd
probably put the bench press in s tier I
credit most of my own PEC development to
this exercise however it is true that
the barbell won't allow the PEC to get
in quite as deep of a stretch as
dumbbells do since it'll come up solid
against your rib cage and based on my
coaching experience not everyone gets as
much pack activation out of the bench
press as I do so for thaton reason I'm
going to hesitantly drop it back to a
tier the incline bench press has all the
same upsides as the flat bench press
except it slightly emphasizes the upper
pecs now a lot of people think this
means it isn't as good for the mid and
lower pecs as the flat bench however a
recent study found that the incline
bench press caused the same lower and
mid pek growth as the flat bench did
plus better upper PEC growth so it's
very close to S tier but I think I'm
going to leave it in a tier as well the
decline bench press doesn't have any
long-term research comparing pet growth
like the incline and flat bench however
biomechanics tells us that a decline
angle should Target the mid and lower
pecs a bit more however it has two minor
downsides for one in my experience more
people struggle with getting their upper
pecs to grow than their mid to lower
pecs so if you're trying to shift the
bias I would shift it toward the upper
pecs for most people second the decline
bench does have slightly less range of
motion than both the flat and the
incline press so out of the three angle
options I would say it's my least
favorite I know some people swear by it
and it clearly isn't effective chest
Builder it's very close to being in a
tier but I'm going to put it in B tier
all right the flat dumbbell press this
offers a deeper stretch on the pecs than
the barbell because the dumbbells can
move freely past the rib cage they feel
great you should get a great chest pump
on these and because people are less
likely to let their ego takeover on this
exercise is less common for people to
have shoulder issues as a beginner and
intermediate level lifter you should be
able to progressively overload this
movement just fine by either adding reps
or increasing the weight of the
dumbbells however once you get decently
strong you may max out the dumbbell rack
at your gym which usually stops at 100
lb also once you get that strong the
dumbbells get so big and bulky that they
can be quite awkward to handle so while
the flat dumbbell press is just about an
S tier it's getting knocked down to a
tier for those potential overloading
issues in more advanced lifters the
incline dumbbell press is also going in
a tier since the same basic movement
with the same upsides and downside
except again it has slightly more
emphasis on the upper pecs and I'm
putting the decline dumbbell press in B
tier since I do find it awkward to set
up you'll probably need someone to hand
you the dumbbells and again lower pecs
rarely need any extra emphasis okay the
machine chest press a good chest press
machine will give a nice deep stretch on
the pecs and provide high tension
throughout the range of motion unlike
barbells and dumbbells you're more
locked in which should help increase the
Mind muscle connection with your pecs
and give them massive pump machines are
very easy to overload you can always add
some weight or a rep from week to week
and they have the advantage of being a
little safer to push to failure than
free weights assuming you have a good
chest press machine that takes all those
boxes is I really can't think of a
downside from a muscle building
standpoint and so the machine chest
press is our first exercise getting
awarded to S tier all right dips let's
see massive stretch on the pecs possibly
the best compound exercise I'm aware of
for getting into a deep PEC stretch they
offer high tension and there's many ways
to apply Progressive overload you can do
assisted dips and reduce the assistance
weight over time or you can do body
weight dips and add reps or you can slow
down the negative a bit more from week
to week and then as you gain more
strength you can use a weight belt to
add external load the only downside of
dips is that some people find that their
shoulders get cranky if they do them too
much although I've never actually
experienced that personally but I will
say I don't think dips have the
smoothest feel so despite many upsides
they are taking a slight hit in the
feels good department for me and for
that reason I'm going to put them in a
tier instead of s tier they're
definitely an exercise worth including
though okay what about push-ups body
weight push-ups are nice because you can
do them anywhere without any equipment
however assuming you do have gym access
I think there are far better options for
chest growth the problem is that once
you get decently strong you'll need to
do at least 30 plus reps to get close
enough to failure to maximize muscle
growth which isn't ideal I do think
that's fine if you're doing them as a
end of workout finisher but otherwise
doing all those reps can be exhausting
for no added benefit you also come up
solid against the floor before your pecs
are fully stretched and they're not that
easy to overload while you can have a
partner add some weight to your back the
weight always feels a bit unstable for
me they are a decent beginner exercise
but I'm still putting body weight
push-ups in tier banded push-ups do add
some extra tension to the movement
however almost all of that tension is
added to the top half rather than the
bottom half of the push-up so tension
still isn't being maximized while the
pecs are stretched I still think they're
a decent finisher though so I'll put
them in B tier deficit push-ups fix the
problem of not getting a deep stretch on
the pecs and even though they're still a
bit tricky to overload you can make the
exercise more challenging by pausing for
2 to 3 seconds in the bottom I think
that if you're going to do push-ups this
is how you should do them deficit
push-ups are going in a tier I used to
do a lot of plyometric push-ups in my
early powerlifting days to build up
explosive chest power for the bench
press but I've fallen out of love with
them s they're just not great for
maximizing tension on the negative or in
the stretch and even though there is
some research supporting more explosive
training I'd rather use an explosive
Tempo on a weight loaded exercise like
the bench press if bodybuilding is the
goal I'm going to put these in D tier as
a chest Builder speaking of less
conventional exercises the guillotine
press is basically a normal flat bench
press except you shrug your shoulders up
flare your elbows out and lower the
barbell down to your neck a lot of
people kick up a big fuss about this
exercise causing shoulder issues but
there's no direct evidence or even
strong rationale to support that you can
listen to Dr Mike if you don't believe
me some people will bench press
Guillotine style where they take a
higher position on the chest and they
let their elbows come up they feel a
huge stretch in the pecs their shoulders
feel amazing no problem correct answer
other folks will touch a little bit
below the nipple line actually on their
abdomen and they will tuck their elbows
on the way down if that is what hits
your peex the most and it makes your
elbows and shoulders feel nice and comfy
and
safe beautiful right answer what I don't
want you guys to get caught up in is
people on the internet who say this is
bad because biomechanics I don't know
where the they say that because if
you go out here notice my pecs are
getting more stretched as I pull out
that said I do believe that for some
people especially those with
pre-existing shoulder issues flaring the
elbows might hurt so in that case I just
wouldn't bother with these however Gill
presses will stretch the pecs better
than any of the other barbell presses
we've discussed and it also has a cool
history in lifting culture I am a fan
and I would put it in a tier however
because it's potentially very dangerous
dropping the bar on your neck would be
lights out I'm going to go ahead and put
it in F tier I just don't think the
potential Hazard risk is worth any
potential marginal gains you'll get from
it that said if you modify the exercise
to do the same basic movement with
dumbbells it suddenly becomes much safer
and in that case I am going to put these
in a tier again these may fall in D tier
or F tier for those of you who get
shoulder pain from it but in my
experience the majority of lifters can
flare their elbows without issue just
start light and build up your tolerance
to round out the dumbbell press
variations I guess I'll cover the one
arm dumbbell press I still see this
quite a bit at the gym but doing one arm
at a time has no Advantage because each
PEC has to work individually in a
dumbbell press anyway so doing them one
arm at a time just makes it harder to
keep your balance which disperses
tension away from the PCS maybe a bit
harsh but I'm going to put these in F
tier the Smith machine gets a lot of
hate for some reason but studies
consistently show that it is effective
at building muscle across a variety of
different exercises I think it's a great
alternative to the standard bench press
with all the same upsides plus I find
I'm more confident pushing the Smith
machine press closer to failure these
are going in a tier along with the other
barbell presses and the incline Smith
machine press is the same basic movement
except with a little more upper peack
emphasis so they're also going in a tier
okay so far we've been discussing only
compound chest exercises presses dips
and push-up variations that will smash
the pecs but also Target the front delts
and triceps sometimes you want to
isolate the pecs and for that we've got
a bunch of PEC fly variations there's
Cable Crossovers seated cable PEC flies
the pec deck machine and dumbbell flies
let's start with Cable Crossovers these
do provide a big stretch on the pecs
with nice smooth and even tension
throughout the range of motion they feel
good to me and usually give me a solid
chest pump they're not quite as
conducive to Progressive overload as
pressing movements simply because you
can't go as heavy but you can still add
a rep here and there and focus on
technique so that's not a deal breaker
the only downside to these is that by
doing them standing you may find that
the cable pulls your body back
especially as you get stronger which can
make it less stable you can correct for
this by bending forward and flying
downward so while it's close to being
perfect it's not the most stable fly
variation and for that reason I'm
putting it in a tier the seated PEC fly
has all the same upsides as the cable
crossover but by sitting down you get
rid of the balancing component and
increase the stability of the exercise
which will make sure that all the
tension coming from the cables is being
applied directly to the pecs this is my
favorite chest isolation movement at the
moment and so I'm going to make it my
second addition to S tier the PC Tech
Machine shares many of the same benefits
as you're also seated so it's nice and
stable and you'll be able to get a big
stretch on your pecs with high tension I
just don't find it feels quite as good
as the cables do the machine locks you
into a very specific movement path
whereas the cables allow your shoulder
to move a bit more freely this means you
may not be able to find that perfect
line of pull for your PC specifically
this is a pretty subjective one but I'm
going to put the pec deck machine in a
tier all right the dumbbell fly now a
couple years ago I probably would have
put this one in c-tier because you get
literally zero tension at the top of the
range of motion when the pecs are most
contracted however recent evidence has
shown that the contraction is most
likely not as important as the stretch
is for muscle growth and so I've opened
the dumbbell fly back up as a viable
option I like to do these all as length
into partials so I just cut out the top
half of the movement alt together where
there's no tension anyway but I still
don't think they're quite as smooth as
cable flies and so they're losing one
point in the feelsgood department I'm
putting dumbbell flies in a tier okay
let's finish off with three less common
exercises one that I hate one that I
love and one that's just okay the cable
press around is probably the only
exercise we've covered so far that gets
the PEC fully contracted that's because
the Press around is a rare exercise
where you press the cable across your
midline so I do like to include it
periodically for this reason because
even though the stretch literature is
convincing to me I still think including
some short length biased work isn't a
bad idea until we get more evidence some
people do find the movement to be a bit
awkward at first but once you get the
hang of it it really is a great option I
love the Press around and it's going in
a tier the crossbody standing dumbbell
fly is another exercise where you extend
your arm across your body to get the
upper pecs fully contracted but unlike
the cable press around the dumbbell
offers literally zero tension when the
PEC is stretched this is also basically
a front raise meaning the front delts
will steal a lot of the tension from the
pecs even if you squeeze them at the top
doing dumbbell flies lying down makes a
lot more sense biomechanically and so
these are going in F tier the floor
press is mainly used for developing
maximum bench press strength and it's an
exercise that I include in a lot of my
strength and power building programs as
I think it's great for smashing the
triceps and improving lockout strength
that said The Limited range of motion
makes it a less than ideal candid it for
chest hypertrophy as you never get the
pecs fully stretched so even though I do
love it for strength it's just okay for
pet growth and I'm going to leave it in
C tier now if I had to Crown just one
exercise as the best of the best I'd
probably go with a machine chess press
this is a broad category and some
machines are certainly better than
others but if you can find one that
feels good at your gym I definitely
think it's worth including it takes all
the regular boxes and you can safely
push it to failure and if I had to pick
one exercise as the worst of the worst
it probably be the plate press this is
just one of those exercises that
influencers do to be different but
unfortunately it comes with a ton of
downsides and no real upside also I just
launched phase two of my pure
bodybuilding program over on Jeff
napper.com so that's available for
pre-order right now phase one of the
program got the highest praise I've ever
received from a whole bunch of experts
in the field and I've got a long list of
amazing testimonials from people who ran
the programs Phase 2 builds on that by
introducing more than 90 new exercises
and plenty new intensity techniques many
of which I've never shown here on the
channel before if you pre-order you'll
get all three versions of the program
for the price of one so you'll get the
Push Pull legs upper lower and full body
versions of the program which is more
than 6 months of training in total and
the pre-order lasts for 1 week if you
didn't run Phase 1 yet I would recommend
starting with that one first and just
for this week only I'm also going to
knock phase one off by 30% so now might
be a good time to pick up both as this
is the most discounted they'll ever be
so I'll put a link to the new program
over here next to my head if you want to
check it out and there'll also be links
to both phases in the description box
down below as well as always thank you
guys so much for watching don't forget
to leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed
the video subscribe if you haven't
already and I'll see you guys all here
in the next one