you're not getting the best gains from
your chest supported rows that you could
be here's how to fix that on your last
set after you get to the point where you
can't squeeze the bar all the way up
switch to doing Kelo shrugs you can
think of Kelo shrugs like a horizontal
shrug so rather than shrugging up by
squeezing your upper traps you shrug
back by squeezing your mid traps and
rather than rowing like you normally
would by allowing your arms to bend with
Kelo shrugs you keep your arms locked
and row using your back only this will
completely isolate the mid traps and
this technique allows me to crank
another four or five reps after my usual
stopping point if you've never tried
them before it may feel like the range
of motion is too short but as long as
you're squeezing your shoulder blades
together and then allowing your midback
to really pull apart on the negative
you'll be getting a great back stimulus
to finish the set