hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization today's weekly tip is
don't chase progressions too much what
but I thought we were supposed to be
progressing what is too much progress is
that even a thing turns out yes
so are you supposed to hit PR's in the
gym PR by a rep here by five pounds here
yes absolutely
core of the training process is to add
reps and or load to the bar weekly
deload repeat
however that should not and cannot come
at the expense of very good technique
because if you have to get a rep with
bad technique you're lying to yourself
about the progress that you're really
making which could be no progress or
much less than you think you are so if
you're supposed to hit 10 reps on a
squat but you hit 12 hey PR but the last
two reps were total dog shit maybe you
could have only hit 11 with good
technique so maybe 12 is an exaggeration
next week you're going to want a PR
again you're going to want to hit 13
reps but you can only do 11 so you're
just incrementally adding shitty reps to
the end of your sets no bueno what you
end up doing is all of the training that
you're doing if PR's are everything and
you let your Technique degrade at first
and then try to match Powers after that
is you get a real degradation of your
stimulus to fatigue ratio which means
that all of the work you do in the weeks
after you hit a fake PR and try to match
it the stimulus is lower than how high
the fatigue is because in order to grind
out reps you usually have to break their
technique you're not hitting the
targeted muscles as much anymore for
example in squats you should be failing
at your quads but now you're trying to
round your back and cantilever your butt
up and it's more glute training than you
need it it's more lower back training
than you do that's a lot of systemic
fatigue and your quads aren't getting
any better of a workout because you're
actually trying to avoid having them be
the limiting factor no good no good no
good so when you settle in for a hard
set
yes you should have your goal reps in
mind okay I want to get 13 reps but
every rep should be treated as its own
with Stellar technique every single time
and if you are unable to repeat two reps
in a row with good technique the set is
over if you underperform that's okay you
can make up for it on the next set
because performance is an average of all
the sets of the exercise
if you underperform two sessions in a
row then you're just too fatigued to hit
the PRS and it's time for a deload no
big deal remember most times you're not
progressing because you will the
progress sometimes you have to have a
lot of willpower to get to the progress
that you need however most other times
progress is just something that happens
when you apply your willpower to getting
good technique and seeing how many good
technique reps you can get because if
you get a lot of good technique rep
good technique reps more than last time
then you've progressed but if with good
technique you can't get the Reps you're
supposed to you're not progressing
you're too fatigued it's time to deload
there's just no wrong answers there be
honest with yourself always use a good
technique and yes try to hit the big
PR's but never at the expensive
technique ever ever ever ever ever and
if you do it you're terrible and you
should be crying yourself to sleep every
night see you guys next time