oh my God oh my God the weight keeps
increasing oh my God it keeps going this
is this is over 400 lbs at this point
very good powerlifting style singles
these are touch and go so they're not
paused The Descent is controlled though
quick if you want this to work better
for muscle hypertrophy that same
technique that he's doing is Dam near on
the mise his shoulders are retracted his
chest is up that is critical he's
touching the bar to roughly nipple
height which is very very good for
strength development and targeting the
overall chest mat
if you're going to use this for muscle
growth I think that going down a little
bit slower pausing at the chest
momentarily and coming back up is a
really good thing but otherwise this is
the template for awesome awesome Lifting
for strength and will also get you
jacked this is just wonderful stuff
incline beautiful again a slower
Ecentric and a pause will give you a
little bit more growth probably or at
least the same growth and then be a
little bit safer but uh this is just
like man this is 95 out of 100 this is
really awesome stuff