he said in his own words he trains for
the difficult now this became a meme
because what a lot of people fail to
realize which is understandable because
they're not Greeks what gagos did there
is that he directly translated from
Greek to English and what he meant to
say was that I am training for the
difficult times for the difficult days
for the fields essentially he's not
training for a specific goal there's no
PR in mind there's no competition in
mind there's no metrics it is purely for
the love of training sure he has his
little sub goals on the unconventional
lifts that he does but essentially the
goal is to get into that weightlifting
hole lift as much weight as possible do
a bunch of stuff including stuff that is
heavily uh challenging from uh an
endurance standpoint do that for a few
hours get destroyed go sleep and then go
work and then repeat and do that all
over again without any other motive