hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization talking to you about the
five kinds of failure and which ones to
use and be aware of in muscle growth
training
and the five ways to fail are failing
yourself
failing your family failing your
community failing your country and
failing god himself
thanks see you next time
just kidding i mean i'm not kidding if
you fail like this don't do it be a good
person
eat your wheaties you know whatever
mcgruff the crime dog says
here's the deal
training-wise the five kinds of actual
failure in training
don't worry i'm gonna list them all but
don't worry we'll get to all the
specifics and talk about them in more
depth than you probably ever wanted to
know by the way heads up this is like a
technical nerdy science video
so if you're gonna comment you just
don't complicate shit look train hard uh
please do comment it helps us in the
algorithm in any case
psychological failure that's a trippy
one systemic slash cardiovascular
failure as usually done by the called
the central governor model
local muscular failure has two types
target muscle and non-target muscle
technical failure has three subtypes it
has concentric isometric and eccentric
failure and then lastly anything it
takes failure which sounds exactly like
what it is so
psychological failure
is the first kind and that's when you
stop a set without really any proximate
physical or neural limits
usually this happens because you are in
pain their muscles are accumulating
lactic acid and that hurts and you just
don't want to be in pain anymore so you
stop alternatively sometimes people have
a fear of injury that when they get
closer and closer to them it's like oh
i'm going to get hurt fuck that and they
just cash out and they stop
most effective hypertrophy training or
sorry the most effective hypertrophy
training
occurs beyond the point at which your
average person off the street
encounters psychological failure
so and i've talked about this type of
failure in subtype number one of my
older video on failure so if you google
dr mike as retail failure you'll
probably just have some youtuber aptly
demonstrating home a life failure but
the second video will be me going
through the three types of failure more
of a simple video but this is the first
type same type is just kind of just
giving up because you're like ow this
hurts fuck that so
over time
we need to work at not quitting
psychologically so that failure is
physiological because then that gets us
into that part of the bandwidth that
gives us the most muscle growth good
news is beginners are no good at this
but it does they don't have to because
they get such easy gains anyway but as
you become an intermediate and advanced
you need to be able to
put your psychology
limits aside and really push the
physiology to its limits really really
does help
what does that mean it means that as a
more advanced lifter
you have a readiness and you regularly
practice giving it
more or less you're all within a set
that opens you up to the best growth
and there's no risk that you're not
growing because you're not trying hard
enough okay that's the real thing you
don't want is you know you've gained
five pounds a month last year and you
realize that if you just pushed every
set a few reps further you could have
gained seven pounds of muscle like that
would suck right you want to make sure
you're doing a good job
and
this means you push it but still with
focus
making sure your technique is still good
and rarely ever summoning the super
crazy psychological demons of your
childhood to help you out because those
tend to fatigue you so much it's not
sustainable it's a focused approach to
failure but nonetheless psychologically
when your body tells you're sorry when
your mind tells you hey you should back
off here this is gonna hurt you go nope
nope nope i'm here for the pain
all right so that's how to avoid that
one because we don't want psychological
failure in most cases to limit us
next kind of failure it is another kind
of failure we don't want to limit us in
the gym for muscle growth training is
systemic slash cardiovascular failure it
occurs when your lungs and heart get
really tired
and also occurs when your blood fills
with enough waste products that you're
not actually able to contract the muscle
anymore because your cardiovascular
system is what's pooping out on you the
muscle itself is maybe three or four
reps away from failure but your
cardiovascular system is like nah fam we
ain't got this anymore
interestingly enough the heart and lungs
don't so much have feelings uh but
through something called a central
governor model if your blood lactic acid
hot rises high enough if your heart and
lungs through other various mechanisms
working hard enough then
your brain actually gets all these
signals and starts to shut down your
ability to do any more work it feels
like a profound crushing fatigue of like
an i can't do this kind of feeling and
even though psychologically you're
trying your best your cardiovascular
system and other systems involved are
really just preventing your brain from
really unleashing the beast
is this a failure that endurance
athletes get really good at dealing with
and really good at for stalling
and as a hypertrophy trainee it's
important not to be stopped by this
because remember the best growth occurs
when you're close to local muscular
failures you want to train biceps really
hard you got to make sure the bicep
muscle itself is getting close to
failure not like you're
breathing so heavy that you can't do any
more bicep curls because you're trying
to breathe super hard and you're just
tired generally from a cardiovascular
perspective not at the target muscle
level
so what can you do about this
first you want to choose exercises and
rep ranges that limit the local
musculature not the cardiovascular
system so for example if you want to
train legs in sets of 10 to 20. for most
people sets of let's say 18 reps in the
squat that'll be cardiovascular limit
like at that point your quads aren't
giving out it's you know rep number 16
you come up and you're like
you're almost gonna pass out your quads
still fundamentally could push out three
or four reps you're done because you
physically can't even like maintain your
field of vision anymore so instead of
doing something like squats which
demands a whole lot of cardiovascular
input because it uses so many muscles
and it moves your entire body maybe you
want to do leg presses or hack squats or
leg extensions four sets of you know in
the higher reps and safe squats for the
lower ups that way on leg presses when
you're coming up close to failure and
rep number 18 it really is just the
quads that are cramping on you you have
you know 10 more seconds of good
breathing in you before that would be
the limiting system so a lot of this is
about intelligent exercise selection and
puts you this way if you're doing high
rep deadlifts or squats or even overhead
presses the target muscle is probably
never going to limit you it's going to
be your cardiovascular system unless you
have an unbelievably small musculature
and unbelievably developed
cardiovascular system and then your puny
and none of this applies to you anyway
number two point of what you can do
about it is be psychologically resilient
and ready to push through discomfort of
local failure right if you
are sorry push to the discomfort of
local failure so
you know reaching cardiovascular failure
or close
maybe your cv failure occurs roughly at
the same point as your local failure but
as you get closer and closer to
cardiovascular failure look shit sucks i
mean you feel like you're dying you're
gasping for air everything in your body
says quit if you're dedicated you're
going to say you know what fuck that
another rep i got another up i got
another up and until my muscles gives
out or until my muscle goes out i'm not
stopping or until i get as close as i
want to failure i'm not stopping at the
local muscle
last point this is a huge one get leaner
if you store a lot of body fat your
cardiovascular system has to operate
that shit keep it alive and your muscles
and it splits the difference and it
turns out your muscles can really
outpace your cv and then it's always a
limiting factor if you're leaner and
some of you may not have noticed this as
you've gotten leaner in your training
programs you're like holy shit my
endurance is fucking amazing and then
you're failing at the muscular level the
first time in a while and you're like i
can do high rep squats and my quads
actually give out versus doing high rep
squats and my soul gives out so getting
leaner is a big deal now if you're
already generally lean 10 to 15 and
lower you're fine getting leaders not
really going to do anything but if
you're in the 20s 30 somewhere percent
body fat getting leaner is an easy
surefire way to increase your overall
endurance and to make sure your muscles
become more limiting factor rather than
the rest of you
next
local muscular failure this is the good
kind of failure that we want this is
where your nervous system and your
cardiovascular systems are not the
limiting factors anymore the muscle
itself literally fails to produce enough
force to continue to do repetitions it's
a very good thing because it's very
growth stimulating growth causing growth
promoting
but it has to be the target muscle
itself
so for example in back training if
you're doing pull downs or pull-ups and
your lats are the ones that are failing
like your grip feels solid as shit and
you're coming up on the bar and you're
like
nope then that's great because your lats
are close to failure they get a lot of
hypertrophic stimulus however
if you're doing a set of pull downs and
you wanted to do 20 reps you're rep
number 15 and your forearms are pumped
and cramped and your fingers are
starting to open up and you stop at rep
number 16 your lats had four reps in
them maybe
and they might not even be that pumped
or that stress you're like fuck and
someone's like great lat work and you're
like i don't know it really was just
forearm work at this point so muscular
failure is great but it should be the
target muscle
if you're running into this problem what
can you do
first you want exercise selection and
technique that makes sure that it
leverages the muscle you want to be
what's going to fail so if you're doing
close grip benches and your triceps are
failing you're like fuck my chest i'm
trying to grow my chest widen that grip
arch and retract and all of a sudden
your chest is going to be the thing that
fails more and your triceps won't be the
limiting factor
next use all the technology you can as
long as your technique is good and
you're using the appropriate exercises
which means
if your forearms or sorry if your wrists
hurting or what makes you stop doing
dumbbell presses wrap that shit up use
wrist wraps and all of a sudden you'll
be getting five more reps per set and
thinking holy fuck i was really robbing
my front delts chest and triceps by
stopping just because my wrists were
hurting so wraps are really good
uh versa grips and straps shit like that
are excellent versa grips are amazing
i'm not sponsored by them by the way
versus grips please sponsor me i don't
want money i just want to be able to say
i'm sponsored
amazing chalk is super awesome and when
necessary use them look we're not
necessarily don't do the shift some guys
like we'll be doing tricep push downs
i've literally seen this this is insane
tricep push-downs where the only way
your grip would be lost is if the bar
physically fucking cut your fingers open
and blast it out of the fucking middle
of your hand i've seen guys do tricep
push downs with versus on and they wrap
them around the ship what the fuck are
you doing it's completely insane but
when you need them
use these tools they're a really good
idea in addition to that you can use a
belt if you use a belt for squats your
lower back doesn't give out your quads
give out that's great don't just put on
a belt for shits and giggles but if you
use it intelligently it can work
and i know this is beating a dead horse
if you get leaner your lower back won't
always be giving out on back training
and leg training and you'll be able to
push the target muscles much much better
now technical failure not a very complex
discussion
technical failure is when you can no
longer do any more apps without
sacrificing proper technique which means
there's no wiggling or cadence changes
you're like curling with a two second
eccentric and it gets closer to failure
and all of a sudden you're like
just trying to do more well those aren't
really reps anymore like you said they
were going to be you're kind of cheating
at this point don't do shit like that no
unneeded muscle use right so when you're
doing tricep extensions don't start
pushing your chest into it and doing
some shit like that you know that that's
not tricep extension failure that's like
i don't know cable dips at that point or
some shit like that no cutting rom of
course we've all seen this is super
common i'm doing squats to failure bone
when they get close to failure they
start going oh not so
parallel and just above and all of a
sudden we're doing half squats
hard rigid strict technique
do all of it properly
if you can no longer do reps with that
excellent technique that's failing and
it might not look that sexy like failing
on squats sometimes looks like oh nope
take it that's it you just fall back
down it's not like a lot of people don't
grind during failure because the fatigue
accumulation is exponential so it's like
your rep speed normal rep speed normal
last second to last rep is a little
slower and the last rep just falls off
when you're done okay that tends to
happen especially if you're doing good
technique if you do an incrementally
worse technique yeah you can slow down
reps for like a fucking hour you know
per person and you're still not doing a
good job and it's very difficult to do
all that tracking and progress checking
and keeping yourself injury free
technical failure actually has three
subtypes these are kind of insane most
people have never heard of them this is
you gotta usually get a sports science
degree to learn about them concentric
failure is when you can no longer move
the bar or the implement whatever from
point a to point b
so if you're benching and normally i
would attract my shoulder blades but
this chair is going to fall back if i do
is like why does dr mike demo benching
with a shoulder floor
if you come up here you can't do it
anymore
concentric failure that one has the best
stimulus to fatigue ratio it's very very
stimulative but not super fatiguing it
is fatiguing but not compared to these
other two the next one is isometric
failure that's when you actually can't
hold a weight in place anymore because
notice when you fail a lot of times you
can still hold the weight in place you
just can't move it any further okay so
after you hit concentric failure if you
keep going you might be like trying to
hold it like earth
and then it starts going down on you
when it starts to starts going down on
you good god what are we doing in the
gym when the bar starts falling in you
you've passed isometric failure and now
you are reaching close to eccentric
failure what the fuck is eccentric
failure this is a real trip
if you can control weight so after you
fail to bench okay you hit concentric
failure
then you've held it
then as soon as it starts moving down
you've passed through isometric failure
eccentric failure is actually when you
fail to control the weight on the way
down so if you do this
and then your training partner drags it
off you actually never hate eccentric
failure eccentric failure is when you
try to control it but it goes
like that and your muscles just more or
less way can't match the force and the
shit falls on you
eccentric failure is super fucking
dangerous super stupid for hypertrophy
purposes there's basically never a
reason to do it
isometric failure has a real shitty sfr
because grinding isos after you've
already gone to failure super insanely
tax your nervous system
and doesn't really do a whole lot more
for your muscles then another good heart
set couldn't do better without less
nervous system taxation so yeah your
best sfr is concentric failure and
that's really the one that you should be
targeting as failure when you go to
failure in your program
lastly for the types of failure anything
it takes failure
you basically go until you can't keep
going and by go we're using a real
general term here because yeah you're
moving something's happening
often this occurs with eccentric failure
but without the technique preservation
so the whole exercise ends in just a
general collapse of your body
people walking by you doing this might
be like is that person having a seizure
or are they working out it's very
unclear
it has a few really big downsides first
you can't track it because you know how
do you know you're you know you say i
got 10 reps but everything took
everything for me to get that 10th rep
like yeah by everything you mean shit
that wasn't even the exercise itself and
you failed in every possible way you
could you didn't actually complete a
10th rep you completed an attempt
something and then the whole shit
collapsed on you how are you gonna track
that are you next week you're gonna try
to hit 11 11 of what 11 even worse reps
it doesn't make any sense real trouble
tracking
much higher injury risk if you want to
get hurt do shit like that and at the
end of the day even if you don't get
hurt
a poor stimulus to fatigue ratio i mean
going all the way to the end when you're
unable to move the weight anymore in any
fashion
even controlling it on the way down
you have a real poor stimulus to fatigue
ratio great stimulus but insane fatigue
whereas if you just went to regular
failure the stimulus would have been
just a little lower but the fatigue like
way lower and it just makes sense
instead of doing one psychotic set to
all-out cycle failure why don't you just
do two sets both of them to regular
concentric technical failure you get
more stimulus and less fatigue it's a
win-win situation i just wouldn't do it
all right
recommendations
from all of this
can you design a program that hits
failure in every single week sure you
can my
inclination is to start with like three
reps in reserve and work up from there
and only fail once every message cycle
or so but you can absolutely design a
program that fails every week
either way when you do fail
make sure it's not limited by your
psychology okay so failure should be
really actual muscular failure not you
just giving up
it should be not systemically limited
which means no cardiovascular limitation
or anything like that it should be your
muscles not the rest of you
it should be limited by the local target
muscle not you know when you're doing
squats not your lower back actually just
your quads and it should be technical
failure which means good technique at
all times and it should be concentric
right
if you have questions throw them in the
comments below and maybe you have some
good questions we'll make some videos
addressing the common questions we'll
call it like questions about failure
training and we'll go from there folks
thanks for tuning in and i'll see you
next time
editing time scott go ahead and shake it
i know you're trying to shake it shake
that shit baby
i did such a little like
i knew i hate it when there's gunk and
you're not allowed to shake it you're
like i'm not gonna i'm not gonna clump
myself to death for some stupid audio
shit there's like a half an inch of gunk
at the bottom not my first rodeo sir
shake away