on everyone for today Stephanie
Stephanie and I were both going to dr.
Campbell drabs
so he's a professor at the University of
South Florida and he runs a human
performance and nutrition lab so we're
going to go check that out see what it's
all about that's how you make rice does
how agent make my creations make it yeah
so that we're going to go do a bench
workout yeah we made a cup of these
magazines there's no model no the
coolest textbook collection I've ever
seen when did you start collecting these
the 2008 this is the first one that's a
good car like that eventually got away
from that a little yeah it is yeah
that's tonight this is my favorite
all-time bodybuilding magazines I love
anything they are getting smaller if you
notice low like this is like a this is a
manual look here's this month oh wow
that's time did that the content of the
ads is the decreasing the vivid a number
it's just that articles very very
focused on changing the body hot
emissions performance my last
performance and physique enhancement lab
right that we look at increases in
muscle mass wall students that and
metabolic rate performance is usually
strength very pertinent to my in track
so yes something called indirect
calorimetry so basically it's measuring
how much oxygen you're consuming and
there's a direct correlation between
oxygen and heat production or calorie
expenditure it's about five calories per
liter of oxygen the test is about 17
minutes and tells us how many calories
they burn over course of the day the
other way that you do it is you
literally measure they keep coming on
top of body tray it but there's not many
labs are outfitted with that you notice
massive into the individual variability
when you measure metal operator the
generally the same across if someone has
the same body weight it will generally
be similar there's a lot of variation
between apple and you can't really tell
there are a few people in the surf that
have done more of these than is I've
done oh yeah a thousand of metabolic
so if you're going to ask me what I
rather have a DEXA or something like
this for physique athletes
give me this any day this will tell me
very specifically how much fat do I have
to here wherever I put that right there
anyway right i can hear a track where
are you losing more where are you
retaining more wellness Gary another my
new
purchase but you're going to love this
is BIA
bioelectrical impedance finalizar what
this will do is measure total body water
it will actually compartmentalize it and
say how much intracellular water you
have and exercise mm or physique athlete
can body builders obviously the goal is
can what can we do to eliminate
extracellular water right and make it
look that much leaner main commercial
water into the intracellular compartment
to look more at follows is exactly
we got to hit directorship oh this is
sweet that is so sweet this quest to
attract female that is number one is me
I've never tried never tried into
character was really a good moment never
never and I'm use this exact machine
before attitude Salama
I've never used it he was not about here
this field if you want to hook up and is
it much better to try it so much better
than just like a bench in the gym like
the height is very good and the diamond
scratch makea this is them dysentery and
grippy yeah igloo ham right - yes yes
it's so much better isn't it yeah I
don't I personally don't like using the
barbell if you got to load it up get
under it so yeah I'm going to condition
myself to start using a band and I don't
want to say oh this is too kind of book
is it yeah it's not cheap this how you
decide to do it you double Mendota yes
put a little bit a little unnatural
those Marvel one-shot yeah I have one in
my bag
a little activated ah some sweet
starting a power listening studying here
we go
we just finished it but this data you
know your analyze yeah so basically the
study looked at the difference between
having a big three-day Monday Wednesday
and Friday we use a squat bench press
and deadlift on the third day on Friday
you would do an Amber access for all
three lifts versus having the am rep
sets spread out of staggered sees that
you do the squat in lap on Monday the
bench and rap on Tuesday or on Wednesday
and then the deadlift amrap on Friday
and then see if there's any difference
between subjects it would be tough to
know if that's what happened because you
you could almost make the case either
way like the amrap set could be
difficult to recover from and so doing
the amrap on Monday might affect dead
look performance on Friday resume
polish it all on one day they might be
able to recover better for letting a
difficult decision that before we can
show so you have to be interesting to
see that all sort of cement published
but this is the lab that that went down
in is this where you're going to be
doing a lot of the weman related to the
enhancement that's a research female we
still are very squat deadlift focused on
females mm-hmm well we do have more
accessory more accessory stuff out here
gotcha
so this is all kind of the one weapon
you got sure thank you so thank you yeah
you do I really appreciate it all right
so guys we just finished up literally
just finished up in dr. Campbell's lab
so we're going to come back and do a
full body composition analysis and
metabolic rate testing which I'll put in
another video for now Stephanie and I
are going to get some food X where we
train no no train this chicken right
cheese corn sour cream guacamole and
lettuce and you're going to go train
he's going to make our pre-workout
stacks going on right now so what are
you going to make me well and what for
you to get one baby food thank you
I get one big with such a dollar we're
low on prolific m/s this is their new
pre-workout mango squash flavors my
favorite on a lake was really well with
high volumes which is the sum product so
this is like the stimulant energy
products this is the Optronics paradise
cooler top here is cooler is so good I
used to go to soups you have a little
bit of a drive so we're going to take
that now
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
longtime subs will know that this is my
favorite part about the southern states
except for her
my second favorite everything I am I
have to compete with Brit actually
that's like sweet potatoes either the
best [ __ ] ever so good can land in the
cart aesthetically there you go I want
you to be strong and pick up pick up all
the cases of water for me know now do
you press overhead presses know this is
messy Baku where you want to measure
from the bottom so it wanted under the
price I'm very demanding
[Music]
thank you have all the flavors oh thank
you
keeps everything wrong [ __ ] huh
huh cut the bun there we go BAM I don't
know are you a juggler for real juggle
ball Donders oh I'm impressed give me a
quiz Oh laughs they don't have this
little bit of the white rice
you said it was an 8 that's good talking
hate me so I Penang is better and what I
want everyone to know this is the first
time jeff has had the chicken tenders
pub/sub and if you had a pub sub
definitely leave a comment below because
you know the orgasmic miss of a pub sub
so juicy is you see any sense does not
taste healthy not supposed to be healthy
though if I'm eating like a pizza yeah
like like bad food but look at my green
stuff here there's a little bit of green
the Stickles county rate but they're
green because think I got my my PE signs
most of it that's true that's true and I
was going to try this new Oreo thing eat
a bite should be inside of it mmm mmm
good
Oh
like color in chocolate had like Oreo
bits on the inside on a Pinder work with
real business closes that's so good
you know what everyone's my crazy but
it's all good
Oh shall we wait for ready for a candy
bar with your other favorite candy bar
like a kinder kinder and welcome nurse
so it's better than scenario contenders
Germans by the way all of Germany okay
this get ready yeah 925 it's so good he
just rated that better than dachshund
and it holds up ah damnit I don't [ __ ]
that man
yes bring on everyone I just want to say
thank you so much for watching the video
if you liked it don't forget to give me
a favor and hit the thumbs up button
got a couple super quick announcement
Stephanie's half of this whole day I put
a link to over here also I did two
podcasts this week to both of those I've
made available in the description box
below also I've got a science explained
video coming on warm up mobility to keep
stay tuned for that
for now thank you guys so much once
again for watching and I will see you in