hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
priorization and today's video topic is
to ask the question of do you need your
fitness trackers sleep data and if you
do need it how should you use it for
your best results
so modern trackers including the one on
your phone and a variety of apps that
you use are very very powerful and they
collect a ton of
data some of the sleep tracker apps
including ones on your eyewatch or Gat
or whatever the hell you rich people
have I have a Chinese watch from 1850
Abraham Lincoln's old watch they
said these things can tell you a lot
about your sleep for example they can
tell you how much tossing and turning
you did they can tell you how long you
slept in what was probably deep sleep
they can tell you how likely restful
your sleep was they can tell your sleep
duration Etc they can give you an
integrated sleep score so that you can
keep all this data bundled in one
actionable measurement
they can tell you a lot but the next
question becomes
inevitably what do you do with this data
when I came up in sport science uh in my
Sport Science Education my PhD program
about a decade ago I uh we were first
dealing with a ton of influx of
technology and we were dealing with this
problem in sport Science that a lot of
sport coaches and Sport scientists and
more sport coaches and performance
people were getting a ton of data input
and they just didn't know what to do
with it they were like well look we
monitor all these things about our
athletes and then this us the sport
scientists would be like oh gotcha how
are you using it and they're like I
don't know we just collect a bunch of it
well that's good and well but why would
you collect data if you didn't have at
least some insight on how you going to
use it what do you do with this
data and in order to answer that
question we have to first ask a related
question what of the data really matters
how do we answer that well here's the
thing there's a spectrum roughly a
spectrum of options of what could be
happening with your
sleep
first your sleep is bad and you know it
because you're tired all the time and
you're not getting recovery that you
used to get from sleep it is something
that when it's obvious it's obvious when
you wake up in the morning and you don't
have an alarm and it's the weekend and
you wake up and you don't you do not
feel rested you feel like Jesus Christ
did I get beat up in my sleep what the
hell happened she wiiz you're not
getting good
sleep the option at The Other Extreme is
you're getting amazing sleep every time
you wake up you feel like a new person
you know let's say you have a spouse and
you're like hey honey do I like toss and
turn of my sleep she's like honestly I'm
jealous as fuck cuz I'm up in the middle
of the night watching soap opers cuz I
can't sleep and I look over at you you
have like a half smile serenely no
snoring no tossing no turning I swear to
God you're like in some kind of crazy
ambient mode where you just like
regenerate and you probably know that
too it's pretty obvious then there's the
middle part of the Spectrum in which
your sleep is maybe not as good as you
think and you could do better with
what's called Sleep hygiene to improve
it let's talk about when a sleep tracker
would be useful in those options the
first option is your sleep is bad and
you know it cuz obviously you're waking
up a zombie you don't really need a
Tracker to tell you that you just
don't option C when your sleep is Serene
and incredible you could use a Tracker
to just confirm what you already know
but you don't really need a Tracker so
it turns out the only time you really
can use a tracker for its biggest
benefit to put it more technically is
when your sleep is not as good as you
think and you could do better with sleep
hygiene to improve it right
so at the end of the
day you can lean on your
tracker if your sleep is something that
you want to work on
right but let's think through through
just a little bit
more let's say you wanted to check
and
see okay I think I'm sleeping okay but
it's not ideal let's make it
better at the end of the
day the hygiene tips that you're going
to
use are going to be the same no matter
what and so for example sleep with a
darker room we have another video on
this by the way if you Google it sleep
in a distraction
environment sleep with maybe a sound
machine or some other way to get the
noises out sleep in a colder room put
away all of your devices an hour or two
before you go to sleep etc etc etc those
are the same recommendations that you
would be using whether or not you had a
sleep track and here's the big kicker if
your sleep
improves you don't need a sleep score to
tell you that cuz you're going to be
more well rested throughout the day and
everything is going to go better now on
the margins a sleep tracker absolutely
can help you confirm that but it's
something that if it's worth noting it
should be pretty obvious it's similar to
should I get a body fat percentage test
yes that's those are totally cool but
they're not going to tell you if you're
really fat or if you're really lean why
cuz that's what the mirror is for that's
how your clothes fit that's how you look
at yourself that's what other people say
you're already going to know nobody
needs to tell a body builder whose
contest cheap that he's lean of course
he's lean you know everything else is
just super Precision at that point right
because many sleep trackers exist on
your phone and basically are free you
can lean on them in non-extreme cases
where you just kind of want to play
around with stuff now if you're getting
really bad sleep would you spend a lot
of money on a high-end sleep tracker you
could but I present the following to you
why so it can confirm that you're
obvious ly sleeping like shit for a
really high for a really high price and
the recommendations of how to fix it
would be sleep hygiene anyway I think a
sleep tracker in many respects is like
testing your 10rm every month if your
reps in the actual training are going up
and so is the weight you don't need a
10rm test to be obviously stronger if
you used to bench 150 PBS for roughly
sets of 10 and nowadays you're benching
185 for sets of 10 do you really need to
do a 10 RM or 1 m test between those
conditions to confirm up it actually
really did get stronger no shit of
course you got stronger the evidence is
in the phenomenon
itself another one is if you're getting
great sleep are you going to spend a lot
of money on a high-end sleep tracker why
so can tell you you're already getting
good sleep you've got to be smart about
the stuff so I don't want to knock on
sleep trackers a a ton if you are
profoundly wealthy such as myself I have
a team of 80 Butlers always tending to
my every need most of them are buying
Lamborghinis but every now and again I
see one hey hey hey uh Butler number 35
what's your name tag go make me toast
they always know how I like my toast by
the way the seven setting on the toaster
which I was told a while ago was
actually just seven minutes of toast in
any case if you're profoundly wealthy
you can buy a high-end sleep tracker
just for shits and gigs and just like
use the data and maybe try some sleep
hygiene Improvement and see like my
sleep score went from a 7 to a 7.3 okay
slow clap success and they absolutely do
have their utility when you're just not
sure if you're getting good sleep or
you're not sure what even sleep good
sleep feels like you could be in a
position where you're like I think I'm
getting good sleep and you finally get a
sleep tracker and it says your sleep
score sucks you're okay you implement
some sleep hygiene tips and all of a
sudden you're like whoa I didn't know
someone could be this rested from sleep
then it's valid but in many of the other
cases described here you don't want to
get a sleep tracker just to confirm what
you already know or find out something
to which the actionable Insight is like
this is you know
this is something that you we already
have a protocol for right it to put a
really shitty analogy to it if someone
if you're really good with your hands
and you can draw fast in a in a like a
weapon situation and you have like a uh
you carry a pistol with you if someone
draws on you in the street to try to mug
you and you you know like you can draw
faster and fucking zap them it's that
really important what kind of handgun
they took out like oh well if that's a
GL 19 hold different than if it's a
Desert Eagle or whatever who the fuck
would mug you with a desert eagle
Jesus it's data that you just don't need
to make a decision it's a gun draw
that's it so with a sleep tracker yes in
some cases the expensive ones are worth
it but in many cases just come back and
ask yourself the question if I found out
more intricate data about my sleep first
of all do I need that data or do I
already know I'm sleeping like shit or
I'm sleeping amazing secondly what do I
plan to do with that data in I going to
have some kind of really trippy protocol
am I going to try one sleep hygiene tool
at a time see which one works best for
me maybe but you really could just try
most of them so there are absolute use
cases I would just try to get you guys
to think this way as with any technology
technology is amazing technology is the
answer technology is the future but
technology will evolve through Market
forces only into the direction in which
you bya supply and demand Pay money to
people who make technology and if you
want Little tech gadgets that just don't
give you much information at all and you
want to pay high prices for them the
absolute best thing you can do in that
terrible scenario is just buy expensive
sleep trackers do nothing with the data
and pretend like you're doing stuff on
the other hand if you want Great Tech
demand a lot out of your tech make sure
that your Tech is actually telling you
actionable things and the tech tells you
which way they're working and how to
help you make Solutions like I don't
have an iPhone just cuz I think it looks
cool like a like a little flat brick I
have it cuz it fucking works in the real
world it solves my problems so if a
sleep tracker that costs more money can
solve your problems amazing please buy
it but if you can solve your own sleep
problems by just having better sleep
hygiene you know what to do already and
that's completely free folks thank you
for tuning in see you next
time