D it
good
good it let's go keep Jo again unless
I'm sadly mistaken the gentleman
spotting Dorian you'll see him in other
parts of this video is a person named
nasty Leroy Davis and I've had the
pleasure of being on a podcast with an
Bales and a few other folks from vuno it
Kingdom and Mr Leo Davis himself he's
super awesome super Pleasant super
knowledgeable been around really long
time and he does offer one-on-one
training so go find him on Instagram
hopefully we'll throw a link in here for
you guys and if you live somewhere in
England it's probably worth the trip
because he'll probably push you harder
than you estimated was possible or
reasonable for a human being to be
pushed remember this guy was the guy
pushing Dorian what do you think is
going to end up happening to you when
you get a workout with him highly highly
recommended