all right what's up everyone we have
made it to Toronto give you guys a quick
look at our view here so we're gonna be
training today at Fortis gym the quick
look at the place living area I guess
yeah I got a sexually coming true
bedroom with a view does where Brad is
sleeping so it's like a pullout sofa
sofa there she is
so we're here at Fortis Fortis gym and
Robin trained here yesterday
yeah I've never trained here before
apparently there's a lot of really cool
machines and equipment here so
definitely looking forward to it and
it's a lower-body day for me I'll talk
to you guys inside
guys this is a custom leg press
basically this is adjustable and well
the owner was describing me that it's
meant to mimic the movement pattern of
the squat squat squat got a setup here
where each platform comes down on one
side at a time so I'm gonna do single
leg
like working more than my right leg and
that's something you just wouldn't
notice unless you isolate just like
individually just when I can get it
better right notice that on stage when I
pose I like saying a side check I can
flex my left bring it up the lines and
back more than my right blue don't do
the right side chest unless I have to
like dress is riding fear
fifteen degrees
we just finished up the workout and now
we are going to get some sushi spicy
tuna salmon
always start with that Amami because
it's really high protein Thank You Lacey
tuna California
now we are on a hunt for a froyo place
found this place but I guess it's under
construction so I was looking at other
place
we have made it back in a chill-out now
for the rest of the night I know the
Warriors are playing Cavaliers on Game
one of the NBA Finals and I'm gonna see
if I can get our TV to work it's not
coming on for some reason but I'm
actually pretty pumped for that game
thank you once again for watching this
video if you did like it don't forget to
hit the thumbs up button subscribe to
the channel if you haven't already I'll
see you guys in the next one there's
always like spiders on these things and
like creeps we heard I think went back
inside look massive spider right here
and I don't you guys see that