Bret contrary ass that's right the man
is literally made for the job let's talk
about glute training and range of
motion welcome back Dr mil wolf here
with you today PhD in sports science
reacting to Brett contra' take on range
of motion and muscle length as it
relates to training the glutes I am
actually on good terms with Brett in
general and we've discussed range of
motion and muscle length as it relates
to train the glutes before so my
suspicion is I'm going to agree with
most things here but let's get into the
video and see what I agree and disagree
with should the gluteus maximus be
trained at long muscle lengths or short
muscle length for maximum result in this
video I'm going to roll through the four
existing studies pertaining to glus Max
Muscle length uh I'm going to discuss
the available evidence and then talk
about physiological concerns that we
still need to figure out I'm going to
list off the 10 longitudinal studies
that need to be conducted for us to
really have a good picture to allow us
to answer the question and I'm going to
finish off with nine important
considerations so I hope you're prepared
to kind of put on your nerdy
biomechanics hat for a while because
this is going to be a little bit
scientific it's not going to be as sexy
of a topic as some of my other videos
but it's not just very important it's
vital for the future direction of glute
training at the very least I'm very
excited about this topic and I hope that
shows through so right now there are
four studies one by Kubo one by casano
one by Plotkin and one by m now but
there are 25 total studies on this
muscle length debate pertaining to all
the muscle groups okay so four of the 25
pertain to the gluteus maximus but 21
belong to other muscles now in general
the evidence shows that training muscles
at longer muscle Lanes is more effective
than training them at Short muscle Lanes
now the problem is almost all of these
studies are on beginners and here's
what's hilarious kind of a recent topic
there are already seven review papers on
the topic and this topic is gaining
momentum if you're in the strength
training and Sport Science Realms then
you hear about this topic all the time
and right now the pendulum has swung
towards longer lengths but is there a
role for shorter length training
especially for the glutitis Maximus and
how can we get to the bottom of this
debate so the Kubo study showed that
deeper squats were more effective at
building the gluteus maximus than
shallower squats now I'm skeptical of
these results and the reason why is
because they only mention knee angle
they didn't mention hip angle okay so
you can squat very upright and just move
your knees forward and achieve a certain
knee angle and barely work your glutes
conversely if you get a wide stance take
a low bar position and sit way back and
spread the knees you're going to feel
your glutes a lot so you can achieve the
same knee angle in two different
scenarios but one of them has you
feeling all quads one has you feeling
all glutes they did not show pictures in
this study and I emailed the author that
never heard back so skeptical of Kubo so
I get what Brett is saying here and I do
agree on principle that it's important
to consider how exactly they made them
squat but generally all else being equal
if you don't give participants Specific
Instructions you just tell them score as
deep as you can or to 140 de what have
you they will have more hip flexion when
also going into deeper knee flexion so
it might be difficult to trace back
exactly what their joint positionings
were for the shallower versus the deeper
squat but I do think the deeper squat
condition was in all likelihood training
at lower muscle length which ultimately
makes this study a comparison of
training at lower muscle lengths versus
shorter muscle lengths in the context of
the same exercise and so at the very
least I do think the study shouldn't be
disregarded and should count as a study
in favor of training loots at lower
muscle lengths for hypertrophy the next
paper is by ciano and this study showed
that if you do leg press and stiff leg
deadlifts and then you add hip thrust to
it you see better results so basically
one group did leg press and stiff leg
deadlift the other group did leg press
stiff leg deadlifts and hip thrust and
the group that did hip thrust saw better
results the problem with this study is
was it due to just more volume in
general or was it something special
about hip thrust the study wasn't
designed to answer that question but it
did show that hip thrusts do work they
do build glute muscle the third paper is
by Plotkin now I was involved in this
study my buddy meno henselman and I
funded it and it looked at squats versus
hip thrust and it found that squats and
hip thrust built the glutes fairly
equally as well so this showed pretty
much a onetoone relationship between
squats and hip thrust for building
glutes now squats were more effective at
building the quads and the adductors and
neither exercise built the hamstrings or
glute medius to much degree and finally
we have the recent ma abstract and it
basically looked at straight leg hip
extensions off the multi-hit machine it
looked at two ranges of motion basically
a full range of motion versus a partial
range of motion but the full range of
motion wasn't really full and the
partial range of motion didn't stretch
the glutes that well because it's
straight-legged so if you really wanted
to look at the effects of muscle length
you should have taken the glutes into a
deeper stretch by performing bent leg uh
hip extensions and then finally you
should have went all the way back into
full hip extension full hip hyp
extension they went to neutral they went
to 0 degrees they should have went into
full hip hyperextension which is like
you know textbooks and like studies will
show about 15 to 20Â° but in real life
when you train people they move that leg
back pretty far so my gu is that this
was I mean to me this was just comparing
like you know partial to partial but
they didn't maximize muscle length or
muscle shortness so this study didn't
look at a big glute stretch or a big
glute squeeze so in my opinion it was
designed more to pertain to sprinting
because they wanted to look at the
effects on sprinting I agree with this I
don't think the study was perfectly
designed to answer the question of
within the glutes but I do think that it
is comparing a very long and nearly full
range of motion for the hamstrings and
to a lesser extent for the glutes to a
lengthen partial for the glutes and so
yet again certainly you can say that
this isn't the perfect study design to
answer the question but it is a good
study design to as the question of on
average does a longer range of motion or
a length and partial lead to more
hypertrophy in the gluteus maximus and
in this case they saw over twice as much
hypertrophy in the gluteus maximus when
doing a length and partial versus when
using a full range of motion but so far
by and large besides just pointing out
some of the limitations of the study
designs I think Brett and I agree these
are the only four studies aware of as
well we've discussed this before and
generally I do think that this body of
evidence lends credibility to the idea
that hey the glutes should be trained at
lower muscle lengths all else being
equal if you're aiming to maximize
hypertrophy but let's see where it goes
as of July 30th the time I'm filming
this video there are only four relevant
papers to the gluteus maximus so before
I get started into the studies that need
to take place to answer this question I
want to discuss some physiological
concerns that we need to figure out and
there are basically four of them that we
really need to answer to allow us to
make predictions to form theories
ideally the theories would match
experiments you know it's nice when you
really understand the mechanisms
responsible for the hypertrophy but
right now we don't know enough yet so
one really important physiological
mechanism that we need to look at is
when you get down into the bottom of a
squat the glute Max is not activated
highly now people say oh EMG this EMG
that but if a muscle is not activated
highly then how would it grow maximally
because if if it just about stretching a
muscle then people did yoga would be
jacked and all you do is sit there and
stretch now there are studies showing
stretch does build muscle but it's very
inefficient you know you can stretch a
muscle like 3 hours a week and get the
same muscle growth that takes you you
know 20 minutes in the gym so I have not
published this yet but I have had 12
subjects get into the B botom of a squat
and I load the bar up with too much
weight they can't actually squat the
weight up but they get under the bar
they get in their squat position and
they push up as hard as they can for 5
seconds okay then without moving they
push out against their their knees are
blocked they're in the same exact
position there's a bench on the left and
right side of their knees and they push
out as hard as they can so basically
you're in deep hip flexion and you're
performing hip extension then hip
abduction basically on average you're
firing the glutes two to three times
harder when you push out in deep hip
flexion compared to pushing up so in
deep hip flexion the glutes appear to be
more abductors than extensors so I would
love for this to be duplicated I I wish
a few different Labs showed this you
know I can Envision the title of the
paper being in deep hip flexion the
primary role of the gluteus maximus is
abduction not extension that would
really blow people's mind because we
think when you're in a deep stretch the
glutes are in a good position to push
upwards and get you out of the hole but
they're not firing as hard as they could
be so hopefully this gets published and
a bunch of other labs confirm it so if
you're a master student or a PhD student
you're looking for a study to perform
please carry this out on your own we
could talk about surface EMG and muscle
length but keep in mind you're in the
same exact position muscle length
doesn't change so surface EMG is fine
here I think this is fairly interesting
I I'm not going to speak to whether
that's true what I will see is from a
practical perspective we have the Kubo
study looking at squat depth and
measuring glute hypertrophy showing more
glute hypertrophy when going deeper so
I'm not overly concerned about the fact
that the EMG in the glutes is relatively
low if they're actually growing more
from the empirical studies we have
actually looking at growth from
squatting deeper and as B pointed out
and as we're both aware of EMG has a
number of limitations when it comes to
drawing inferences to hypertrophy the
second physiological mechanism which
might help explain the first is this
neuromechanical matching Theory
basically the theory states that as a
muscle gains leverage or as a muscle
improves its moment arm which is a term
for leverage then basically the nervous
system recruits that muscle to a greater
degree and that makes sense basically if
the brain and the central nervous system
was trying to be efficient it would know
this muscle has good leverage it's
effective in this position so I'm going
to activate it to a higher degree now we
do have a bunch of moment arm studies I
think last time I counted there were
like eight um the first being nemith
which I've referenced a lot over the
years and we do know that as the
glutitis Maximus progresses from Deep
hip flexion a deep stretch to full hip
extension its leverage does improve
maximum Leverage is at you know around
neutral um and it's like probably 2 and
a half times greater at around neutral
than it is in deep hip flexion so we do
have EMG studies but most of it's using
surface EMG ideal we'd have more
sophisticated technology to ascertain
whether the gluteus maximus does in fact
ramp up its neural drive from flexion to
extension moving on there are no studies
published on the length tension
relationship of the gluteus maximus now
I'm talking about the active passive and
total Force angle curves meaning how
much force does the glutitis Maximus
produce in deep hip flexion all the way
to full hip extension now bear in mind
that there's active force and passive
Force active force is produced when a
muscle is activated it's more of the
sarir Contracting right passive force is
elastic it's nonactivated it's
independent of activation it's just via
stretch now when a muscle is activated
and stretched it does produce greater
force but we really need to look at
bodybuilders we need to look at
hypertrophied glutes and really look at
the Active passive and total Force angle
curves because bodybuilders have big
muscular glutes where is maximum active
Force production is it towards neutral
is it in a stretch is it at 15 degrees
30g of hit flexion and how much passive
Force do you get now here's the deal
biomechanists like me like to use open
SIM it's a free software that lets you
plot all these different curves you can
look at the active and passive and total
Force angle curves of the gluteus
maximus but you get totally different
results depending on the model you use
so I use this Raja goal model from 20 5
and if you use that model you get one
plot and there's another catalini I
think 2017 model and if you use that
model it gives you a totally different
plot and if you really delve into the
software you look at what changed the
authors changed like the tendon slack
and that produces a totally different
curve now how do you even estimate
tendon slack for the glutitis Maximus
are the modelers just plugging in data
trying to make it fit or they basing
this off relevant phys logical data and
with the gluteus maximus you've got a
lot of fascia 70 to 85% of the glus
Maximus attaches to fascia not bone so
it's an interesting challenging muscle
to model and the fourth physiological
mechanism to investigate would be
corticospinal excitability in different
joint angle configurations so there's
one study published on the arms you know
the arm muscles and it it basically
looked at the you know nervous systems
excitability like its preparedness to
activate in different arm positions you
know the biceps and triceps were it was
I can't remember the paper that was it's
been a while but there were different
POS there were unique positions that
maximize neural drive to the muscles and
that might influence hypertrophy we may
find over time that we should be putting
the muscles in that position but it
would be nice to look at that for the
gluteus maximus particularly in deep
stretched positions you know versus
shortened position I agree with Bret he
by and large that we need more research
in this area I also think that one
potentially viable predictor of
hypertrophy versus EMG would be T2 MRI
we have a couple of studies now looking
at t2m as a predictor of hypertrophy by
a Japanese lab I'll put it up on screen
right now generally showing that T2 MRI
might be a better predictor of
hypertrophy than EMG and likewise there
was a recent study looking at T2 MRI
readings during the leg extension
exercise performed with different
degrees of hip flexion now their
findings in terms of what hip position
elicited the greatest t2m activation
actually also aligns with one study I'm
involved in that hasn't been published
yet in terms of how much hypertrophy leg
extension produced in Theus femoris so
to my knowledge there's a couple of
studies by the Japanese lab and there's
now the alignment between that one t2m
study in the leg extension and our own
results in terms of hypertrophy broadly
lending Credence to the idea that T2 MRI
could be a decent predictor of
hypertrophy but certainly I think that
we need more research into this sort of
thing you need experiments to match
theories and experiments are the most
important thing experiments tell you
what does happen happen not what should
happen so here are the longitudinal
training studies longitudal means a
training study meaning you do some
pre-testing you carry out an
intervention lasting say you know 6 to
12 weeks usually and then you do Post
testing and you see what actually
happened when you put these people
through a resistance training program
now there are four studies looking at
isometrics and the effect of isometrics
at different muscle lengths on muscle
hypertrophy I have four new ideas is
just for the glutitis Maximus now these
10 studies are going to progress from
kind of more proof of principle to more
ecologically valid meaning to prove a
principle you'll have to keep things
very isolated and very simple but it
usually doesn't match what we do in the
real world but a lot of times what we do
in the real world it doesn't really
answer the question well I'll explain
this more later the first is to perform
electric muscle stimulation at long
versus short muscle length so I don't
think this would convince everyone would
just be an easy study to do have people
hook up Ems now EMS grows muscle too I
didn't think it did but there's a ton of
evidence in support of EMS in fact I
bought an electric muscle stimulator and
I use it on my clients all the time um
when they're visiting but yeah I
basically um I thought it would be fun
you can watch TV and grow muscle but
it's actually kind of stressful it it
hurts you in order for it to be
effective you have to crank up the
intensity it's not fun but you could
have EMS done at Short muscle lengths
and at long muscle lengths and see which
led to Greater growth that's an easy one
now the second idea that I have is my
favorite my favorite of all 10 studies
seated glute squeeze versus standing
glute squeeze so these are isometrics
it'd be very a very easy training
program because you could have people do
it a lot you could probably tell people
you know do it for 20 minutes a day try
to basically you know be leaning forward
and squeeze your glutes you know flex
your glutes as hard as you can off and
on for 20 minutes every day for like you
know two months or something like that
and then also have people standing
squeezing their glutes as hard as they
can see if there are any differences
that would be a very effective study now
the third and fourth isometric ideas I
don't like quite as much but you could
do a multi- hiip machine or an
isokinetic dynamometer the multi- hiip
is done standing the dynamometer is some
of them are standing but a lot of them
are Supine and you could B basically
have people do isometric you know hip
extension in a long muscle length versus
a short muscle length like deep stretch
versus full hip extension I don't like
these because if you've used these it's
kind of it doesn't feel as natural
single leg stuff doesn't feel quite as
natural and like when you're standing
you know doing isometrics you can you
you know this the stretch feels better
with the multi- hiip but at end range
you kind of you almost need to stabilize
yourself because gravity is not
stabilizing you it's that front hip
flexors stabilizing you so I don't like
these that idea as much and then also
you could do hip thrust isometrics you
could do this double leg in which case
basically have people do isometrics in
the bottom of a hip thrust they push up
as hard as they can and then they do the
hip thrust lockout push up as hard as I
can which group sees better results the
group that does long length isometrics
or the glute that does short length
isometrics now you could also do a
single leg study um and you could do
single leg hip thrust basically single
hip thr in the bottom single hip in the
top and when you use this study design
It's very effective because you could
have each subject serve as their own
control meaning every subject like one
leg does like a single leg hip thrust in
the bottom position and the other leg
does it at the top position so each
participant serves as their own control
it increases statistical power which
glute grew more the one that did in the
stretch position or the squeezed
position now the fifth idea has to do
with full range versus partials now
there 11 existing studies looking at
full range versus partials and there are
three studies this is a more recent
field of of Interest looking at partials
in the stretch versus partials in the
shorten position so 14 total studies
looking at basically full range versus
partials or partials in the stretch
versus partials in the squeeze so it
really depends on how you categorize it
if you simply look at studies that have
included a partial range of motion at sh
muscle lengths and a partial range of
motion at lower muscle length group or
condition then we actually have nine
published studies to my knowledge
however some of these studies also
include comparisons of four range of
motion to partial range of motion so
they have a four range of motion group a
shorten partial group and a lengthen
partial group so there's some overlap
into how you categorize those but by and
large I agree with Bret that we need a
variety of studies to really answer the
question in depth some of these designs
are going to be much more heavily proof
of principle and I'm not sure how well
would generalize to actual practice
but that's exactly what BR is saying
here and that's to perform thrusts or
squats or both I think it would be
awesome to do both squats and hip thrust
so basically you could have three groups
with the Plotkin study that meno and I
funded we each spent 40 Grand so was
$80,000 because you want to use MRI so
to have three groups would be 120 Grand
so these don't get carried out very
often but it would be cool to have three
groups one group that does full range
squats and hip thrusts the next group
does bottom partials for squats and hip
thrust and then the third group does top
partials for squats and hip thrust and
while what I like about doing squats and
hip thrust you know the Deep squat feels
a little natural for the glutes than the
top squat but the top of the hip disis
feels more natural for glutes than the
bottom of the hip disis so it's balanced
in in my opinion now there are seven
existing studies right now looking at
differing torque angle curves um
basically the effect of the strength
curve on muscle growth now you can have
an exercise that works you hard in the
stretch but it's easy at the lockout or
you could have a muscle that's easy in
the stretch and hard at the lock out one
example of that is the Plotkin paper
squats are harder for the glutes in the
stretch position whereas hip thrusts are
harder for the glutes in the squeeze
position so there's seven existing
papers on this and I have five different
ideas on this topic for the gluteus
maximus so I think that this requires a
bit of catting there are seven studies
but these studies often involve the
comparison of different exercises
different exercises vary in more than
just the resistance curve so for example
the squad versus H thrust comparison in
the squad you're also involving your
quads to a much greater extent so there
are other muscle groups that could give
out first but by and large I agree that
there are some studies looking at
resistance curve and its effects on
hypertrophy let's see what he says now
the Plotkin paper already looked at hip
thrusts versus squats but a lot of the
Skeptics said well why did they choose
squats why didn't they choose rdl's why
didn't they choose lunges why didn't
they choose things leg leg presses so
it'd be nice to have a study like the
Plotkin study but looking at hip thrust
versus rdl's or lunges or single leg leg
press now the second idea would be the
same single leg design I already
mentioned where each subject served as
their own control but it would require
really strong subjects very Advanced
subjects because you'd want to use a
Smith machine here so that each exercise
was very stable but youd have basically
each subject on one leg they would do
Smith machine single leg squats and I
don't think it should be a lunge or a
split squat cuz you're really that's not
everything on one leg because the other
leg is going to do single leg hip thrust
and you want it the other leg in the air
you could do B stance but if you do B
stance you're going to use that glute a
little bit so one group one leg
basically does the squatting motion
where it's hardest at the bottom and the
other leg is going to do the single leg
hip thring motion which is hardest at
the top and you see which glute grew
better so again you can have if you have
20 subjects you'd have huge itical power
and you'd only need one MRI cuz you
could look at each glute independently
now the next idea is my second favorite
idea next to the isometric CED staining
glute squeeze idea that I had and this
is to use band or chains or both
basically you're going to use bands and
chains with squats or hip thrust or both
I think it should be both of them so one
group does basically squats and hip
thrust using accommodating resistance
meaning at the bottom you know it's
say I I did chain squats the other day
at the bottom I had 225 but I had 130
lbs of chain so at the top it was 225
plus 130 so was that 355 I did a set of
10 and my glutes were screaming I felt
my glutes more during chain squats than
I do during regular squats and the last
couple reps kind of felt like a hip
thrust because it's way harder at the
top so they're currently aren't many
studies looking at hypertrophy with
bands and chains there's tons of studies
looking at strength but I'm not sure if
there's a single study looking at uh
band like barbell plus band resistance
on muscle growth so this would be pretty
cool and then the other group would just
do regular free weight um you know
barbell squats and hip thrust so you'd
have to kind of try to um equate load
somehow but basically one group would
just perform straight weight and the
other group would do ACC combin this is
where it's easier at the bottom harder
at the top so that's a study I would
really like to carry out the next
example would be awesome but these don't
quite exist yet for the glute Drive have
you guys ever used the Hammer Strength
they call it the squat lunge machine but
everyone does deadlifts off of it if you
look at the top loing pin it starts out
further away from the fulcrum and as you
rise up it moves closer so basically the
resistance arm starts out longer and
ends shorter meaning it gets easier
throughout the range of motion meaning
it's harder in the stretch now the
Rogers pendum squat allows for the same
exact thing with the squat so you can
choose a loading placement where it's
harder at the bottom easier at the top
cup and then both machines also have a
different loading mechanism that makes
it more consistent throughout the range
of motion so you could design machines
that had like think of in the case of a
a hip thrust or the squat of the
deadlift basically where when you're at
the very bottom it's straight out and
then as you rise up it moves closer to
the fulcrum meaning it gets easier and
then you could have another loading
placement that's down like this where
it's closer to the fulcrum and then as
you move through the range of motion it
gets harder it comes out further it
swings up and you could make them
complete opposites one of one another so
that they have opposite strength curves
and you could have one group do say
squats and hip thrusts you could add in
deadlifts it could be just squats just
hip thrust um just deadlift or all three
or two of them say squats and hip thrust
similar to bands and chains but
basically one group does it where all
the loading is in the bottom and it gets
really easy as you come up versus the
group that does all the loading at the
top and it's easier at the bottom that
would be a really cool study but this
doesn't exist yet for the glute Drive
machines but I am working on that right
now so Brett and I have actually
discussed all of the study designs
before and he's very smart when it comes
to designing studies I had some input as
well and by and large with everything
Brett is saying here people W appreciate
how hard it is to carry out a study
often times uh it's expensive as
mentioned earlier 80
for a study is not cheap that is to say
nothing of the work involved by research
assistants in the first place to carry
out the training get trained up on the
equipment needed to measure stuff so
training studies take a lot of effort
and that's why you don't see studies on
every topic conceivable out there and
the 10th idea for a training study which
would probably be the most ecologically
valid would just to be a vertical hip
extension training program versus
horizontal okay so basically and this
was funny when Mike Roberts and Daniel
Plotkin came to me this is what they
wanted wanted to do I've talked about
this idea for I think like 12 years now
I remember blogging about it years ago
that this needs to be done vertical
versus horizontal hip extension
exercises so basically one group would
do say pick three of these squats rdl's
lunges step up split squats you then
pick three of these basically hip thrust
glute Bridges back extensions cable
Kickbacks so basically SE on Monday the
vertical group does squats Wednesday
they do rdl's Friday they do lunges and
the hor onal group Monday they do hip
thrusts you know Wednesday they do
Kickbacks and Friday they do back
extensions which group grows their
glutes better and that would be very
ecologically valid because this is what
people are doing in real life so each of
those 10 training studies and the four
physiological experiments that I
mentioned those will be 14 puzzle pieces
that would really help us form a big
picture of what's more effective
training at long versus short
do want to mention nine considerations
here that you really need to think about
and the first one is Advanced subjects
there are no studies on the glutes using
Advanced subjects and very few in
general using Advanced subjects on out
of all the 25 currently published papers
only a couple of them use Advanced
subjects so we need more studies looking
at Advanced lifters the second
consideration is combined groups now as
I mentioned this is true off the top of
my head I can think of one study by G
and colleagues in the triceps that used
participants with at least one year of
training experience um I don't think I
can think of any other studies that have
used Advanced subjects within this data
obviously I'm just going off memory here
so I might be missing one or two studies
but there are very few and that's why
I'm working on a study this summer in
fact that will be looking at the effects
of lengthen partials versus full range
of motion in the upper body in trained
lifters who've been training for at
least 6 months using a within
participant design where one arm is
being trained through a 4 range of
motion or one side of the body and one
side of the body is being trained
through lengthen partials only but
indeed we need more research and train
participants I agree in the Plotkin
paper we wanted a combined group but it
would have been 40 Grand more also in
general research is carried out by
students for example Daniel plin is Mike
Roberts PhD student right now he oversaw
the squat vers hip thrust paper you got
to do it in one semester and you're
limited in Manpower you know you can
have your fellow students and colleagues
help you but having like 60 subjects
would be a nightmare that's why you
don't see a lot of these in sports
science but it would be cool to see a
combined group because because in the
real world we don't have to choose
between long or short muscle length we
can do them both and that's what all
bodybuilders currently do you know if
they're training biceps they might do an
incline curl you know basically leaning
leaning back on an incline to stretch
the muscle they might do a preacher curl
to really load up the stretch they might
do a concentration curl to load up the
squeeze position they might do a hammer
curl you know to work The Brak yice more
but basically most bodybuilders do a
combination of long length stretch
movements short length squeeze movements
so if the combined group saw better
results than the stretch or the squeeze
group than the longer short group then
that kind of validates what bodybuilders
do and it'll also paint to multiple
mechanisms of hypertrophy right now we
don't know what grows muscle what are
the signals and sensors I agree with
Bret H very few studies out there are
ecologically val and that they use a
program that is something that people in
real world would use that being said
there is at least one study on range of
motion I can think of that somewhat did
this a study by padro and colleagues in
the quadriceps compared doing a full
range of motion onl extensions to doing
bottom half partials to doing top half
partials to doing both bottom half
partials and top half partials while
we're not talking about a variety of
exercises here that are designed to
Target the peak squeeze and the full
stretch and what have you there was some
variety or at least a comparison of
using a variety of ranges of motion to
just using one and in this case the
length and partial group generally did
see still better hypertrophy of the
quadriceps compared to the group doing
both bottom half partials and top half
partials but I agree on principle we
need way more studies like this looking
less so at what does range of motion do
for hypertrophy in a vacuum and more so
at what does range of motion do for
hypertrophy when it's applied in context
of something you would do in the gym but
what about nuclear flattening you know
the nucleus flattening out what about
the s Mir squeezing together are there
anything in those Z discs like you know
filament 3 bag C or whatever bag three
filament C that senses that and responds
to activation what structures of the
cell are sensing you know the forces and
then converting those you know through
mechano transduction into chemical
signals is it the Titan filament is it
you know the nucleus is it the primary
cilia of satellite cells is it the
extracellular Matrix is it the integrin
is every structure involved or is it
just limited to like you know one or two
or three things we don't really know but
that would be a cool proof of principal
paper for multiple mechanisms of
hypertrophy the third consideration is a
lateral group you know we're mentioning
long versus short muscle LS but it's all
hip extension what about abduction it'd
be cool to look at abduction because
abduction grows the gluteus medius the
best in our Plotkin paper squats and
hypos did not grow the glute media
substantially well the glut medius and
Minimus are part of the glutes but no
one talks about lateral movement the
fourth consideration is using different
volumes and frequency in the Plotkin
paper we did twice a week you know
between three and six sets per session
but you know hip thrusts don't beat you
up as much as squats well it might be
that long length is more efficient but
short length you can do more volume with
so maybe short length with be really
load up the volume maybe short length is
more effective than long length at
really high volumes and frequencies so
for example what if you hip thrusted 5
days a week would you see better
glutithione so it's like an auto
regulated plan based on how you feel in
that case would shorter lengths see
better results than longer lengths who
knows the six consideration is looking
at injury and soreness data would the
long length group experience more
dropouts would they experience more
soreness would they B be more fatigued
and beat up by the end of the study
because that influences long-term
results you know cool maybe hammering
squats and deadlifts and lunges is
awesome for your glutes but if you do
too much volume you're going to get
anterior hip pain and femoral acid TBL
impingement syndrome you're going to get
low back pain or like you know injuries
to the discs and ligaments maybe you're
going to have knee pain maybe your quad
or patellar tendons start acting up so
which your safer longer shorter muscle
lengths does it matter according to the
repeated bat effect we adapt to long
length training in Ecentric but how well
can you adapt and do long length stress
other structures other than the muscle
and does that impact recovery and
overall results from my own personal
experience I do think that you can adapt
to lower muscle length training
reasonably well I wouldn't say
experience more soreness now than I did
when I was focusing less so a length and
position and I've been doing nearly
exclusively length and partials for the
past nearly year and a half now so take
that fors worth I talk about how in
Booty by Brett we do 36 sets a week okay
in general like in general okay in
general around a third of those so 12
sets would be vertical hip extension
exercises another third would be
horizontal hip extension exas and then
another third would be lateral so how
cool it be to have four groups this will
never be conducted this will never be
carried out because it would require
four groups you'd need like at least 15
ideally 20 subjects in each group
because you'd probably have some
dropouts so You' need like 80 subjects
and you'd need basically this would cost
like you know several hundred grand to
carry it out it will never get done but
how cool would this be one group just
does the 12 sets of vertical per week
one group just does the 12 sets of
horizontal one group does the 12 sets of
lateral per week and then one group does
all three of them combined so what this
would allow us is basically we'd say
here's an optimal program you know the
optimal program had you doing a
combination of vertical horizontal and
lateral but the vertical led to this
much growth the horizontal led to this
much growth and the lateral led to this
much growth and basically the lateral
built the upper glutes you know the
glute medius and Minimus more um does
lateral contribute to glute Maximus
growth how much you know does vertical
build the lower glutes a little bit more
and horizontal builds the upper glutes a
little bit more that's what I always
thought based on EMG but the Plotkin
study did not show that so this would be
a really really telling study but it'll
probably never occur two more
considerations we need a cheaper way to
carry out these studies a less expensive
way so MRIs are very expensive can you
use ultrasound to look at muscle growth
I've used ultrasound I didn't trust
myself it was hard it was really hard on
certain subjects I did a a twin
experiment I could see the fasal Border
underneath for the twins but I I looked
at a few other subjects like my
girlfriend at the time I kept adjusting
the gain the depth and I could not see
the fascial border and I just didn't
trust it so to use ultrasound you got to
have an experienced technician but is it
other muscles are a lot easier to look
out using ultrasound because like with
the biceps you see the bone you don't
see a bone with the gluteus maximus so
how does ultrasound using a good skill
technicians stack up against MRI and are
there any other methods using other
technologies that would be more
costeffective because if so we could
crank out a lot more research and the
last the ninth consideration I want to
leave you with is yep agreed regarding
ultrasound here and I think in general
within the data I suspect that
ultrasound reliability the reliability
of measurement is being over reported in
the data versus what it actually is
which ranges of motion should we use for
these studies which exercises what limb
number should we do unilateral or
bilateral you know when you do single
leg hip thrust you don't get as high of
glute activity as when you do double leg
hip thrust should we be using lunges if
so how do we maximize stability should
we use a Smith machine and how deep
should we go what range of motion so if
you're doing lunges should you do
walking lunges or just reverse lunges or
should you do deficit reverse lunges in
my experience when I do walking lunges
my glutes get more sore than when I do
deficit reverse lunges because when you
do deficit the knee mve forward you have
a forward Shin angle when you do walking
lunges with a long stride or just
reverse lunges you can have a vertical
Shin angle and when the thigh is roughly
parallel you maximize torque at that
bottom position so torque on the glute
is maximized kind of at parallel depth
with squats and lunges and things like
that and if you go deeper the deeper you
go torque starts diminishing so at long
muscle length should we be aiming to
achieve maximum stretch or maximum
torque and in the stretch position you
know should we be trying to abduct it
all or should we be trying to externally
rotate it all regarding the question of
whether you should be aiming for maximum
stretch of the muscle or maximum torque
I tend to think nowadays based on some
more recent research some of which
hasn't even been published yet that
maximum torque is more important first
we have a study by zabita cord and
colleagues comparing the incline curl to
the pretr curl or essentially an
exercise where're prioritizing muscle
length at the expense of tension to an
exercise where we're prioritizing
tension over muscle length or Peak
torque in those stretch positions and
the exercise where tension was
prioritized aka the preacher curl did
seem to lead to more favorable growth
overall likewise an unpublish study I'm
currently involved with compared two
conditions in one condition cable cores
were performed with the shoulder neutral
but with the resistance curve set up
such that it would peak in the lengthen
position in the second condition with
the other arm the bicep curl was trained
with the shoulder behind you in hyp
extension increasing the stretch on the
biceps but with the same resistance
curve set up to Peak when your biceps
were lengthened and to make a long story
short hypertrophy of both arms was very
similar so it seems that when Peak
torque is already set up to occur at
relatively long muscle lengths
stretching at least the biceps within
this context in this one study to be
even more lengthened didn't seem to
increase hypertrophy and so when given
the choice between increasing muscle
length even further or increasing the
torque at that muscle length I would
typically go for torque I think torque
might be a little bit more important to
early to say for sure but that is my
suspicion you know I think the Plotkin
paper showed that you can grow the
glutes and beginners Well from either
squats or hip thrust indicating that
muscle length might not be as important
as we thought so does that mean that if
you're doing deadlifts you could do
conventional for greater stretch or Sumo
which theoretically would be better for
Activation with the abduction external
rotation but there's only one study
looking that with esam it didn't show
that but hopefully you get the point is
conventional better than Sumo is narrow
stance with a deeper stretch more
effective than wide stance these are all
things that need to be figured out of
over time and these nine considerations
are important with the 14 experiments
that I mentioned nevertheless think of
all of this as a puzzle you've got all
these puzzle pieces right now we only
have a few puzzle pieces we've got four
existing studies all on beginners we
don't have a grasp of the physiology yet
we don't have nearly enough training
studies but as we learn more as we gain
more puzzle pieces the big picture
becomes clear and I talked mostly about
glutes but this pertains to all all the
muscles right now we should always be
striving for improvements I hear people
say oh everything we learned about
strength training we knew 100 years ago
nothing is new we're always learning new
things and we should always be striving
to maximize our understanding pushing
the envelope for Bing for better
training programs and better
understanding of the mechanisms because
that allows us to design better programs
okay that's a wrap I hope you enjoy the
video thank you for watching please hit
like if you enjoy the video please make
sure you're subscribed to my channel and
definitely leave me a comment and let me
know what you think thanks for watching
so that wraps up my reaction to Rhett's
video let me give you my closing
thoughts about glute training and
whether or not you should be training
the glutes at longer or shorter muscle
lengths what I want to say up front is
that Brett is really smart about glute
training or training in general in fact
I think he has a point to we don't have
all the data yet with that being said my
personal stance is that if you have a
generalizable principle across a variety
of muscle groups the glutes the quads
the calves the biceps the triceps that
longer muscle length training tends to
result in more hypertrophy than shorter
muscle length training that is one big
piece of the puzzle when you add to that
that the four studies that we have
comparing longer to Shorter muscle
length training some of these Studies
have their limitations like I don't
think a comparison of the squat and hip
thrust is the perfect comparison when it
comes to answering the question of
whether shorter or longer muscle Link
Training is better they're inherently
different exercises but nevertheless we
have four studies looking at this
concept out of these four studies the
Kubo stud and the mayoa study the Kubo
study on the squat depth and the mayoa
study on the multi machine pretty
clearly show substantially greater
hypertrophy when training the glutes at
longer muscle lengths using the same
exercise meanwhile the other two studies
one by casano and colleagues where they
looked at adding in hip thrust on top of
leg press and rdls and the study by
Plotkin and colleagues where they
compared squats to hip thrusts these are
the two studies that didn't equate for
the exercises being used or for volume
being used the Plotkin study found no
difference in glute hypertrophy between
Squat and the hip thrust and the casano
study found that there was greater glute
hypertrophy when adding in Hip thrusts
to a program consisting of leg press and
RDL the casano study really just tells
me that the hip thrust effectively grows
the gluteus maximus which is good to
know I personally think the results are
mostly attributable to additional volume
as Brett pointed out and the Plotkin
study tells us a couple things one we
see similar glute hypertrophy between
the hip thrust and the squat when the
squat isn't being performed to a
particularly deep depth the Silhouettes
from the study are available online and
you can see that most participants
weren't really squatting all that deep
however what that study also tells us
besides just that the squat and hip
thrust grow the glute similarly is that
the squat specifically hones in on the
gluteus maximus hypertrophy while the
squat also grew the quadriceps a pretty
good amount the hip thrust really mostly
just grew the gluteus maximus and so if
nothing else the hip thrust is a highly
specific exercise allowing you to train
the glutes very well but as far as raw
hypertrophy of the glutes forgetting
about other muscle groups I do think
lengthen exercises will produce more
overall hypertrophy as evidenced by the
Mayo study and by the Kubo study so my
take is that the glutes do benefit from
lengthened training but the hip thrust
is a great exercise if you're
specifically trying to seek growth in
the glutes and honestly I'm really
impressed with Breet in general like if
I had to give a score to this video
which is absurd because he essentially
just talked about research the whole
time and I love it every second I would
give it like a 9 out of 10 it it was
really solid my takeaway train the
glutes mostly at longer muscle lengths
but if you want to be super safe and
conservative you can still include some
shorter muscle length training and hip
thrust as well if you specifically want
hypertrophy of the glutes and not many
other muscles that is the video If you
enjoyed the video please like the video
comment subscribe I know this video is a
bit heavier on the research than usual
it was a bit more abstract but I really
enjoyed it and I think Prett is smart if
you'd like me to coach you check out the
link above and I could become your coach
have a phenomenal day and I'll see you
guys in that next one peace