okay what is going on everyone this
Monday I'd like to try out a slightly
different style of video I'm so rather
than build up to sort of a grand reveal
at the end as to whether a given idea is
myth busted or not I'm simply going to
explain a true concept explain why it
works and how you can apply it in the
gym and to just keep things interesting
I think I'm gonna overlay a few clips
from my latest work out over the talking
bits I'm so this is some footage from my
last upper body workout now that it did
last night and if you'd like to a
screenshot here how you can follow along
and so here's the full workout and I'll
also have it linked in the description
box below okay so the topic for this
video is muscle memory so first what is
it and how does it work so in the most
basic sense muscle memory simply refers
to the fact that it's much easier to
regain lost muscle mass than it is to
put on new muscle mass in the first
place so if you train for say three or
four years and built a good amount of
muscle and then took say six months or
so off and you shrunk up a little bit
won't take you even close to the same
amount of time as those initial three or
four years to get all your lost size
back it'll come back pretty quickly so
prior to about 2010 the main scientific
explanation for muscle memory was based
on neurological factors so changes that
occur at the level of the brain and the
nervous system that allow you to easily
relearn a given task or activity that
you haven't performed in a long time and
this is because these neural adaptations
that take place when you learn a new
movement pattern or activity tend to
stay sort of written in and this is why
you don't easily forget how to ride a
bike and it's why it won't take you
nearly as long to relearn your squat
after a long break as it took you to
learn it from day one but as I see it
this mostly just explains the
performance aspect of muscle memory and
it doesn't account for the fact that
even if you didn't do the same exercises
muscle size still does bounce back very
quickly as well I'm so in 2010 a
landmark paper published out of the
University of Oslo in Norway discovered
something pretty groundbreaking about
muscle memory before we dig into that I
think it's important to first remember
that pretty much every cell has a
nucleus and it can be thought of as the
sort of control center of the cell the
muscle cells are a little bit different
in that they act
have many nuclei so there are sort of
rare type of multi nucleated cell you
can think of these muscle nuclei called
my own nuclei having a role of
overseeing a certain area of the muscle
cell so once you start to grow a muscle
you begin to max out the amount of area
that a given nucleus can oversee and the
muscle simply has to stop growing so at
that point the only way to add new
muscle is to lay down or create new
nuclei okay so back to the study so
these Norwegian researchers used imaging
techniques to figure out what happens to
my own nuclei during periods of D
training and what the results showed was
that my own nuclei are protected from
the usually very highly apop taught ik
activity found in inactive muscle tissue
so in other words even as the muscle
shrinks the nuclei tend to stick around
so let's have a look at the model that
they developed so when you first lift
weights little repair cells floating
around a muscle cell like satellites
called satellite cells fuse with muscle
cells and donate their nuclei now once
there are more nuclei in the cell
there's more space that they can oversee
and so the cell grows now when you de
train or stop lifting for a while all of
that muscle size starts to go away so
atrophy occurs but the nuclei still
stick around so then when you start
lifting again it's so much easier to get
the size back because you not only skip
that first step of satellite cell fusion
and nuclear donation you also now have
all these new nuclei ramping up new
muscle protein synthesis now it's worth
noting that this paper while highly
influential was carried out on mice
still their model remains the prevailing
one today eight years after publication
but this year the first human study
investigating the mechanism of muscle
memory was published and this was
covered in a recent issue of the mass
research review but basically this study
had subjects trained for seven weeks
takes seven weeks off and then trained
for seven weeks again and what they
found was that changes that happen at
the level of DNA to stay in place
don't go away during those seven weeks
of non lifting and of course these
genetic or epigenetic modifications are
responsible for pumping out new muscle
protein from so the actual sort of
memory is almost literally written
directly into the DNA of your muscle
cells so this was a pretty exciting
finding and
written in the article summary while the
study doesn't tell us exactly how long
these epigenetic changes last it
definitely last at least seven weeks but
it's possible that the modifications can
last for years to enhance the
responsiveness to retraining after very
long layoffs so let's say you used to
lift in high school and then stopped and
started training again in your 40s you
might still bounce back faster because
of that high school lifting so in terms
of practical application I'd say that
there are two main takeaways from this
body of research as I see it the first
is that if you do take a few weeks off
from the gym you probably don't have all
that much to worry about I'm in fact one
2012 study from okusama and colleagues
found that when you look at hypertrophy
of the triceps and the PEC major and I
there are 24 weeks of continuous
training or periodic training with six
week training cycles spaced with three
week periods of no training
even though muscle size in the periodic
group was more sort of up and down at
the end of the 24 weeks you basically
end up at the same spot I'm so the
occasional training break isn't gonna
make or break your progress over the
long run and I think this is especially
salient in the case of injury I think it
just makes so much more sense to rest
and heal up rather than force training
sessions which think in the grand scheme
of things may not even make a
significant difference in terms of where
you end up due to muscle memory that of
course isn't an excuse to always be
taking training breaks you don't
progress that way but in the grand
scheme of things
an occasional training break probably
isn't setting you back as much as you
might otherwise think on the second and
somewhat more subtle takeaway is that I
think you should be careful when
evaluating the effectiveness of a
program that you run after a long
training break or a long layoff and the
chances are whatever program you run
after a long break is gonna lead to
pretty impressive results simply due to
muscle memory and there might not be
anything all that special about that
specific training program or style to
just be aware of that and try to
evaluate the effectiveness of a given
strategy in the context of your typical
progressive training not after a
training break so anyways that's gonna
conclude it for this one guys
let me know if you like this style with
the training footage overlaying the
talking clips and I can continue to do
these in the future and before we go I
have to thank a new sponsor for
supporting this video and that's
guests I'm so blink astiz a really cool
app that I've been using a lot myself
lately and basically what it does is it
solves the problem of there not being
enough time to really sit down and read
a full book or even listen to a full
audio book that's what bling cos does is
it takes the most important sort of
need-to-know information from thousands
of non-fiction books and condenses it
all down to just 15 minutes and you can
either listen to these summaries or
blinks as they call them through audio
form which is what I prefer to do or you
can go through and just read them and it
should take you about 15 minutes so I
just finished up listening to
communicate an influence by Ben and
Kelly Dekker which I found to be really
helpful in terms of improving my own
communication and presentation style
even for these videos so if you'd like
to give blankest a try you can go to
blink as comm /hf and the first 100
people will get a free one-week trial
with access to all the books and you'll
also get 20% off if you want to sign up
for membership from there i'm so 100
spots i would imagine are gonna probably
fill up pretty fast so make sure you're
one of the first 100 click that first
link down there in the description and
get started with your free trial i'm so
thank you to blink assorting this video
and the channel i really appreciate it
thank you guys so much for watching
please leave me a like if you made it
this far now subscribe to the channel if
you're new and I'll see you guys all
here next Monday for a new myth-busting
day video thanks for watching guys