everyone knows if you get people to
train not everyone sees the same gains
for example this paper recruited 585
individuals and had them train their
biceps for 12 weeks a fair number of
individuals or biceps gains close to 20
but some saw as much as in their 50
increase and some actually experienced a
five percent loss in size why after all
all subjects trained identically
exposing the muscle to Mechanical
tension which we know to likely be the
primary hypertrophy stimulus as detailed
in another video genetics is often the
default answer for sure there is
evidence variation in genetic factors
impact hypertrophy yet various
physiological factors likely help
explain why some grow more than others
capillary density is one example the
eidetic capillaries may be important for
hypertrophy suggest under certain cases
cardiovascular training might benefit
long-term hypertrophy an idea we
examined previously Androgen receptors
are another popular one this will be the
focus of today's video androgens such as
testosterone produce the effects they do
through Androgen receptors Androgen
receptors are within cells including
muscle fibers and androgens such as
testosterone bind to Androgen receptors
and events unfolding thereafter produce
the physiological effects we associate
with androgens like an increase in
myofibular protein synthesis which is
the creation of the proteins that make
muscle fibers bigger it's logical having
more Androgen receptors allows more of a
person's antigens to be directed towards
building muscle in fact in individuals
using special supplements their traps
and delts may grow disproportionately
more massive traps and delts are often
considered a Telltale sign they view
special supplements the reason for this
might be since the traps and delts tend
to have more Androgen receptors enabling
the exogenous supplements to more
effectively produce hypertrophy in these
muscle regions but what about the role
of Androgen receptors in natural
individuals one specific study is often
utilized to suggest angiogen receptors
play a crucial role in hypertrophy in
natural individuals and a specific
supplement is often recommended to
increase Androgen receptor density
naturally let's analyze all the data on
Androgen receptors and hypertrophy with
the aim of answering how scientifically
supported is the idea that people with
more Androgen receptors always grow more
if Androgen receptors are important for
hypertrophy are there any truly
evidence-based ways or supplements to
increase them
foreign
the most frequently cited paper on
Androgen receptors is this 2018 one from
Canada 49 trained men were recruited to
perform resistance training four days a
week for 12 weeks training increased to
lean mass as well as slow and fast touch
fiber sizes extracted from the vastus
lateralis muscle before presenting the
Androgen receptor data it's interesting
to know the researchers examined the
relationship between a range of resting
hormone concentrations and muscle
hypertrophy by backward elimination
regression fundamentally the analysis
did not find a relationship between any
of the resting hormones and muscle
hypertrophy so that includes total
testosterone as well as free
testosterone so those with higher
overall levels of total of free
testosterone did not necessarily see
more hypertrophy than those with lower
levels an idea we've explored in more
depth in a prior video with Androgen
receptors the researchers divided the
subjects into high and low responders
and found higher responders tended to
have greater Androgen receptor content
pooling the data of the high and low
responders there were linear
relationships between Androgen receptor
content and lean mass slow twitch fiber
and fast twitch fiber gains therefore
this study suggests Androgen receptors
may be one thing that delineates a hard
Gainer from an easy Gainer despite this
study being widely utilized in support
of Androgen receptors for hypertrophy
fewer people are aware of this other
2018 study out of the USA 67 untrained
men trained a range of exercises with
these variables after the study the
researchers categorized subjects either
as high responders moderate responders
or low responders based on how much they
grew their vastus lateralis total
testosterone levels measured before and
after training were comparable between
the low moderate and high responders
further supporting the idea those with
higher testosterone levels do not always
see greater gains however Androgen
receptor content was also similar
between the low moderate and high
responders suggesting Androgen receptors
may not be that important for
hypertrophy
so what are we to make of this
hypertrophy is evidently multifactorial
and it can be difficult for a study to
successfully find what these variables
are since there are so many moving Parts
my current thoughts are although this
second study fails to suggest Androgen
receptors delineate high from low
responders given there are so many
moving Parts it alone isn't enough to
debunk the whole idea Androgen receptors
are important for hypertrophy it's
potentially worth pointing out the first
study was conducted on trained
individuals while the second study was
conducted on untrained individuals on
top of this less known to most people as
well we do have other studies linking
Androgen receptors through hypertrophy
in slightly different ways
[Music]
in both the previously mentioned studies
Androgen receptor content did not
increase with the resistance training
but other Studies have found that
resistance training naturally can
sometimes increase adro receptor content
some data Associates this angular
receptor content increase with muscle
hypertrophy specifically this 2011 study
from Finland had untrained younger and
older men trained twice a week for 21
weeks the change in Androgen receptor
content experienced by the subjects
correlated with their muscle fibercise
gains as well as lean mass gains in
other words the subjects that tended to
increase their Androgen receptor content
from resistance training the most tended
to experience the best muscle fiber and
lean mass gains another 2013 Canadian
study observed similar things 23
untrained men trained four times per
week for 16 weeks there was a
correlation between changes in Androgen
receptor content and muscle fibercise
increases thus these two studies link
the ability to increase Androgen
receptor content with muscle hypertrophy
which is a slightly different
association between Androgen receptor
content and hypertrophy the initial
study found now it's worth mentioning
all the data examined so far are merely
associational and and based on
comparisons between people so strictly
speaking it isn't sufficient to prove
that increasing a single person's
Androgen receptor content definitively
increases their muscle mass more
controlled studies are technically
needed to establish such a conclusion
interestingly though there are animal
studies that demonstrate if you block
their Androgen receptors the amount of
muscle hypertrophy and strength gains
they experience from resistance exercise
is diminished
the implication of most of the data
assessed throughout this video is that
increasing Androgen receptor content
might benefit muscle hypertrophy but as
I said more quality data is needed to
establish true causation between
Androgen receptors and hypertrophy
nonetheless can you increase Androgen
receptor content as we've seen although
some studies fail to find resistance
training increases Androgen receptor
content we do have documented instances
where lifting weights naturally produces
an increase in Androgen receptor content
it's not clear what precise training
variables might optimize Androgen
receptor content gains I'm wondering if
what increases antigen receptor content
differs between people and if this could
be one explanation for individual
differences in the optimal training
program as I plan to explore in a book
I'm working on the optimal training
variables for evoking muscle hypertrophy
can substantially vary between people
and maybe this is because what increases
a regulator of hypertrophy for one per
person such as Androgen receptor content
doesn't do the same thing in another
individual rather a different set of
training variables optimizes their
Androgen receptor content however this
is currently extremely speculative and
nowhere near a definitive conclusion
speaking of individual differences
tracking your own training over time is
highly useful for individualizing your
training an alpha progression is an
excellent app that helps this process
your progression can be tracked with
graphs allowing you to analyze long-term
correlations between your training
variables and progression rates you can
input your program or try out their
extremely flexible custom workout
generator where you can specify what
equipment you have your preferred
training frequency and session durations
and if you want to focus or even neglect
certain muscle groups
the app now contains a database of over
550 exercises with text and video
tutorials the app's algorithm will
dissect your past performance to provide
progression recommendations during
workouts the link in the comments and
description gets you two weeks free of
all the app's features plus 20 off a
subscription the house of hypertrophy
will get 50 if you do purchase the app
and this sincerely helps support these
videos thank you does el carnitine El
tartrate increase Androgen receptor
content it is widely believed it does a
belief stemming from this 2006 study
from the USA 10 trained men were
supplied with either L-Carnitine El
tartrate or a placebo after 21 days
resting Androgen receptor content was
higher in the subjects taking
L-Carnitine El tartrates however the
problem is this is only one study the
fact is one study can never be proof for
something and this point is even more
relevant in a supplement World take the
example of de-aspartic acid in 2009 the
first human study established that
d-aspartic acid increased testosterone
by 42 percent subsequently supplement
companies sold the aspartic acid as a
scientifically supported way to increase
testosterone yet Six studies over the
subsequent years failed to find
d-aspartic acid increase testosterone
one of them actually found a decreased
testosterone while the other five found
no effect I'm not saying future studies
will come out failing to find
L-Carnitine l-tartrate works there is no
way to know until more data is published
what I am saying though is just because
one study supports the effectiveness of
a supplement in no way can this qualify
as definitive proof upon searching for
ways to increase Androgen receptor
content online you may come across
claims intermittent fasting helps one
article references data that didn't even
directly explore Androgen receptor
content rather the data was the
short-term effects of intermittent
fasting on testosterone to my knowledge
no long-term day data explores the
effects of intermittent fasting on
Androgen receptor content the same
article suggests caffeine may increase
Androgen receptor content but the
reference study was conducted on rats as
far as I know no human data has explored
the long-term association between
caffeine and androgen receptor content
Androgen receptors may play a role in
muscle hypertrophy in natural
individuals the precise role is somewhat
murky though one study finds an
association between resting levels of
Androgen receptor content and muscle
hypertrophy while two other studies find
an association between Androgen receptor
content increases with training and
subsequent muscle hypertrophy we also
have animal studies finding if you block
Androgen receptors the amount of
hypertrophy and strength they experience
from training decreases there currently
isn't any clear way to increase Androgen
receptor content one study suggests
L-Carnitine l-tartrate may do this but
the problem is it's only one study the
example of d-aspartic acid helps us
understand why this is potentially
problematic resistance training itself
can produce increases in Androgen
receptor content but it's not clear how
consistent or individualized this effect
is claims that intermittent fasting and
caffeine increase Androgen receptor
content lack long-term human data to
verify this so unfortunately there isn't
a proactive cool takeaway from this
video however knowledge in itself is
useful especially when misinformation
pervades the Fitness Nutrition and
supplement world I hope this video helps
you understand the current science on
Androgen receptors I also hope this
video encourages you to be a little more
skeptical about things even though
something may be purported to be
evidence-based actually being aware of
what the evidence is precisely is needed
for knowing the big picture this is my
aim with the house of hypertrophy to
help individuals understand the full
picture of their scientific literature
on various topics as always links to the
studies in the video can be found in the
description
finally I have a free Ultimate Guide to
bench pressing ebook that covers these
areas feel free to get it in the link in
the comments and description
[Music]