hey folks I'm Dr Mike for Renaissance
periodization and I have a question how
lean are you please put in the comments
below now that you're done typing in the
comments let's find out the multiple
ways to measure body composition oo fun
now what the hell is body composition
well it's what your body's made of you
have muscle you have organs and stuff I
think I don't really care about them
much
bones and body fat there's a few other
things I missed but in Fitness we're not
really in your organs we're interested
in how much of you is lean tissue and
how much is fat tissue and you'll never
guess how lean tissue is calculated they
take your total body mass and they
subtract the fat tissue if you have a
body fat percent and the rest is lean
tissue more or
less now there are many ways to try to
estimate your body composition
specifically how much muscle SL lean
tissue and fat you have and we're going
to look at them we're going to look at
their upsides their downsides and their
best use cases so here we go
there are one two three well fuck Jesus
like 10 or so yeah good God 10 methods
to assess your body fat this is not an
inclusive list but damn it's close we
have you know what fuck it I'll just
start the
list it'll be a surprise ah people will
bitch will they bitch Scott the video
guy should I give him a list so they can
scroll BMI circumference baa skinfolds
mirror SL scale SL strength that's one
3D scan SL clo that's one bod pod
underwater weighing indexa and magnetic
resonance imaging
oo that one's the most fun I can't wait
to get to that one all right BMI the
definition is it's basically not
basically it's exactly a ratio of your
body mass to your height the taller you
are given the same body mass the lower
your BMI the shorter you are ready
normal person normal person normal
person short
King uh the higher BMI give the same
body fat see the more body God good God
body fat body mass and the more body
mass you have the higher BMI the less
body mass you have lower B at any given
height the upside is that you don't even
need to look at someone's body to
calculate it it's that easy they simply
type in their weight they type in their
height you hit the formula button and
boom BMI pops out the downside as you
may have predicted is that it doesn't
actually measure body composition at all
it is agnostic to muscle and fat in
individual ual so it can't tell you a
whole lot about that now its good use
case is it's great for huge cohorts and
hundreds and thousands and millions of
people for insurance tables and medical
screening if you're a regular person out
in the wild and you have a BMI over 40
your health is probably in deep shit yes
you could be a professional bodybuilder
and excellent health and a BMI 40 but
that's very unlikely so it is not for
use in Fitness cases if you are a
fitness person and you're like hey I
have a BMI of XYZ I stop paying
attention to what question you're asking
asking me I'm kidding of course but not
by
much next up by the way these are
roughly in order of how useful they are
roughly and in order of complexity
circumference so basically you get a
tape measure out and you measure things
like your waist your hips maybe some
other body parts like your thighs and
your arms and stuff like that there are
even other body parts you may want to
tape measure not length I'm talking
about girth circumference you feel me
that's what that's what matters so I'm
told hypothetically
upsides it's super quick and do it
yourself easy and it's great for
tracking because it doesn't tell you a
whole lot of what's going on but it
tells you if you're shrinking or if
you're growing and usually those
correspond to body fat gain and loss the
downside is that positioning the tape uh
the same way on the same part of your
body every time is tough and if you
position the tape a little bit up on
your waist a little bit down it makes it
seem like you gain 20 pounds of fat and
the other way around it's also difficult
to get the right tightness of the tape
there are tapes that actually allow you
to get the same tightness every time but
most people don't use them properly or
use them at all and thus if you squeeze
the tape really tight which a lot of us
do and we're trying to slim into
something then it's like hey you lost a
bunch of fat and then later you know
that week you forget to squeeze it and
you're like hey I gained 10 kilos of fat
fuck
that the use case for this is there are
formulas that will infer your body fat
percentage from uh circumference and
they're all dog shit so I don't even
bother using them best use case here is
when you're on a muscle gain phase and
you want to know when to stop because
like you know like yeah you can tell
from the mirror but you want something
more
objective when you stop your current
muscle gain
phase get some tape measuring going like
around your abdominal region maybe right
over your belly button so you have an
exact place to put it and do that for
the last few weeks of your muscle gain
phase get some good averages and know
okay like uh it's whatever number of
centimeters that's what it was when I
stopped
massing do your fat loss phase
maintenance phase BL whatever on your
next muscle gain phase start to track
the tape measure again at the same site
and when it for
two times in a
row probably like a whole week registers
that you are just at or over your
previous largest waste while massing you
can officially say okay I'm cutting off
this muscle gain phase I'm not going to
get any fatter that's a really good way
to use it I highly recommend
that all right Bia bio electrical
impedance
analysis these are often in modern
Fitness scales so you stand on the scale
and what it does is you put two feet on
the scale and there's two plates you
stand on technically speaking in reality
the scale sends a small shock electric
shock and you can't feel it directly to
your testicles making you unable to
produce progyny I'm kidding I'm kidding
that's a good conspiracy theory though I
kind of wish it went to your testicles I
could use a little zap down there Scott
the video guy what do you think about
testicle zapping hot hot if
you not if the scale sends an electrical
signal up through one of your legs it
goes through a large fraction of your
body and it comes back down and the
amount of Electric electrical impulse is
detected in the other
plate there are a lot of formulas that
they use to come up with this but the
basic idea is this fat typically resists
electrical current more than lean tissue
and so if you're a fat motherfucker then
less current comes back if you're lean
as shit then a lot of current comes back
and based on the ratio of the current
that they sent out to the one that comes
back they infer through a sort of series
of equations like roughly how lean and
how fat you
are it is very quick and very easy so
those are the upsides the problem is
that the accuracy is insanely awful and
apparently the reliability is good so
even though it's not telling you real
body fat whatever body fat it tells you
is
uh going to be similar over time and if
you get leaner it tracks it
appropriately but that actually only
works for large groups seemingly all the
data I've ever seen including lots of
experimentation with myself and folks
that I knew the baa is almost complete
waste of time uh it is great for
laboratory research especially in large
athletic populations if you want to see
how summer training for soccer players
affected their body fat and lean mass
you have them hold on to the fucking Bia
dildo at the beginning of the summer and
at the end they hold on to it again it
gives them a number somebody writes that
down amazing for labri research
individual Fitness use I just say just
don't use it uh I just don't use it and
unless a device comes out that's really
really good I'll sure change my mind but
for the time being I just don't
recommend it because I think it's
fucking dog
shit skin folds we could do a three
sight skin fold or the gold standard
seven sight skinfold the upside is
skinfold and you know pinch the skin
with a little little thingies whatever
they're called little Pinchers calipers
that's right I know
things um it's cheap it's
quick however in order to get accurate
readings you need a highly trained
operator that's
usually uh has an anthropometry
certification of some
kind and or is well trained and has just
done this a whole lot of times if you
don't have a highly trained operator the
measurements are Geo garbage in garbage
out nonsense so you can get anyone to be
any kind of body TR you want really with
a large error just by positioning the
calipers wrong and uh funny enough uh
I'll give you guys a hint to see if the
personal trainer doing these for free or
Jim is doing this right if you guys can
see this Scott video guy can we see this
okay yeah if you see someone with their
fingers because you're supposed to do
this with your fingers and the caliper
comes in using their fingers like this
and pinching fat like this with fingers
that point forward they're doing it
wrong
automatically the real way you pinch
body fat if you know
anthropometry is down like this down
finger good lateral finger bad so look
next time and give that old Simpsons if
they're doing it wrong and if they're
doing it right ha because they're still
fat you're a bad person if you do that
what are the use cases if your coach has
an anthropometry certification you can
check in once a month and get some skin
folds it probably doesn't tell you what
your body fat is but it definitely can
tell you changes over time and they're
site specific too so that's kind of neat
to say well like in your like tummy area
you lost a lot of fat and not as much in
your thigh area blah blah blah blah blah
I will say almost always do not use
these on yourself because you're not
going to be able to hit the positions
properly and it's all going to be
nonsense but you can just do a self
abdominal skin fold reliably in the same
place every time every day or multiple
times a week and you can have the
skinfold numbers from your last muscle
gain phase when you're capped off and
know that when you're hitting them again
it's time to cap off muscle gain phase
again so it's kind of like circumference
for muscle gain phases this is pretty
decent uh application in muscle gain
phases as
well now next now we start to get to the
good ones mirror scale and strength what
the hell you're basically doing this
you're looking at how much you
weigh how your weight is changing how
strong you are in the gym for reps and
how you appear if your weight is down
you're looking leaner and you're
strength is at least stable you can be
really really sure that you're losing
fat the upside here is that everyone who
works out has access to all this
hopefully you have access to a mirror
and the combination of scale and mirror
and weight or sorry scale and mirror and
strength which is you lifting weights is
really accurate and very reliable so
it's really awesome because it's three
measurements in one and if one is off
and one is weird you're just like I
don't know what's going on but a lot if
they're all singing the same song so to
speak then gee you got a you got a
really good indicator that your
something you're doing is working or on
the other hand not
working the problem here is that it
doesn't actually give you a body fat
percent estimate so just not giving you
a number so it won't give you a number
but otherwise it's the best one on this
whole list because it's accurate and
reliable and it's also profoundly cheap
and easy to do so I recommend that you
get weekly
averages of all of your strength on all
the exercises your body weight
and uh just pay attention to the mirror
and it's something that you're going to
be able to rely on if you have no other
body fat measurement devices this can
really tell you things like is it time
for me to start bulking is it or stop
fat loss diet is it time for me to stop
my bulking diet and so so on and so
forth next the 3D scan SLS super
Advanced new clothes that estimate your
body fat
so
basically what this is is it's a total
body scanner that oftentimes you just
put up your phone and it looks at you
and you just turn around like this with
your phone looking at you or there's a
special device that you can go in the
same area same laboratory that has a
dexa they put you on this thing and it's
actually a disc that spins and you stand
there like this and the dis spins you
it's really Star Trek like and then it
just scans the surface of your body it
creates a 3D rendering and because it
knows how much you weigh and how much
volume you take up it can make a density
calculator
and uh we know roughly the densities of
muscle and roughly the densities of fat
so actually works exactly like the B pod
and underwater weighing we'll get to
those in a bit and it can infer how much
of you is lean and how much of you is
fat the upside is that you can just do
it on a phone app or a quick office
visit it's not invasive it's super easy
the downside is that they're still
getting the algorithms correct for
estimate so for example right before one
of my shows which I won a whole bunch of
classes and had stried glutes not my
last show but the one before that I was
like 6% or something on the dexa in the
same room and then on the 3D scanner I
was like
18% like uh folks I could have been more
fat than 6% you don't get veins in your
glutes at 18% I mean I'd love for that
to be true it's just not the case so I
was like holy shit you know dexa really
is the gold standard so this is just
terrible and so it's poor deferring
exact body fat per they're still trying
to work out the
algorithms now in the future this will
be a really really good technology they
just need a lot more data to get the
algorithms right and cooperate and also
it may not be
amazing in the foreseeable future uh
probably they'll get this right but it's
tough when people look different because
it's used to the average body and and so
the way it calculates body volume can
seem to not make a lot of sense when
it's actually dealing with like someone
who's jacked just like I don't know what
the fuck that is and the get all wh
there's actually a new product where you
put on this like super slim clothing
suit this like slick onesie and based on
I think how much the fibers stretch it
can actually tell you if you're like
losing or gaining body fat that seems
really cool in a few years this will in
no doubt be the gold standard but it's
just not there yet so I don't want you
guys to uh you know if you're like super
loaded fuck buy one of these and at
least put it on your generals um but if
you're not super loaded and stuff I just
wouldn't go through this because it's
just you're not going to get the kind of
data you
want all right very similar technology
is the bod pod which is a great name for
marketing it measures your density
because you sit in a a little pod it
looks like a time travel
device it would be called a time machine
wouldn't it Dr Mike you sit in there and
it actually measures how much air was in
the machine before and then it measures
how much air is in the machine after and
the difference between those two is how
much your fat ass is taking up space
thus it gets a very good rendering of
your volume not through Visual
estimation through direct inference for
for gas amount which is much much better
and then what ends up happening is they
know your body weight because you tell
them your body weight or they weigh on
the scale they know how much you weigh
they know how much volume you take up
they know your density and they can
infer that because you have a certain
density you have a certain amount of
muscle certain amount of fat so it's
called a two two compartment model
doesn't know how much bone you have but
it sure shit guesses pretty well at
muscle and fat uh the upside is
underwater weighing which is coming next
I think it works the same way except you
have to dunk you in a water tank the bod
pod they don't have to dunk you in a
tank which is sweet the downside is it's
pretty damn expensive for how not overly
accurate the device is the kabad pod's
going to cost you 20 or $30,000 to have
in your facility on a one-time use it
often costs as much as a dexa but it
doesn't give you a whole lot of real
precise data it's neat as a once a year
check-in for a transformation or
something like that um it's not ideal
for us estimating your specific body fat
like if you're like I want to know if
I'm 12% or 15% the sure shit won't tell
you that I mean here's the bad thing it
will tell you that but the that it's
telling you is by no means clear and um
it's not ideal for monthly tracking
because the aor bars are about the size
of anything you could expect to change
over the month so after a month of
dieting it can say you did just stay the
same and you were like what the fuck did
I do this for nothing in reality you
lost 2% body fat but it can't pick that
up or it says you lost 4% body fat and
you're like I'm a fucking god diet over
but you're really still kind of fact cuz
you only lost 1% so the bod pod I'm not
too excited about but if you have one at
your gym and once a year you want to
throw
uh throw yourself in there when no one's
looking you have my blessing to do so
sneak in there
though don't get nervous if you throw up
in the bod pod apparently that's bad
they have to clean it up in any case
underwater
Wing same concept as the bod pod as a
matter of fact the bod pod came later
what they do is they know your weight
above water and and then what they do is
they have you dunk you get in this weird
serial killer Saw movie looking fucking
Contraption it's like a pool that's only
like 4 feet by 4 feet and that's like
10t deep and there's literally like a
hanging meat scale underneath the
fucking water no joke like I said saw
typically I would say if you see a setup
like this run but run with a lot of com
like you guys see this choke blocking
here from Jiu-Jitsu run with a shitload
of combat awareness Don't just run
horror movie Style we know some shit
comes out of the ground fucking horror
movies in any case typically I would say
don't get into one of these things but
if you have reason to believe you're at
your school's Kinesiology department and
not in a horror movie then feel free to
get in the water is always colder than
you prefer you sit into the device
here's the fucked up thing you cross
your arms breathe in and breathe out as
you dunk your head below water level
and ideally you breathe out as much air
as possible because you want to have
only like the residual volume of your
lungs left over because they have an
equation to estimate how much that
probably is the more air here's a
interesting incentive the more air you
keep in you're like fuck that I'm not
blowing out my air it makes you seem
less dense and it increases the body fat
estimate so you actually have a real big
incentive to breathe out all your air
underwater now you may be thinking what
kind of insane asshole breathe all their
air out underwater in a fucking saw
torture chamber and that's one of the
downsides of underwater weighing it's
it's weird um it's strange it's from the
past the good news is oh sorry I didn't
finish the explanation you're on the
scale you breathe out all of your air
they weigh you underwater it's not
called that for any mysterious reasons
and then they you weigh of course
outside of the water and based on how
different that is because we know the
density of water we know how dense you
are
now Tada pretty
cool some equations later they say oh
look roughly this much of you is lean
tissue and roughly this much of you as
fat now huge data sets and really good
calculations and the fact that it's a
pretty airtight method uh internal
validity wise make this actually very
accurate in body fat estimates
especially if you breathe out all over
your air but as you breathe out more of
your air it actually becomes more and
more accurate which is kind of cool um
you usually get three or four dunks in
the thing so you'll dunk it out and
often they have just a digital readout
it just goes right away and does your
shit so you come up you're like what am
I and they're like 22% you're
likeu I can do better I can do better
hold
on and then uh you know come back up and
they're like 23% you're like oh my God
I'm just
fat so that's how my shit went back in
the
day downsides you have to dunk
underwater and breathe out all of your
air
that just doesn't happen for a lot of
people they see that thing they're like
I've seen saw fuck that fuck you I'm
out huge facility construction that you
need to have one of these you need a
whole room for it with fucking water and
the water you need to clean and all this
other stuff it's a fucking swimming pool
you need space you need maintenance cost
you need a license like license you need
an experienced operator to run the whole
computer system and futs with the water
and calibrate the thing it needs a lot
of calibration it's finicky so it's uh
used to be used for a lot of laboratory
research that's really its only use case
and typically it's not even used for
that anymore they're decommissioning all
of them because the dexa is now the gold
standard and just use aexa because it
doesn't you know try to drown you it
only shoots X-rays at your
body speaking of which the dexa is next
dual x-ray emission
absorptiometry the dexa shoots X-rays at
your body and it sees how many of them
bounce off the plate and come back to
the device to the sensor
and because they go through your entire
fucking body they can estimate density
really really well this is based off of
equations that they've tested a lot with
the dexa used to be okay at body fat
estimation now it is superior the dexa
is very accurate it can tell you within
a one or 2% now trending towards 1%
error what your body fat really
is it is relatively quick you lay on the
device for like 10 minutes and it's kind
of cool if
the plate moves it's really futuristic
you feel like you're getting upgraded
like like Frieza and Dragon Ball Z after
Goku fucked them
up
um it's segmental which is real dope
like it splits you up into right arm
left arm right leg left leg and trunk it
gives you an estimate for how much
gynoid atopos you have how much of your
fat is like in your ass and thighs and
how much of it is Android which is like
gut and stuff like
that um yeah gynoid think Shakira
Android think local construction worker
beerbelly guy and it also estimates very
well bone mass and apparently every time
I go on the decka they're like we've
never really seen a bone mass as high as
yours and then I'm like TAA look at my
head and they're like right you know
Mike growth hormone is not something
you're supposed to be drinking and
bathing
in they've told me so many times in any
case there are
downsides it costs like $100 per scan so
it's not super cheap but not so
expensive another downside is you might
not have one near you you know uh
they're not everywhere they're certainly
more and more of them all the time and
you do need to acquire a nuclear
Regulatory Commission license to operate
one because it's technically radioactive
uh in the sense that it shoots x-rays
it's not a big deal so good luck getting
that shit although uh apparently we know
people who are private individuals
who've been able to secure one of these
and um I guess yeah it does cost
$775,000 and I think $5,000 a year for
the people to come and make sure it's
working all the
time so it's not something you want to
buy but something if you have a facility
around you it's cool to
use finally it's the first thing in our
list which validly guesses your body fat
very very
well and I would say a good use case of
it if you have one around is at the end
of every fat loss
phase uh you can just get one and it
gives you great data on how you've
changed and it's quite nice I wouldn't
get one every Mass like muscle gain
phase and maintenance phase and fat loss
phase then actually it's not accurate
enough to pick up all that stuff there's
going to be a lot of noise how much body
water you have is a big deal for the
thing and how much carbohydrate you have
loaded in the muscle so I would say is
at the end of a fat loss phase either if
it's right after the phase is over and
you've blowed it up a little bit like a
one week after or one week before the
end or the day of pick the same relative
time frame every fat loss phase and
repeat the dexa like
that all right lastly my personal person
Al favorite MRI which stands for
magnetic resonance
imaging and uh the MRI machine you guys
have all been to the hospital I'm sure
and have seen one it is insanely
accurate by far it shits on the dexa an
MRI machine can actually get your body
fat and muscle mass uh from what I
understand down to close to the gram
which is like fucking insane there are
downsides however it costs like a
zillion dollars I mean I think the
machine costs million ions of dollars
and it cost like $700 to turn on and off
once or some shit like that even if you
have stacks of fucking cash like your
boy it's really hard to just get access
to one you don't just show up to the
hospital and say hey like I'm trying to
use that for body fat usually there's
patients with actual diseases the stupid
shit they tell me when I try to get in
there I even crashed a Lambo in there
one into a machine one time to prove a
point and I still didn't get access they
said something about the machine was
broken cuz I crashed a Lambo in it I
stopped listening when poor people talk
to me I'm I Drake them
speak to one of my
Butlers and the butler just gives him a
a business card and walks off boom
problem solved use cases for an MRI
medical grade research sometimes they'll
do some xviz research where they like
put one limb in
there and uh that is really great to
measure small changes in hypertrophy and
fat Mass limb to limb over the course of
several months I have seen some studies
on that outside of that the MRI is just
in here to tickle your pickle a little
bit and I don't know hopefully we'll all
get rich enough to be able to afford
MRIs and just be able to get like a fat
Mass uh exact to a few grams all the
time that'd be sweet can you imagine you
like uh get in there and you're like oh
this fat you go have like two pizzas you
get back in there and it's like yeah
you're fatter fuck it happens so
fast all right so to wrap this all up
what should you be using here's my best
gold standard recommendation tape measur
is totally cool to use especially for uh
top end cut offs from muscle gain phase
if you're like two times a week your
weekly average that you're using for the
um even over the course of two weeks if
you're hitting to that range that last
muscle gain phase you said like that
this is as fat as I like to get then
you're good to go so let me just explain
really quick if I've been a bit too
brisk with how this process works in
your next mass mass phase Mass gaining
phase the entire time or in the second
half start to just get your
circumferences right with a tape measure
just over your belly but get good at you
know the same tightness and stuff like
that and just start writing them down do
this like three times a week or even
every
morning at some point so this doesn't
tell you where where you should stop
your Mas ging phas but just keep writing
them down at some point through the
mirror and through your wheezing when
you go upstairs you're going to be like
that's it I'm done bulking when you say
I'm done bulking look back at the last
week of measurements and find out what
the average is it'll be like whatever
like 45 cmet or something should make it
enough you'll do a cut the number will
reduce you don't even have to to track
it on a cut you can if you
want when you're coming back up and
bulking you're saying all right I'm
going to bulk you know you don't want to
get fatter than last time let's say you
know there was last cut off point was
good you like faint semblance of abs and
you're like that's good enough so as you
do the muscle gain phase through the
entire thing or at least the second half
start three times a week or every day
start to measure your circumference
around your belly button and it'll be
like you know 35 CM 36 blah blah blah 37
38 blah blah and then at some point is
going to be like oh like 45 like last
time and if that happens two times in a
row or two weeks in a row you're like
that's it I'm as fat as I was last time
cutting it off it's objective which is
really cool because the mirror can play
tricks on you like at lighting is
different and I don't know I kind of
still my arms are lean if you do this
it's a Surefire way to keep good track
you don't have to do it but it's a good
idea now scale mirror of strength
everyone everywhere all at once should
be doing this this is the thing to do
you should be looking at the scale to
keep track of body weight you should be
looking at the mirror to keep track of
sexiness and you should be looking at
your weights and Reps to keep track of
performance to let you know like are you
losing muscle or are you gaining muscle
losing muscle your performance goes like
this gaining muscle your performance
goes like that maintaining muscle your
performance goes up slowly for a few
months and then it flat
lines dexa after every major fat loss
phase a de is a good idea if you have
one around again it has to be done under
the same refeed conditions so either do
a Deo a week before your fat loss is
over the day before the day over the day
after or a week after or something but
it has to be the same time frame every
single time what you don't want to do is
last fat loss phase you got aexa the
week before and this fat loss phase you
got AA the week after and you're like I
gained eight pounds of muscle no you
fucking didn't you refed and got
glycogen into your muscle cells and the
glycogen actually expands your muscles
and the dexa still shoots the X-ray
through the muscle and it goes that's
muscle and it thinks your muscles are
bigger so
don't do that because then you'll have
just crazy elusory measurements and you
won't have any reliability which is
exactly the thing you want out of a
dexus to tell you am I changing in the
direction I want from one time to
another now lastly digital visual scan
there are a few companies doing this
Amazon tried to do it I think it went
nowhere this is the future of the
industry and it just needs a few years
to mature and I think it's going to be
really great I will try to update you
guys about uh Tech advances in the
fitness space if they make any sense and
if you have any questions about new tech
and the fitness space throw them in the
comments uh anytime you like and maybe
if we see them we'll be like oh that's
interesting we're going to call those
companies we trying to get the shit for
free if your boy can't get it for free
to test it's not going to happen it's
not a video we got a budget around here
and uh I'll just try to weigh in uh when
some good shit comes around all right if
you guys enjoyed this please like
subscribe consider joining our members
section or our what's that called Scott
not members yeah members you guys are
subscribers already and if you're not
hit the Subscribe button if if you want
to be a member there's cool nerdy videos
that are extra we put them up all the
time we actually usually overd deliver
how many videos we promise one video a
week but it's usually more and uh having
a whole lot of fun oh and the RP
hypertrophy app download it it's sweet
see you guys next time