this is not a thing where they hit us up
and they're like here's ten thousand
dollars just go say nice things you
don't mean we don't do that and we never
will do that every video you'll ever see
us endorse machines we mean everything
we say there's tons of machines I hate
you won't see them on this series
because I hate them
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here from Renaissance
periodization
on many things a professor of sports
science a collector of Lamborghinis
starting a rare fish collection I do
safaris every now and again and the mode
of transportation that I prefer to take
all my many exotic locales is the
derisionable aka the Zeppelin and yes it
is hydrogen powered
clearly I'm a fan of engineering and
that's why I'm a huge huge fan of the
Atlantis lateral race
just get a hug oh it's so amazing let's
chat about why this machine is awesome
let's chat about a few things maybe
could do better in a second the third
release
let's get into it
[Music]
foreign
the Atlantis lateral race has a couple
of really cool features first of all it
has an adjustable foot pad so that you
can leverage yourself to be higher or
lower depending on your arm length
degree of preference of elbow band and
so on and so forth It's not a machine
that's going to feel weird because it's
just a little out of alignment you can
always fix the alignment feature number
one feature number two is the select
rise weight stack one of the smoothest
Stacks in the existence of man whoever
built this machine whoever engineered it
needs some kind of award from a Canadian
government lannis is a Canadian company
incredible work we have the extra load
right here to make any increment worth
your while awesome the engineering is
amazing it's super smooth now here's the
real deal
here's where the money is these handles
have a couple of unbelievable features
first the range of motion goes all the
way up into Super ROM position they go
forward and backward as well as up and
down and lastly the grips on here are
unbelievable especially if you use Versa
grips and tie them in your elbows and
wrists will break off before you let go
of your grip I have had the hardest
shoulder training ever on this machine
that I've had anywhere and when you use
this machine in a proper arcing motion
the stimulus to fatigue ratio for side
delts is just unparalleled folks this is
the be all end-all it is the best
shoulder machine I have ever used in my
life
[Music]
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
I would have a segment here and these
machine reviews where I say you know
what they could improve upon is XYZ I
don't really have one tiny tiny tiny
place for improvement and this is just
recently in the literature it's really
bubbled up that at the bottom end it
might be a good idea to have more Force
provided than at the middle and
especially at the top now the thing is
is every time I use this machine I swear
to God the cam system already does that
I would like it to be a little bit more
profound a little bit more tension up
here or down here rather than up here
but she was there already doing such a
great job that would really be my only
critique or suggestion for improvement
other than that I'll be completely real
with you guys when myself Charlie Jared
Trevor Fulbright the king of full ROM
when we are traveling and we get to use
one of these it's like oh my God they
have an Atlantis lateral which means no
matter what the workout was for sure
shoulders you're not doing five or six
sets Maya reps or drop sets or back to
back
crushing your doubts it's truly a treat
to use the stimulus to fatigue ratio on
here feels like nothing on your joints
it feels like nothing as far as pulling
you down and Ultra overloading you
through your spine you feel every single
bit of this in your side delts it's
unbelievable it's truly a treat when I
had the opportunity to NAB one for
myself we did it and I is I zero regrets
it's I one of my favorite machines in
the gym and just straight up one of my
favorite pieces of equipment of all time
I don't know the head engineer on this
project but if I ever get a chance to
meet him or her I'm gonna shake the
out of their hand and uncomfortably
stare at them and just
like that except for longer to make it
more Awkward folks I've been super
charitable super kind I've even been
super professional in this video we're
gonna have more videos like this we're
going to review more machines
um and lastly Let's uh let's throw in a
little flavor into this video you guys
ready
see you next time
[Music]
thank you