overtraining is a myth and I'm going to
throw my hat for dramatic effect is
there a flop on there I hope yes cuz it
stole the show last time doctor pack
here real doctor not a physician an
actual doctor saving lives by getting
more people to engage in resistance
training thousands watch this channel
therefore saving thousands of lives
extending lifespan making the world a
better place the new Bill Gates Elon
Musk actually there's people that think
that Bill Gates eats kids or something
along those lines so I retract my
statement I Am My Own Thing pack Dr Pack
original doctor gamechanging member of
today's society and actually
revolutionizer of something something
something ADHD aside I'm here to talk to
you about the idea that overtraining if
you're a recreational lifter is nothing
that you should be worried about the
idea that you're going to suddenly
overtrain or find yourself in a state of
insane fatigue where you're going to
start losing muscle and potentially get
sick or end up in the hospital um is
just an idea that unfortunately doesn't
hold much ground this is something that
we often hear people lose their minds
about they carefully pre-plan their
training they carefully plan their
exercises and training volumes in order
to avoid overtraining they often also
attribute their perception of lack of
progress on the existence of
overtraining or the fact that they've
been doing too much as far as the
current literature goes even in
highlevel strength athletes a real
overtraining syndrome is not something
that is observed very frequently and
when we look at the actual literature
cases of overtraining within the
literature are extremely rare this is
not to say that overtraining is not real
I personally know of a lot of people
including myself that if we wanted to
really push it and actually overtrade
we could um especially people that do
martial arts and people who have a very
very high pain and fatigue tolerance
people that can operate on a few hours
of sleep for days and days on end I
could see those people overtraining so
I'm not saying overtraining in general
does not exist and there's nobody and
that there's no Elite athlete out there
that experiences overtraining syndrome
but for you the recreational lifter who
goes to the gym four to five times a
week and does 10 to 20 sets per muscle
gr per week and you know some of you may
do less or slightly more than that but
for you the idea that all of a sudden
you're going to be either losing muscle
or plateauing simply because you're
overdoing it or you're doing too much
and you're not recovering unless you
have solid data for that and by data I
do not mean the literature but actually
your subjective data on how you're
performing in the gym how you're
recovering how you're sleeping how
you're feeling and so on and so forth
the idea that you're risking
overtraining and that overtraining is
something that occurs all of a sudden is
not really based on much you literally
have to be pushing yourself and pushing
past high levels of fatigue tiredness
and the unwillingness to train for a
long time and that's why often
overtraining syndrome is something we
observe in Elite athletes who you know
have essentially centered their life
around Sport and that's all that matters
to them so they have the mental
fortitude to keep pushing and keep
pushing and keep pushing but for us
recreational lifters just because you
had a hard week of training and it was a
stressful week overall and now you're
feeling sore and fatigued just because
that happened that doesn't mean that
you're risking overtraining if you see
that for a few weeks your mood sleep
libido um performance in the gym and
just life in
general then yeah it may be time to take
a week off or an easy week of training
it's literally as simple as that in
order for you to overtrain you have to
willingly push and push and push and
push and push to the point where you're
actually going to hit a brick wall I
assume that most of you are not that
sort of athlete unless you're one of
those weirdos that operates on you know
band stimulants and you have an
extremely high pain threshold which I
used in the caption of this meme as well
I know these people and I know people
that can overtrain because they just
like to overdo it in general but for the
majority of lifters training for a few
months in a row and obviously I assume
that you're taking some rest days here
and there but continuously training hard
for several months in a row is totally
fine totally possible and just because
you're feeling more fatigued than before
that doesn't mean that you're
overtraining if you're pushing yourself
to get bigger to get stronger there will
be some weeks where you're going to feel
more sore you're going to feel a bit
worn down and obviously there's other
things that are going on in your life
that are affecting the way you feel in
the gym and the way you feel outside of
the gym data on the effect of mobile
phone used before the gym on mental
fatigue show that using your mobile
phone before the gym May alter how you
perform in a session and how you feel
that session so the next time you're sat
there and you're wondering am I
overtraining or will doing this sort of
training lead to overtraining slap
yourself and tell yourself to stop
worrying about it worst case scenario if
you do indeed overdo it you will know
well advance that you're overdoing it
you will have a couple of weeks where
you're not going to be feeling like
yourself whatsoever you're going to have
shitty sessions or some sessions will be
shitty and then you will need to take a
week off but again unless you're
planning on doing some insane never
before done or at least rarely before
done training program or something that
is completely antithetical to the way
you live and your recovery capabilities
you're not going to overtrain you're
going to be fine it's okay okay you're
not overdoing it you're not an elite
athlete training 7 hours a day you went
to the gym for an hour and did chest and
back and then did some leg training make
sure you're eating plenty of protein get
your sleep in and you're going to be
fine at the end of the day when you do
feel like absolute trash take that week
off and back to Baseline overtraining
for lifters is one of those boogy men
that have been there for quite some time
and it's time for it to die overtraining
should not really be much of your
concern as long as you're doing your due
diligence outside the gym and you're
also tracking certain variables you will
know well in advance that it's time to
take a step back when the time comes
take the step back don't push through 4
weeks of shitty trading and absolutely
horrible sleep and bad mood take that
week off reset and back at it you go
that was it another day where science
came to you and was like listen we're
making science-based lifting great again
Bro Science is here to tell you that
it's okay it's fine it doesn't matter
things are flexible just make sure that
you lift and over training is nothing to
worry about it's been real it's been
emotional like subscribe comment
notification Bell send me a DM with how
much you enjoyed this video and
preferably money and I will see you guys
next time on the next video and on the
blog shout out to my guys and free those
who are not with us
[Music]
peace