no this isn't about stretch mediate
hypertrophy or even training to failure
the smartest workout technique has to be
the nonoverlapping Super set three
Studies have compared traditional
training where you do one exercise with
regular rest intervals between each set
to Super sets wherein you perform two
exercises with no overlap as a superet
the results the same growth in 30 to 50%
less time or you've just freed up at 30
to 50% of your workout time to do more
sets and get more growth nearly everyone
has time constraints in the gym and
nearly everyone could benefit from doing
more volume so superset any two
movements that don't have any major
overlap and take a little bit of rest
between each one something like a squore
deadlift probably not the best idea if
you want better examples rewatch this
short for examples that I like