these are adductor focused exercises and
they're quite good if you need adductor
development I will say for most people I
think this exercise is not necessary and
could actually be overkill on how much
it Expos their adductors if these people
especially go really deep with good foot
position where their knees slide out as
they go really deep on hack squats leg
presses especially lunges and definitely
squats of all kinds so adductor work
here I don't think is really necessary
it's like deadlifting doing bent over
rows and doing stiff-legged Eda good
mornings and then also like I think I
need more work for my lower back it's
like do you maybe not may but maybe you
do tum is doing aductor machine so in
his context I'm sure he's intelligent
enough to determine if like the aductor
is a limiting factor if they're not
healing on time and interfering with
workouts I'm sure he'd stop doing this
so I think this is a very good movement
and context