the system is designed to infer that
tasty sugary things bring in calories
and in our ancestral evolutionary
environment from which we are all
descended that was a very reliable thing
reality is that artificial sweeteners
are really a hack because they give you
that very similar almost the same Sweet
Sensation especially something like diet
soda tastes almost exact like regular
soda but it gives you that without any
of the calories so it actually is a hack
in the technical sense a lot of other
you know diet hacks are just strategies
like hack your metabolism with one meal
a day like not even wasn't supposed to
eat five meals and the one meal hacks it
it's just another way of eating this
really is a hack and what does it get us
in study after study people only
switching from regular soda to diet soda
lose mounds of weight