out of all the intensity techniques in
the world one has by far the most
science behind it and it's not drop sets
it's not for reps or super sets or cheat
reps it's actually a technique called
long length partials and a lot of new
evidence suggests that not only do long
length partials beat out all those other
techniques they may also be even better
than a standard full range of motion
that's why you've probably seen so many
people in the fitness Bas doing them
lately so in this video I want to
explain why I think they work so well
how to use them and some common mistakes
I see people making first what exactly
are long length partials well they're
pretty simple let's say you're doing a
bicep curl a full range of motion would
be when you go all the way up and all
the way down taking the elbow from about
0° at the bottom to about 150° at the
top but we can split that full range of
motion up into two halves doing curls in
the top half would be short length
partials because the biceps are more
contracted and doing curls in the bottom
half would be long length partials
because the biceps are more stretched
and as you stretch a muscle it gets
longer hence the name long length
partials so to figure out if a muscle
muscle is at a long length or not just
think about which half of the range of
motion stretches the muscle the most and
that's the half you want so on squats
you can see what a short length partial
looks like here on the left and you can
see what a long length partial looks
like on the right and notice that with
the long length partials I'm still
getting a deep stretch on my quads and
glutes in the bottom but then I'm only
going about halfway up to the top so I'm
cutting out the squeezed part by
contrast with short length partials you
only go halfway down so you're
completely cutting out the Deep stretch
and I wouldn't recommend doing these
onlap pull Downs along l partial would
look like this where you only go about
halfway down to your chest and again
that's because the lats are more
stretched at the top with the arms up
overhead and while most serious lifters
still assume that a full range of motion
is always best over the last few years a
growing pile of research has shown that
it is in fact the stretched part of the
range that triggers the most muscle
growth not full range of motion per se
just consider this as of now there are
eight studies comparing long length
partials to short length partials and
seven of those eight studies found that
long length partials were better for
muscle growth one study found found no
difference and no studies favored short
length partials but it gets even better
because we now also have five studies
comparing a full range of motion to long
length partials and four of those five
studies found that long length partials
were better for muscle growth than a
full range of motion just one study
found no difference and no studies
favored full ROM but the thing is even
in the study that found no difference it
only used 10% of full range for the
partial group so half the subjects in
this study were only doing one0 reps
again in the stretch part and still saw
equal growth to the group doing full ROM
so not only are long length partials
clearly better than short length
partials they might be better than full
range of motion at least in some cases
now in case it seems like I'm
overstating the evidence here I spoke
with the world's leading researcher in
this area Dr Milo wolf and he seemed
just as excited about long length
partials as me personally I'm own
training for about 9 or 10 months now
I've been doing exclusively lengthened
partials for all of my hypertrophy work
what I've noticed when I I speak about
Len and partials or anything that's like
new and exciting in bodybuilding there's
a camp of people who are like oh this is
the new sexy thing that everyone's
talking about and I'm sure the hype will
die down and this kind of thing I should
reiterate that neither you nor I are
advertising this as like a really really
groundbreaking thing it's just like hey
if you're not trying this like it really
does seem to work 100% on your note of
not being groundbreaking we're expecting
an improvement in your growth of maybe 5
or 10% using length in partials versus
for motion so if you're all about
maximizing your hypertrophy that's
meaningful at this point I'm pretty
confident that lengthen partials are
something that should be included in
your training if you're after
hypertrophy but it also shouldn't be
super surprising that training in the
stretched aspect of a lift is good for
muscle growth for years we've had a
pretty good idea that stretch mediated
hypertrophy is a thing remember this
classic bird study where researchers saw
crazy gains in the wing of a quail when
it was stretched under load and then in
human studies we've known for years that
lifting at long muscle lengths is
effective so there are two ways I use
long length partials in my current
training the first is as an intensity
technique to extend the last set I do
for a muscle beyond the typical failure
point I mainly Reserve this method for
two muscles my hamstrings and my back
that's because on pretty much every back
exercise you'll reach a point where you
can't get the weight all the way down
but you could still crank out another
five or six partial reps in the top half
if you really went for it now most
science-based lifters will stop the set
once they can no longer get the bar all
the way down to their chest but your
back actually has quite a bit of gas
left in the tank if you were to keep
going with partial reps so on select
sets of pull Downs usually the last set
once I hit that point where I can't
touch the bar to my chest instead of
stopping I'll keep going with partial
reps trying to get the bar down as far
as I can without breaking technique and
then I'll terminate the set once I can
only get the bar about halfway down you
could also do these on your last set of
Pull-Ups so once you can no longer touch
your chest to the bar keep going with
long length partials on your last set
the same thing goes for rows once you
can no longer get that full squeeze keep
going in the stretched part until you
can no longer get the weight about
halfway up usually this will allow me to
get another 3 to six partial reps I also
do the same thing for hamstrings that's
because they're another unique muscle
where you can always crank a whole lot
more reps after you've exhausted the
full range of motion once you can no
longer get that full squeeze at the top
your hamstrings still have a lot more
juice left so after I reach that usual
stopping point I just keep going with
another five or six partials until I
can't get the weight at least halfway up
and then I'll terminate the set now in
theory you could keep going with quarter
reps and eighth reps until you literally
just can't budge the weight but that
might be Overkill in my opinion
regardless I say the most important
thing is standardizing your range of
motion so that you pick the same
endpoint from week to week that way you
can be consistent with tracking your
progress and again I'm not doing this
level of intensity for every set of
every exercise if you were to do that
you'd most likely see a dramatic fallof
in your performance toward the end of
the workout and your volume would most
likely take a hit as a result you could
also run into recovery issues especially
if your diet and sleep aren't optimized
now the second way I use length in
partials is not as an end of set
intensity technique but rather on every
single rep of a set this this is
actually how I use them in my new pure
bodybuilding program on the last set of
several exercises we do long length
partials on every rep of that set this
is how Dr Wolf recommended that I do
them since you get to spend more total
time in the most anabolic part of the
range of motion why water the set down
with time spent in the less anabolic
part of the range was what he said so
for example on week one day one we're
doing all long length partials on the
last set of Chess supported machine rows
so on rep one we only go halfway up and
then we continue with half rep in the
lengthened aspect until we get to rep 10
which should have us right at failure if
we selected the appropriate weight and
it's worth noting that you may need to
go a bit heavier when doing partials it
also makes a lot of sense to do lengthen
partials on dumbbell flies that's
because with dumbbell flies you already
have this very sided resistance
curve where there's tons of tension in
the bottom and virtually zero tension at
the top but maybe that's not such a bad
thing because we now know that the
lengthened part of the range is the most
important part and dumbbell flies
naturally emphasize the lengthened part
so I've recently rethought how I feel
about dumbbell flies in the past I've
argued that they're most likely inferior
to Cable flies because with cables you
get much more continuous resistance
throughout the range of motion which is
true but in light of all this new
evidence I'd say dumbbell flies aren't a
bad option at all especially if you lean
into their inherent stretch bias further
by cutting out the top half of the
movement and just hitting them all as
partial reps now I still do cable flies
because I think variety is important but
whenever I do dumbbell flies these days
I pretty much always do them as long
length partials a also been playing
around with lengthened partials on the
Smith machine press and man the pump you
feel from these and the Deep stretch you
get is just fantastic and I've been
experimenting with them on leg presses
too and so far I do find the partial
reps more enjoyable there's something
nice about only having to do half the
ROM and still reaping all the gains it's
not that they're easier if anything I'd
say they're harder because you don't get
that tiny mini rest at full lockout but
I still think they're super fun now has
a slightly different technique you can
try something called integrated partials
where rather than leaving all your
lengthened partials until the the end of
the set you can sprinkle them in
throughout the set I've been doing these
on the pec deck where I'll alternate
full range of motion reps with long
length partial reps so I'll do one full
rep one half rep one full rep one half
rep and so on until I reach failure and
I think they're a solid option because
they allow you to spend more total time
in the most anabolic part of the range
of motion without completely emitting
the contracted part and I also find they
keep the set more engaging and cause a
crazy pump okay so when it comes to
mistakes I'd say the biggest one I see
is people just losing control when they
start doing partial Reps for whatever
reason a lot of people have it in their
heads that partial reps are cheat reps
and so they just let their form
completely go loose once they start
doing partials but this is a mistake
because a partial rep should still be
treated like any other rep meaning you
still control the negative you still
minimize momentum and you still feel
that deep stretch at the bottom the
second most common mistake I see is
people not limiting the range of motion
enough on the partials people like
myself who are accustomed to using a
full range of motion are really often
shy to cut the range of motion short and
end up just skipping the lockout so
they're still actually doing 90% of the
full range of motion this is fine enough
but it isn't a true long length partial
at least that's not how they're done in
the studies in the research the subjects
are doing half reps so don't be scared
to cut the range of motion significantly
down and as long as you still maintain
good control you still push the set just
as hard as you normally would you don't
need to worry about missing out on any
gains and if you buy into the research
you should actually make better gains a
mistake I'm seeing mostly online is
overhyping long length partials for
example I recently uploaded a YouTube
short explaining why I'm still a fan of
the cable triceps Kickback and a lot of
people were quick to point out that the
kickback overloads the triceps in the
more shortened position not the stretch
position so wouldn't that mean it's
worse for muscle growth I do get the
argument but I personally think this is
overe extrapolating the current evidence
while I do find the new research
convincing and I have been applying long
length partials to my own training I
also don't think there's enough evidence
to completely throw out all exercises
that buy us a more shortened position
especially if it's an exercise that
we've been doing for decades with good
results I also don't think that the
evidence is strong enough at least not
yet to completely cut out the top half
and only do partial reps on every
exercise I think that as of now using a
combination of full range of motion and
long length partials is still best and
in general I still lean toward people
using a full range of motion most of the
time with long length partials having
those specific applications that we
talked about and that's because even
though long length partials are gaining
momentum in the research full range of
motion has Decades of empirical support
and when you zoom out and look at the
literature as a whole long length
partials really aren't miles ahead I
think that at this point the best you
can say is that long length partials
clearly work better than short-length
partials and at least work as well as
full range of motion and maybe even
better in some cases now if you'd like
to listen to my full discussion with Dr
Wolf about this topic I'll put a link to
that podcast in the description box down
below and if you're looking to put all
this information together into an
actionable program that you can just go
to the gym and execute without having to
overthink anything you can pick up my
new pure bodybuilding program over on
Jeff
ner.me dedicated toward pure hypertrophy
and that uses not only long length
partials but a bunch of other really fun
exercises and techniques that I haven't
seen many people doing yet the program
also comes with a free nutrition guide
so you can get your diet in check
whether your main goal is Fat Loss
muscle gain or both and it's 20% off for
launch week so I'll put a link to that
over here next to my head if you'd like
to check it out and thanks guys so much
for watching don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one