let's take a look at the sets literature
if we look at the scientific literature
on how many sets you do every increase
in sets so far studied but for maybe one
study has resulted either in a neutral
effect or usually in a positive effect
of more growth to put that in another
way adding sets predictably causes
muscle growth to increase in most cases
subtracting them causes it to decrease
by a little bit in most cases so if you
took 12 sets and went two reps in
reserve you'd probably grow muscle more
than if you did just eight sets but
failure on every single set the
trade-off is usually not worth it for
some people it is usually it's not worth
it you're cutting something you know
will you up for something that may or
may not
help hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength continuing our troubleshooting
muscle growth training Series today we
asked the question of are you training
hard enough to get your best gains as I
say in each one of these videos and it's
important to lay down this intellectual
Foundation there could be a lot of
reasons you're not getting the gains you
want some of them are in our control
some of them are not and even the ones
in our control multifaceted I mean there
may be 10 to 20 real big explained lots
of the reason why most people don't get
gains within their control reasons and
that's why the series is not just one
video but one of those could be that
you're not training hard enough or maybe
even too hard but after you watch this
video you'll be able to rule it out and
take very simple steps to first of all
find out if you have a hard training
problem and second easily solve that
problem to take that completely out of
the equation probably get better gains
and then if not getting better gains at
least attend to the next thing in line
to troubleshoot that to make sure you've
turned over every stone to find a little
piece of muscle underneath H that's
weird that's weird and the muscle's like
hey guy you're like oh you talk of
course I'm your only
friend oh well what about Jake Jake's a
piece of shit he secretly hates you oh
yeah fuck Jake you're right muscle
you're all I need let's talk about you
more sounded like Mr hany Mr Hanky the
Christmas
[Music]
Poo
classic I like that when Mr Hanky jumped
on anything they made sure to draw in
that he left a poop mark on
[Laughter]
it give me a kiss anyway let's go
through the fundamental science of what
heart training is we'll talk about best
recommendations and then common mistakes
and how you may be able to fix them so
four points in fundamental science Point
number one how far you can push yourself
in any one set of an exercise based your
capabilities for maximum pushing is
termed relative effort it is relative
based on your best possible effort so if
we used a percent scale your best
possible would be 100 and then you know
maybe you do most of your training
somewhere between 85 and 95 something
like that but anything much below 80%
relative effort you're just not trying
hard enough to get your best gains and
that's cool and all about how the hell
do we operationalize that like in real
muscle growth training what the hell is
95% how does that make any sense and we
have a good answer so Point number two
is that in hypertrophy training and
muscle growth training we use rir reps
in reserve to proxy relative effort it's
a very good way to estimate relative
effort and Reps and Reserve mean well
how many reps do you have left in the
set until you can't lift any more reps
with good technique let's say you did 12
reps and then the shit fell on you like
you couldn't support yourself anymore
you tried the hardest you ever could if
you had stopped at 10 in that set it
would have been two reps in reserve if
You' have stopped at eight it would have
been a four reps in reserve and so on
and so forth this rir system gives us a
really easy way to talk to each other
about how hard we're trying and we also
have ways to shit test the r system to
make sure that it's actually pretty
valid and pretty accurate for us so it's
a very very good measure of relative
effort and probably the best one we're
going to use RP exists rating of
perceived exertion but that is more
typified in powerlifting circles and uh
it's a 1 to 10 scale which makes it
really confusing to apply for sets of
anything over 10 and it works well for
powerlifting but we're going to use R
because it works way better for
hypertrophy for muscle growth for
bodybuilding purposes Point number three
we know from the scientific literature
that low relative effort produces
substandard gains still makes gains but
not as good and if you go in the extreme
anything beyond five reps away from
failure so let's say you could have done
15 reps on dumbbell curls but you
stopped at 10 or 9 that can work well in
beginners beginners don't need to go
close to failure because they're so
growth sens
but for intermediates and advanced folks
intermediates may get some not so great
gains training five reps in reserve and
advanced folks could probably bet on
gaining maybe no gains at all if they
train that easy so five reps in reserve
and more like three or four is kind of
our bottom end for how easy we're going
to train for typical work sets in which
we actually want muscle growth I don't
really know why else you would do a work
set you know like my grandma's like hey
can you move this couch because I'm
moving between houses and I'm like sure
and she's like why did you say yes
because you love your grandma and I said
no because it gives me a bicep pump
grandma now why don't you get the fuck
out of my face or get me a goddamn
Celltech and Grandma's like you're going
to talk to me like that after I've
beaten the living dog shit out of you
and I cower in fear because Grandma
knows all I just just sometimes you know
sometimes you just step out of your lane
it's up to Grandma to be like you son of
a bitch I didn't bring you into this
world I brought the people who brought
you into this world you're like yo
respect next scene you and Grandma are
both fucking curling in the basement
she's always doing one rep extra damn it
in any case my childhood trauma aside
number four is High relative effort
which is close to failure training
produces a single workout best gains so
if you aliens come down to earth and
like look you have to have one week of
workouts and we're going to measure your
muscle growth after each one and if you
don't grow the most Poss possible muscle
after each workout who cares what
happens next week or the week after just
this week you better do your best well
you're going to be training everything
to failure or Beyond that's how you get
the best gains for any given workout but
huge butt I'm talking about talking
about Brazilian side
huge wrong kind of
butt yes in any one given session a
stimulus is higher if you go to failure
versus not to failure but the fatigue of
training to failure especially for
multiple sets is exponentially higher
and accumulates rapidly so if you do
high volume training multiple weeks in a
row all to failure you're not going to
be able to sustain that effort for as
many weeks and we know that a big part
of gaining muscle is the ability to
sustain hard muscle building training
for weeks and weeks and weeks on end so
failure is amazing for any one given
time but it's not something you can go
to the well all the time without paying
a downside so just something to remember
so right right now we kind of have this
conception that somewhere between three
or four reps in reserve and zero repon
Reserve or failure somewhere there we're
going to find most of our best results
that's something we know from the
fundamental science how do we take that
and make it into recommendations I got a
few points for you point number one for
beginners stop when your Technique
waivers that's failure to you not when
your Technique is completely dilapidated
when you know you don't have your best
technique anymore try one more rep to
fix it that's set and if that rep also
is eh stop if your Technique wavered and
you let's say you were doing sets of
eight and this time you stopped at a set
of six because your set of f uh your
fifth rep sucked and your sixth rep was
awful technique wise you're like okay
you rected okay next week don't go up
and wait don't go up and Reps if you're
your Technique is stable for whatever
goal you have let's say next week you do
the same weight and you're able to do
all sets at eight reps like planned and
your Technique is ultra crisp every
single time the next week you can go up
and wait by a little bit but in beginner
training we earn our progressions by
demonstrating good stable unchallenged
technique during the set if your te
technique falters or waivers next week
you do the same workout except you make
your Technique as perfect as possible
that is the best way to train as a
beginner because it teaches you how to
use good technique for the rest of your
career and just consistency and putting
in good technique gets you unreal gains
as a beginner you don't have to go
hardcore extra super failure and if you
went to Super failure your Technique
would break down so much you would
actually learn how to train poorly and
then end up like I don't know half of
the Bros in New Jersey fellas I'm
kidding hey fucking wrong with Jersey
fuck you where you from fucking Michigan
let me list a good list good bodybuilder
from
Michigan yeah exactly fucking
Kellogg Scott video guy did you know
that Kellogg Corporation is
headquartered in Michigan I did not know
that
yeah I'm more of a post serials man
myself I'm kidding Kelloggs holy shit if
you guys want to sponsor us God I will
rep I will Pro I
will prostrate my body for you serial
covering the whole thing you guys ever
seen my body it's been described as a
work of art by a blind person number two
intermediate recommendations for
relative effort intermediate should
probably be starting every Mesa cycle
ever
[Music]
training program that they
start shooting for about three reps in
reserve three reps shy failure on pretty
much all work sets and then every week
it's a granted that your Technique is
stable by this point by the way every
week you increase how much weight you're
lifting in the exercises by two and a
half to 5 pounds or you can
alternatively add a rep to each set of
the exercise without changing weight at
all so it can be 100 pounds in the bench
for four week straight but it starts at
10 reps and goes to 13 reps something
like that when you can no longer hit
mini PRS when you hit 150 lbs for 15
reps last week and this week you did
155 for 12 reps and then later that week
in a different exercise for that same
muscle you also
underperformed failure to hit PRS
especially two times in a row in the
same week for the same muscle is
probably an indicator that your
cumulative fatigue is too high and then
it's time to do a D Lo week so you do a
week of very easy training and you
restart all the way back at three reps
in reserve probably some different
exercises different rep ranges etc etc
and then you continue the progression or
restart the progression again this will
probably happen and obviously when
you're missing PRS you're going to True
failure to find out if you can still get
them so that's basically one or two
weeks of going to True failure in a row
to try to see if you can salvage your PR
blunders but as soon as you Crest in
strength and get a little weaker from
that excessive fatigue you got a de lo
that accumulation process of week after
week after week of slightly harder and
harder training is going to take about
about 48 weeks which is exactly how
muscle cycle lengths are determined and
that works out really well because it's
Auto regulated if you go five weeks
hitting PRS and then you stumble take a
d out after five if you can go nine
weeks and hit PRS before you stumble hey
after nine is the answer your body will
let you know and number three for
advanced folks you want to start each
met cycle something between two and
three R there is some reason to believe
that advanced folks might need to start
training a little bit harder and closer
to failure even from the get-go because
their muscles have a very low tendency
to adapt unless given a really really
special thing to adapt to at this point
and some Advanced folks will even
progress to Beyond failure that's not so
super sustainable so you can have a
situation where you know you have your
second to last week as training to
failure and then your last week is
failure and Beyond so you get to failure
and everything and then you do Force
reps or drop sets or some crazy shit
like that that might be what Advanced
people need especially on muscle groups
they struggle with an advanced person
doing that for their whole body might
never come back to the gym again but
first struggling muscles go going even
Beyond failure a few weeks in a row
could be a good idea but much more
importantly than that is feel out your
stimulus to fatigue ratios as an
advanced person what's giving you the
best pumps the best uh perception of
tension the best consistent gains over
time the best Doms Etc and the least
fatigue of all kinds and that can be
applied to reps and reserve for me
personally for example roughly at two
reps and reserve on average is where I
have my best training if I go much
easier than that not so much fun stuff
happens if I go much harder than that I
get really really tired really fatigued
really beat up from going super close to
training real fast and then I just don't
make any progress after that I have to
De load so for me the the longest I can
hang around in that 321 R area for me
that's the best not everyone's the same
you might be a person that thrives on
training closer to failer than that you
might be a person that thrives on
training further from failure than that
as a beginner you don't have to worry
about that shit you just do good
technique and only progress if you have
good technique if you're an intermediate
yeah you got to hit failure regularly at
the end of every M cycle just to feel
out what it's like and start to learn
about your body and get great gains
indexed against an objective failure
point so you know you're not under
training or training not so hard as an
advanced person you really have to start
to figure out how what part of the
spectrum works for me what part works
for me that's really really important
all right common mistakes and how to fix
them I have six one common mistake is
never finding failure people say well
three R okay well typically how many
reps would you have gotten failure
they're like I guess 13 16 did you just
make that number up yes when's the last
time you went to failure and leg press
they're like there's I don't think I've
done that okay well let's try it today
instead of getting 16 like they they
thought they got uh 23 reps because you
were there and you push them and they
really push themselves and they think
about it they're like
shit it's been so long I went to failure
or anything I thought I was doing two or
three reps and Reserve but it was really
like five for six which kind of explains
why I wasn't getting amazing gains so if
this is you regularly at the end of most
mess Cycles at least a few of your
muscle groups should be taken to
Absolute failure safely with a spotter
with whatever but which you got to
fucking try because only by taking your
shit to failure on occasion do you
really objectively Landmark your two and
three R estimates against a real
reference value because there's a very
big difference thinking of 2 R when you
could have done 16 reps total and
thinking of 2 when you could have done
23 reps total one of those is very
different this happens all the time
people think they know where their
failure point is and a bunch of the time
they're totally correct or very close
and a bunch of the other time they're
completely off in One Direction or the
other which is real bad news so regular
trainer failure at least for mediates is
a really really good idea number two is
the opposite problem of going to failure
all the goddamn time most of the time
you get very poor stimulus to fatigue
ratio stimulus is great for one week but
the fatigue accumulates so much that you
have to Deo very often and you can't
make as good of strength progressions
your Technique deteriorates you start to
hate training all this other stuff
happens and you think well this is for a
good reason it's not for a good reason
study after study show that in high
volume conditions with Advanced lifters
training to failure usually produces
substandard results in long duration
efforts put another way failure training
is best for people that don't trim very
often don't trim very hard are
relatively beginner and that's because
they don't have to pay a huge fatigue
cost but once the fatigue is something
you can really impose on yourself
failure training usually is not ideal if
done over and over and over and over and
some people are so into the failure
training that they they can't recover
from it so they have to actually tune
down their whole volume so they might
have done 12 sets for legs usually 12
sets for quads per week but because they
want to go to failure they can't recover
from 12 sets they're say okay I'm going
to do eight sets of quads but I'm going
to do do them really hard the problem is
that one two or three reps in reserve
compared to failure in direct testing in
comparison literature even when it's uh
one person versus themselves one arm
versus the other one leg versus the
other there's no on a individual session
or even on months of training there
doesn't seem to be a difference between
those two and there's a huge difference
in fatigue from three reps in reserve to
failure but multiple three open Reserve
sets versus multiple failure sets seem
to produce an almost unnoticeable
difference in gains maybe maybe a tiny
little difference so if you're paying
this massive fatigue cost you're saying
okay but that's okay I'll do fewer sets
so hold on let's take a look at the sets
literature if we look at the scientific
literature on how many sets you do every
increase in sets so far studied but for
maybe one study has resulted either in a
neutral effect or usually in a positive
effect of more growth to put that in
another way adding sets predictably
causes muscle growth to increase in most
cases subtracting them causes it to
decrease by a little bit in most cases
so
if you took 12 sets and went two reps in
reserve you'd probably grow muscle more
than if you did just eight sets but
failure on every single set the
trade-off is usually not worth it for
some people it is usually it's not worth
it you're cutting something you know
will fuck you up for something that may
or may not help right that's a bad deal
that's a bad deal and we don't want to
do it in most cases now most people the
reason they train to failure is for ego
purposes uh I got something to prove or
for fun cuz it's fucking warrior shit
and it's awesome they don't usually do
it for result optimization even when
they say it's for result optimization
that's usually a rear guard attack
against people being like isn't that
suboptimal they're like uh no it's
fucking optimal because like growth or
whatever don't worry they haven't
thought much about that uh people who
who Advocate training to PE failure
usually come from more emotional place
no disrespect and less of a logical
place and there's time for emotion there
time to failure uh for failure training
but uh maybe not all the time that's my
contention here weight loss can get very
complex
dozens of food groups meal timing
specific supplements the whole gamut at
RP we have helped over 100,000 people
get into their lifetime best shapes and
we learned how to simplify the dieting
process so much that the whole diet you
can use to get in your best shape only
takes up one page and for no extra
charge you'll also get our RP gym free
atome workout plan eight easy to read
eBooks about diet science cooking and
all Fitness Essentials and both a meal
prep and on thee-o eating guide it's the
simplest diet you'll ever follow and if
simple results are up your alley click
the link in the description of this
video to get
started number three is another group of
folks that make the mistake of worrying
about really precise R estimates that
say like oh you know like was is two r
or three R I don't know look as long as
your set gives you some push back like
all the Reps don't feel exactly the same
and at the end the set starts to feel
really hard the the weight feels heavier
or you feel slower you're already in
that range which produces really good
results as long as you start your Mesa
Cycles in that tough range and then add
a little bit of load or a little reps
every single time you come in for that
whole Mesa cycle you're fucking golden
you're training hard enough the simple
addition of the loads or the Reps will
make sure you go from whatever three
four who gives a shit failure all the
way to True failure very close it's
guaranteed to progress you right like if
you know you get dropped off in a
fucking military video game uh you know
on some map but the helicopter drop you
500 feet from the actual battle you just
like run towards the battle some point
people start shooting at you so if you
start at I don't know three2 failure I
don't know was just one from failure who
knows like I need a precise estimate no
you don't just like you don't need to
know you're 257 meters away from the
compound you see where the compound is
see where the explosions are just run
that way and you'll get some combat you
see where you started now just add some
load add some reps every week and you're
going to be good to go you're going to
get in that zone real quick and you're
already in that zone because you pushed
a little hard right that's the analogy
of like you can see where the explosions
are and where your buddies are are
killing the en you go run there in your
video game and you shoot now if you're
far enough away from failure where you
do a set and it feels like nothing and
you put it down yeah it's a mistake
that's like getting dropped off 10 miles
away from the map and just looking
around nothing's on your compass
nothing's around there's like frogs and
shit crickets you're like fuck where do
I go for the battle your friends are on
comms like help us God damn it you're
like in the middle of the field so yeah
if you are supposed to do 20 reps to
failure and you start with 16 or 17
that's going to be a great Messa cycle
but if you start with 10 don't do that
keep going until you feel that shit gets
hard that is a really really good idea
number four common mistake is letting
your ego push you into needlessly
relative effort that comes actually as a
kind of a logic tree out of some people
that do that for the number three which
is worrying about making uh perfect
failure estimates they go okay I I think
that's true where I are but I'm not sure
and then half of the people are like ah
fuck it let's see next week the other
half of the people are roughly right
there's still some other groups in there
the other huge fraction the people go
you know what better do one extra rep
just to make sure I better side on the
air air on the side of training really
extra hard and uh better do one rep to
make sure and look just take your most
accurate accurate Insight you really
think it's R about two R that's your
guess you don't have to be like well if
I think it's two R then it's got to be
like one or zero uh or sorry it's got to
be really three or four so I better go a
little further because I want to push
myself look you're not the first person
to get the idea that you don't push
yourself hard enough
most people don't get gains from a lack
of a consistent progression of overload
over time they don't not get gains
because they started the mcycle a little
too easy so if you're really doubting
your R just shut up do that week just
shut up shut up about it and if you see
me in the gym don't fucking talk to me
I'm fucking busy trying to estimate my
own shit I'm
kidding next week add a little bit of
weight and or add a rep next week do the
same next week do the same it is
inevitable you will get into that Arc
get into lower IRS and eventually hit
failure it cannot be any other way so
the second guessing yourself what is
exactly three it's a problem you can't
solve because you don't have the
Precision to solve it it's like taking a
look at a regular thermometer that you
have like staple to your window to see
like how warm it is outside and it like
just works in one degree notches and
you're trying to look at like is that
like is that 72.5 degrees or is that
72.4 motherfucker there is no tenth
notches you're just making shit up in
your head at this point and you don't
need that high level of precision you
just need to know shit is pretty goddamn
hard around to works the question is
what do you do with it next week that's
the only question since you're going to
progress next week anyway it doesn't
much fucking matter number five on the
other hand some people let the fear of
pain keep them in needlessly low
relative efforts especially for High
Reps you know you think maybe you can
get a set of 20 going you do 15 and the
shit hurts already your quads hurt from
Li extensions 15 reps you say fuck it
you stop someone's like what was the r
on that you're not going to say five
you're going to be like man like two or
three bullshit you just don't want the
pain so think of pain as something to
lean into think of pain as a really good
sign that that muscle is being targeted
and stimulated think of pain in the
muscle at the end of a set as a proxy
for stimulus the more of it you get the
better the stimulus now of course you
don't want too much fatigue you don't
want to go all the way to failure but
God damn it you better get fucking real
close it's not the pain that should stop
you it's the physical mechanical
inability of the muscle to complete its
range of motion that should stop you so
two or three R is when it's really tough
to move the quads and they're kind of
shaky it's not the fact that the pain
exists you can hurt and still move the
quads fast you still got to keep going
and lastly assuming every session must
be the same reps and Reserve if you
target the same reps and reserve for
like 10 sessions in a row it's tough you
have to guess all the time uh is this
same reps and Reserve it's difficult to
progress because you'll progress a
little bit two and a half pounds each
week but then you're like oh is this one
repon Reserve now should I stop the
progression which is an kind of an
insane thing to ask because like you
just keep progressing you keep both
driving a great stimulus and testing
yourself and look if you can't progress
anymore doesn't mean you just hang out
and train with no progression that means
you Deo drop that fatigue recycle change
some exercises change some rep ranges
and then get into progression again it's
really totally fine for reps and Reserve
to fall over the course of accumulation
that is the longer you run your program
the closer to failure you train over the
course of week to week to week it
doesn't have to be the same every time
and some people just like oh to this
Mesa cycle needless it can work for you
but it can also give you a lot of
problems especially thinking about like
am I going hard enough you'll ever only
ever know if every time you come to the
gym more or less you challenge yourself
just that little bit more you start out
when the shit is really tough and you CH
yourself a little bit more all the way
until you can't PR D Lo recycle repeat
and that's really kind of the last word
on that let me know if you guys have any
questions and we'll see you next time
for the next video
[Music]