because a lot of the use of long length
partials especially in the case of samul
is that they're occurring at the end of
sets after the person has already
reached concentric muscle failure I
don't entirely disagree with him we have
a study where we compared just doing a 4
in of motion set on the calf raay to
then extending the set with the other
leg doing lengthen partials after
failure and in that one study on this
topic of doing lengthen partials after
you had failure we saw 50% more
hypertrophy when doing those partials
after failure however here he's
referring to 5 to 10% more growth from
partials versus of range of motion and
importantly what he's not mentioning is
that that figure and pretty much all of
the studies Bes say this one study have
been done on length and partials as a
standalone modality and they find more
hypertrophy generally with just partials
so it's important to keep in mind that
that is where we have the most evidence
on just doing partials not on doing
partials after failure like samsak is
doing is there's something else that's
happening here maybe it's less magical
than you think