if you stop moving all together will you
eat very little food you're going to
lose weight and you're going to lose fat
how come well most of your body's
processes the most of the energy that is
required for you just goes to keeping
you alive like operating your sodium
potassium pumps and a whole other stuff
keeping your heart beating that sort of
thing important stuff right your general
metabolism takes quite a few calories
resting metabolic rate basal metabolic
rate estimate that pretty well but
that's not it your daily activity or
what's known as your neat non-exercise
activity thermogenesis the amount of
times you walk to the fridge and back
the amount of times you mess around with
your house and try to start clean stuff
when you're at work how much uh how
often you walk back and forth how much
you fidget even if you walk instead of
taking the bus that sort of thing neat
it's not necessarily intentional
exercise you're not trying to burn
calories but just moving around doing
your daily tasks throughout the day and
even just being fidgety can burn a ton
of calories and is the next biggest
source of calorie burner