to this day I still see so many people
do either not enough or too much volume
in their programs by the end of this
video you'll know exactly how many sets
to do to optimize muscle growth
plug one we back representing wolf
coaching soon to be Dr Milo wolfhead bit
of an allergy impression for you people
you know you're welcome today we're
talking about volume let's break down
the science first a 2017 metanalysis by
schoenfelling colleagues revealed a
positive relationship between weekly
volume how many sets you do per week for
a given muscle and hypertrophy
importantly and remember this one study
was excluded during sensitivity analysis
because it was deemed very influential
and that's a study by radelian
colleagues back in 2015. depending on
whether or not this study was included
in the analysis the results changed
pretty significantly however regardless
of whether or not the study was included
there was still a positive relationship
between how much volume you did and
hypertrophy all the way to at least 10
or more sets per week for muscle group
this was back in 2017 however since then
there's been a more recent metanalysis
due to differences and inclusion
criteria material in other words which
studies were included almost none of the
studies that were included in shown
felsmith analysis were then included in
bazvale's methanosis specifically the
only study that carried over was
actually the study I mentioned earlier
by rodalian colleagues which generally
favored higher volumes quite
substantially well what did this new met
analysis by bazvale and colleagues find
for analysis sake they dichotomized
approaches into being either low volume
or more importantly moderate volume or
high volume moderate volume referred to
12 to 20 sets per week for muscle group
and high volume referred to 20 or more
sets per week for muscle group When
comparing growth between a moderate
volume and a high volume approach there
were no significant differences across
several studies for the quads or for the
biceps but there was a significant
difference in favor of higher volumes
above 20 sets for the triceps
importantly for all three of these
muscle groups the effect sizes leaned in
favor of the higher volume approach
while kissing closed captioning not
available
as opposed to for example only counting
for the muscle group it trains best like
the chest it's important to
contextualize these numbers before we go
further because of low rest times and
including indirect work something like
20 sets or more or let's say 20 sets
might be the equivalent of about 8 to 12
hard sets with two to five minutes of
rest when you're only counting a given
exercise for one muscle group not
counting indirect work Here's the final
consideration the increases in muscle
size or muscle hypertrophy seen with
higher volumes are actually relatively
small in the show and thumb analysis
going from five to nine sets per week to
10 or more sets per week barely
increased growth in the basivamagnosis
going from 12 to 20 sets per week to 20
or more sets per week increased growth
only for the triceps not for the biceps
or for the quadriceps although if
exercises did always lean in favor of
the higher volume group doing at least
20 sets per week that being said the
these effect sizes and the bazovar Met
analysis in favor of the higher volume
stuff were generally trivial to moderate
between 0.1 and 0.5 compare these effect
sizes to some of the effect sizes seen
in other areas for example the recent
series of metanalyzes on training for
failure since met analysis on failure
didn't dichotomize approaches into
either trading to failure or not
training to failure and then perform
that type of analysis let's focus on
comparing the meta-analysis on failure
to the meta-analysis by shown Felding
colleagues where they viewed the number
of sets performed per week as a
continuous variable rather than by
columnizing approaches basically let's
compare apples to apples in the
meta-nosis of failure by Robinson and
colleagues going from about five reps
from failure all the way to failure
roughly double the growth participants
saw per set on the other hand in this
method House by Sean Felton colleagues
going from five to nine sets per week to
10 or more sets per week or doing twice
the number of sets essentially only
increased growth by about 50 percent so
while doing more volume absolutely seems
to increase hypertrophy it may be the
case that just training closer to
failure increases a hypertrophy to a
greater extent than simply just doing
more sets but enough about the science
You Came Here Wanting recommendations of
how many sets to do per week for these
recommendations I'm about to give I'll
make one assumption I'll assume you're
only counting direct work so four sets
of bench for example wouldn't count as
four sets for your chest for your
triceps and for your front delts but
rather only use four sets for your chest
if you're relatively new to training
start with about 5 to 12 sets per week
per muscle group if you've been training
for a while start with about 10 to 15
sets per week per muscle group for
muscle growth prioritize going closer to
failure over doing more and more sets
specifically prioritize going say to
about two reps in reserve on your first
set for an exercise to all the way to
failure by the last set where safe over
say doing more than 20 sets per week if
you're meeting these recommendations for
how many sets per week to do training
pretty close to failure and you're still
recovering just fine you know you're not
getting excessively sore going from one
session into the next your performance
is generally improving week to week in
that case you can experiment with adding
say a couple of sets per week to a
muscle group if for example your chest
isn't really getting sore anymore that
much and your performance is steadily
climbing you can try adding a couple
sets spread out across the week and see
how you recover but monitor recovery
closely anyways that is the video
breaking down all the latest science and
volume how many sets a week you should
do if you enjoyed the video please like
comment subscribe it is like 8 P.M on
Wednesday please appreciate the grind
support the channel if you want to see
any other videos please leave a comment
down below letting me know and I will
see you guys in that next one peace
I'm trying a bit of a LED impression you
know do I go for
on them you know okay they don't make me
[ __ ] smack you up right now you feel
me
you know what I mean what