hey folks
dr mike israel here for renaissance
periodization
today's fitness myth
is that natty's
need to train to get stronger but
enhanced people don't
oh boy
so let's take a look here is the
specific way in which this claim is
usually presented
people say look if you're natty if
you're natural you're not using drugs
you need to train mostly in the 5 to 10
rep range maybe in the 8 to 12 range a
little bit you need to progress and load
mostly on the compound heavy barbell
basics
none of this pump work or less pump work
fewer isolations less high rep stuff
that's how natties grow best lots of
people say on the internet now if you're
enhanced these people will also say you
should train mostly in the 12 to 30 rep
range or at least it works for you
progressive overload doesn't have to
happen anymore because drugs and pump
and metabolite work
works better now and it doesn't work at
all for natties and it just works for if
you're on drugs all right it's just like
any youtube video remotely approaching
these topics you have tons of comments
saying almost this exact same thing
now reasons why this bifurcation of
nadine enhanced is almost entirely wrong
the research on metabolites and high
reps and pump stuff
working just as well for hypertrophy in
any unit of time it has been measured so
far
as strength work or strong you know
lower rep works that's a five to ten
versus pump and metabolite stuff the
research showing that that stuff is
roughly equivalent is done exclusively
on nadi's almost exclusively as three
studies ever on enhanced people with
training right
so we know that shit works for them full
stop so if you're saying man pump tablet
stuff doesn't work for natty's you are
not just making something up you're
making something up that is both wrong
and directly contradicts the very
primary literature you love to cite to
support your points so we'll stop that's
just bs
second people say well yeah that works
for enhanced people how do they know
that well there's almost zero research
on what works best for enhanced
so you don't actually do you don't
actually know
what the research says you just know
what pros do
except here's the problem
most natural pros
train just about the same way as
enhanced pros
bro splits drop sets pumps shit like
that
how come you don't hear much about that
well a lot of the natural community that
at least watches these sorts of videos
they've come up with folks uh like you
know the 3dmj crew
and stronger by science people and rp
and they know the natural community
there advocates you know uh non-bro
style training and they say well
nattie's trained on bro style
enhanced people train like bros the
thing is these are exceptions not rules
uh most are bros in the natty community
just like enhanced no offense or
anything like that uh you know if you've
ever seen like doug miller one of the
best natural pros ever train
he trains like a bro
there's something super wrong with that
it's just like that's the reality and
tons of natural pros the guys actually
winning most of the pro shows they train
like bros they train the same way as
enhanced people except they're just not
as jacked and live much longer so
that's the reality so this whole thing
of like well natty's trained like this
and
you know enhanced pros train like that
that's mostly an artifact that's not
even actually real
and
beginners
might benefit a bit more from compounds
and lower reps but that's not natty
that's just beginner it's not natty
versus enhanced it's another illusion
and it's easy to confound the two
because there's thankfully a huge
overlap between
natty and beginner uh because you know
natty not or
non-natty beginner would be a real weird
thing to see like yeah it's day two of
training trends hitting me pretty hard
like oh what
that would suck so a lot of it is just
this doesn't make any sense at face
value
all right that being said what are the
grains of truth
beginners might benefit
from more compounds and lower reps a lot
of it is to establish technique another
thing is compounds often offer higher
raw stimulus magnitudes the total amount
of muscular growth you can get from them
is higher at the expense of usually
higher fatigue however when you're a
beginner you're so small and weak
relative to where you're going to be
eventually that your total fatigue
almost never limits you
so you can
cash in and get the huge raw stimulus
magnitude of compounds more whereas when
you're more advanced you just can't
afford that level of fatigue and you'll
have to do more isolation so there's
something to that not native enhanced
but beginner versus advanced
secondly very related advanced folks
might do more pump and metabolite work
because bigger muscles sequester
metabolites better and they benefit from
it probably marginally a little bit
better than beginners and because they
can't keep going super heavier and
heavier and heavier in low reps and big
compounds due to joint and axial fatigue
like yeah you may be able to deadlift
500 for ten to get a big back 600 for
ten very few people get to without a ton
of injuries or a ton of fatigue seven
hundred ten is almost unheard of in
bodybuilding it's very rare so at some
point you're gonna have to get more
creative to avoid these huge raw
stimulus magnitudes or rather to avoid
these huge fatigue
inductions and maybe you start doing
more isolations before you actually do
compounds or do even fewer compounds and
more isolations that stuff
but these folks if they're training
logically still add load progressively
to the isolations that they're doing and
still add load and add repetitions even
if they're in the high rep ranges with
less weight so the whole idea of like
enhanced people or advanced people don't
need progressive overload anymore so
just try absolute nonsense bullshit
progressive overload is something that
has to occur with training otherwise
you're not progressing you've got to
make shit harder somehow right
another thing is drugs might
preferentially hypertrophy the slower
twitch fibers which means higher rep
training might work a little bit better
but that's very speculative on multiple
levels one level is that we don't have
enough direct research to even say that
by itself
secondarily we don't even have enough
direct research to say that higher
repetition ranges preferentially
stimulate the slower twitch fibers
versus the faster treat fibers even
that's speculative two layers of
speculation it's good enough for me to
be like i don't know what's going on
here right so yeah some grains of truth
but we can't take too much more of this
than is really here so
best practices what do we take from all
this
train like you're supposed to for the
love of god how is that
check out hypertrophy made simple
youtube series that we made and is a
huge playlist
advanced hypertrophy concepts and tools
after that if you really think you're a
brainy motherfucker and you want to
learn some real in-depth shit
and check out our hypertrophy book uh
scientific principles of our training uh
a great book that we wrote it's really
really holistic really tells you about
how to train hypertrophy so you don't
have to worry about it enhance you just
train the right way like everyone is
supposed to with some nuances and
differences between the two very very
nuances not completely different
training styles and that training is
generally a combination of rep ranges a
combination of isolation and compound
movements not just like you just do this
you just do that okay and here's a
little more emotional take but why not
this is always entertaining
stop making shit up folks for the lava
fucking i know you the viewer aren't
doing it but if someone around you is
doing it very politely arguing to
convince style try to get them to stop
making shit up um check this out like
okay yeah you're pissed that pros with
good genetics and drugs train like
morons i am too right your pissed their
training style maybe didn't work well
for you
for sure super awful right
and at the end of the day the reason
you're like man more compounds and more
progressive overload and lower reps is
because you need the instant
gratification of load increases to sort
of feel like you're doing something
because the mirror is not showing you
what you want to see
and you want to be able to put two plus
plates on the bar and the only way
you're gonna do that in your case is
compound movements for sets of five to
ten because you're too fucking small and
weak to do that in isolations or for
sets of anything more than ten
and that's just to save yourself the
internal uh internal embarrassment of
just not being as jacked and big and
strong as you think you are but that's
no reason to make shit up like yeah man
that's the way nannies have to train his
progressive overload compounds and low
reps like
or you just have to say that to yourself
and do it so that you have some kind of
like little comfort area where you feel
like you're competent in something and
it's cool to have a comfort area and
it's cool to feel confident of stuff but
it's even cooler to just do what works
and accept what is
if you're curling 50 pound barbell
right the easy curl bar plus a few
little tiny weights on it for sets of 10
or 12 if that's the optimal hypertrophic
stimulus as theory and as your own
feedback determines then that's what the
fuck you're curling and i guarantee you
everyone who knows their shit is worth
anything in the gym looks at you
they give you props for doing good
technique and and doing a high level of
intensity and that's all they give a
shit about the real talk if i ever see
you in the gym and maybe i will they'll
never in a million years judge how much
weight you're using ever ever ever ever
but if you use dog shit technique i'm
going to snap my fucking nose at you
like i have a top hat and a monocle and
if you're you know pretending that oh
yeah compounds isolation suck i'm just
gonna be really confused right as well
you should be
it's on you to deal with your own
bullshit
and you don't have to make shit up to
rationalize there doesn't have to be
this thing we're like oh yeah that's how
enhanced train or i'm natty i train like
this you just train how you're supposed
to train good high quality all the wrap
ranges that work for you
compounds and isolation is always a mix
always progressively overloading
intelligently by adding a little bit of
weight a little a few wraps here and
there when you can
deloading when you need to and that's it
and generally everyone trains in a very
similar fundamental way with some
nuanced differences there doesn't have
to be this chasm between natty and
enhanced and that's really the deal
folks sorry for getting so emotional
good god what is it with me lately see
you next time
you