the overhead press is making a comeback
and I'm all here for
[Music]
it do pack here Avid overhead press
Enthusiast AKA overhead press addict and
not a recovering one the overhead press
is one of those lifts that I would urge
everybody to try out it's a very fun
lift and it is scientifically proven to
successfully allow you to establish
dominance in a commercial gym
environment especially if your overhead
press strength level is at a point where
it's somewhat impressive keep in mind
it's one of those lifts especially the
strict press that people do not really
see often so if you show up in the gym
and load up near two plates or even just
you know 185
a lot of people will turn their head and
be like wait a second what the hell is
that is he about to squat psych I'm
about to overhead press your squad 1 RM
and your squad 1 RM is not that great CU
I can obviously only overhead press 225
lb I digress though overhead press sure
not the most optimal side dealt Builder
but an overall solid upper body exercise
that gets you plenty of tricep front Del
some sild and maybe some trap stimulus
as well and it's just a cool exercise if
you're blessed with a clavical structure
like mine you may also get a bit of
upper chest action in there but overall
a cool exercise to do who doesn't love
pressing stuff over their head and hey
you can obviously do a bit of extra delt
work on top of it if you want to
absolutely maximize D development but
for a lot of my minimalists out there
the overhead press could be your main
upper body exercise of choice and you
can be proud to rock the etiquette the
title actually of an overhead press
specialist however given that the
overhead press similarly to the barble r
is one of those exercises that is often
bastardized is often performed in many
different ways with leg drive without
leg drive with hip drive you also see it
performed with a bar at different
heights some people start lower some
people start right below their chin some
people start at their chin I am here to
give you my version of what I think a
perfect strict overhead press should
look like and make sense for those that
are interested in general strength and
hypertrophy if we're talking about an
another body exercise that is taking a
few boxes when it comes to General
strength functional strength whatever be
as you want to call it but is also
getting you more check then follow these
few tips but we're not going to do this
here in the lir let's transfer to the
gym with this very cool transition and
show you the overhead press and we have
now transported to the gym to
demonstrate the overhead press so follow
along I'm going to disrespect the bar
and just go under it which I forbid
everybody to do as that's disrespectful
to the bar and we're going to start with
a setup so it's a relatively easy lift
to learn however it's one of those lifts
that are very sensitive to technique for
example on a deadlift if things get hard
if you slightly mess up your setup you
can still outmuscle the weight up in
some cases with your overhead press if
you mess your bar path if the bar goes
slightly forward things can go from zero
to 100 and the bad 100 real quick so
first things first grip
width now ideally you'd want something
that is slightly wider uh than shoulder
width but that will obviously depend on
your own metric characteristics your
clim goal structure and so on and so
forth just find a grip that is
comfortable for you but if you go too
close what will happen as you'll see is
that the bar will be way far in front of
you which is not great as far as
efficiency goes so slightly wider than
shoulder width we get under the bar and
what we want to do here actually I will
need to move the
microphone yeah we have a
hat I can put it
yo yes does that work gu it works it
will fall though in a second but let me
let me fix it I got it I got it I got it
all right yeah but it will the sound be
okay or is this going to be one of those
dumbest idea
ever here we go first things first
ignore the ridiculous M setup focus on
the list itself anyways shoulder width
we get under the bar and what we want to
do is instead of doing the usual thing
that many people do is where they
essentially pick up the bar and it's
already in front of them we want to use
the starting position to really get
under the bar and bring our shoulders uh
our elbows slightly forward as you can
see if you see from the side I'm trying
to be as tight under the bar as possible
and essentially stack my upper back
instead of having my elbows backwards
and the bar somewhat hovering over me so
as you can see I'm here and then in
order to initiate the lift obviously you
can do it many ways but I think a cool
way and a relatively efficient way to do
it is to take a deep breath brace
slightly bring the bar back while
keeping the tension on your upper back
and then press as if you were trying to
hit your nose
notice that as I clear the bar as I
clear my forehead I bring my head
forward and that makes the lockout much
more efficient than if I was to sit back
now a few more comments you may often
see people start with a bar slightly
below their chin
slightly above their clavicle or even
slightly above their chin I think that
since you're trying to get the most
hypertrophy you can out of the movement
and since you're also trying to just get
strong at pressing stuff overhead having
the bar on top of the picle and
increasing the range of motion by a tiny
bit makes sense additionally I'm not a
huge fan of a ton of hip drive and a ton
of stretch reflex where you essentially
have the bar close to your chin and then
you bring it down fast and then you
press while also using hip Drive the
reason for that is you are essentially
making the length and position easier
which sure not a huge deal and it may
help you press heavier absolute loads
but at the same time if you're also
trying to make the most out of the
exercise from a hypertrophy standpoint
why not keep it stricter why not reely
mostly on your upper body musculature to
press the weight I just don't see the
point okay and now that we've shown the
overhead press let's talk about
programming for the overhead press now
as far as direct literature goes
exploring in programming considerations
for the overhead press h nothing we
don't have anything but from the current
literature on strength training and
hypertrophy we can potentially make the
case that more frequent training of the
overhead press in the one to five rep
ranges can be a great way to get solid
strength gains and obviously having the
OD set at 5 to 10 reps as a backup set
after your strength work is also a great
way for for you to increase hypertrophy
keep things relatively freaken for
strength training I'd say press at least
two to three times per week but for
hyper feet take an overall look at your
program and how much volume you're
performing for the musculature involved
in the overhead press obviously adjust
your back off sets accordingly a few
other General tips I would personally
avoid the use of elbow sleeves unless
they really make your joints feel much
better as those can somewhat muddy the
water between your ax ual overhead press
strength and your sleeved overhead press
strength however I would recommend you
to use a belt I think that a belt is a
great way not to necessarily massively
increase your overhead press but help
you feel a bit more comfortable under
the bar especially as you're getting
ready to unrack the bar having that
intraabdominal pressure can make the bar
feel a bit lighter in your hands which
may allow you to press a bit
more so there you have it a few basic
tips to help you get get your overhead
press numbers up and actually claim the
gym that you go to if you're unlucky and
you train out a powerlifting or a
strongman gym then unfortunately you'll
now have to get really really good at
pressing cuz I'm sure that there are
some freaks in there that can log press
much more than you can bench press so
I'm sorry for making you feel inadequate
by getting you to fall in love with the
overhead press I'll catch you guys next
time I know you're admiring the drip I
lift therefore I am this is the most
appropriate t-shirt I've ever worn in my
life code drpa do Pack 4 10% off make
sure you buy at least 1,500 of these
desserts so that I can make a bit of a
buck but joking aside rasco apparel one
of my all-time favorite clothing
companies you know if you know you know
I didn't sell out don't even try
commenting that because I'll hit you
with every bottle and links to pictures
of me wearing the clothes many years ago
so ha I just argued with an imaginary
Commander I am losing my mind live on
camera so I'll bid you ad do and see you
overhead pressing in overhead press land
I guess I lost it
[Music]