stop thinking about your abs as some
unique muscle that requires its own
dedicated workout or that needs to be
trained in some different special way
and stop thinking that doing these 15
minute ab routines is going to magically
lean down your midsection and get you
six pack abs
what's up guys sean aliwani
realscienceathletics.com
and in this video today i want to
explain why you should stop wasting your
time and effort on ab workouts so if
your goal is to get a lean and define
mid section and to build up your overall
core strength which is what the people
following these workouts are obviously
trying to do
if that's your goal then the typical ab
routines that you find all over youtube
and all over instagram those are just
not going to be necessary and
unfortunately ab workouts are some of
the most watched videos that get
uploaded here to youtube 10 minute home
ab workout 22 million views six pack abs
for beginners 73 million views get abs
in two weeks
306 million views
306 million okay think about that for a
second there's 7.7 billion people on
this planet and 306 million have watched
this one ab training video so um that
should tell you just how important uh
the whole idea of getting abs is to the
average person and that's exactly why
all these content creators and fitness
youtubers are uploading these six pack
ab workouts non-stop it's not because
the actual routines are really gonna
work that well for the intended goal
it's because those types of videos bring
in the views and the subscribers which
quite obviously is far more important
than actually giving people the best
advice that will genuinely help them out
so let's cut through this bs right now
because if you think that following some
14-minute ab shredding workout is the
way to get impressive abs
uh it's not
seven
minute
amps
so first off at this point hopefully in
2021 by now for anybody who's done any
amount of fitness research at all
hopefully you're aware of the fact that
you can't spot reduce body fat so doing
chest exercises doesn't burn fat off
your chest doing glute exercises doesn't
burn fat off your glutes and doing ab
exercises doesn't burn fat off of your
stomach fat loss is the result of
staying in a caloric deficit over time
which burns fat from your entire body as
a whole but you can't specifically
influence where that fat is pulled from
uh over time as you maintain that
deficit and you're consistently burning
more calories than you're taking in your
entire body is going to lean down in
general but you have no control over the
order that the fat gets burned in and
there are going to be
certain stubborn areas that are harder
to lose fat from and that do take a
longer period of time to lean down and
usually the stomach is unfortunately one
of those areas especially uh for men so
when you do these ab workouts all you're
really doing is targeting the abdominal
muscles underneath that layer of fat in
order to
grow those muscles and hypertrophy them
so that they pop out more noticeably and
so that they're going to be more visible
even at a slightly higher body fat level
but at the end of the day
no amount of ab training on its own is
going to get you a six-pack okay it
really just comes down primarily to
being lean enough and when it comes to
ab training the purpose of that is
really just basic muscle growth so the
abs are skeletal muscle tissue just like
any other muscle tissue and they respond
to
resistance training in the same way if
your goal was to
build up your quads with maximum
effectiveness would you take some a
random body weight quad workout that you
found online where you're just rotating
through let's say eight or ten different
exercises and performing a bunch of
lunges and air squats with no rest in
between sets and prancing around your
living room for 15 minutes and then
calling it a day and expecting that
you're going to build huge legs from
that or would you just pick a few solid
weight training exercises maybe two to
four different lifts whether it's basic
barbell squats or leg presses or
weighted lunges or leg extensions or
some other type of machine movements
train them in a standard hypertrophy rep
range go hard and get close to muscular
failure take a full rest period in
between sets and focus on progressive
overload over time now there are a lot
of people out there who would go the
previous route and a lot of youtube
channels out there who would have you
believe that that type of approach is
going to yield you awesome results which
is why
most people who start a muscle building
program never make any real gains at all
but hopefully most of you here are aware
that the second example would be a much
better method for stimulating quad
hypertrophy or if you were trying to
maximize your chest growth would you do
a bunch of high rep body weight push-ups
and lightweight banded flies in a
low-intensity circuit style fashion or
would you just do some heavy intense
dumbbell presses followed by maybe a
hammer press and maybe some cable flies
hopefully you get the point here which
is just that there's no real reason to
treat your abs any differently than any
of these other muscle groups you don't
need to perform dedicated 15-minute ab
workouts multiple days a week or even
every single day or
you know at the end of every workout
like a lot of people do where you pull
out a yoga mat and cycle through a bunch
of high rep body weight ab movements now
doing that will yield some results yes
and i'm sure there are much better and
much worse ab workouts that you can find
here on youtube but the goal of
abdominal training is to provide the abs
with an optimal stimulus for hypertrophy
and for strength gain and so they really
should be treated in the same basic way
as any other muscle and if you want to
get a complete program that does train
your entire body using solid effective
muscle building principles with
everything laid out step by step then
after this video is over just go to
shawnell.com
custom fill out the short form on that
page and i'll send you back a free plan
that you can follow to maximize your
results based on your current condition
your experience level and your goals the
link is up here as well as down in the
description box below now uh notice that
i didn't say that ab training is a waste
of time it's these dedicated pump style
12-minute ab workouts that are a waste
of time or at least they are
definitely not the most effective and
the most efficient use of your time
let's say
now your abs do receive
indirect stimulation on a lot of the
compound exercises that you do for other
muscles and most people really don't
require you know high volumes of
abdominal training but i do think that
some direct abdominal work even if it's
just once per week that's probably going
to be ideal as part of an overall
well-rounded program for the purposes of
hypertrophy and total body strength so
just pick a couple solid ab movements
that feel good for you to where you can
engage your abs effectively push those
movements within a few reps of failure
just like you would for any other muscle
using a typical hypertrophy rep range
take a proper rest period in between
sets and focus on progressive overload
by either gradually increasing the
amount of resistance that you're using
or performing more reps with the same
resistance or you can also just graduate
to more and more challenging exercise
variations now as far as ab exercise
selection goes there are really just a
million and one different movements that
you could choose from but a basic crunch
type exercise that would be the main
go-to movement because the primary
function of the rectus abdominis is
spinal flexion personally i like the
kneeling rope crunch but you could also
do a machine crunch you could do banded
crunches or you could just do a standard
weighted crunch on a decline bench or
even on the floor
a leg raise movement pairs up really
well here these can be done as a lying
leg raise or a hang leg raise reverse
crunches are also highly effective and
then to train the abs isometrically and
improve just overall core stability
plank variations are another good option
as well
you really don't need anything fancy
here maybe two to three different
movements where you can engage your abs
get close to failure and apply some
method of progressive overload that will
ultimately get the job done
for rep ranges technically any rep range
can induce muscle growth if you are
training hard enough you know you're
going within a close enough proximity to
failure but just don't fall into this
idea that ab exercises somehow require
ultra high reps in order to be effective
i would say that really low reps are not
going to be ideal because ab movements
usually have a shorter range of motion
and you also want to make sure that
your actual abdominal muscles are doing
the bulk of the work and not your lower
back and your hip flexors um i do think
that the mind muscle connection is a bit
more important when it comes to ab
training but if your form and your
technique is solid you know there's no
reason why you can't go as low as uh
eight reps per set you could go as high
as 20 or 30. but personally i find
somewhere around like 8 to 15 reps is a
pretty good sweet spot for abdominal
training and again take a proper rest
period just like you would for any other
muscle if you're truly training hard
then you should probably need i would
say at least a full minute bare minimum
i personally rest about two to three
minutes or more regardless of which
muscle i'm training or which exercise
i'm doing but just like any other muscle
the goal is to push close to failure and
steadily improve your performance over
time and you need to take a proper rest
to
physically and mentally reset in between
each individual effort and ab training
can be added to pretty much any workout
or any training split whether it's full
body whether it's upper lower legs push
pull um a body part split just add it in
wherever you most prefer but the bottom
line here guys kel go into the uh the
details of various ab exercises in a
future video but the main point for now
is to stop thinking about your abs as
some unique muscle that requires its own
dedicated workout or that needs to be
trained in some different special way
and stop thinking that doing these
15-minute ab routines is going to
magically lean down your midsection and
get you six pack abs getting a six pack
or at least let's say getting a
reasonably flat defined midsection in
general that's really just a result of
getting down to a sufficiently low body
fat percentage which is mainly an issue
of diet combined with building up the ab
muscles in order to make them as visibly
prominent as possible and to build the
ab muscles with maximum effectiveness
the same hypertrophy principles apply
just as they would for any other muscle
if you found this video helpful once
again you can visit shawnell.com custom
fill in your details there and i'll send
you back a free weekly training program
and eating plan that you can follow
based on your current goals no hyper
gimmicks or silliness just legit muscle
building and fat loss principles that
actually work the link is up here as
well as down below in the description
box here's two more videos that i'd
recommend watching after this one don't
forget to subscribe and hit the
notification bell to stay up to date on
future videos and make sure to follow me
over on instagram as well for more daily
tips and updates thanks for watching and
i'll talk to you again soon