The Rock has demons to fight while
training in fact there are two wolves
inside of him me I only got one let's
see whether his training is any good
from a sport Science
[Music]
[Music]
perspective
[Music]
oh
[Music]
[Music]
first of all the reason I was smiling
while watching that is because I forgot
that the rock actually wraps and I've
listened to that the uh it's about drive
it's about power St hry we devour Etc by
the way never ask who wolf coaching
rapid is not coming meet millionaire was
the biggest mistake in YouTube Fitness
history anyways what El say about the
actual Sports Science here for a second
is I think the warm up is overkill if
he's using all of these different
exercises to warm up or as part of his
rehab protocol for an injury fair enough
with that being said with actually
warming up AKA elevating your body
temperature most of the time just doing
a few sets of the actual exercise you're
doing so a specific warm up on the
exercise you're doing is going to be
sufficient and certainly there's no
evidence for any of the exercises he's
doing here before the session preventing
injury I also briefly saw him do a quick
passive stretch stretching out his chest
and some other muscle group doing that
for too long before a session can
actually impair Force production so you
don't want to be overdoing the
stretching before session and if nothing
else compared to a dynamic warmup where
you're actually moving around stretching
doesn't make you War up and so it fails
at making you warmer while potentially
reducing your Force production if you
overdo it and finally if you just want
to get more flexible lifting weights
actually does that to a similar extent
at least in certain ranges of motion as
stretching does so unless it's something
specific you're trying to get more likes
a lot stretching before a session
probably is
[Music]
unnecessary to be clear I'm not sure
what the session is supposed to be but
it looks like he started off some
underhand pull downs and his technique
was okay I would like to see more
ecenter control cuz it looked like a
half a second Centric maybe or a second
decentric and the research on Tempo we
have does suggest that you want like
hopefully at least a 2C decentric or
something like that additionally he
wasn't getting his elbows fully locked
out at the top and getting a full
stretch on his biceps and his lats and
so I'd like to see a bit more of an
emphasis on the length and position
otherwise so far so
[Music]
good
[Music]
incline normal press as a second
exercise totally fine the incline press
may actually be a slightly better chest
exercise overall compared to the flat
bench press we actually have a study
comparing hypertrophy from the two on
screen now so big fan of the H press it
looks like this is an upper body session
which I think is good as well it's good
that he's not using a body part split or
routine which I was fearing he might but
that's really solid that way if you're
doing an upper lower split in all
likelihood if you train four days or
more a week you're getting an effective
frequency in you're trading each muscle
group at least twice a week which for
hypertrophy is a big thumbs up there's a
whole video on frequency up here
somewhere as far as technique goes yet
again I'd like to see a little bit more
EET to control and I'd like to see him
get a full stretch it looks like he's
doing constant tension reps which I have
a whole video on somewhere here but by
missing out on that full stretch on
every rep I do think he's cutting short
on how much muscle growth he could be
[Music]
[Music]
getting this edit is a mess I have no
idea to start he just did like machine
Rose dips cable flies and push-ups I
think basically on all exercises there's
common trend of hey slightly more
Ecentric control uh better stretch
potentially both of those do seem to
apply from what I can tell as well I
mean just how much he's sweating and
maybe just the editing but it looks like
he's taking pretty short rest times and
generally you do want at least 2 minutes
between sets of a given exercise based
on his work ethic his General
predisposition and the way this is laid
out my suspicion is he may not be
resting for long enough to maximize
muscle growth on each
set
[Music]
okay I have no idea what this session is
now cuz he did like push Downs uh
overhead extensions with the dumbbell
then he did bench dips and now he's
doing bent over single arm dumbbell rows
but underhand it's a mess he's like 10
ex sizes in at this point and it's
halfway through the video so I'm scared
you almost certainly don't need to do
three tricep exercises after already
having done an inclin dumbbell press and
a dip in your session but that's five
exercises that somewhat Target the
triceps in one session and that's
Overkill like your triceps get a good
stimulus from maybe two exercises
already if you do an overhead extension
and some sort of compound pressing
exercise you've hit your medial lateral
and Long Head pretty effectively now yes
the dumb bench press or any bench press
variation isn't ideal for TR hypertrophy
but just one isolation exercise and the
bench prush variation covers your
triceps pretty well there's no need for
five
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
exercises
[Music]
a
Dam I forgot Tech 9 was even a rapper
for a second there but he just brought
it back if you've noticed I'm not really
commenting on the exercise technique
it's because every exercise is basically
the same flaws not enough cental control
not really a focus on length and
position on some exercises a good deal
of cheating as well like the row there
and to be honest none of the sets or
reps I've seen are taken anywhere close
to failure which which happens more
often than not when you're taking really
short rest times as well but equally
like some routines tend to have you do I
think with so much volume as he's doing
here something has to give and usually
it's approximated to failure so you kind
of want to find a good balance of both
and now he's doing lying down back
extensions essentially training his
lower back muscles I'm assuming it's
some sort of prehab rehab work I'm not
sure what the goal is here but hey
[Music]
ho
[Music]
a
he breathe in a bit of a massive
obession to be honest with you just a
sheer number of exercises the technique
was me could use more Cent control could
mo more of a focus on link position
importantly it looks like none of the
sets were taken that close to failure
there was a lot of redundancy in the
program design in terms of like there
like five tricep exercises so yeah not
great the technique could use some work
the program design could use some work
but it's not terrible either so I'll
give it like a four moving on to the
next video in this video we're getting
Pres presumably The Rock AKA Dwayne
Johnson's personal trainer telling us
the insights behind his training program
If the previous video is anything to go
by I don't think I'm in for a treat her
but let's
see so today going into this
shoot DJ is going to be the leanest he's
ever
been and the most muscular he's ever
been he's really in the best shape of
his
life
hi I'm Dave renzi I'm DJ strength and
conditioning coach and we've been
working together for seven years DJ's
goal going into this shoe was really to
bring his best ever look the really
important thing we've been trying to
focus in on is really dialing in his
condition so that he's as defined as
possible but also his muscles are as
round and full as possible his current
training plan is really all about I'm
interested in the fact that he used what
conditioning to refer to leanness which
is kind of bodybuilding lingo it makes
no sense by the way why we call it
conditioning why use that word when
other Industries and domains already use
it for cardiovascular abilities
essentially I have no idea but it's
interesting to me that he used a word in
that way because it's not something a
strength and conditioning professional
would usually refer to in that sense
also interesting to note that he was
aiming for the rock kid to be in his
best shape I'm not sure if that's true
I've seen him in great shape multiple
times he didn't look particularly leaner
or bigger than usual in that photo shoot
he looked great though dude [ __ ]
stacked you hear me so far so good I
guess mind muscle connection time under
tension it's really a lot of
fine-tuning so really he just had a
couple Buzz was there he said it's all
about mind muscle connection and timer
attention as long as you have some timer
attention in your set and you're doing
somewhere between five and like 50 reps
per set you shouldn't be focusing on
time out attention in fact if you focus
too much on it often times you get so
out of breath that your set isn't being
ended because of your local muscle
ability to produce Force but rather
because you're just so out of breath and
burning that you want to end a set and
so an excessive focus on time or
attention usually tells me one of two
things one you're not sufficiently
familiar with the evidence to know that
time and attention focusing isn't the
best thing ever and or two you're likely
going to be ending your sets because
you're tired rather than because your
muscles are at the point of failure and
that's kind of evident in the Rocks
training at least from the Montage is I
didn't see a single rep that was taken
close to failure and with regard in my
mus connection because there's
essentially no evidence on focusing on
my musk connection being a good thing
for for hypertrophy I have a whole video
on that there there's just one study
looking at that and it's not even
convincing if someone tells me mind
muscle connection is a big focus of
their program it just tells me that's a
buzz W they particularly like and that
they're probably not really looking at
the evidence when it comes to designing
their
[Music]
training with all the injuries DJ's had
over the years the warmup is crucial
make sure his joints are warmed up we're
not aggravating any of those B
injuries I'm going to say a couple
things one warming up a a little bit
will go a long way if there's any wol of
it to prevent injury right you don't
need to overdo it and two specifically
when it comes to him already having
pains in place if there are strategies
that allow him to train with less pain
or manage his pain I'm all for it
ultimately if you already have an injury
whatever you need to do to get through
that session is all good but that is
ultimately very individual so I do agree
with that unilateral leg press so unique
because it allows you to isolate each
leg individually while doing both legs
at the same time the tricky thing about
this exercise is that it really shows
you the disparity and leg
strength unilateral leg press this is
totally fine exercise the way he's doing
it here Dwayne is getting a ton of
gluten adductor stimulus he's
essentially getting a full stretch on
the gluten adductor but the quads aren't
really being targeted all that well he
could be getting a lot deeper in terms
of his quads and get a much better
stretch so if he wanted to make it a
better overall exercise he could put his
feet quite a bit further down on the
platform get a lot deeper get a much
better stretch on the quads and likely
see more Hy but if his Focus his glutes
and Alor totally fine safety bar squats
are very unique it really tacks the legs
and the core your glutes quads
hamstrings the whole entire body is
really challenged by this
[Music]
movement as we like to say in
bodybuilding the back wins the
show if your personal trainer uses
what's like the core or claims that
squats are training your hamstrings
that's not a good look we have studies
actually measuring muscle growth of the
hamstrings from the squat showing
essentially no growth and saying a
movement really targets the core that's
usually a marketing point that is used
by general population personal trainers
to appeal to general population clients
but those have essentially no evidence
behind them sure in this case you can
claim that the lower back muscles are
being trained because they're keeping
your spine extended and that maybe some
diaphragmatic muscles are being trained
as well as part of breathing and bracing
but the rectus abdominis for example the
ab muscle that most general population
people actually associate with the core
those muscles are likely not being
trained very effectively and that's
because if the ABS were to get involved
they would crunch down the spine and
actually make you bend over or collapse
during the squad single arm dumbbell row
classic back exercise really isolating
obviously one side at a time and it's a
great Mass builder for the back and the
laps I can do this all
day day bab so the exercises that I put
together for this shoe they're all
challenging in their own way the way the
rock is doing the single on dumbbell Ro
here he's not really getting a stretch
in anything if you wanted to get a
deeper stretch on his upper back muscles
bending over a little bit more and
letting his shoulder blades come all the
way forward and protract all the way
forward would lengthen those a lot more
and just grow them a lot more likewise
he's pausing in the shortened position
which just means more time and effort
spent in that shortened Peak squeeze
position based on the evidence on
training in the stretch position being
better for hypertrophy than training in
that PE squeeze position that is also
the opposite of what you want so yeah I
don't think the single arm Laro is a
terrible exercise but I think the way
it's being performed here not ideal DJ's
going to give them all 100% effort you
never know he's really going to bring it
today and we may see some things that we
haven't seen
[Music]
before well I sure saw some stuff I
hadn't seen before today this was and
react I wasn't very impressed by any of
it to be honest the rock trains hard but
not hard in a productive way if that
makes sense so I can tell that his rest
times are probably pretty low I can tell
he seems to be going for pretty High
Reps on stuff that super setting stuff
and he sure seems pretty out of breath
and sweating the whole time but as far
as getting sufficiently close to failure
on each exercise using a good technique
and so forth I can't say I'm really
seeing any of that and the session
Design's pretty poor as well uh I don't
think this personal is particularly good
so I'm going to give the rock again like
a four and his personal trainer also
like a four I think they're kind of on
similar levels when it comes to
designing and executing a good
bodybuilding session but yeah the rock
is still for more D be and that's uh it
is what it is you know just cry myself
to sleep every night also the rock looks
oddly like geod dude not in a mean way
just think about that next time anyways
all love for the rock DNE Johnson his
personal trainer if you like the video
consider liking commenting subscribing
if you want to see me react to anyone
else leave a comment down below letting
me know who you want me to react to If
you need coaching if you want me to take
care of your training nutrition check
out my coaching Services thank you for
your time have a great day and I will
see you next time peace