welcome to the house of hypertrophy how
should you train to maximize triceps
hypertrophy the triceps are roughly 2.5
times larger than the biceps so
undeniably play a crucial role in
enhancing arm size in this video we'll
be deconstructing the latest scientific
research examining how different
compound exercises and isolation
exercises may impact triceps hypertrophy
so that by the end you'll have a clear
riew of how you may train for complete
triceps growth
the triceps can be trained with
compounds and isolation exercises
compound exercises involve movement at
two or more joints while isolation
exercises primarily involve movement at
one joint an excellent study from 2020
gives us a fascinating insight into how
compound and isolation exercise is
compared for triceps growth 43 men
either train the barbell bench press
only the barbell skull crusher only the
bench press and then the skull crusher
user or the skull crusher and then the
bench press these were the training
variables used in the sessions
unsurprisingly the groups that trained
the bench press saw the best PC major
growth but it is highly interesting that
training skull crushes before the bench
press led to slightly less Peet growth
in performing the reverse of this
presumably Skull Crushers fatigued the
triceps to where it subsequently became
more of a limiting factor in the bench
press thus compromising the PEC stimulus
as for the triceps just training the
bench press produced lower gains than
the other groups that involved Skull
Crushers interestingly the order in
which the bench press and skull crusher
was performed didn't have a major impact
on triceps growth looking at these
results you may say although the bench
press grows the triceps we get much
better results from the skull crusher so
there's nothing special about the bench
press however this isn't necessarily the
correct conclusion why well the
researchers examined growth across each
of the three triceps heads for the long
head Skull Crushers grew this very well
something the bench press failed to do
for the medial head both exercises grew
this muscle but the percentages imply
its growth what's better from Skull
Crushers but for the lateral head the
bench press actually grew this head very
well something which the skull crusher
failed to do accordingly the special
thing about the bench press is when
compared to a skull crusher at least
although it doesn't develop the long and
medial heads as well it does a better
job growing the lateral head now this
data just involved the barbell bench
press with a two-time shoulder width
grip what about closer grips and even
other compound exercises with closer
grips it's possible they enhance overall
triceps growth there's no research
comparing wider to closer grip bench
pressing for actual triceps hypertrophy
all we have is EMG research that
inconsistently observes higher triceps
activity with closer grips either way
could closer grips change the pattern of
growth across the three triceps heads a
2013 paper delivers potential Insight
subjects perform the neutral grip
dumbbell bench press this exercise is
performed in the same plane as close
grip barbell benching no not that plane
I'm talking about plane of movement both
of them occur in what we call the
sagittal plane using T2 weighted Imaging
to infer muscle activity which has been
documented to have some associations
with actual muscle hypertrophy it was
found the size displayed High lateral
and medial head activity this aligns
with the data on wide grip barbell bench
pressing that finds similar lateral and
medial head hypertrophy as for the long
head activity was much lower and indeed
the researchers found after training
this exercise for 12 weeks L head
thickness did not increase thus just
like the wide grip bench press closer
grips likely fail to meaningfully grow
the L head there's likely a sound reason
for this all three heads of the triceps
cross the elbow joint so can all
contribute to Elbow extension but the L
head additionally crosses over the
shoulder joint so can partially
contribute to shoulder extension and
adduction during the bench press we need
to lift the bar and this involves
flexing the shoulder since the L head is
partially involved in shoulder extension
a strong contraction of it would fight
against us trying to lift and flex the
shoulder so it makes sense the nervous
system wouldn't highly activate this
muscle this logic extends to all other
horizontal pressing compound exercises
machine chest press variations and
push-up variations it even applies the
incline presses decline presses and dips
so all of these exercises probably won't
train the L head much rather the lateral
and medial heads are likely trained in
comparable ways to the bench press what
about vertical presses like overhead
presses since overhead presses require
us to flex and autod duct the shoulder
to lift the load a strong lad
contraction may still fight against this
and pull the arm down so perhaps this
also not trains much here yet the
shoulder angles traversed with vertical
presses are different from horizontal
presses and without direct research I'm
unsure if this Alters things as for the
lateral and medial heads I'm unaware of
any reason to believe they wouldn't be
trained at least fairly decently with
vertical presses but how this compares
to horizontal presses remains to be
determined by Future research
nevertheless summarizing this section
compound exercises will absolutely
contribute to developing your triceps
and we saw direct evidence horizontal
presses are likely great for the lateral
head however it does seem likely we need
isolation triceps exercises to maximize
triceps hypertrophy we saw barbell Skull
Crushers have been documented to grow
the long and medial heads quite well and
something we've yet to mention is data
suggesting this likely extends to the
dumbbell skull crusher very quickly this
2012 paper found the dumbbell variation
produced the low activity of the lateral
head which aligns with the results of
the barbell skull crusher producing
minimal lateral head hypertrophy as for
the long and medial heads the dumbbell
skull crusher produced High activity of
both which aligns with the results of
Baro skull crushes producing great
hypertrophy of both of them but what
about other triceps isolation exercises
fortunately we have some great research
here
a 2022 paper out of Japan recruited 21
men with one arm they trained overhead
extensions with their other arm they
trained push Downs a supern hand grip
was used and both exercises move the
elbow from 90 to 0Â° here were the
training variables used subjects
progressively overloaded whenever they
could to keep training hard with the
Reps subjects were able to lift heavier
absolute loads on the push down through
out the study despite this LGH head
hypertrophy was better for the overhead
extensions I think it's not a stretch to
suggest the strongest explanation for
this is stretch as the researchers
implied in the paper and as seen in
previous House of hypertrophy videos
growing evidence suggests training at
long muscle lengths can build more
muscle remember although all three heads
cross the elbow joint the long head
additionally crosses the shoulder joint
this actually means elevating the arm to
an overhead position lengthens the L
head such that overhead extensions train
the L head at a relatively more
stretched position compared to push
Downs as for the lateral and medial
heads the researchers had to combine
both heads into one measurement due to
problems with differentiating between
them it was found this combined lateral
and medial head growth was also better
with the overhead extensions this was an
unexpected finding and it's currently
not Crystal Clear what could explain
this after all the lateral and medial
heads just crossed the elbow so shoulder
position isn't really going to influence
how much they are stretched it is also
unfortunate that the researchers
couldn't differentiate between the
lateral and medial heads as remember
Skull Crushers fail to grow the lateral
head much so it would have been
interesting to see how lateral head
growth looked with these two exercises
anyhow this study nonetheless indicates
overhead extensions may be an excellent
exercise for the triceps this study
measured muscle volume which is a
three-dimensional measure that considers
all muscle regions but an interesting
question is although overhead extension
seem to produce overall more growth
could there be some differences in the
precise regions grown between the two
movements this is where a 2018 Greek
paper can assist us nine individuals
were recruited and like the last study
one arm trained overhead extensions
while the other arm trained push downs
but unlike the last study the elbow
angles traversed by both exercises were
different here were the training
variables used and Progressive overload
occurred the researchers only took
measurements from the L head lad
thickness at 50% and 60% of
approximately the upper arm length lean
towards the overhead extensions L head
cross-sectional area at the lower
portion also favored the overhead
extensions but quite fascinatingly
cross-sectional area at the upper
portion was actually better with the
pushdowns therefore these results
suggest the two exercises May grow
different parts of the L head it's
important to mention this study has its
differences from the previous one but
one similarity is that both papers had
each arm trained with one of the
exercises this is actually a great thing
to do since it means the same subjects
performed both exercises this means that
all non-training factors that influence
muscle growth such as genetics nutrition
and outside lifestyle factors were equal
between both conditions after all your
right arm doesn't sleep more or even
more protein than your left arm but this
Greek paper was merely conducted on nine
subjects while the other paper included
21 subjects the Greek paper was also
just 6 weeks while the other paper was
double this duration finally besides the
range of motion differences between the
studies the Japanese paper had subjects
Alternate which exercise was trained
first every session which is the perfect
thing to do contrastingly the Greek
paper had subjects perform the push that
Downs before the overhead extensions
every session this is a potential
problem since the general fatigue from
performing the push Downs first could
have slightly impaired the overhead
extension stimulus therefore if this
study had subjects alternate back and
forth which arm was trained first each
session better hypertrophy might have
potentially been seen for the overhead
extensions considering all this it's
quite clear we want to put more stock
into the paper from Japan however I'm
currently not going to write off the
regional lad growth differences between
the two movements earlier we saw this
graph established from Skull Crushers
suggesting it may indeed be true that
some regions of a tricep head could
display greater activity than other
parts furthermore the notion that
overhead extensions better develop the
lower parts of the L head might make
sense remember that overhead extensions
place the L head at a more stretched
position and we have evidence that
training muscles at stretched positions
better develop the the lower portions of
the muscle for example this paper
compared preacher curls with a range of
motion that train the muscle at a
shortened position to a range of motion
that achieved a relatively more
lengthened position growth of the biceps
at the 50% region was similar between
both but growth at the 70% region was
better with a lengthened
position if you only wanted to train
with one isolation triceps exercise I
think it's reasonable to recommend
overhead extensions based on the data
we've overviewed the scientific papers
dissected used cables but freeway
overhead extensions are a possibility
there are no direct comparisons between
the two but based on one small study of
five participants dumbbell overhead
extensions resulted in appreciable
triceps hypertrophy lad penti angle also
increased appreciably and this measure
is believed to represent the addition of
contractile units in parallel which is
what a large part of muscle growth is
now some of you might be wondering what
about Skull Crushers Skull Crushers
achieve a better stretch of the long
head compared to push downs but overhead
extensions achieve a better stretch than
both so in the absence of other research
I suspect overhead extensions may still
be better as for the lateral and medial
heads it's difficult to say how their
growth May compare between the two
movements hopefully future research
fills this Gap if you don't like
overhead extensions rest assured you're
still going to grow your triceps
respectably with skull crushes or push
Downs so feel free to alternatively
train with either if you're someone
who's happy to perform more than one
isolation triceps exercise this could be
worthwhile due to the possibility of it
resulting in more uniform triceps growth
although we know it had notable
limitations the Greek paper hints at the
combination of overhead extensions with
push Downs possibly enabling the
complete development of the upper and
lower lad regions besides this the
combination of overhead extensions with
Skull Crushers may not be bad either as
something we haven't mentioned about the
data on Skull Crushers is it displayed
High lad activity at the uppermost
portion it is of course not impossible
to have all three in a well constructed
program something we also can't rule out
is potential regional growth differences
in the lateral and medial heads between
these exercises making the combination
of them possibly ideal for this
speculative reason too there are also
other triceps exercises in existence
we've largely focused on these three
since they're currently the most studied
but you could experiment with any
alternatives you think might work one
final study potentially further supports
the effectiveness of training the
triceps with a few different exercises
22 individuals were assigned into either
a nonv varied or Vari group both groups
trained three times per week for 8 weeks
the nonv varied group involved just
training the triceps push down while the
varied group involved training the push
Downs on Monday cable seated extensions
on Wednesday and cable Kickbacks on
Friday overall triceps thickness was
measured across three regions and the
varied group tended to see better
results the more favorable gains for the
varied group could be entirely just a
result of the inclusion of the cable SE
extension which trains the L head at a
more stretched position rather than the
variation itself causing this even still
it's still nonetheless demonstrates how
this combination of isolation movements
tended to produce more favorable gains
than merely training the push Downs I
should point out that bench press
variations were also trained by both
groups and we can be confident this
contributed to some of the growth but
I'm assuming the differences between
groups were predominantly driven by the
triceps isolation exercises
if you're searching for further guidance
on programming to obtain your desired
physique it can be tricky and timec
consuming however our highquality
partner the alpha progression app can
help you generate an evidence-based
training program that's 100% custom to
your needs in less than 3 minutes simply
specify the equipment you have how often
and how long you want to train for and
if you want to focus or neglect certain
muscles there are even Advanced options
to periodize your train training and
Implement de loads there are over a
quadrillion input combinations on which
your plan is based and with the touch of
a few buttons you can customize things
further through analyzing your past
performance the app provides Progressive
overload recommendations during your
workouts to help you continue making
gains the app automatically generates
graphs that display your long-term
progression thereby saving you time from
having to manually track your
progression the link in the comments and
description gives you a 2E free trial of
all the premium features and if you like
it and decide to go beyond the link
gives you 20% off a subscription I truly
believe the app is awesome and the
reviews speak to this feel free to check
out our recent deep dive into chest
hypertrophy or another piece of content
at the house of hypertrophy