I will never go to a doctor ever again
about my General Health all they want to
do is put you on
pills I'll tell you why doctors put
people on pills and it's a two factor
three Factor reason maybe one is that
pills work and they work really well and
they also work right away if you have
high blood pressure taking blood
pressure medication makes it go away
tomorrow if you have high blood pressure
but you try to diet and exercise and
lose weight out of it it will work but
in months and years and it assumes
you're successful the success of blood
pressure medications begins and ends at
you taking the pill out of the container
putting it in your mouth there's an
understanding from some of the folks
that do this kind of Lifestyle medicine
that everyone that comes into your door
as a patient could be someone whose life
you change by introducing them to all
sorts of interventions that take a lot
of their time and effort generally
people have believe that have not worked
sufficiently in the general population
to understand that most people just
won't do it evidence the American
obesity situation