hey rp+ rpu welcome back dr. James
Hoffman again and you are unfortunately
staring at the same screen what the hell
why are we still doing this well we
haven't quite finished up so I wanted to
go through a few more things with you on
setting up this annual plan today what
I'm kind of hoping to go through is some
kind of basics of exercise selection
this is something that I think people
get wrong a lot for very different
reasons not always the same reasons one
reason that people get this wrong is
because they don't put much thought into
it at all
which frankly is kind of a lesser
offense believe it or not I know that
might sound weird but a lot of times
people will get through this part of
their annual plan and they'll just kind
of be just over it writing they're just
like all right I've done all this work
I'm ready just to get going and that's
understandable so they'll just say okay
we're doing some squats and some bench
presses you know and some deadlifts and
stuff here there and then I'm really
pulling thought into it which is not
great but not terrible another problem
that people can run into is that
sometimes they will put too much thought
into it believe it or not and I think
we've all kind of found ourselves there
where we kind of had that paralysis by
analysis where we're looking at the same
mesocycle for like 30 minutes
trying to figure out which exercise
would really be best there well the
reality is it probably doesn't matter
all that much the actual effect size of
what exercises we choose you know it's
kind of inconsequential to a point now
there is a benefit to doing it the right
way and that's what I'm going to give
you some food for thought with today but
keep in mind right what we're talking
about is probably within like a 5
percent margin of effect so definitely
notable definitely worth pursuing but
you know the difference between a closed
stance squat and a high bar squat or a
low bar squat you know as long as the
general sets it reps intensities M V's M
RVs all of those things are accounted
for we're probably going to be a pretty
good shape if we haven't accounted for
those things ahead of time we're gonna
be in bad shape
so we have the same annual plan that
we've been kind of playing around with
and I just wanted to go back and look at
it really quick most of you hopefully
have seen it before and one thing I just
wanted to reiterate and we're gonna do
as written but one thing I just wanted
to reiterate and I know I mentioned this
on the previous videos but if we're
doing an annual plan for athletes what
we have here is
of progression of hypertrophy one
hypertrophy - which was our metabolite
phase and then we moved into our
strength our maximum strength and power
and then power and speed right which is
totally fine one thing I just want to
remind you and I want to give you some
food for thought the way we did this was
our hypertrophy one was kind of our
traditional 3 by 10 4 by 10 5 by 10 you
know kind of thing no nothing big
surprise there there it is off to a good
start we get our hypertrophy - and we
did a metabolite phase now the reason
why I'm bringing this up again is
because if you're working in strength
power sport there is a good argument
which might not be entirely true but I
think a very good theoretical argument
at the least saying you know metabolite
training or at least like a whole
metabolite meza cycle may not be the
best bang for your buck simply because
it favors more slow-twitch
characteristics and for our strength and
power athletes generally want to do our
fast twitch stuff which means we want
the intensities to be a little bit
higher we're going to emphasize more of
the force and velocity characteristics
less of the metabolite accumulation kind
of stuff we did it anyway if I was to do
this again what I would also do is maybe
just change it a little bit I like this
example so we're gonna stick with it but
what I would also consider doing is
making this hypertrophy one the same
maybe make it like 3 by 8 as a start and
then progress like 3 by 4 by a 5 by 8
something like that and I would make
this 3 ii hypertrophy not a metabolite
phase if it was if it was like strictly
for like a track and field athlete or
like a bobsled athlete where was really
just strength and power probably
wouldn't do this unless they were really
really lagging behind in the LB m and we
were actually putting speed and power
characteristics on the back burner for
like upwards of a year or two that would
be really the only scenario that I think
that would be appropriate so what I
would do then is just make this kind of
more of our high volume like our 3 by 8
to 12 so something like 3 by 10 3 by 12
something like that plenty of rest time
and really emphasize the intensity less
of the like short rest 1 minute rest
kind of stuff super super high reps we
don't need to do that necessarily but
let's just go with it
and because this is what we did and I
think it's still a good example
the reason why that's also important is
because over here when we transition to
the basic strength block we have to
actually start higher on the higher end
of strength so this is right in the gray
area between strength and hypertrophy
right because the reps were so high in
this hypertrophy to block if this was
something more like three by ten what we
could actually do is make this basic
strength block you know it's three by
fives which will make the transition
into maximal strength really really
smooth and easy so we still did a good
job we still have like three by eight
here we still have a bit of a
progression and again these progressions
will be dependent upon the individuals m
RVs and M V's and all that stuff right
however going from aides to threes is
still going to be a bit of a rough a
rough transition so what we might
actually expect is if we were being
really really nitpicky we were counting
for M V's and stuff as well
this might be like the starting sets
might be like 2 or 1 and then maybe only
progressing up to like 3 because the
intensity jump is so high and that is
something that you just have to kind of
guess and check with your individual
clients and see what their tolerance is
once you have a pretty good idea of what
their M V's and M RVs are then you can
individualize this now again this is a
gross simplification of what this might
be like right so we don't necessarily
take this at face value or say ok here's
the set progression I'm going to do
here's the intensity progression I'm
going to do maybe that might be what you
do this is just kind of a gross overview
to kind of help get you started
so anyways let's get on with today's
topic so what we're gonna do is start
actually filling in kind of our micro
cycle strategies or week two weeks our
exercise selections for some of these
phases now what I want you to think
about when we're doing this is kind of
three big things will actually just make
a little list here just cuz you have to
been leavin listen to me talk already so
might as well get something down one but
first and we want to make sure is that
our exercise selection matches
the actual goal of the phase that we're
in so it matches the goal of the
training phase right that means we
should choose exercises which will allow
us to express the things that we are
trying to train for so for example if I
was to be in a strength phase I would
want to pick an exercise that would
allow me to express really really high
forces a poor example of that might be
doing like a one-arm dumbbell bench
press why well simply because I'm not
able to exert as much force had I just
done like a medium grip or even like a
Close Grip barbell bench press the
amount of force that I can generate
through that exercise is way higher
therefore is probably more appropriate
for my strength phase on the other hand
if I was doing a hyper street phase I'd
probably want something that I could use
a moderate load with but I could get a
really really big range of motion so
that I can do a lot of actual mechanical
work to make that muscle bigger so in
that case a dumbbell bench press might
actually be a pretty good idea so I want
to make sure the exercise selection
matches the goal of the training phase
which is something I think a lot of
people have a hard time wrapping their
brain around so we're going to workout
number two I want to phase potentiate my
exercises across each measure cycle what
does that mean well we know that fitness
characteristics will face potentiate and
part one said that our exercise
selection should be representative of
whatever fitness that we're training for
for that particular phase so what that
means is I'm actually going to be
thinking about how my exercises will
potentially be transitioning as we go
across mesocycle sometimes they might
not transition at all sometimes they
will so we want to be thinking about
okay I'm gonna have a progression for
any given muscle group right so maybe
for chest maybe four quads maybe four
posterior chain maybe four back any of
those things right so we're gonna have
some type of progression as we move
across the training plan and we get
closer and closer to competition another
thing we want to think about is of
course heavy and light we never are
always doing heavy heavy heavy all the
time there's probably going to be some
light variations in there and that's
completely normal
some days we might have heavy on certain
things like heavy legs and then at the
end of the heavy leg session we might
also include a light push and then come
back to a heavy push later in the week
so we're not
always thinking everything is always
super crazy high-intensity maximal
effort some things might be other things
might not be and that's perfectly okay
and then last and certainly not least
and this is something that I have been
maybe not always
excuse me rephrase maybe I haven't
always done the best job and it's
something I'm trying to do a little bit
better of a job more recently and I'm
having a lot of success in my programs
for my clients and for myself as well
and that is this kind of idea of
momentum which is really more of just
kind of I would say there's some
physiological aspects of it certainly I
think a lot of it is neuromuscular and
really what momentum is saying is you
kind of get into a groove on certain
movements right some things in the first
example that I think will make a lot of
sense to for those of you who have done
low bar squats before low bar squats are
one of those really shitty awkward
movements where the first week or two
weeks that you do it you get not much
out of it because you kind of have to
refill your eyes yourself with the
technique and it's horribly awkward and
it's painful and you kind of have to
spend some time on it before you get
into it get to a point where you're like
man I actually felt really good from
that training session I felt like I got
a really good lift so you know with
little bar squats I actually think it
takes like 2 to 3 massive cycles to
really really get some good momentum on
that lift to the point where you can
actually achieve what you're trying to
achieve a lot of that is just
neuromuscular and technique and moving
the coordination kind of based and
that's perfectly ok so one thing we want
to consider is not necessarily using too
much variation now we know that using
variation and exercise selection will
effectively lower the mev of some of
those movements on the next motorcycle
but at the same time we might actually
lose some momentum on some of those so
what I want to do is actually carry over
a couple exercises here or there not for
too long I'm not saying for more than
three methyl cycles but there might be
some movements where in one way shape or
form I might be trying to carry them
through so that I can actually make a
lot of progress on that particular
movement and really get my athletes
strong at that particular movement the
question is how can I incorporate this
in here while still doing a good job of
all my different training principles
like variation directed adaptation phase
potentiation all that's
so these are generally the things that
I'm gonna be thinking about when we're
actually doing our exercise selection so
we want to make sure the exercise
matches the training goal whatever
mesocycle or in we're gonna face
potentiate just like we did with Fitness
characteristics I'm gonna make good use
of heavy and light I'm not always going
to be doing heavy stuff there's gonna be
some light days built into that yeah I'm
gonna try and sneak in some momentum
along the way so what I essentially do
for myself and I'm just gonna kind of
make some notes here and I hope you guys
can follow along what I usually like to
think about is having kind of a
progression of each general muscle group
right so we're gonna have some things
that are like hypertrophy images over
here actually so I can spread these out
so I know I have some things that are
kind of handy and my hyper handy in my
hypertrophy handbag I have some that are
good in my strength handbag right maybe
sometimes I might differentiate for max
strength just to be nitpicky and then I
also have some that I might use you know
for like power and speed so something
like this right now you don't have to do
this but I think it's a good thought
experiment for yourself to do and this
will actually make your life a lot
easier when you do this again later so
then what you can actually do is
actually make okay like I have a little
bit of progressions here that I can work
with sorry I'm spacing out a little bit
will do a posterior chain and maybe we
can do something like you know overhead
doesn't have to be those categories but
we're just doing this to keep it nice
and simple so what are some good
exercises that might be good for quads
during a hypertrophy phase well
certainly any any quad dominant movement
is a good choice right but there might
be some that I might benefit from a
little bit more so why don't we just
throw something on here I'm gonna say
front squat I'm gonna say oops back
squat leg press oops
closed stance
squat right does that mean that high bar
squats wouldn't work there no of course
they would absolutely would but I might
be reserving those for a later phase
later on sorry this is getting kind of
wide so what about for strength phase
what would be a good exercise choice
during a strength days well generally
any of our squatting movements what some
might be a little bit better than others
generally for our strength days we're
gonna be sticking with primarily high
bar squat and probably no surprise here
we'll just call this low bar squat right
for maximum strength probably generally
the same right so we can use our high
bar squats and little bar squats for
both strength and maximal strength for
power and speed are we gonna use that
same progression of high bar squat low
bar squat maybe not we might do some are
some speed squats which are kind of
funny if you've never seen those before
and this is where we might actually
start kind of deviating from our
traditional path we might do some things
like counter movement jumps or other
plyometric type exercises so here we
have exercises with huge ability to load
the quadriceps big range of motion and
the ability to achieve really really
high peripheral volume loads on the
quads right so none of these are really
going to crack your back out too bad
with the exception of maybe doing like
the front squats which is actually and a
general preparatory phase would be good
cause you get a lot of trunk work in
there too but the loads are so light
it's very unlikely that you will really
be crapping out your lower back because
if the person is used to doing things
like back squats and deadlifts probably
not much of an issue so we can actually
get quite a lot of quad work here and a
pretty big volume of quad work without
having too much like systemic fatigue
which is great as we transition into
strength right we need to be able to
express my forces and the best way to do
that's probably going to be through our
high bar squat and low bar squat
variations same thing for maximal
strength and then for maximal strength
depending on if there's a need for a low
bar squat now you don't have to agree
with me on this and I know some people
will get really really butthurt about
the low bar squat issue my personal
opinion I have been getting further and
further away from programming a lot of
low bar squats with my athletes simply
because it's awkward and it requires a
lot of momentum time to actually get
into a good groove
so you know transitioning them for like
one massive cycle of low bar squat
during a maximal strength phase makes
sense on paper but when you actually
have them do it they don't really get as
much out of it as they could unless they
actually have a two or three measure
cycles of technique reinforcement to
really get that maximal strength so
that's my opinion so I've been using
high wall squats a lot more consistently
and I've been having a lot of success
with that if you're dealing with people
who do powerlifting or if you can make a
case in your knees analysis that says
low bar squat might be good choice
that's perfectly fine too I'm just
giving you my personal opinion so for me
I kind of deviate a little bit further
away from little bar squat except for
powerlifting and if I have power lifters
I certainly program it in there to make
sure that they're good at and then as we
move into power and speeds right we're
using things where we can emphasize the
movement characteristics so speed squats
where we do a full high bar squat but we
come up all the way up on our tiptoes as
if we were trying to jump the loads are
very very light and the movement speed
is emphasized counter-movement jumps is
basically your traditional jump as high
as you can and then any other plyometric
exercise which kind of has that jumping
and squatting type movement so here
again we have choices that make the
muscle really good options for gaining
and maintaining muscle mass under bad
energy conditions we have good choices
for high force output and we have good
choices for high power and speed output
we can do the same kind of thing over
here with push right so why don't we
just have some fun we can say cambered
bar bench dumbbell bench right DB fly's
stuff like that really really good what
are going to be our main strength
variance for our push movements it's
gonna be our barbell bench press
excuse me barbell bench press variations
right that can include things like
incline close grip wide grip when we get
into maximal strength it's pretty much
gonna be flat barbell bench press right
right not much choice there and if we
want to do some power and speed we can
do some like bar throws plyo push-ups
and any number of other exercises these
are just a couple right so please don't
take this as an all-inclusive list it is
by no means all-inclusive it's just
meant to kind of illustrate my point
okay so for posterior chain what are
some good hypertrophy movements well
hot damn do I love deficit dead lives as
a great option that load is very
moderate and that range of motion is
humongous so it's a really really good
choice I really like straight leg
deadlifts stuff like that can we do some
other things like 45-degree back raise
you bet
can we do some glute ham raises you bet
any of those are really good choices and
even things like good mornings right
stuff like that absolutely as we
transition into strength what are going
to be probably our big choices for
posterior chain it's going to be mostly
or deadlift variations and usually once
that are not done from a deficit right
so this is going to be like deadlift
straight leg deadlift
and I would even say like good mornings
to a degree for like as a light or
strength based movement absolutely and
then what's going to be our big probably
our big one here for maximum strength
well whatever your normal either
conventional or sumo pull dead left is
going to be the big maximal strength one
right power and speed we're gonna
actually probably see some of our weight
lifting movements come in here so we're
gonna see weightlifting derivatives from
the floor things like our clean poles
stuff like that and then actually a lot
of kind of our sport training like
sprinting and stuff like that will
actually start to cover a lot of that
stuff for us too which is great and then
overhead pressing stuff what do we see
in the beginning well certainly things
like upright rows dumbbell overhead
pressing you know behind the neck
pressing stuff like that
definitely gonna be really really good
for building up those delts the upright
rows maybe not as good for the because
it kind of has an antagonist component
but it still trains the same muscle
groups but if we're really focusing on
overhead I would say like our dumbbell
overhead press think behind the neck
pressing even like seated pressing is
gonna be really really good as we move
into strength we're probably going to be
doing like our standard kind of barbell
overhead press variations like our from
the front or from the back when we get
into maximum strength usually we start
seeing things like push press push jerk
something like that and then power and
speed actually I spoke I got ahead of
myself let's say push jerk over here
and then we'll say jerk variations
tosses stuff like that so why am I going
through all this well this is just meant
to kind of illustrate an idea of things
potentiation and variation so when I'm
in these high poetry phases here's just
some good exercises for me to kind of
play around with and then I can gain the
benefit of variation later on
potentially as I go through this so I'm
going to keep going and let's keep
rocking and rolling on this
unfortunately if you can hear that my
doorbell is ringing that person is going
to have to wait tough Nuggets all right
so let's go through our high pressure e
phase here so this first one what we're
going to have to figure out are some
progressions right for joining
hypertrophy phase so very likely that
we're going to be training probably
somewhere around five days per week
maybe upwards of six that's perfectly
fine so we're gonna have probably
something like day one two to three day
four and you can do this however you
want I'm just doing this kind of quick
and dirty just so you can see my thought
process so let's take a look sorry
something was distracting me I could
hear people upstairs in my house okay so
the first one we're going to probably
have some type of leg day so what I like
to usually do is have a quad emphasized
light day and a posterior chain
emphasized leg day you can do that
however you see fit so the way that I'm
gonna set this up is pretty simple we're
gonna have some quad movements in here
so what I'm going to do is we have some
front squats down sets maybe a hamstring
movement like a 45 degree back raise
something like that and if we want we
could add something else if you're if
you're some relatively new athlete like
a third beginner that might be good you
might be basically done if they're more
intermediate you might want to add
another quad movement you can sneak
another one in there like a hack squat
or a leg press so maybe we'll sneak that
one in there just to say that we're
working with an intermediate here and
then potentially if you wanted to add
some core work or something like that
that would be perfectly fine right day
two we can basically have like an upper
body push or an upper body pull
depending on how well we're managing
fatigue and how you know our athlete
tolerates this
so let's just have fun and let's just
call this bush so here what we might
actually be doing is some dumbbell bench
press right again maybe some down sets
maybe some dumbbell flyes nothing too
crazy or actually let's say those
dumbbell flies for another day let's do
some seated dumbbell overhead press
something like that and if we want to
add a tricep movement tricep or bicep
movement whatever no big deal right okay
day three what we're probably going to
do is some upper body cool so what I
like to do here is maybe we'll do some
vertical pull so what I would say is
maybe like our pull-up or pulldown
variation so maybe people do some
underhand pull downs or actually you
know let's have some fun maybe we'll do
some assisted on your hand pull-ups and
then we can do some underhand pull downs
as some down sets that maybe we'll do
some like to arm dumbbell row as our
shoulder retraction exercise variant and
then of course we want to add a by or
you know posterior delts or something
one of those movements that be perfectly
fine so actually you know what know that
I'm looking at this let's flip flop
these because I think this would make
more sense to be honest sometimes it's
tough doing those back days before
another leg day so let's do it like this
so now we've come back two legs so what
are some things that we can do here well
we're gonna probably be working our
posterior chain movement so maybe we'll
do some deficit deadlift something like
that maybe some dumbbell walking lunge
something like walking loon that's what
I feel like sometimes walking loon I
actually kind of feel like Bob Ross
won't do in this a little bit you know
what I mean
you guys are like watching me paint my
picture and it's beautiful okay
Dumbo walking lunge so now it's kind of
one of those times where I also like to
think about is there a creative way of
me generating some momentum and I like
to do this with some of my light herb
exercises so you can see like okay I've
definitely emphasized deficit deadlifts
on this day I've definitely emphasized
front squats on this day right like no
doubt what I also have are some other
movements towards the end right like
hack squats might come back and help me
generate some momentum in my next phase
I have lunges here and what I also might
want to think about doing as
be having like a leg press or something
in here so I can strategically use this
on the next phase because what face is
coming up next do you remember it's that
metabolite phase so we have to make sure
that we're also thinking about what's
going on in that next measure cycle not
just what's going on in this mesocycle
and then if we want to have some more
fun like if that was a beginner that's
done if it's an intermediate we might
add something like a chest elevated
glute bridge or something whatever you
know have some fun with it okay next
what we'll have is our last day and this
will probably be more of like an upper
body combination hopefully you guys can
hear my cat piccolo he's helping us out
right now hey buddy
he's interfering okay so now we're going
to have day five and that's going to be
probably a combination of upper body
kind of stuff so what we're going to
have here is some maybe some lighter
variations on stuff that we did so what
we might do here is maybe start off with
some behind the neck press maybe we can
do some one-armed oops
arm dumbbell rows and I'm doing this
kind of strategically so that I might be
able to generate some momentum in this
next phase maybe some incline chest fly
something like that and then I would say
maybe another push or pull of your
choice or you could say you know arms
basically something like that is it 100%
perfect no what's perfect is based on
the individual needs analysis for your
person right but this is just an example
of what a five-day split might look like
right so now what we need to do is
progress a little bit as we move into
hypertrophy too so now we went from
doing a 3 by 10 4 by 10 now we're doing
like 4 by 15 5 by 15 ish something like
that right so this is gonna be rough now
you might be thinking like well I
watched all your other videos and you
said well the basics the barbell
dumbbell movements should generally be
the priority and that is absolutely true
however if you've never done this style
of training before it's very very
difficult to actually do like 4 by 15 in
a back squat or something like that what
ends up happening is like systemic
fatigue will just happen first before
like peripheral fatigue will or
something like your back will just kind
of give out
so this is one of those times where it's
actually probably a good idea to think
about using some creative exercise
variations so here what I might actually
do is use some of the exercises that
I've gained some momentum on before
right so I had some other things in here
like hack squats and leg presses which
actually might fit this particular face
very well and I have a little bit of
familiarity with these so it's like I
don't have to start from square one I
have a pretty good idea of where I stand
and my athlete is pretty familiarize
with that movement already so that makes
it a good example of something that I
can carry on it was a lesser exercise
before I'm generating some momentum by
doing it throughout the myth cycle now I
can actually use this as a primary in
this particular measure cycle so we
might actually emphasized like the hack
squat leg press something like that
right and then maybe to switch up some
of the other movements like the
hamstring movements if we want to I
would say it might be good to do some
either if we wanted to go all in on the
metabolite phase we could do some like
seated hamstring or seated or lying
hamstring curls so maybe like lying ham
curl right and then if we wanted to do
some like knee extension at the end top
it off that would be like our quad based
day and that's perfectly fine what about
over here what can we do on would it be
half first we had kind of our pull day
right so now we're gonna have probably a
whole bunch of underhand pull downs
right it's probably not going to be able
to do all of those pull ups unless
they're really good pull-ups if they
even assisted pull I don't know about
you guys but assisted pulls for me I get
tired real quick so I don't think that's
going to be much of an option so pull
downs is probably going to be a pretty
good choice we can maintain some of the
momentum with things like the two arm
dumbbell row it's not going to be super
brutal for them to maintain that
technique and then maybe we can add
something like a cable row on top of it
and if we want to add some like arm
movements or another delt movement to
complement what we do over here yeah by
our posterior delt I would basically
just have your choice of like a dumbbell
or a cable type movement that you can
really blast out for a lot of volume
right something like that what about
over here hmm okay so over here we did
dumbbell bench press can we
actually do the same thing yeah there's
nothing wrong with that so we can
actually just carry on some of the
momentum over here our persons
familiarized with this we're gonna do
some dumbbell bench maybe some down sets
something like that and then we're
probably going to have a hard time
really pumping out a lot of those
overhead pressing movements so maybe
we'll do something like lateral raise
really train the delts and then again
maybe like a try or buy of our choice
something like that okay so in this case
we didn't really do anything crazy we
still have a good movement it's not like
the barbell like I don't know if you've
ever tried to do sets of 15 with the
barbell it's just you kind of just get
crapped out sooner or later you can do
this and manage this with the dumbbells
and actually here let's have some fun
let's change this up so we said dumbbell
bench press for one why don't we
actually just do like machine chest
press machine chest press you guys like
my notations here it doesn't make any
damn sense so here we do a dumbbell
bench press we got probably pretty
fatigued from that once our technique is
kind of degraded we did like 4 or 5 by
15 it's gonna be really really hard to
do any free weights we can switch to
something like a machine we can still
get a ton of resistance we can still get
a pretty good amount of muscle
activation and we don't have any risk of
kind of dropping it on our head or
anything like that right so that's
totally cool whoo now we get into that
weird area what about doing this kind of
stuff well you know personally in my
opinion doing like the super super high
rep deadlifts is pretty rough so one
thing that you can do is actually just
tone down the number of reps a little
bit specifically for this movement but
you can also choose exercise variants
that are just inherently less hard in
this case so like hex bar deadlift is
usually pretty agreeable to most people
it keeps you in a nice centered position
and it's not super super exhausting on
your your postural muscles so that might
be a good choice here we also let's see
if we can carry anything over from the
last one right we have some lunges
lunges for that many reps it's going to
be really really rough what we can do
here is maybe do some more of those
glute bridges and then what I would
actually think about doing now is
including a light deliberately light Paw
squat and this might kind of stand
a little bit but basically between these
two I mean a person's going to be pretty
wrecked at this point so now what I'm
going to think about is can I actually
start strategically including an
exercise that might help me a little bit
later because what's going to happen
next right so and again we're thinking
about not just what we're doing right
now but we're also thinking about what
am i doing next well next I got basic
strength so you better believe that some
regular squatting is either coming up
next or it's right around the corner
right so after doing hack squats and leg
presses for a mesocycle trying to go
back to doing regular back squats it's
gonna be really really rough so what I'm
doing is actually strategically placing
this paw squat in there it's light they
might not be getting maybe will say they
just do like 10 or something like that
it's meant to be like they're not going
to be doing like 20 reps on this and 20
reps of Paul Scott would be stupid
anyway but basically we're doing this to
maintain some technique and familiarity
with the back squatting movements so
that when we transition eventually to
basic strength or maximal strength they
will still be semi familiar with that
movement and it won't be as brutal so
that's a strategic use of face
potentiation and momentum here right
over here when we get to day five we
kind of have our combo days again can we
do something that we've already done
yeah this might be a good time maybe
just now that we're nice and fresh maybe
do some dumbbell overhead pressing right
so we have a little bit momentum from
that last one we can manage that for a
little while without being too crazy
what are some other things that we can
do well let's see what we did in the
first one over here right we did some
one-arm rows which is some incline chest
flies we did some arms something like
that right so if we were to try and find
something that we could do it for our
one-arm row variant over here we could
actually either keep the one on row or I
would say we can also use something like
I'm a big fan of via cables during this
phase because you can do machine stuff
and really just blast and blast and
blast them so maybe we'll do something
like cable row over here we might do
something like a chest movement even
something light like a pushup
I mean for short rests and high reps
like that you'll get the desired effect
and then what have we finished off with
over here I don't remember
Oh arms so we can have like our arm of
choice over here okay
so see what we did so we kind of have a
bit of a progression in this case we
can't have a backwards progression so
normally we go from like as we go from
hypertrophy to strength to max strength
and power we kind of have a progression
of like weak movements to stronger
movements as we go this one was kind of
backwards so we actually had like
relatively I want to say strong with
stronger movements and then we
transitioned you generally weaker
movements with the exception of some of
these right some of them stay the same
because they were already kind of a
weaker movement to start so that's
perfectly fine
so we have kind of interesting
progression now as we move into basic
strength now we have some crazy stuff
that's gonna happen so let's go back to
my cheat sheet over here right what did
we say we're good exercise variance well
our list is significantly shorter than
it was for hypertrophy yeah so what are
we going to do over here well we here
this kind of like our main variants that
we're probably going to be working with
so let's have some fun so instead of
doing five days per week when we
transition to basic strength we have to
actually reduce the training volume a
little bit and we know that things like
tactics and sports skills are going to
start becoming increasing in volume so
we're probably going to see as a
decrease in total volume certainly and
then also decrease in frequency of our
weight training right so no surprise or
mev S&M RVs are going to go down for
basic strength as the intensity of
exercise goes up meaning we can't do as
much on the top end but we also benefit
from less on the bottom so what do we
have here well now we're probably going
to have kind of a combo day where we're
going to do some legs and some upper
body generally on the same day and
that's perfectly okay so what are we
going to start here well what I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna actually say all right
what we're going to start with is some
high bar squat now luckily it's this is
gonna be rough right we're gonna add
weights and it's an exercise we haven't
practiced a lot but we did do some of it
we maintain some basics squatting skills
over here and we did do some hack squats
so it won't be terrible we'll do some
down sets maybe some good mornings and
then what I would do is also include a
light upper body push so in this case
maybe we did some incline
close grip bench press which is a new
movement for us right so what we could
also do and that would be this would be
more of like I guess more like a
physique style split so actually why
don't we just keep it simple
why don't we just say you know what
we're doing some incline bench press
just medium nothing too great so we did
some incline flyes over here and now
we're transitioning just strength now
instead of doing flies we're doing
presses right so that's that de de -
we're gonna have a similar setup we're
gonna probably do our heavy pulls now it
might be good to actually start
including some weight lifting
derivatives on some of these days so I'd
be good to include some maybe mid thigh
poles or something like that but after
that we're probably going to start
seeing maybe some like underhand or
overhand maybe even like parallel grip
will just put I'll just do underhand for
now underhand pull-ups we're probably
going to want to have some type of
retraction movement right so maybe we'll
have kind of like underhand easy row
something like that and then it's
probably not a bad idea to have
something like maybe like an upright row
barbell for the shoulders something like
that so are they probably going to be
blasting eight reps on these mid thigh
poles hell no hopefully caught that
we're gonna actually keep this one in
for five
and why are we introducing weight
lifting movements here well are we
actually training for power no but what
I need to do is generate some momentum
again I need to generate some technical
familiarity rather than a familiarity
with this movement so that when they
transition to this phase and they're
actually doing more weight lifting stuff
there have some familiar with that
second pull derivative right they have
some idea of what that's supposed to be
like and now here they're familiarizing
themselves with it here they're actually
training it see the difference so I did
that strategically day three we're
probably going to switch to kind of like
our base movements so let's just have
some fun we'll just do a little bit
maybe we said okay today we're gonna do
Close Grip barbell bench press some down
sets maybe seated barbell overhead press
so instead of doing seated dumbbell
maybe we switch to seated barbell
something like that and then if we
wanted to have an arm movement in there
it's still fine right
and then last but not least assuming our
persons recovered now depending on how
your athlete recovers you might consider
flip-flopping maybe day three or day
four depending on you know if with male
sometimes they they need a little bit
more recovery time so it might be like
this and then they have like two whole
recovery days off before they train legs
again with female sometimes you can
split them up like legs up or legs
upward because they just bounce back
quicker than males so it depends on how
you your athlete responds right so
either way is fine this is just how I'm
doing it for an example so just keep
that in mind doesn't have to be this it
could you know you could you could split
even it out a little bit if we wanted to
so we had quad legs light push a heavy
pull heavy push now we're going to do
our heavy posterior chain movements so
what's probably going to be a good one
here well I think something like our
deadlift or anything similar or even
just like straight leg dead let's do
straight leg there listens we haven't
really done a whole lot of dead lifting
we'll do straight leg deadlift maybe
we'll do a light or high bar squat
variation or if we're trying to be a
little strategic what I might actually
consider doing is doing a light low bar
squat or what's that all about oh my god
I have no idea okay and that's actually
might be useful for me to generate some
momentum when I actually move into this
phase which might be pretty helpful
so we'll see so I got some high bar
squats here right that's good I'm doing
some low bar squats now I'm saying this
is light meaning it's not at like true
overload low bar squat weight that I
would do if I was starting with low bar
squat right so you obviously did some
straight leg deadlifts and then you did
some low bar squats it's gonna be a
little bit less and the person's not as
familiar with this movement their MeV is
low so this is going to be somewhat
light and if we want to include another
posterior chain movement in here for
example if we want to do like a barbell
lunge and really work on the glutes
something like that that would be fine
right so here's just an example of what
that might look like does it have to be
exactly this no but we can see there's
definitely a transition in our movements
as we went into strength right so we
shortened up the range of motion on some
of these things we actually increased
the force output on a lot of these move
that's right oh I didn't even think of
this I will save will actually I just
had an epiphany so we're gonna actually
do here we said seated barbell overhead
press but let's actually do stand
overhead press
I forgot what we're doing next right so
we could say standing overhead press and
then when we eventually transition over
here to max strength and power we can
include something like a push press or a
push jerk or something like that now
what I would not recommend doing is
going from this metabolite phase and
doing dump seated dumbbell like overhead
pressing like this and then immediately
going well he said push press was on
this list right so let's put push press
in there no that's probably not a good
idea you probably want to have some kind
of like overhead pressing first and then
moving into like compound pressing like
push depresses and pushed or something
like that so we didn't we're not going
to do that so let's just say we did
barbell here there's still a good
progression right again remember when I
said in the beginning of our talk if it
was a pure strength power athlete I
might have done this a little
differently and that is true and that
would be an example so over here we
would have done some strict overhead
pressing when we got to here we would
have done some push pressing and then
got to hear we would done some push
jerks so and this one we're basically
lagging behind a little bit right so
we're doing some overhead pressing here
and we look pretty good right now as we
go through into our max strength and
power phase we again might actually see
a reduction in our total training volume
certainly from the increase in intensity
and a reduction probably in the
frequency of training as well so men
actually go down to like three days per
week and this is where things can get a
little bit funky right so if we wanted
to do a three day split it might be
something like this now when you do you
know less than four you kind of have to
get creative where we have to have some
overloading movements oh did I even
finish this one over here I didn't even
finish this one so now I need to have
another pole movement so again I had
like a heavy pull here I need to have a
light pole here man see I'm getting
ahead of myself I should be paying
attention to what I'm actually doing
instead I got people ringing my doorbell
my cat going crazy and you can probably
hear my phone going crazy this is a
nutty session ok so last but not least
maybe we had some thing like parallel
grip pull-ups ok that makes sense to me
so here we can see heavy quads
like push heavy pull heavy push heavy
posterior chain light pull nothing too
crazy there ok so now now as we get to
our 3 day we might have to actually see
a lot more total body stuff and this is
where we're really going to have to kind
of think about having a heavy light
split so this is kind of our general
plan and then within that there's going
to be some variation and how we do this
so keep in mind don't take this to be
entirely literally because we're gonna
have to play around with this a little
bit so it's not a bad idea is to have
kind of an emphasis days an emphasis on
certain days so as you move into max
strength and power what might not be a
bad idea is to have another
weightlifting derivative you know your
choice based on your needs analysis for
are squatting movements we might do
something like a low bar squat and then
we might have just kind of basically a
priority or a needs basis for a lot of
these things so our low bar squats going
to be kind of like our heavy movement
that we do that day we're gonna have
probably a push and a pull that we have
to hit as well and then how we set that
up is going to be based on how you want
to prioritize it so we might do over
here is have like a close grip bench
press or something like a medium grip or
a close grip bench press let's say a
close grip because then we have some
momentum from the previous phase right
this will be kind of more medium and
then we could have something else like
an easy row or a barbell what am I
saying barbell bent over row and this
will be maybe a little bit lighter than
we normally go right that seems weird
give me a minute we get over here maybe
we have some overhead pressing stuff so
maybe we did some push press push jerk
depending on what we thought was
important
now we're going to have to probably do a
push-pull and a lake movement and we're
probably going to have to have a
priority system again so here we might
actually say alright now I'm doing my
bench press barbell bench press for my
maximum strength phase right and that's
going to be heavy because that's the
first movement outside of that overhead
press that I'm working on I'm probably
going to need to have a pull and a legs
in there so what I might say is alright
now I'm gonna have some parallel loops
no we didn't start about that parallel
grip pull up here and then what I might
have is high bar squat here which is
going to be a light per squat and this
one's going to be more medium see what
I'm doing now getting kind of
interesting day three probably going to
have either weight lifting movement your
choice depending on what you think is
important for your athlete now I'm
probably going to have to have some type
of heavy pulling movement so maybe we'll
have something like a bent over row
again this time heavy right then I'm
probably going to have to have a more
moderate leg movement so in this case
could be any number of things but let's
just have some fun and say deadlift
medium and then I'm probably going to
have a push in here at the end could be
something like close grip bench ups and
putting parentheses around things I
don't need to could actually could just
be that close grip bench and this will
be light so this progression will
generally be for the heavy things that
we do and then you can imagine taking it
down a couple percentage points for
everything that's meant to be heavy or
light see what I'm saying here so this
would be a good example of progression
now again this is just meant to be as an
example you are going to have a lot of
inter individual variability and how you
choose these exercises and the number of
days per week based on the individual
schedule and the individuals needs and
that's perfectly okay but we can see a
bit of a progression here as we go right
so we went from our hypertrophy
movements to our like metabolite
movements
some of our basic strength movements and
now we're basically working in our
maximum strength so like our bent over
rows and our parallel pull-ups are
probably going to be the strongest back
movements we can do our medium grip
benches and our close quarters are
probably going to be some of the
strongest push movements that we do our
weight lifting movements are going to be
our power movements for this phase we
have push presses and then we have
things like low bar squats high bar
squats and deadlifts for this phase
right so if you kind of see that we've
made some good choices we kind of have a
progression along the way and then last
but not least power and speed really
this is going to be so much individual
variation here and in some cases you
might actually go down to like two days
per week depending on where you are in
that phase so if we look at this one on
our plan right this power and speed is
still part of the specific prep phase so
they might not be doing a ton a ton a
ton of direct power and speed stuff to
the point where you actually have to
take their volume down to abysmally low
but here we might start to introduce
more plyometric stuff and reinforce a
lot of their technique so like they're
sprinting techniques they're supporting
technique stuff like that I don't want
to go into too much detail on the power
and speed but you can imagine it will
follow a very very similar progression
our weight training our weight lifting
stuff will probably be that one of the
big components we'll see a big component
of plyometric exercise and then we'll
also see more speed agility change of
direction kind of stuff and then our
strength training stuff will be kind of
on the back end so if you've watched the
video where we outline which things come
first right we would see anything that's
pure power so anything that's just body
weight and we're trying to move as fast
as humanly possible that's going to come
first in the session next would be
things like our weight lifting movements
or things that are done with resistance
but meant to be explosive and then the
last would be any of our strength
movements so that would be kind of the
last thing whereas before all of our
strength movements were first until we
got to this phase when we had some
weight lifting stuff right over here
we're going to see plyometrics
weightlifting and then kind of a little
pepper ring of strength training stuff
just to maintain maximal strength
characteristics as we go makes sense so
you know what I would say is just have
some fun and experiment a little bit
with yourself it's
it seems like such a silly thing but I
can tell you I have made a lot of
progress in my personal for myself for
my training progression and with a lot
of my clients really starting to think
about these things a little bit more
critically so let's just kind of review
some of the big bullet points right
exercise selection matches the golda
training phase you should be picking
exercises that allow them to express
what you're trying to achieve right so
for power and speed you have to pick
exercises which allow them to either be
really really explosive or move as fast
as possible right so for example a low
bar squat and a conventional deadlift
might not be the best choices for those
in terms of movement speed but they
might be just enough needed to maintain
muscle mass and maximum strength hitting
kind of maintenance volumes for those
things right but the rest of the
sessions should really be focused on
power and speed stuff likewise if you're
doing power and maximum power I can't
talk if you're doing maximal strength
training you should pick exercises which
allow you to express things like maximal
strength so like our high bar squats and
low bar squats our conventional
deadlifts are flat medium grip like
competition style bench presses those
are probably going to be the best bang
for our buck can you use variants within
there sure as long as they are not ones
that really really compromise your
ability to exert maximal force right so
things again like dumbbell benches might
not be good closed stance squats might
not be good you know like even front
squats might not be good because it's
just an inherently light or exercise now
if you're a weightlifter you can make a
case for that right so again that always
comes back to needs analysis basic
strength is sort of that transition when
we've gone from really really big range
of motion lots and lots of muscle
activation and now we're making a switch
and we're saying now I'm still doing
some of that but I'm really starting to
emphasize the force generating
characteristics this is where we see a
big transition away from things like
machines and cables and even dumbbells
to some extent and we see a big
transition towards barbell compound
bilateral movements so when we get over
here in hypertrophy we have a lot of
choices that's the fun part about
hypertrophy right your exercise
selection list is pretty large
however again the bulk of those things
be our free weight movements barbell
dumbbell bilateral and then if we want
to add some fun sexy ones along the way
this is probably the best time and I
would say probably the metabolite phase
if if you're doing that which you may
not it is probably the time where you
get to have the most fun sexy time with
exercise selection but what you also
want to consider is that progression
right so we said it should match the
goal we also want to face potentiate so
we don't want to just pick completely
variable exercises across each board
they should be progressing towards
something and generally as we move from
far away in competition like our general
preparatory phase as we move towards the
competitive phase we are generally
moving from lower intensity exercises to
higher ones so for our strength training
they will usually mean like easier
movements to harder heavier movements or
if we're looking at movement speed
faster more explosive movements as well
we also want to consider heavy light
this is where I think a lot of people
fall short it's okay especially on when
you have certain splits like three or
four days splits to not always make
everything super super crazy heavy it's
perfectly okay to stimulate SRA and
recovery by having a light day in there
every now and again and the best way to
do that is by either using a light
exercise variant reducing the total
number of sets performed on that
exercise or just reducing the load so
it's just not super super heavy
throughout the relative efforts not
super super high there are days that are
meant to be overloading there are days
that are meant to be recovery
stimulating and that's perfectly okay
and then number four is where I would
say kind of requires the most thought in
terms of doing this in the most logical
and creative way possible but carrying a
little bit of momentum so we know that
variation is good we know that not
enough variation can lead to plateauing
right so the what we want to try and
figure out is can't I smoothly make
transitions across these phases as I go
and the way that I like to do that and I
don't mike has talked about this too is
by using sort of our light curve
variations or our down sets as good
opportunities to add an exercise variant
that we might be using down the road
right so if we know
our squats are coming it's probably a
good idea to sneak them in somewhere
even if the emphasis was not high bar
squats for our quad day so and this one
we said hack squats and leg presses were
getting the job done and that's fine
right but we still found a way to get it
in there so that way we can actually
carry it over and keep using it and then
we might even keep using it over here in
this maximal strength phase right so in
this case we snuck it into this hyper
free phase we trained it on this basic
strength phase and then it actually
stuck around
even in this maximal strength phase so
by the time they get to this maximal
strength phase right they have generated
some momentum and now they should be
able to express a crapload of force in
that high bar squat whereas if you had
just introduced a high bar squat or just
introduced a low bar squat in the
maximum strength phase it's going to be
awkward the first week or two and that's
normal we experienced that every time we
add a new exercise merit or one that we
haven't done in a while right think
about like when you do like I what's it
called the split squat right the
Romanian split squat or whatever where
you have one foot elevated and you do
like a lunging movement when you do
those like your butt is sore for like
four weeks why because it's so novel
right you only have to do like one or
two sets and you've completely wrecked
and it's awkward so we don't want that
necessarily when we're trying to express
things like force and power output so I
hope this made sense if you guys enjoyed
watching me do this I know it's it's an
hour of me clicking on excel but if you
enjoyed watching me do this I'd be glad
to do some more examples please post
them up in the rp+ rpu forums I'll be
glad to do some more of these under some
different conditions so this was just
kind of a very generic one right we've
been looking at the same one for a while
now and I just wanted to show kind of a
really simple way of progressing this so
that you can at least get going now
obviously there's a lot of detail work
that has to be fleshed out but that's up
to you and your individual client and
personal needs this is just meant to
kind of get you up and running and going
with how to start programming an annual
plan so I hope you liked it again if you
have questions or if you want to see me
do more of these or more sample
progressions or different sports I'll be
happy to do this
less interruptions next time excuse me I
hope you guys enjoyed RP + RP you I have
a blast making these please let me know
if you want more