how do you know you're not gaining
muscle had a very interesting
interaction once on social media where
this gentleman asked me how come he
can't gain weight even though he's
eating a ton of calories I looked at his
calories I looked at his body and I was
like the and I was like look man my
number one suspicion is that you're not
actually eating this much food
consistently he's like dude I'm telling
you I am and I'm like okay fine I
believe you I rule that out I thought
about it for a bit and asked him a few
more questions he actually was gaining
weight just not as fast as he wanted but
the rate was like half a pound per week
it was totally fine so his initial
submission of I'm not weight was wrong
so some people when they tell you I'm
really not putting on muscle size well
how do you know that there's only really
one Golden Fleece way of figuring it out
has your repetition strength in the
exercises for that muscle group been
going up over time or has it been
staying really steady let's say we're
talking about back how's your one-arm
dumbbell row how's your bent row how's
your cable row how's your pull-ups how's
your pull Downs if they're like yeah man
over last year I've really put on just
tons of strength onto them Conversation
Over of course it'sing muscle
gain at some level you can't get neural
efficiency for that long