if I'm pausing at the bottom of a squat
if I pause am I not maximizing how much
time and detention I develop I'm not a
big fan of pausing this comes at the
expense of performance right you can do
fewer
repetitions hey folks Dr Mike here for
an superiorization my good friend man
henselman is with me he is an
instagrammer a YouTuber a Creator an
entrepreneur an influencer and actually
a legit person with legit career with
legit things to offer because all those
subcriptions were totally stupid
know I do prefer scientist scientist I
do prefer scientist oh you actually
literally do research and fund still
further research and analyze still
further research but you didn't call me
an influencer I like that I think I
actually did call you an
influencer I think you called an
influencer twice actually damn damn all
right so influence me on
this training
Tempo composed of at least four
components the speed of the Ecentric mhm
the length or degree of the pause at the
bottom MH the speed of the concentric
and the degree of squeeze SL stability
at the top
MH that has to matter a ton for muscle
growth right you would think so in
research it doesn't there have been
numerous reviews now and a lot of
studies on this although yeah I would
say over the last few years the research
is also quite high quality before not so
much and it quite conclusively shows
that as long as you're reaching the same
fatigue end point and you are
controlling the movement you get very
similar adaptations regardless of tempo
now there's not as much research on
pauses so let's skip that for now but
between the concentric and The Eccentric
phase of movement so when the muscle is
lengthening typically when you're
lowering the weight the Ecentric phase
you need some degree of control most
likely based on the research but even
that's not completely clear because you
need a good level of muscle activation
and normally your muscles are
essentially underwork during that phase
because you are much stronger
eccentrically than you are
concentrically because the active meos
and cross bridges that basically make
your muscles contract they are cleaved
mechanically like when a muscle is
lengthening it just it kind of happens
in part automatically that's part of the
reason that you can literally generate
more Force like it's not just easier to
lower the weight but you can actually
generate more Force now you need to load
that so you would think I just I slow
down The Descent that doesn't seem to
work as well because it reduces how many
reps you can do and in the end the kind
of the time under tension multiplied by
tension seems to add up to about the
same amount so research finds that
especially when you go beyond just some
eccentric control it doesn't actually
matter anymore and then for the
concentric research finds that there is
a substantial Improvement in most
studies a little bit contentious if it
matters if you go to failure but
substantial Improvement in both
performance and in strength gains when
you do an explosive concentric like you
really explosive you push the weight up
for muscle hypertrophy this doesn't seem
to matter I think over the long run
potentially the higher performance which
should generate more tension plus the
potentially higher strength gains via
neural adaptations one of which is
increased muscle activation that might
potentially augment long-term muscle
growth very speculative at this point
but I think it makes sense to do your
concentric with at least a decent amount
of explosiveness for bodybuilding
purposes I would say do it with the
intent to maximize how many reps how
many quality reps you can do and if
you're training for strength I would say
really hammer on that explosiveness
maximum explosiveness every repetition
for the movements that you really want
to build strength in and then you're
probably good in terms of paes we have
not so much research the PA at the top
probably doesn't matter because for a
bench pass or a squat what happens if
you pause at the top where you don't
have that much muscle tension is you
effectively turn it into a cluster set
now we do have a lot of research on
cluster sets cluster sets meaning you
take a pause in between your reps or
clusters of reps result in the same
adaptations as long as you go to the
same fatigue end point so similar
proximity to failure for both strength
development and muscle growth if
anything there might be a benefit for
strength development and in particular
power development because if you take a
bit of a rest in between reps you reduce
the amount of metabolic stress and you
let the muscles you basically keep them
capable of being very explosive for
longer so the be beneficial for strength
development for muscle pery not so much
and it also requires you to lift more
weight so the stimulus to fatigue ratio
in that sense might be a bit worse for
bodybuilding purposes like the amount of
tension and weight that you have to lift
which is also the stress on your connect
tissue your joints might be a bit higher
in the bottom I'm not a big fan of
pausing unless you need to to learn a
technique which is very important at
first but when you have that down if you
don't pause in the bottom position after
the exentric phase you get a stretch
reflex and we know in research that that
augments muscle activity and
performance and that should result in
higher tension on the muscle probably a
super marginal effect and it does come
with greater tension also on your
connected
tissues but purely for maximum
hypertrophy I would just generally
recommend the temple controlled
eccentric no PA in the
bottom explosive concentric or explosive
enough to maximize repetition
performance and then no pause in the top
unless you you want to if another
problem with pausing is that especially
at the top when there's no tension it
becomes a bit of a slippery slope you
know with squatting for example where
you know you do five repetitions you
pause at the top and it's like and then
you do one more rep and then you
need when in the next rep you have free
breaths Etc and at some point you're
just doing my reps or cluster sets
exactly how do you track that that's a
that's a big practical limitation of
that so I would say that generally
summarizes the the ideal Tempo uh at
least based on that use good technique
mhm control every phase of the movement
mhm and you're probably good to go yeah
for most intense purposes that is the
important for muscle growth yeah if I
intentionally slow down the Ecentric can
I expect worse
gains no you would have to go really
slow slow enough to make the weight so
light that it's no longer in that 5 to
30 rep range that optimizes yeah and it
also becomes very impractical to just
time it and manage it when you go up to
like 10 seconds there is a trend in
research for actually worse gains I
think that's mostly a practical thing
when it comes to the excentric for the
concentric you're just so non-explosive
that that that would be harmful
especially for strength development and
potentially even for muscle growth and
just wildly
impractical riddle me this if I'm
pausing at the bottom of a
squat and I don't give up tension I
don't fold over if I pause am I not
maximizing how much time at attention I
develop in a lengthened position and th
theoretically potentially boosting my
gains what do you think about that that
makes sense and it's also if you slow
down The Eccentric you would think that
you're putting more time on retention or
total tension emphasis essentially on
The Eccentric phase and we know that
eccentric overloading in some studies
augments gains but this comes at the
expense of performance right you can do
fewer repetitions but who cares how many
reps have I can I can do if I get to the
same failure end point yeah so it seems
to reps so it seems okay cool so at
least slow Rec Centrics are a totally
viable option if it fits criteria that
you're using such as injury prevention
or just variation or something like that
absolutely what do you think about this
and you and I have talked about this
before if you're using slower Ecentric
as a coaching tool for yourself and
others because getting into the right
position and actually doing the right
technique is nice to say in practice but
if you're doing really quick reps you
might be doing such not good technique
anymore if you slow down at least your
Ecentric phase if it's a tool by which
to improve your Technique do you think
it pays marginal utility then to try
sure I think it's a great tool actually
to instruct proper technique I often
tell my clients control first
explosiveness second you cannot build on
a shaky Foundation that's very literally
true when it comes to exercises like the
squat don't try to be explosive and
bounce out of the hole if in the hole
you cannot control your spinal position
and your flapping all over the place
that makes a lot of
sense one of the things that you know I
think was sort of this Channel and our
views on here my views on here are known
for
Ecentric slow Centric and the reason is
that a lot of the times we coach folks
on YouTube we use slow Centrics but
that's because that's mostly the first
time they've ever trained in our
technique and thus we use slow Ecentric
in order to get them to focus on
targeting the correct muscle generating
tension from the right place and hitting
the right literal position so I think
that's how kind of that
misinterpretation things it's
interesting I get shit on my own
Instagram where I post all of my
training uh for my Ecentric control
they're like shouldn't your Ecentric be
slower and I'm like should it and
they're like well yeah you you say that
all the time I'm like what I don't say
that all the time you've just seen it on
our Channel I I say that to other people
who don't know how to execute the
movement correctly if the Ecentric is
quick so if the Ecentric is quick but
still applied I think there uh is
totally fine to use a relatively rapid
Ecentric if you're comfortable with the
injury trade-off another thing on the
channel we train a lot of juice monkeys
and they you little bitt tendons Trend
makes them even smaller and the muscles
are really big so a slow controlled and
deep pauses help to limit the super high
forces in a stretch position which
reduce injury so that explains another
little bit of thing one last thing plus
the pure emphasis on hypertrophy totally
because most of my clients if especially
if they don't really specify I only care
about muscle growth I will typically
assume that they care at least a little
bit about strength most people that go
to the gym you know it's nice if you're
stronger like all else equal wouldn't
you like to be stronger as well most
people would say yes so in that sense I
optimize for a birree but if I can get
some strength there as well I will do it
in most programs like if if a client
doesn't specifically tell me one way or
the other typically I will try to power
build at least a little bit but
emphasizing body recom because that's
what most people care about the most
sure meno I've heard that the Ecentric
phase in realistic lifting conditions
per unit of mechanical work
completed requires less neural input MH
less nervous system activation MH does
that not lead us to at least t ly
hypothesize that more of a focus on the
Ecentric and I don't mean just by
slowing it down but by making sure
you're really milky Ecentric in some way
or another could improve our stimulus to
fatigue ratio because fatigue is at
least in some part derived by how hard
you're trying psychologically to
activate your nervous system what do you
think about that idea if we're defining
stimulus purely in terms of hypertrophy
oh sorry yes absolutely right because
you might lose some strength
developments if you start going really
slow your performance go go down you
don't have the stretch reflex so we
defining stimulus purely as muscle
growth and we're defining fatigue we
Encompass connective tissue stress like
injury risk I would say yes absolutely
in fact even even beyond that
theoretical argument I would say that
slow eccentric and Ecentric emphasized
training in general even pure eccentrics
have a very good track record in
physiotherapy research yes for we have
they are rehabilitative and potentially
protective such that if you do low
control Ecentric not only can you rehab
injured muscles and tendons and
ligaments but you can also potentially
make yourself a little bit more
bulletproof super instructive meno thank
you so much a couple can I can I ask you
a couple of Oddball questions hey Scott
go for it Scott the video guy why don't
we ever do a rapid fire segment on this
channel you can do the first one right
now yeah hey thanks for your approval
you fucking asshole you know what I need
more creativity out of you Scott ever
since we passed a million we're we're
it's from the fucking fry pan Into the
Fire Man really yeah I can uh you can do
whatever
yeah favorite ice cream flavor yeah what
are you going to say man you help me out
ice cream I mean uh I would love if we
lived in a society where people realize
that ice cream can be made low fat low
sugar well zero sugar in fact and still
be sweet and great and the technology
has existed for over 10 years but
there's just not enough market demands
for enough of high protein low fat low
carb ice cream to be available that's
the flavor I want regardless of what
actual flavor it is so you're a macros
obsessed orthorexic insane person but my
man you got it muscle
dysmorphia prevalent in Fitness not not
bodybuilding you go to the gym regular
gym LA Fitness in San Francisco
metropolitan area how many motherfuckers
got by of dysmorphia diagnosable
psychiatrically valid body dysmorphy are
we talking about rare are we talking
about surprisingly common what is your
intuition on this there is literature on
this it depends a lot on how you define
it if we're literally talking clinical I
would say not many very few because if
you're really talking the original
definition of body dysmorphia to a
clinical sense like anorexics if you
have anorexics look at pictures of girls
other girls is usually women that are
extremely lean they will accurately
ident ify them as being starved yep so
in general they are quite accurate at
identifying it to other people but then
if you show them a picture of themselves
or you ask them about themselves and
they're skinnier than those women
exactly and they will be completely like
horribly wrong and not to the extent of
you know being polite or humble or any
of that just like they really really
don't see it that is true B dysmorphia
most bodybuilders don't have that they
just have that everyone on YouTube is
bigger than them and everyone in
Instagram looks better than them and
they're not yeah exactly so we just have
a frame of reference issue and a lot of
people also actually have body disor in
the opposite direction people in general
think that they are better at everything
than they are in people think in general
than they they are leaner than they are
most people are disappointed with their
dexa scan results so yes there is
certainly a lot of insecurity men think
they're not big enough women think
they're too fat but on the other hand
there's also a whole lot of people that
actually kind of over um over evaluate
themselves in a lot of sense all right
the Steven Crowder meme the Change My
Mind Table manah hansman sits at it
you're in worse shape than you think
Change My Mind One Last Question total
Oddball question if Mike say it's an
oddball question he knows something
fucked up as shit or it's totally normal
and you're like you're insane and have
no idea what Oddball means you did a
real bad thing Meo which one I remember
when you uh took a School Bus full of a
genetically
engineered Chimera combination of
children and
puppies and just sent it into the bottom
of the ocean drowning and crushing these
poor puppy children under massive
pressures and the government of the
Netherlands decided that this was such a
terrible crime that they're going to
reinstitute back from
1826 the death penalty only for you mhm
but since it's the Netherlands and the
jails there look like the luxury hotels
in the United States you get one last
meal of your choice they have private
jets they have freezers bringing you
fucking shit from Japan they have a team
of Michelin star chefs no expenses
spared you get whatever last meal that
you want Mena what's your last meal so
this is your way of asking what my
favorite food is after you didn't get a
satisfactory
well that was ice cream and your and
your answer was quite literally
Psychopathic so I'm trying another
approach a tailor to the psychopath no
doubt loves to kill disgusting Chimera
Godless hybrid puppy children that
honestly deserved it I'm with you they
should have died but the Netherlands
government not so much the kingdom of
the Netherlands you upset them for the
last time okay so my my thoughts on
favorite food are that people should
adopt more of an economical perspective
of Jesus Christ caught the this is what
you get you wanted rapid fire this is
neither rapid nor fire people say oh I
love zucchini when do you eat zucchini
shut up never then you don't love
zucchini I love Greek yogurt with
raspberries and sucos why do I love that
because I eat it every day it's my
breakfast it's my breakfast when I'm
cutting it's my breakfast when I'm B I
thought you were going to say it's my
breakfast it's my lunch and shit it's
even my dinner like okay cut cut the cor
I used to do it that way but that ended
up not working so well with mineral
deficiencies and
stuff tried it though collegeart College
100% so your last meal in a filthy roach
infested the roaches are bigger than the
rats both are present uh Kingdom of the
Netherlands prison cell is raspberries
Greek yogurt and Sucralose might as well
one last time for Old Time sake yeah
just stick with the familiar my man
stick with them familiars good advice
for you in cells and uh G Mano God damn
that was a good answer try try any
recommendations on yogurt any are we
talking about is it fat-free Greek
yogurt or is it some fat fat free yeah I
go fat but the fat stuff tastes better
doesn't it yeah if you have the calories
and you have to saturated you're going
to die in an hour who gives a shit about
calories you never know you always
optimize for the long run can you
imagine they're like hey we got this
whole mixed up uh you're free to go and
you're like I ate all this fucking shit
food now I'm fat I should let me kill
myself fuck it exactly imagine if that
happens that would be awful yeah if
you're going to get hanged at least have
a sixpack the people like admiring you
and shit when you're getting
hanged I guess the best food if you're
getting hanged and people are admiring
you for a six-pack is like a couple of
lasx pills so you get a little drier
before you go on there and like you get
hanged but like that one bitch in the
front row is like ooh at least you got
that hoe and maybe as D you're like yeah
exactly I was going to do the same thing
you're like bitch and you flick her off
too show your dick anyway guys don't
ever let me speak on public television
ever again that's been my lesson and hel
simones is the man he's on YouTube he's
on Instagram good luck spelling his name
it's about as weird as mine um and uh
see you next time pleasure as always
peace
[Music]
homies yeah yeah
yeah