easy tips for all my heart gainers out
there this is for
you Dr PX here trust me I am a doctor
and I was in doctor house and you will
never take that away from me also a huge
scrubs enjoyer if you like Scrubs please
comment below so a few basic tips for
heart gainers now heart gainers are
people that are actually putting in the
effort and find it hard to gain muscle
if you have been trying your best to
gain weight well obviously to gain
muscle by gaining weight and you are not
seeing PRS in the gym you're more or
less the same body weight or it's very
difficult for you to gain an appreciable
amount of muscle mass here are some tips
that can make your life easier number
one tip for hard gainers who are finding
it hard to gain weight stop opting for
foods that are very very filling and opt
for relatively healthy choices that are
very high in calories and low in volume
stop number one extra virgin olive oil
I'm not saying shower in olive oil but
pouring some olive oil over all your
Savory Foods or at least the majority of
your Foods including your salads
including your rice including your
whatever will make a huge difference as
far as getting easy and relatively
healthy calories in in addition to olive
oil spreads that are relatively healthy
but sometimes may not be the healthiest
as a default option are also a very easy
way for you to add calories having a
peanut butter and jelly sandwich and
opting for whole wheed bread where
you're getting some Fiber and Blasting
the peanut butter and the jelly in that
sandwich you can obviously opt for low
sugar jelly if you want to be a bit more
health conscious but you can easily look
at around 400 500 calories for a single
sandwich have two of those a day and
you're covered and in general small food
food that have a [ __ ] ton of calories
that you can just munch in a few seconds
without really thinking about them that
is your best way stop trying to force
traditional meals like rice and chicken
or sweet potatoes and lean beef if
you're finding it hard to gain weight
you can do so if these are the foods
that you really enjoy but supplement
those foods with a few basic snacks and
you'll see that life becomes much easier
which brings me to the next Point
embrace the mega turbo bulk Shake get a
blender throw a bunch of [ __ ] inside
including whole milk peanut butter buy
potentially weight gainer powder and
throw that in there Force the one shake
per day you can throw in things like
honey you can actually blend fruit so
you can get some micronutrients as well
and have that one monster 1,000 plus
calorie shake at some point during your
day it's important to note that if you
find it hard to eat you will have to
push past some level of discomfort in
order to you know fight against your
hard Gainer genetics that brings you to
the next
Point try and drink some of your
calories consume those extra calories at
times where you're not really eating and
you're maybe just looking for hydration
and that can make a big difference in
your total daily calorie intake instead
of having two scoops of whey protein
with water take a page out of Sam suk's
[Music]
book oh my God look at that and have
some chocolate milk having a liter of
chocolate milk when you're thirsty after
training or when you're not really
hungry and you are going to have this
very calorie efficient um high protein
shake opting for the 800 calorie option
and consistently doing so again will
make things very very easy you need to
be putting that effort throughout every
week as long as you develop those habits
and you consistently have ready to eat
snacks here and there things will become
much easier as far as gaining weight
goes and it's important to know that if
you're somebody who is likely not going
to eat throughout the day go ahead and
buy stuff that you know you're going to
consume now that's the nutrition side of
things as far as training goes for hard
gainers it may be useful to try and be a
bit more aggressive with your overall
training
[Music]
Volume 2 on 25 Rex we ain't done yet by
the new crib that's a godamn flex
a few hard tests per week are more than
enough for the majority of people to
make substantial muscle gains once
you've taken care of the nutrition side
of things and you're consistently in a 5
to 10% Surplus and you're gaining weight
consistently month in month out now it
may be time to be a bit more aggressive
with how many sets per Mouse grp per
week you do try to push training volume
somewhere in the 20 to 30 sets per
muscle grp per week try doing so and see
if that makes a big difference or at
least if it feels like it's something
that you can manage don't lose hope if
in 4 months of really putting in that
effort cuz at the beginning it will feel
much harder than it will feel after 6
months especially the eating and
training like a madman part give it time
muscle growth is a very slow process and
do not get fooled by the you know 3mon
Transformations that you see on social
media give it time tell yourself at the
very least a full year of gradually I'm
not saying get fat I'm saying gradually
gaining weight while pushing your
training and doing a bunch of training
volume and then after you've reached
that year assess and see how have things
progressed take a sec see how you've
changed check measurements circumference
measurements look at your performance in
the gym if you're much bigger and much
stronger things are going well keep it
up and that brings me to the end of this
video thank you so much for watching
there is hope I do not think that you're
that one one person out there that will
not make games whatsoever just keep add
it bro or broette for the one girl that
watches just keep add it the 10 15 years
will eventually pass maintaining that
muscle mass afterwards is going to be
much easier than building it so do your
best give it your all thank you
subscribe like hit the bell and enjoy
your new Gams Mr hard Gainer you're
welcome peace