[Music]
hey guys dr. Michelle here for the last
fourth lecture for introduction to Sport
and Exercise Science here at rpu we're
gonna be talking about furthering your
education that is using rpu to maximize
your value that you're getting from this
product / service so first here's the
deal why would you potentially make use
of RP you maybe you've been duped into
health scams before when coconut oil
came out you thought it was all the rage
body wraps etc etc work out scams
diet scams and every time you buy a new
diet and coaching service you still feel
like oh maybe I'm getting ripped off
you learned that Oh coconut oil wasn't
what it was once thought to be it's a
fine food in moderation but it's not a
health elixir like you thought it turns
out that that recent workout fad you
bought into didn't burn off all the fat
but it's a fine workout to do a couple
of times a week but because you might
not be familiar with the foundational
principles of sport exercise science
you're still wary about purchasing more
coaching or more dieting you don't know
where to turn because anyone can just
say we're scientific and all of a sudden
you're buying coaching and diet advice
that might just be wrong or pretty wrong
or mostly wrong you have no idea how to
tell and maybe you're getting tired of
that maybe your friends and relatives
are getting duped you're no longer
getting duped because you know some
stuff and you've been around to kind of
have a good just intuitive
radar but your friends and relatives are
getting duped and you know there's
something fishy about what they're
buying some kind of weird workouts or
fads or diet pills but you can't quite
explain it they say well what's wrong
these pills this doctor says they work
he's got an MD and everything and he
reps the company and he says it's great
and you go
just looks like BS and the why and you
can't explain the physiology because you
might not know it yet a new guru comes
up some guy that's maybe super jacked or
super lean or super good at sports and
maybe none of those but talks a good
talk has maybe coached or trained or
somehow associated himself with
individuals they've talked a good talk
and you want to know if these ideas have
any basis in science one recent one that
I can remember who has had I think his
heyday to some extent unless he's gonna
make a comeback is this gentleman named
Ito apart all and I think he's Israeli
and he kind of ushered in the movement
movement of just learning how to walk on
your hands and do handstands and be
flexible and maybe do some parkour
Italy's cool recommendations of stuff to
do that looks cool but he'd say things
like everyone needs to be able to do
this everyone needs to be able to move
this naturally and he started helping
some fighters with their preparation he
started helping Conor McGregor with
movement just to get him to move better
in general
well most sports scientists could have
told you that was total BS for
high-level athletes indeed it was Conor
McGregor his next fight against Nate
Diaz he got choked out in rapid fashion
and it looked like none of that stuff
really carried over so Ito portala kind
of didn't make a big wave anymore after
that but the next gurus couldn't come in
and he's gonna say my exercise stuff
works and a lot of people are gonna do
it and I'm gonna look at you and say why
are you doing it isn't this stuff great
and you're not gonna know if these ideas
of any basis in science because you
might not know the science yet even
though you have respect for what science
has to say or another situation you
might already been be working with
athletes maybe as a medical professional
a doctor or a nurse or maybe as a coach
but you're focusing on their technical
preparation and their tactical
preparation maybe you want to at least
understand some elements of their
preparation that are not immediately
related to you recovery and nutrition
just so maybe you can see where they're
coming from give them basic advice make
sure if they're not airing too terribly
for example does a doctor have to know a
lot of nutrition no because he deals
with medical
problems but a lot of medical problems
are made much better especially in the
long term and actually prevented with
proper nutrition so if a doctor knows
fundamental basics of nutrition when
patients ask and they do ask their
doctors for a nutritional advice that
doctor can be more in a position to give
them good advice even though that's not
the exact job they're paid for if you're
in that position or any of the ones
described all of the coursework in
levels 1 through 5 at Rp you will be of
a massive help to you it'll give you
that physiological underpinning to be
able to do what to be a very smart
shopper and make sure you don't get or
have a low chance of buying into some
bunk that looks like science or looks
like it works but doesn't if you'll be
able to pick who to follow wisely right
if you know some good actors eye signs
you can pick the experts somebody like
Alan Aragon or Brad Sean Felder Games
Krieger if you know who those names
already may be you know that those guys
are the very tip-top experts in our
field and there's a lot of other people
compete for that spot that aren't a
scientific or aren't on the money as
much and if you have a basic education
is you can vet those guys and know that
they're the ones to follow for more
expert advice if you're willing to take
it but those other guys that are
competing with them maybe they're not
some people to follow and of course if
you're working with athletes etc a real
good basic understanding like for a
doctor who sees maybe individuals in a
sports medicine clinic if the nose basic
sport nutrition he can give a lot of
good recommendations even though that's
not his exact role to do ok so that's
four levels more or less one through
five
they'll put you into that really good
position here are some other scenarios
let's say you want to get better at
training yourself you want better
results or possibly for your clients or
your athletes you want to know how to
guide your own recovery nutritional
processes and you want to help your
athletes be guided in those processes as
well maybe you are interested in
preventative management to make sure
injuries don't happen or how to care for
injuries when they happen or how to for
example if you're a personal trainer
somebody comes to you with preexisting
injuries which they usually do with some
you know how to work around
how to properly manage it how to detect
if an injury has gotten so bad that they
need to see another professional or you
want to stay up to date on your own area
of expertise of your high-level coach or
a strength and conditioning coach you
might want to stay up to date on the
very advanced stuff and strength and
conditioning then there's always more to
learn and especially in level 6 for
those situations if you've mastered the
first five levels so rpu is for a lot of
individuals both individuals that are
seeking to get the basics so they can
hang individuals that are seeking to get
the very advanced latest recommendation
so they can perfect their craft and
individuals that want to go through that
whole process and get a full complete
exercise in sports science education now
if you're interested in getting that
education we have some really good tips
for you - how to approach the lectures
how to approach the courses to make sure
you do best what is the only purpose of
rpu high level deep learning how do you
take the lectures how do you approach
them to make sure you're learning the
most first of all you want to listen to
a lecture several times if the material
is still confusing after the first time
or after the second remember there is no
timer there is no one washing we don't
track who sees what lectures okay and
when this occurs when you're actually
learning at rpu it's all for one reason
so that you can understand and if you go
through a lecture and you don't
understand then there's no problem at
all going through the lecture again or
if you go through a whole course and you
might not understand some lectures go
through those lectures or if you go
through a lecture and there's just a
part of it you don't understand there's
no big deal in rewinding and listening
to that again or looking at the
powerpoints again and trying to figure
some stuff out maybe even doing reading
on your own go at your own pace listen
to the stuff several times if needed
because of two things one it'll clear up
the stuff you don't know and two if you
go through the whole lectures the whole
courses a second a third time the stuff
they
you already know already learned the
first time and understood is going to
ingrain deeper in two ways one just
through repetition it's going to be
easier to remember and easier to
conceptualize but another way is that by
thinking about it again now when it's
review you're not struggling using your
brain power on incorporating that
concept you already know that concept
but the reminder of it and the reacts
planation of it can allow you to fit
that concept and expand it to connect it
to others so not only do you learn the
concept better but you integrate it
better and now you can use that concept
more to say oh now I understand nutrient
timing I'm starting to get a feel for
when someone has a really erratic
schedule how to really apply the
principles because hearing them the
first time they made sense to you then
the second time I went through scenarios
in my head where I would apply them to
different situations and it worked right
so relearning lectures is a really good
idea I have a couple of other
intellectual hobbies myself outside of
sport exercise science one of them is
economics and when I purchased an
economics book I'll either purchase the
book on tape or the physical hardcopy
I will almost always read it several
times now because I'm ready to learn and
the first time I listened to a lot of
lectures or hear a lot of books I'm not
on a trained economist so a lot of the
stuff even if it's not a technical
language it's hard stuff economics is
not an easy science so you think about
it kids that kind of makes sense exactly
sure that works but the author keeps
talking or you keep reading then when
you come back to it
all the stuff you already know you
already know it's easy it's integratable
okay this is great great great you think
of other ways it can connect and then
you get to that heart stuff again but
now you have more connections more of an
understanding more of you you get to the
heart stuff and you go ah I see how that
works and as you work through the
courses if you work through them once or
maybe two or three times after those two
or three times your depth of knowing is
way more expensive to do you have to go
through each course towards you have to
of course not if you go to a course once
and retain enough information to do a
while on tests and quizzes
then you know the stuff and that's
really great and then you can just redo
courses in which you want more depth
more interest more insight if needed
right but remember it's all on your own
time
another thing you should really strive
to do is to try to connect the concepts
within each lecture to each other right
and connect the concepts within each
course to each other so how does joint
biomechanics connect to injury
biomechanics well of course
injury occurs two joints and all icy
shearing forces what you talked about
enjoy biomechanics this is how they can
contribute to injury if you connect all
of the concepts to the extent that they
are connected if you think about that
especially in multiple times through the
course or through a particular lecture a
particular reading that you find
difficult if you really learn at a very
very deep level and that's what matters
most now in addition to that we have
offered quizzes after each lecture and
exams after each course we highly
encourage you to take these quizzes and
exams because let's be completely honest
here feeling like you know something is
good so good start it so it's cool you
don't really prove that you know
something until you've proven that you
know it you put it down on paper you put
it into practice so by taking the
quizzes you may very well finish a
lecture and you can oh come maybe we
were listening to it in the car on the
way to work and that traffic was kind of
bad you were kind of looking out for
traffic and whatever you heard of the
lecture you know you never really know
how much you missed and whatever you
heard just sounded good and then the
stuff you didn't hear what it's not like
anything cuz you weren't paying
attention you never take any of the quiz
and someone says hey did you you get
that lecture number for it support
physiology and you're like yeah totally
enzymes got it no problem somebody gives
you a quiz and says hey what do you know
actually know about enzymes you're like
I know that I know that I know that that
though I have no idea what the hell that
is you take the quiz you get a 50% is a
50% of good grade you know 50% of
support physiology or of that particular
latch-on enzymes
bad deal so take the quizzes and tests
and look to do well on them if you do
super poorly on the quizzes and tests
come back to them that's a really really
good idea right the point here is to
learn deeply so that you can apply the
material a
how are you supposed to apply something
especially to yourself or to someone
else if you don't actually know it at a
deep level if you're teaching someone
how to squat more properly and they ask
you why is this more proper if you don't
know the answer to that question it's
not so much of a concern that you can't
tell them the answer although as a
professional it's mildly embarrassing
the problem is you don't know the answer
so how are you supposed to know if
that's the correct way to teach them to
squat right you want to learn at a deep
level because that makes you better at
your job at your passion at your hobby
it gives you the highest chance of
success remind you are not here to pass
a test and there is no certification
maybe an undergraduate program you had
maybe you've heard of other students at
college just taking the class to get the
a and then they forget everything after
they cram a bunch the cramming at Rp you
would be the most pointless thing you
could ever do you are paying money each
month that remind the money that's not
that much money
hours of your time or being spent so
that you can do one on one with some
kind of test there's no certification
there literally you're not gonna hand
you a document that says hey you did it
you're an RP you graduate there is no
graduation right so if you do one wanna
test suite but what you really want is
deep understanding the concepts of good
news if you get a deep understanding the
concepts you'll always do on the test
but if you just memorize some stuff and
kind of figure out how the test works or
maybe retake the same test over and over
which you can do you'll do super well on
the test it'll mean anything right
you're not here to be vetted you're not
here to prove anything to anyone in
regular college in regular high school
you totally are trying to prove to
future employers that you're capable of
doing collegiate level work you're not
trying to prove anything you are
literally trying to learn period and
when you learn you learn well because
otherwise why would you spend time doing
right and to add to that your pace
because it's all for you and you're
learning your pace is the only thing
that matters the final exam in an
undergraduate course is in December or
in early May or late April that's by
when you have to know the stuff that's
why I'm the cramming starts at our PU
the final exam is tomorrow or the day
after or the next week or the next month
or next year or in ten
years assuming the internet is still
around and robots haven't killed us all
which you know hopefully will happen
or won't happen am ia robot that's a
good question so your pace is the only
thing that matters are pu because it's
for your benefits for your learning for
example if you are in sort of a business
lunch situation and it's kind of like
five minutes left until we have to go
back to the firm and put up more slides
and talk about business strategies with
our guests from you know the Minnesota
office or something like that
you got five minutes to finish your food
at lunch whose pace are you on
well you're nobody's gonna wait for you
that's ridiculous you don't want to you
know get in the way of business by being
like a lot I got another 15 minutes of
burrito to eat you're on their pace you
have to finish your food at their time
is that gonna sacrifice the quality of
the meal absolutely it's gonna be like a
rush feel nobody likes having you like
having a rushed meal you want to relax
that's kind of like regular college or
high school rpu is kind of like having a
meal you took the time to prep at home
with your favorite meal you really put
some work into it and it's a Saturday
afternoon you don't have plans until
9:00 p.m. that evening and it's 4:00
p.m. and you put that plate down in
fryer yourself and how long do you have
to eat the food as long as you like and
you know what if you're not hunger right
then you can take that food put it in
the refrigerator cover it up take it out
later put it in the microwave take it
out and start eating it again it'll
sometimes Noori microwaving food makes
it just as good right but the basic
thing is that's on your own time for
your own pleasure for your own value
period so remember to approach this in
that way there's no pressure nobody's
gonna rat you out if you listen to a
course three times someone's gonna rat
you out if you get a 31% on the quiz at
first and then eventually get up to
getting 90% right it's all for your pace
no rush no pressure
do your best to learn the material it's
on now that's just for each lecture or
maybe for each course
how about approaching the whole
curriculum here's the thing if you have
a solid undergraduate curriculum
undergraduate a supporter Exercise
Science education you can feel free to
skip the first couple of
we totally can you can also feel free to
you them that would be really good but
if you are not interested in that sort
of thing and you know you have a
grounded foundation totally cool no
problem at all if you don't have that
background and that's totally okay
that's one of the reasons we made our bu
you are probably our number one customer
if you don't have a sport exercise
science background because you didn't
want to pay $30,000 a year for college
then it's highly recommend that you work
through all the courses and one through
four now I know levels one through four
are boring sometimes they are and
they're tedious sometimes they are and
sometimes they're difficult is very
weird conceptual stuff molecules and
enzymes and entropy what though is a
squat but those courses are the ones
that prepare you for the courses that
will make you an excellent practitioner
or an excellent hobbyist or an excellent
athlete they're critical they're the
most valuable thing we have to offer you
can read articles about all that applied
stuff online and pick up some things
here and there and you can learn a lot
about application just by doing it but
the fundamental basics you won't find
almost anywhere else outside of a very
highly paid undergraduate
brick-and-mortar school curriculum
that's really valuable to do as special
if you haven't seen it before now once
you get into levels five and six of the
more applied stuff you can totally
branch out you don't have to go through
everything but we highly recommend one
through four almost everyone who enrolls
in rpu unless they have an undergraduate
important exercise science maybe them
two should do levels one through four
take your time you're learning is what
matters right if you're a quick reader a
quick learner kudos if you're not
doesn't matter you have all the time in
the world that you want to do whatever
it takes to learn what you want right
and at the time of this video recording
the price for RP plus is twenty dollars
a month so if you take another month
extra that's an extra twenty bucks
college costs thousands of dollars so is
it really a poor use of your money if
you slow down to learn more probably not
lastly
before you go and enjoy your newfound
knowledge the best way to approach the
curriculum is let us know if you want us
to add some courses we're here for you
to deliver to you what it is you want to
know we're gonna deliver all the basics
and a ton of applied stuff as well but
if you want especially some applied
courses that we haven't thought of yet
or we haven't released or maybe we're
working on now but we haven't said in
public let us know say you want a course
on how to rehab injuries so you want a
course on this and that we are going to
do our very best to find experts for you
that deliver those courses and a concise
clear and very informative manner to get
you the education that you want so what
are you supposed to do now
well now you're ready for level 2
courses that's fit right take them at
your own pace those level 2 courses take
the quizzes and tests all right if you
do super poorly go back and relearn the
lectures and then take them again no big
deal and as you complete all the courses
at the first levels move up the courses
move up the levels to complete more and
more and then when you get to level 5
feel free to branch out and you don't
have to complete all level 5 courses
it's a whole lot of courses and at level
6 you can really pick and choose what
you want to learn or if you're a real
sponge just watch them all in succession
and you're gonna know a lot one word of
advice that I have on the watching all
the courses if you're of that kind of
person that wants to consume everything
make sure you're doing due diligence if
you really want to tackle currently our
planned projection for the baseline rp+
or baseline our pu courses is about 50
courses with further additions after
that if you want to learn let's say 40
of the most basic and applied courses
that's gonna take you quite a long time
it's gonna take you months if you're
super quick years if you're somebody
like me who's not super quick if there's
a very big difference between that
driving to and from work and listening
to the courses in the background
versus really paying attention to what's
going on taking the tests and quizzes is
it okay to listen to the courses in the
background totally if you want to get
the best education you can at least for
the courses that really challenge you
make sure you take some time maybe on a
cardio walk or something like that or
while you're doing cardio on a treadmill
something more constant where your
attention is not everywhere really dig
into that material really give it a lot
of thought take your time if you're
gonna if you tell me in a couple years
we meet and you say hey I've taken 40 RP
U courses I might quiz you on some of
them and you better know your stuff
right remember you don't take the
courses to say you've taken 40 our
people is amazed that were completely
honest if you tell me you took 40
courses my first guess unfortunately is
gonna be the briefs number material and
I'll be like oh what do you thing about
this name like oh well I think you'll
get it wrong right
don't just breeze through them don't
take them to take them don't listen them
to listen to them focus your efforts do
a good job it meaningfully making it
your mission to learn I have achieved
quite a level of expertise how did I do
it one of the quote unquote secrets to
my success if a secret elements to my
success is that all the way from high
school into undergrad especially in
masters and PhD program I never took any
courses in my subject area that I took
just to take I never read anything I
would one of the slowest readers you'll
ever meet because I read everything and
I read everything to comprehend it
everything I read I integrate into the
larger structure of my understanding
that takes a shitload of time what do I
get at the end of it expertise but you
have to earn that so don't rush take
your time focus on quality and whatever
you do learn as much as you want we'll
be there to help you without her
understanding to help you in your
training to help your recovery nutrition
and help you help anyone that you do
either your job or your leader
that's the end of the intro course see
you guys in level two
[Music]