that was awful hold at the bottom this
won't be over until you do it correctly
that was also awful you didn't hold at
the bottom so you have one more good one
in you chest up they're not going
anywhere one less good one chest up
chest up chest up stop r that sucked
[Music]
go folks I'm Dr Mar for Renaissance
periodization oh I even have it on my
shirt to remind me this is
sarahi and she is from espan see see ESP
and you are originally your ancestry is
Moroccan yeah so you also speak Arabic M
so you are uh Sara Al Sahara exactly
perfect thanks Dr Mike you fucking idiot
she is going to be doing a glute workout
but it's a very special occasion this is
actually a Revenge workout what what do
you mean her and I have no personal beef
as a matter of fact she's quite cool but
all of you have beef with her because
she is a professionally trained
practicing dentist which means her job
is to hurt you and her ilk the dentists
have hurt all of us for so long you sit
in a fucking waiting room you hear
people in the back screaming the
machines you're up next and the henst
smiles at you and you're like childhood
memories for all of us all of the pain
the dentist have caused this and she's
not done she's now going to school to
become an accredited oral surgeon she
wants to hurt you more but don't worry
we're going to hurt her back we're going
to toast her hamstrings and glutes and
quads so bad that at least she'll be
able to tell other dentists that hey I
paid the price for all of us I'm scared
but I'm ready good let's go let's do
[Music]
it all right folks so we are going to
start warming up and then do work sets
for the first exercise by the way it's
only three exercise like workout why
because we are going to be doing a
considerable amount of relative effort
pushing close to failure with that
Renaissance periodization technique
she's been training super hard under the
grand tutelage of the ever so wise met
henselman but because we're doing
something different even just because
it's different it's going to fry her ass
and I mean that literally hit it slow
knees yes and then up very good that was
the best one two more just warming up
still back slow big chest knees
back up how'd that feel weightwise good
not challenging no what do you want 30
or 40 oh 30 or 40 yeah 30
remember if you screw up on our Channel
you're fucking gone forever everyone
will hate you
slow yes I want you to hold at the
bottom for a sec
go that was awful hold at the bottom
this won't be over until you do it
correctly that was also awful you didn't
hold at the bottom s you have one more
good one and you chest up they're not
going anywhere one last good one chest
up chest up chest up stop
r that sucked
go oh my God every time I said stop you
just kept coming up why because it was
hurting which where does it hurt the
legs say that again my legs oh I don't
care I know right that's the problem
dude we're here for the pain the pain is
a good thing pain in the muscles is a
proxy for growth you're here to get big
hams right yeah you know what I'm saying
when you walking down the street like
when I typically walk down the street I
have no some cute boys I'm like oh hey
fellas what's up no big deal just like
uh and then all the motherfuckers come
with me right and they're not going with
you cuz you keep rushing them reps oh my
goodness four more slow chest
up one three more chest
stop two slow and fucking pause godamn
it chest up pause up good one more slow
chest up chest up chest Up
Wait excellent
rack amazing amazing good good good all
right get out of here oh my God the fuck
out of here I had a problem once where
uh I felt my own hamstrings during
training but then I started feeling
other people's hamstrings during
training and these weren't people I knew
you know just random people at the gym
and my parole officer said that was
legally unwise all right do you have a
parole officer uh no
[Music]
okay I wanted to be a ballet
dancer and luckily we have basically
ballet shoes here uh but why Dr Mike
because for like a dollar on Amazon we
also got a fucking slider board which
means that now we can do front foot
elevated Smith machine lunges where
there is essentially well close to zero
friction on the back foot
because a huge tip on this exercise when
you're doing it is that you want as much
tension on that front foot as possible
because that's the glute that's doing
all the work the problem is your body
will naturally have a survival Instinct
to accomplish the exercise and push as
much off of both feet as possible but we
don't want that back foot pushing a
whole lot give some thought to this
exercise it's going to be amazing for
you for Sarah it's going to be another
version of pure hell let's get it
started
go good control nice and easy use your
front leg couple more
slow
up two
[Music]
more good and one more slow slow slow
slow slow slow wait
up rat you stop under two conditions I
say so or you collapse pain is imminent
it is inevitable there is no getting
away from it as a matter of fact we just
want to go to it because the more pain
you experience in your glutes in your
quads in your chest cavity and in your
soul the more we get closer to making
you so jacked that people no longer find
you
attractive uh yeah yeah why not you good
yeah let's fucking do it slow yes yes
yes fucking perfect keep going
[Music]
yes three more and you're
done one you got this fix it
slow two good last one slow slow slow
speed up crap good job
stop I had uh an experience once after
which I had numb glutes but they said no
one had actually been having that much
fun in a 24-hour holding cell with five
other guys
before if you had to commit a terrible
crime what crime would it be like aliens
come to Earth all right and they're
we're going to destroy the whole earth
unless you commit one heinous crime what
would it be wow super difficult old
ladies crossing the street you're
driving in your Range Rover you see her
from a couple hundred meters away just
keep
going right that's option one okay
number two is you have a cannon but the
Canon isn't loaded with cannonballs it's
loaded with puppies oh my
God no uh number three you go into a
convenience store and you talk up the
clerk and you steal a piece of gum and
you walk out what do you think probably
number three are you fucking thief yeah
I I mean I don't want
just don't steal anything else in my gym
all right folks last exercise for Sarah
here today three sets which he's going
to do is get the bar on her she's going
to slowly and under control go all the
way down to a full squat staying very
upright knees forward she's going to
wait there for about a second she's
going to come up pushing through her
heels and her toes until she gets up
about 2/3 no rest slow back down again
wait at the bottom for a second up 2/3
slow back down again the shit hurts me
and there's no fucking weight on the bar
and then when she gets really tired
we'll say come all the way up she's
going to come up
lock breathe I'm going to give her
another couple reps to do and my reps it
is until well we see some bless in the
face and then purple and then gray and
then the spirit ghost of Izzy naras will
come out of nowhere and uh hopefully
cool shit will happen let's get into
it
down
slow up up up up rest rest
slow
wait
up good
job oh my
God where does it hurt
everything
so that was that was very
good some of the Reps where you're
supposed to just come up to 2/3 you came
all the way up because it's less pain we
want more pain okay and at the bottom
there's a temptation to do this don't
stay upright keep your chest up at all
times if you take my advice your quads
will hurt even more but that's what's
driving the hypertrophy is that tension
and the metabolite accumulation to the
quads the gym is a place where we come
to not to exhibit our strength and our
athleticism it is a place for
hypertrophy training where we come to
expose our weak points so it's just
going to blow like 10 dicks in a row
which could be fun if you're on the
receiving end but you're on the
whichever end
sucks
[Music]
okay up up up rest don't you go anywhere
we are here for that fucking shit
strong I can't down you can and you will
the worst thing that happens is you just
don't stand up or you die but that's
unlikely big chest control your chest up
no Stay Stay Stay Stay Stay Stay Stay
now stay there don't go don't go
anywhere come
up adjust your body weight keep your
chest up chest up chest up
deep
up down two more two more Sarah right
now Sarah right now Sarah look forward
deep
up down slow slow slow now hold chest up
look forward don't come up
hold stand
up oh my
God that's it last set of the the day it
was awesome having you on thank you so
much um you went after it you were
Smiles the whole time which I can't tell
if you're actually just smiling or you
just want to illustrate your teeth
because you're a dentist oh I heard a
long time ago never trust a dentist I
still don't but you were the shit thank
you so much for having me here it was an
amazing workout and tried out because
it's
insane so Sarah came in here to the gym
totally single and it just so happened
that meno was visiting at the same time
and she tried so hard during her leg
workout that meno was like my queen you
are worthy and now they're together
isn't that nice um where can we find you
fine folks on social media what's good
well I'm on Instagram Tik Tok and
YouTube me
too I'm on I don't know where I am I
don't know who I am everywhere
everywhere and nowhere 1 million Subs
Bab
yeah come out in 6 months we hopefully
have a few more uh huge pleasure having
you guys Sarah you honored yourself the
rest of you go train your glutes get out
of here go train your glut see you next
time
[Music]
bye