in this video I'm going to be answering
the question of whether or not you can
speed up your metabolism for example how
many extra calories would you burn by
drinking more water throughout the day
muscle is metabolically active does that
mean that building more muscle will
increase your metabolic rate drinking
green tea is supposed to boost
metabolism does it actually and if so
how many extra calories does it burn
eating spicy food makes you sweat does
that give a metabolic boost speaking of
sweating does Sauna increase metabolism
or is cold exposure better shivering
definitely burns calories but exactly
how many thousands of people follow
reverse dieting does it work and does
cardio slow metabolism down or speed it
up I'm going to answer all these
questions in this video but first to get
everyone on the same page let's quickly
cover what metabolism actually is in a
fitness context where the goal is to
either lose fat or build muscle what we
really mean by metabolism is metabolic
rate or total energy expenditure we want
to know how many calories your body
Burns per day so when we say that
someone has a Fast Metabolism what we
really mean is that their body Burns a
lot of calories allowing them to eat
more food and when you say someone has a
slow metabolism we mean their body
doesn't burn as many calories and they
often have to diet on less food to see
weight loss but how different are
people's metabolisms anyway if we took
two people of the same sex at the same
height and the same body weight could
their metabolisms actually be all that
different yes they could be metabolic
rates are extremely individual much more
so than many people even realize just
take a look at some of the findings from
this massive 2022 study on daily energy
expenditure and over 6 000 subjects from
diverse backgrounds that was published
in science one of the world's most
reputable journals this figure Compares
body weight here on the x-axis with
total energy expenditure or what Fitness
people would call metabolism each one of
these blue and yellow dots represents a
different person blue dots are male
yellow dots are female if we pick a
weight here in the middle at 80 kilos or
176 pounds you can see that the person
with the so-called slowest metabolism
only burned about 1 1400 calories per
day while the person with the fastest
metabolism burned a whopping 5 700
calories per day at the exact same body
weight that means the person with the
slowest metabolism would need to eat
under 1400 calories to lose weight while
the person with the fastest metabolism
would lose weight eating 5 000 calories
per day so then the burning question is
is there a way for the person with the
so-called slow metabolism to speed their
metabolism up so they get to eat more
calories this is an important question
because if we get to eat more calories
while dieting we'll not only get the
satisfaction of having more food we may
also feel less depleted perform better
in the gym and retain more muscle so
it's worth figuring out and I'm going to
break each strategy into one of three
groups it works it might work and it
probably doesn't work for boosting
metabolism let's start with water does
drinking more water increase metabolism
the answer is yes a little each glass of
cold water you drink Burns about eight
calories so every time you drink another
glass of cold water you get an extra
eight calorie boost cold water gives a
bigger boost than room temperature water
because your body has to burn calories
to heat the cold water up to body
temperature now put the full calculation
up here on the screen if you're curious
how it came to that eight calorie figure
but I'm still going to put water in the
might work category that's because even
though water loading sounds like a
decent strategy on paper I'm not
convinced it would actually translate to
substantially better fat loss over the
long term it's possible that the extra
calories you burn from drinking more
water could be compensated for for
example you could drink more water but
then subconsciously move around a little
less so that the net boost cancels out
at least partially I'm also not a fan of
Force drinking water if you overdo it
with ultra high water intakes within a
short time frame you can develop water
intoxication or hyponatremia which can
be dangerous so generally speaking 8 to
12 glasses or about two to three liters
per day is plenty and most people can
simply use their internal thur signals
to guide their intake water can help you
feel more full at meals though so if it
does help you keep your daily caloric
intake down drink away all right then
what about green tea a simple Google
search returns over 40 million results
for green tea and Metabolism some
boasting up to an 8 Spike but what does
the science say well this 2021
systematic review found that of the four
studies looking at acute metabolic
effects three of the four found no
effect while one study found a 79
calorie increase in Daily energy
expenditure digging into that study
deeper however there were only 10
subjects and it only lasted 24 hours so
I wouldn't draw any strong conclusions
from it also there are at least two
studies on green tea and long-term fat
loss and both found no benefit so while
you may get a small metabolic Boost from
green tea it doesn't seem to translate
to more fat loss over the long term and
for that reason I'm putting it in the
probably doesn't work category then
there's spicy food like this bowl of
green curry chicken and rice in this
case green curry gets its heat from
ginger garlic lemongrass and Chili
Peppers Chili Peppers seem to be the
most promising from a metabolic
standpoint since they contain a compound
called capsaicin which has plenty of
research showing a thermogenic effect
for example this 2017 meta-analysis of
nine studies found that on average
capsaic an increased energy expenditure
by 69 calories per day but only in the
studies where the subject's BMI was over
25 so the overweight Zone in this bowl
of green chili there's about 0.5 grams
of chili pepper which will correspond to
about two milligrams of capsaicin
extrapolating out the meta-analytic data
most generously that would give me at
best a roughly 20 calorie metabolic
boost obviously this pales in comparison
to the 700 calories in the meal itself
but it could be enough to make capsaicin
a reasonable candidate for
supplementation still I think the main
reason that spicy food can be helpful
for weight loss is not that it might
give a 20 calorie metabolic boost but
rather that it can increase satiety and
fullness I find I eat more slowly and
drink more water when I have a spicy
meal and if that helps you eat less
total calories for the day that could be
helping Drive fat loss All Things
Considered I'm putting spicy food in the
might work category alright so what
about sauna you sweat in the sauna does
this mean you're burning extra calories
well according to this 1995 study from
Japan Sana did increase oxygen
consumption and heart rate by 20 to 25
beats per minute so for 180 pound person
this would translate to about 19
calories burned from sitting in the
sauna for 10 minutes for compare
Harrison you'd burn about 14 calories
just sitting in a normal room for 10
minutes so you're looking at about a
five calorie difference that's one stick
of gum nothing worth talking about Sonic
goes in the probably doesn't work
category for boosting metabolism
obviously cold plunges and Ice baths are
having a moment on social media but do
they boost your metabolism well it looks
like oxygen consumption does increase
when you sit in a cold bath and you do
shiver which indicates a metabolic boost
however the actual numbers are pretty
underwhelming if you sit neck deep in an
ice bath for 10 minutes you burn about
28 calories again for comparison you'd
burn 14 calories just sitting at room
temperature so you're looking at about a
14 calorie Boost from the cold bath cold
baths are also going in the probably
doesn't work category but what about
building muscle you've likely heard that
muscle burns more calories than fat and
this is true three times the amount in
fact at rest one pound of fat Burns
about two calories per day while one
pound of muscle Burns about six calories
per day I did some quick math based on
my current body composition and it looks
like if I just sat down down all day the
fat on my body would burn 24 calories
and the muscle on my body would burn 480
calories that's a 456 calorie difference
not bad at all let's consider you as an
example let's just say you're a
relatively new lifter and over the
course of the next five years you put on
30 pounds of muscle if you burn 2 500
calories per day before you'd burn 2 680
calories per day now after adding the
new muscle so a 180 calorie difference
that's about four extra kiwis you could
eat per day so far this is the biggest
metabolic booster we've seen and so I'm
going to put building muscle in the it
works category okay so what about
reverse dieting this has become very
popular over the last few years reverse
dieting is exactly what it sounds like
the reverse of dieting instead of
decreasing calories you gradually
increase calories with the goal of
rebuilding your metabolism now I'm
planning on doing a full video on
reverse dieting in the fall so for now
I'll just say that I'm a bit skeptical
of it for sure I have seen plenty of
cases where people have increased their
caloric intake by several hundred
calories while maintaining their body
weight but my main gripe with reverse
dieting is that I just don't think it's
necessary to go slowly after a diet I
think it makes much more sense to go
straight to your new maintenance right
away then once you're at your new
maintenance you can more gradually
increase your caloric intake from there
of course at a certain point you'll
reach the upper limit of your Dynamic
maintenance range and at that point
you'll start gaining weight now if
you're eager to learn more about reverse
dieting I'll link an article by Eric
Trexler down below that more or less
lines up with my stance on the topic as
of now I'm going to put reverse dieting
in the might work category and you can
subscribe and stay tuned for my full
video on it okay so what about meal
frequency does eating more meals
throughout the day keep the metabolic
furnace burning it doesn't seem to no
this 2012 study had subjects spend three
days in an isolated respiration chamber
while eating either three meals per day
or 14 meals per day with the same total
calories and found no difference in
energy expenditure there's also this
2015 meta-analysis pooling 15 studies
which also found no significant
difference in fat Mass from eating one
to two three to four or five plus meals
per day even though from this graph it
does look like the higher meal frequency
was better that result is being dragged
up by a single study this one from Ewell
and colleagues and the authors note that
once you remove that study from the
analysis the difference goes away now
you can interpret that as you wish but
I'm personally not convinced that a
higher meal frequency gives a meaningful
boost in metabolism and I'm putting you
know frequency in the probably doesn't
work category okay so what about cardio
cardio obviously burns calories however
research shows that cardio also causes
something called Energy compensation
this means that when you burn more
calories through cardio your body
subconsciously Burns less calories
through meat or non-exercise activity
thermogenesis this is the component of
metabolism that includes activities
other than exercise so stuff like
fidgeting and bobbing your head to music
for example let's say on a normal day
you fidget and Shuffle away 500 calories
through meat but today you decide to go
for a 30 minute Jog and the jog also
Burns 500 calories
what happens next is that your body will
sense the Jog and subconsciously move
around a little less now you only burn
350 calories through meat of course you
still get a net caloric burn from
including the jog but it is offset to
some degree now there are large
individual differences in energy
compensation but on average for every
100 calories you burn by doing cardio
you'll only actually increase your daily
energy expenditure by 72 calories and
this is why I prefer to use diet as the
main tool for establishing a caloric
deficit and use cardio as a secondary
tool as with cardio you do tend to get
less caloric bang for your buck still
even with energy compensation in mind
cardio does burn calories and as such it
belongs in the it works category the
next thing I want to touch on is
weighted vests there's some cool science
behind this the general idea is if I
weigh 160 pounds right now and I start
wearing a 20 pound weighted vest my body
starts to think that I weigh 180 pounds
and burns calories like 180 pound person
would recent evidence has suggested
distance of a system of sensors in the
body called the gravitastat which senses
changes in loading on the bones if these
sensors get the idea that you're now a
heavier person it'll increase your
caloric expenditure and decrease hunger
levels my friend and natural Pro
bodybuilder Eric Salazar did a case
study with exercise scientist James
Krieger where he wore a 34 pound
weighted vest for 90 percent of his
waking hours during a competition prep
he got down to an incredibly shredded
five percent body fat by sort of
tricking his body into thinking he was
34 pounds heavier than he really was and
in comparison to past diets he says he
didn't have to suffer as many of the bad
side effects of getting shredded so I'm
tempted to put weighted vests in the it
works category because I think it
probably does however I'm going to leave
it under the might work category for now
until we get more published research
lastly there are two other less sexy but
still very effective metabolic
strategies that I'd like to mention
first avoid dieting on very low calories
the more aggressively you cut the more
your metabolic rate decreases so
generally speaking you should aim to
lose about 0.5 to 1 one percent of your
body weight per week and the more you go
above this Zone the more likely it is
that your metabolism will start tanking
slow dieting definitely works second you
should try to smuggle in extra
non-exercise activity where you can this
is where the weighted vest might be
helpful but there are other things you
can do like Park further from the
grocery store take the stairs over the
elevator and regularly stand up and
stretch at your desk I call these little
activities throughout the day meat
smuggling and I'd also put it in the it
works category it's also worth keeping
in mind that even if you implement some
of these strategies and you still have a
relatively slower metabolism you can of
course still lose weight in fact
research shows that metabolic rate isn't
nearly as predictive of successful
long-term weight loss as many people
think people with faster metabolisms can
fail to lose weight in people with
slower metabolisms can succeed to lose
weight and that things more reliably
associated with successful long-term
weight loss are being Physically Active
regularly weighing yourself weight
training and making Lifestyle Changes
another thing that's been helping
thousands of people lose fat while
keeping track of their metabolism is the
macro Factor app if you aren't aware I'm
a part owner of macro factor and I've
been using it to guide my own fat loss
Journey where I've lost almost 30 pounds
relying entirely on the app's algorithms
macrofactor is so effective because
it'll update your diet based on your
unique metabolism whether that's faster
or slower all you have to do is lock
your weight and your nutrition and the
app will give you the ideal nutrition
targets for your goal and there's a
growing community of people online
sharing their own success stories from
using the app other methods like online
calculators or smart watches can be off
by hundreds of calories per day and
macro factor is much more reliable
because it responds to your individual
weight changes exactly like a coach
would and then makes the appropriate
adjustments based on your metabolism
specifically macrofactor also has the
easiest and fastest food logger on the
market we've done comparison experiments
to test this it has a super fast Barcode
Scanner and AI features that allow you
to describe meals that are more
difficult to log for example if you eat
out at a restaurant that doesn't have
the nutritional info you can use the AI
describe tool to log what you ate we
also massively expanded our European
food database recently which I know a
lot of you guys have been waiting for so
if you'd like to try out macro factor
for yourself you can get a free two-week
trial at the first link in the
description box below or you can scan
the QR code over here next to my head
alright that's it for this one guys
don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one