lastly if whatever types of rep ranges
and exercises you've been doing just
aren't hitting your muscles where you
think they should be hit underhand pull
Downs you just like I don't feel shit in
my lats or in my back it's just mostly
my biceps and my forearms then don't
just perseverate on those don't just be
like oh it's fucking Basics man it works
for everyone try some different shit so
if sets of five to eight on leg presses
just kind of hurt your knees and don't
really do much to your quads even though
all your buddies seem to think it's a
great way to train try sets of 15 to 20
on leg presses with some with some
myette pauses you might do one like that
and you fucking cook your quads you're
the most pumped you've been in your life
you get sore for three days and you're
like oh oh that's the shit that works
barbell curls aren't hitting your
fucking biceps much switch to dumbbells
switch to cables from behind the back
you make that switch your entire
training career is a lifetime of guess
and check it's a lifetime of
experimentation because all the studies
and all the science and all the bullshit
I talk about on this channel is dope as
a good first guess