all right what's up everyone it is
Saturday July 4:50 1660 and Saturday
July 16th and today's show day for Pat
he's looking ready you guys would have
seen him last night this morning he did
wake up a little bit flat which is like
so normal for competitors like I don't
know if I've seen anyone not wake up a
little bit flatter the morning of the
show then they look the night before and
that's normal it's just something we've
got to anticipate and just kind of roll
with the punches so we increased his
food a little bit we added an extra 25
grams of carbs and 10 grams of fat and
now if he remains flat after standing
out in the Sun and warming up doing a
couple push-ups which I don't think he
will but if he's still flat and and two
points for Keylong
then at that point we really started
slamming the food and so I'll just get
into each cerise cup and Ben
we'll be good to go but he's holding
condition really nicely which is the the
most important thing so once he gets a
pump pump stands in the Sun for a little
bit it's going to be lights out I'm
super excited for the show just want to
say good luck Pat and I'll try to get
some footage for you guys of the
competition can see Pat is putting some
peanut butter on for his cake and we're
going to add some salt to that and he
also had a banana and all this stuff is
kind of extra we're just sort of like
playing it by ear as we go just trying
to put the finishing touches on the
physique right now
good a little bit more
it's good we're here backstage this is
what backstage is like California we've
just been pounded him with food and salt
and I'll give you guys a little look so
probably would have seen what he looked
like this morning I don't I can't really
tell what the lighting is like here but
he filled out like crazy like you can
see the veins coming in on the legs and
yeah just filled out really really
nicely so he's looking really good now
he just kind of got to hold this until
he gets onstage just watch the pro show
and hold the crap like pros have so much
size and just overall mass is really
what what blew me away the most it's
absolutely crazy conditioning to feeling
really motivated for my next Pro season
now having seen what the competition
looks like here and so I'm excited to
get back at it so I'll show you guys
some clips from the pro show and I'll
show some clips from past show as well
okay everyone so I'm back with a
commentary I figured it'd be better to
do a voiceover over the show footage
rather than just let it roll so this is
from the prejudging this is the women's
Pro bodybuilding I didn't get any from
the finals but the top three are there
in the middle and the overall winner of
this class was Lisa Lum she was probably
the leanest person in the whole show to
be honest it was incredible and she's
actually there in the purple suit but
yeah the the amount of muscularity
displayed in the women's class in the
Pro women's class absolutely incredible
um so here's some sped up footage from
the men's Pro bodybuilding class so to
the far right is Patrick riser from
Switzerland who is actually a vegan
bodybuilder and him and his friend Misha
or I guess I should say business partner
Misha competed at the show which was
pretty cool to see and as you can see
just a very very stacked class extremely
impressive muscularity from everyone and
the conditioning is just incredible as
well so rather than comment on each
physique individually from the
prejudging I figured now would be a good
time for me to sort of share my thoughts
on natural bodybuilding
what sort of percentage of people you
can expect to show up and actually be
natural on show day because I think that
to the untrained eye or people who maybe
don't go to natural bodybuilding shows
that often it would be really easy to
make accusations especially when you see
an extremely impressive lineup like this
and I have no doubt that some people
whether in the comments section or
elsewhere will have their doubts but I'm
going to explain why I don't really have
that many doubts and why I think
probably like with a fair degree of
certainty everyone on that stage is
natural first of all it has to do with
the organization so the WM bf or the
world natural bodybuilding Federation is
the organization that I choose to
compete in and what I think gives them
more credibility is the fact that they
not only do your analysis on all the
winners but they also polygraph test
everyone before they get on stage that
isn't just say I put a ton of weight in
the polygraph itself as a lie detection
tool it's very blunt but the point is is
that I think that it can serve as a
strong deterrent for people who are
using and I do think that people who are
actually using would probably have a
more difficult time getting through that
test or even wanting to take the test to
begin with they'd probably just go to an
organization where they don't have to
pass a polygraph in order to get on
stage and then I also just use a very
simple line of reasoning wherein I know
that not everyone on stage is cheating I
know that at least some people are
natural whether it's because I know them
personally and I just know that they
aren't taking anything or I've seen
photos of them from when they were 14
years old and they look extremely jacked
so it's just believable that they would
add you know a couple pounds of muscle a
year and end up looking where they are
now for whatever reason I can conclude
confidently that some people on the
stage are natural and some of these
people actually have very impressive
physiques
and the more questionable ones don't
really look all that different from some
of the physiques that I know to be
natural
um so just by that line of reasoning you
can kind of conclude that well it is
possible that if someone I know is
natural looks like this and assume that
they had slightly better genetics or a
few more years of training under their
belt then it would be reasonable to
think that a similar or comparable
athlete would also be natural so I
really think that the only way in these
more rep util reputable organizations
you can conclude that there are cheaters
on the basis of someone's physique is if
someone's physique is just far and away
way way better than the rest of the
competition or you think that the
majority of the competition is cheating
or at least some significant portion of
the competition is cheating and I don't
I don't believe either of those things
and so I think that most people on this
stage at least and on other stages in
organizations that I would consider to
be reputable are actually natural so
this is the men's lightweight class this
is the class that Pat competed in you
can see him in the green trunks and this
was a really really stacked class so
that was really entertaining to watch
and then this is the men's heavyweight
class these are amateurs by the way so
both of these classes here are amateurs
and this is Misha Janek from Switzerland
and he was extremely impressive to watch
and also in in quite a strong class and
as you can see Misha is just really
really conditioned and also very
muscular with good muscle bellies and
you often don't see that on a guy who's
how you'd like
I think he's something maybe six two or
six three so really tall for a natural
and you tend to not see that sort of
development but okay so Pat also
competed in the men's physique division
so this is men's physique tall that
class and so that's going to conclude my
commentary guys I'll check in with you
in the next clip alright everyone so
we're done with prejudging
everything went I think perfectly
according to plan one thing I want to
just share with you guys is our approach
to peeking so Pat essentially 600 grams
of carbs yesterday which is a massive
increase so like his refeed was
typically somewhere like 300 to 400 carb
range for the day before the show we
pretty much like doubled that and also
increased his sodium that day and also
increased his water intake slightly that
day just to help with the carb handling
a little bit and then still even with
all of those carbs he's still woke up
really flat on show day morning and that
is super common if that happens to you
which it probably will if your
competitor what I'd recommend doing is
not skimping on the fats and just
getting the sodium in you don't really
need to rush it and panic like if you're
up at 5 in the morning you don't need to
get it all in at once but throughout the
day increase your sodium and carb and
fat intake and then if you're still
looking flat like say an hour ago before
you hit the stage then at that point I
think it's smartest to just really pile
the calories in and that was kind of
what we did with pack there was you know
you have to be willing to go outside of
your PB plan a little bit I think I mean
if you have a coach then you should
always just follow what your coach says
but if you have a coach with you or if
you're coaching competitors or if you're
on your own
and I think that allowing for some
on-the-fly adjustments is the most
intelligent way to finish over your peak
and you want to make sure that you hit
that for prejudging not for finals right
I mean you want to hold it until finals
but you really want to peak for when it
is that the judging is happening and I
definitely think we did that this
morning I'll check in with you I'm going
to get some clips from finals probably
already put up some clips from
prejudging here hope that you like that
and then I'll check in with you guys
later tonight
[ __ ]
that's crazy man see double bicep side
tricep
ABB's I
Oh
the boy pad
and you hundred seventy four but the boy
part
Oh
Oh
yeah that's cosplays really mean overall
oh all right guys we just finished up
with finals Pat took men's physique tall
took the overall physique he's a new WM
b f pro I feel right I'm doing I know
this is his first show first ever we get
more all right we got cat taking this
yearning valstoria
know he brought a really nice weeks if
you do anything Chevy day one I yep Josh
Jones down watching me Chucky right yeah
I think I snapped you I snapped the
whole show and I did I think I got one
of you oh yeah
there's nowhere I now do with the dude
are you serious
[ __ ] you're full of you in this girl be
quick oh so funny yeah awesome first
time
congratulations Jeff thank you because
yeah
my cats yes ice cream ice cream
never ice cream for PR then I did peak
week this is stuff like that you see
Bromwich okay yeah Joey because I saw
anyone the
smartest lump of muscle I've ever met
so head your back okay be careful hey
you feelin man hungry
yeah a year wait to smash if you guys
are gonna see the craziest amount of
food right here
the swings and margarita flatbread so
Picaro chicken
yes please yeah I'm going to get that
box this time it's a production