let me tell you a story when I first got
into lifting people always told me make
sure you build good technique first
it'll prevent injuries and it will speed
up your progress while the jury is still
out as to whether good technique
actually prevents injury new evidence
suggests that technique may not be as
important as we once thought for muscle
growth now real serious sports science
Dr my wolf here with you today courtesy
overwolf coaching and we're talking
about a new paper specifically a new
paper I helped right this paper is on
the effect of technique during
resistance training on hypertrophy
breaking down how much evidence do we
actually have for technique meaningfully
impacting how much muscle growth we
actually see the first real mentions of
exercise technique as it pertains to
lifting weights mostly pertains to
machines and their instructions and
textbooks while both of these often
allude to proper technique is really
important for maximizing muscle growth
it's really unclear what proper actually
means and often times when you look into
how these standards are are actually
established there's not really any
evidence behind them and this isn't what
you'd think if you look at social media
if you look at social media you'd think
oh a lot of people know a lot of stuff
about technique there's a lot of
evidence out there about what technique
works better the reality is when you
hear an influencer say for sure this
technique will lead to more heroy than
this one there's going to be some degree
of inference or sometimes there's just
no evidence behind it to speak of
however there are a few things we have
evidence for before we go into that
let's quickly define technique as we did
on paper reading it off my phone here
because I definitely could not remember
all five lines of this off by heart
resistance training exercise technique
pertains to the controlled execution of
bodily movements to ensure an exercise
effectively targets specific muscle
groups while minimizing the risk of
injury this involves the orchestration
of body positioning and Alignment range
of motion and repetition Tempo now
that's a lot of words and let me break
down what we actually got evidence for
first range of motion range of motion is
one of the few components of tech
technique that we actually have direct
evidence for it seemed like broadly
speaking more lengthened training leads
to more muscle growth than more
shortened training so when you're
lifting use a range of motion that
emphasizes long muscle lengths length
and partials as I've discussed in this
video here are just really one way of
accomplishing this importantly even with
range of motion there is still some
degree of uncertainty regarding exactly
how it works does it work within the
context of a whole program for example
does it apply to everyone does it apply
to beginners and advanced people like
does it apply to all muscle groups those
sort of questions still remain however
range of motion is probably the most
however as far as technique goes range
of motion is probably the most
researched aspect next up less
researched we have Tempo although there
is some evidence that you want to keep
repetition duration between 2 and 8
seconds there's not a whole lot of
clarity beyond that purposely extending
the concentric phase or purposely
extending the Ecentric phase so making
those longer doesn't necessarily seem to
be better for hypertrophy you you do
still want some control on the Ecentric
but whether a 5-second Ecentric is
better than a 2cond Ecentric at this
point we just don't have the evidence to
support that clean so as long as you
have some control on the Ecentric and
your repetitions typically last 2 to 8
seconds as far as technique goes you're
kind of doing everything you can from
the science perspective and finally we
have kinematics kinematics is a pretty
complex field because it encompasses a
lot of things at once you know like do
you have a wider stance do you have a
narrower stance do you have a higher
foot placement on like press lower foot
plac the truth is we just don't have any
longitudinal evidence and actually
measuring hypertrophy to see does one
foot placement lead to more hypertrophy
and the quads for example and so a lot
of it comes down to individualize it
probably doesn't matter a ton there's a
good chance it doesn't just make sure
that you have your big rocks in place
the things that have actually been
studied and that's kind of all you can
do the one thing I will say about
kinematics is make sure your excise is
reasonably stable if an exercise is
super unstable it's probably not ideal
for growth so for example during the
squad deadlift make sure the bar stays
around your midfoot right it should be
over your midfoot at most times that way
you'll retain stability and hopefully be
able to push close to failure without
sort of falling over or anything like
that the same goes for lunges versus
split squats for example again though we
really don't have any evidence with
kinematics so a lot of this is just
speculation and if I'm speculating right
now just think about how some of your
favorite influencers are speculating
when they make certain claims on social
media truth is there's just no evidence
for a law those claims so let me give
you some takeaways technique is a huge
buzzword if you go through different
influences they'll all preach good
technique and they'll all preach
different variations of good technique
if you actually look at how good
technique and proper technique was first
thought of it's kind of arbitrary right
like for example the idea that you need
keep a straight back the whole time
during all movements and that not
straight is bad to an extent that is
based off Aesthetics and people just
liking Symmetry and straight lines and
that sort of stuff so a lot of it isn't
really evidence-based right like even
the evidence around injury risk with
Lumbo reflection just isn't really there
so with technique there are a few things
you probably want to keep in mind but
just remember there's not a ton of
evidence in any of these fields yet one
is range of motion make sure you
emphasize that length and position for
example by length and partials two with
Tempo try and have repetitions last
between 2 and 8 seconds as long as
you're Su in that ballpark you'll likely
see the same hypertrophy make sure you
have some control over the Ecentric
phase you shouldn't just be letting the
weight drop alt together but you
shouldn't necessarily have to extend an
Ecentric phase to be 4 or 5 Seconds
versus just 1 second that's totally fine
finally as far as kinematics go don't
feel the need to adhere to what your
favorite influencer has prescribed you
as long as it feels comfortable and
satisfies the criteria of range of
motion and Tempo you're probably doing
just fine that's the video If you
enjoyed this video please comment like
subscribe I'm actually trying to upgrade
the equipment that we're using for
filming here so that I can give you guys
better videos so please if you aren't
subscribed already consider subscribing
it really helps out the channel and I'll
see you guys my subscribers hopefully
now more of you and the next one
[Music]
peace