another interesting tip you might not be
aware of is if you eat very tasty Foods
on a deficit it sometimes makes your
body just want more of them who have you
ever seen eat unflavored eggs or egg
whites and unflavored cooked oatmeal and
just gorge on it like oh my God man I
ate 3 000 calories of unflavored eggs
and okay nobody's ever said that right
highly unlikely so if you make your food
a little less tasty over the course of
the diet you have your high chances of
sauce you don't need to do that unless
the hunger is getting to you if you're
like dude every time I eat my meals
they're so tasty after I'm done with
them I'm like oh my God I wish I had
more of my own prepped food then you
know it's time to cool it on the
flavorings and the prep food and make it
just blander if anything