welcome back Dr my wolf here not
actually a real wolf and today we're
reviewing Alpha Destiny AKA now Alex
leonidas's training advice full
disclosure I used to watch a lot of
Alex's content back in the day when I
was starting out in sports science since
then however I haven't been keeping up
to date very much but I have had the
pleasure of interacting with him on a
podcast debate with the one and only
natural hypertrophy and so I have both
some familiarity with Alex content from
back in the day and I'm on good terms
with Alex however I wanted to take one
of his videos one of his more popular
videos on lad raise was not being that
effective and review it from a sports
science perspective indeed my PhD is on
range of motion and muscle hypertrophy
and so I think I'm qualified to have an
opinion when it comes to sports sence
join me as I react to this video let's
get into it most of my workout videos I
always get the same question Alex how
come we never seen you do lateral rais
yet your shoulders are so round and huge
isn't isolating the side delts mandatory
for acquiring that 3D pop
well before we dive into this topic know
that if you do care about maximizing
shoulder width then obviously including
some formal Lou Rays is optimal and even
I did them for years to build a base and
stopped at the end of 2016 where I
peaked at 85 lbs on the power version
definitely bad form but the body Engles
did a good job at balancing out the
strength curve since we're weakest in
the shm position where most attention is
present real quick I want to point out
that one his technique really wasn't
very good I agree with Alex but too I
love that he used a disclaimer at the
start saying hey if you want to optimize
shoulder growth there's a very good
chance that you should be doing lad
raises so I love the disclaimers here
and he's already more nuanced than a lot
of people in the industry in my view for
the textbook version I use a good 30 to
35 lbs for Moder repetition so wasn't
weak and can admit that my side delts
did respond very well so then why did I
completely drop this effective exercise
shortly after I can't remember all the
exact reasons but the main one is that I
was scared of potentially having
shoulder problems since I was constantly
maxing out on rather sketchy presses
while mixing in higher volume so I
temporarily swapped out all lad work in
favor of posterior and the primary
exercise I did was the band face pull
along Basics like reverse flies reverse
PC deck variations of cable face PS Etc
now here's where things get interesting
not only did my side dels not
shrink they actually got bigger and I
didn't notice any slow down of progress
so I just skipped at it for months which
eventually turned into years and OG's
will recall this face pole phase then
one day I woke up and realized that I
didn't need lateral raises the face Poes
were a twoin one Banger indirectly
growing my side delt in the sh position
a few things here one no single exercise
is required for hypertrophy so even if
you're not doing lateral raises you can
probably still see a good deal of cidel
hypertrophy right through upright rows
through overhead pressing and indeed as
he's mentioning here even through face
poles depending on how you perform them
for example if you set up the cable
below shoulder height kind of below you
a little bit you can turn a face pole
into a face pull upright row hybrid and
the function of the side belts will
still be involved within that movement
likewise when you're overhead pressing
you are actually involving your side
dels to a decent extent in all
likelihood and so if you're doing enough
of these two exercises for example you
might just still see some robust side
delt hypertrophy in spite of not doing
any lateral raises with that being said
Alex did mention that face PS and he's
doing them with bands here did grow his
side delts in the shorten position I
know Alex isn't exactly a sports science
YouTuber right which is not to his
discredit but I do think that that's
probably not true indeed the evidence we
have on lengthen training versus
shortened training generally shows more
hypertrophy when training in that
lengthen position and so that's why
categorically I wouldn't really
recommend using bands for hypertophy and
I have a whole video on that here if you
want to check it out bands always make
the lengthen position easier and the
shorten position harder and so if you're
after more tension and stimulus in that
stretch position of an exercise bands
directly counteract that some
subscribers were sending me EMG data
from Brett contas which confirmed my
anecdotal experience specifically banf
face Bulls beat Ladle
raises and every rear Delta exercise
demonstrated a decent amount of SEL
activation a splashover effect funnily
enough around the time I was watching a
lot of Alex's content when I was 17
years old is also around the time I read
the same article that he's referring to
Here by Brett contus on T Nation where
essentially Brett went out of his way to
measure the EMG or surface
electromyography of a variety of muscle
groups during a variety of exercises to
get an idea of what exercises might be
best for muscle growth for different
muscles the issue with this is that
surface EMG or muscle activation as
measured through this method is not a
reliable predictor of what exercises are
better than others for hypertrophy
there's a whole line of research on this
topic suggesting that hey you really
don't want to be using EMG as a
predictor for this exercise is better
than this one it is not a valid reason
for the time being indeed a study by
Plotkin and colleagues for example
measured EMG of different muscle groups
during the squat and hip thrust before
starting the training study after this
they had participants perform either
exclusively the squat or the hip thrust
and they wanted to see whether the
activation measured before the study in
different muscle groups like The glutes
hamstrings adors and quads in different
regions of each muscle will then
correlate or relate to the muscle growth
scene from these different exercises
across the training intervention to make
a long story short there was no such
Trend and so EMG really can't be used as
a good predictor of what exercise
targets which areas or which muscle
groups more effectively Brett was
surprised with the takeaways but I
wasn't now besides results this shift in
Focus taught me another crucial lesson
and that is the rear delts are
incredibly important for rounding off
the shoulder
many lifters don't know this but you can
actually see them from a front view with
enough muscle when you're flexing or
leaning forward the effect is extremely
apparent then from the side profile the
front and rear Del contribute together
for the outward extremity width so
really the side dels primarily impact
broadness protrusion from the front view
and cap separation between the arms
along other heads of the dels but keep
in mind
they're onethird of the delts and
generally most stubborn which explains
why a huge percentage of Naturals will
still have overall impressive
development without necessarily having
the biggest side doubts in addition
understand that the shoulder is the
largest muscle in the upper body and
since front delts get abused in all our
presses and have the highest growth
potential that's obviously what matters
most for growth the rear and side finish
off the sculpting but between those two
the rear should technically be easier to
build which I'll get into plus there's
always indirect side de simulation so
let's talk more about rear delts in my
case I just mentioned isolation work
which was very helpful but the truth is
that's not the main thing that blew mine
up in reality it was unintentionally
doing rows with improper form for years
see I'm a huge fan of Performing
opposite movement patterns for
structural integrity and preventing
muscular imbalances in the case of the
back I was focusing on bench breast
specialization and therefore always use
a technique that match the arm angles of
my pressing which is tucked at around
45° that's the best way for optimal
leverages and safety of course that's
exactly what I replicated on rows a few
things here yes rows are a decent tool
for growing the side adts especially
with your elbows out that's why
something like the cable rear do
crossover as I pointed out in my
shoulder growth video here is a great
exercise for rear adult growth however
it is not the best exercise and more
importantly I want to point out the sort
of slight BR signs here on trying to
superset always opposing emotions for
joint or structure Integrity the truth
is there's just not much evidence on
this when it comes to train lifters you
don't need to be performing one set of
pulling for every set of pushing you do
there's just no evidence to this so just
because you're benching a lot doesn't
mean you also need to do a lot of ruing
work to balance it out at the time I
thought this was more upper back since
the Bro Science consensus was that
flared arms equated to more rear adts so
it also fit in nicely to my Yol
philosophy now now the thing is as bom
mechanics has expanded it turns out that
this reasoning was backwards in truth
the rear Del fibers run at a 45° angle
and are biased the most from this exact
style of row basically flared arms
equals more round boids and traps fully
tucked in a neutral position is lats and
right in between is rear delts and you
can even feel it if you try yourself so
as you can imagine doing a rear delt
bias row for years resulted in pretty
good development and this further
indicates that they're a strong muscle
with tremendous growth capacity so this
accident has led me to conclude
something that minimalists were low-key
right about getting strong at presses
plus specific rows equals enormous
shoulders it's literally that simple and
when I look at history particularly
among the old school natural
bodybuilding Legends pretty much all of
them did the same thing in fact I
recently learned that the one and only
regge Park was frequently asked the same
question as me on how his shoulders were
so big despite not emphasizing lateral
raises and guess what his response was
practically
identical he buil his shoulders through
traditional pressing and pulling
combined with the chest expander which
works the entire shoulder complex oh and
uh I can tell you that my deaths were
sore as hell the first time I used mine
real quick to touch on the whole chest
expander thing I think It suffers the
same limitations as using bands within
your training does and that is that it
always makes the lengthened position
more easy and the shortened position
more challenging and so for the most
hypertrophy possible and we're talking
about a difference of maybe 10 to 20%
here from going from a movement that's
entirely focused on a shorten position
to a movement that's entirely focused on
LinkedIn position so yes you can still
make games with bands or with this
apparatus here but if you want to
optimize hypertrophy it would be an
accurate to say that this device would
do that it's true that he also included
cheat L raises but those were never the
main focus
and I've done those two in the past as I
talked about and even when I reread
books like dinosaur training all the
names mentioned acquire bold the
shoulders by running the same methods
just getting big and strong at the
compound movements so many were weighing
under 200 lb yet over pressing in the
200s what does that say and now that you
know this information who are you going
to listen to moving forward the issue
with taking advice from someone who has
just built an impressive physique and
claims that it was due to X reason or
why aspect of their training or
nutrition or what have you or
supplementation even is that there are
so many confounders and that we're
talking about a sample size of one here
that it becomes difficult to tell okay
was it the fact that this man didn't do
many lateral races or was it the fact
this man had great structure for having
wide shoulders right you can't really
tell and so taking a more anecdotal
approach to deciding which exercises or
which interventions broadly lead to more
muscle growth just lacks the rigor of
something like a study where you take a
few dozen of participants control for as
many other variables that could be
contributing noise that you can and have
multiple studies on the same topic and
once you find an overall trend you can
be more confident than a finding as
opposed to just going to the most jacked
individual in your gym with the most
jacked individual 50 years ago and just
replicating what they do instead there
are so many confounders and so much
noise involved that are often more
influential than what they're talking
about it becomes difficult to tell was
that really the deciding factor here or
was it the fact you have great genetics
great great sleep great nutrition and so
forth real Naturals who pav the way that
unquestionably works or juice heads who
are literally preaching the complete
opposite
philosophy also consider that the
shoulders respond best anabolics given
the anine receptor sensitivity and it
makes sense why for some reason the best
Naturals of all time can't mash the side
outs of many modern moderate users is it
because they required wisdom from the
Death Star delts absolutely not they're
just built different one is hypogonadal
the other isn't so the only advice
that's genuinely helpful is what are the
best compounds and how much should be
taken but seriously many rambling aside
just look at me I'm not a freaking
nature and my shoulders used to be way
smaller but now they're quite dominant I
think that says a lot concering I'm one
of the few Naturals on this platform who
significantly improve without doing lad
raises yet
my DS can hang with the top dogs it's to
the point where I wouldn't be surprised
if people started call me a liar
claiming that what I did is impossible
or that lad raises must have been done
off camera and then they point to a
little b-roll clip that's not actual
training
footage listen I got nothing to gain by
being transparent like this because this
is the long and hard way plus I already
said that you should do lateral raises
if you care about off the issue with Al
Destiny claiming that his example really
contributes to the evidence that you
don't need lateral risers for really
solid Soler growth not optimal as he
claimed and I appreciate the disclaimer
is that there's a lot of things that he
probably changed over the past 2 years
if you look at his overall training it
got substantially more effective right
his training back in the day had some
effective components like for example he
was getting a good stretch on most
exercises but there were a lot of
ineffective components as well moreover
when you're assessing whether or not his
shoulders have grown he's actually
always had a pretty good physique at
least for the past 5 years or so he's
definitely improved but whether or not
the Improvement is attributable to the
lack of ler raises and focusing on other
movements instead is unclear then
there's also the issue of measurement
right he is showing pictures from back
in the day versus now but those pictures
do not have the same lighting they don't
have the same posing hell they don't
have the same body fat percentage there
are a lot of confounders here in how
he's even assessing whether or know RS
have got them bigger that are difficult
to remedy and to really determine
whether the lack of lateral raises and
focus on other movements made the
difference but I agree with Alex that he
now has great shoulders I can't deny
that that said one thing I want to point
out is that even though isolation work
is extremely important so include at
least one exercise for the side and rear
I still believe that presses will work
is side dels to a certain extent I fully
reject the claim that there's zero
stimulation it's certainly less than
isolating and some presses work them
less than others but if train correctly
for long enough the absolute loads will
lead to indirect growth there's a few
things here one I do agree with Alex the
o press does train the side delts and
I've made a whole short about this here
and you can check that out the reason
why it does train the side delts to some
extent and a decent extent I'd say is
because one it does somewhat Target one
of the functions of the side Del which
is to abduct the arm outwards and two
because it does have the side delts
relatively close to failure right while
there are other muscle groups that will
likely give out a little bit earlier
like the front delts or the triceps the
side belts will still be reasonably
close to failure so while they won't be
the limiting factor they'll be close to
being the limiting factor for these
reasons I think the over press is a
decent exercise for the S belts however
it has nothing to do with the weight on
the bar ultimately your muscle does not
sense how much weight is on the bar or
how heavy the dumbbells you lift are it
senses tension how much tension it's
producing to lift the weight and how
much tension it's experiencing while
it's being lengthened for example
through passive tension this tension is
ultimately what leads to growth however
this tension is not the weight you lift
on the bar let me give you an example
let's say you're doing lateral raises
with your arms of a very event like this
you could use a good amount of weight
right and that would lead to a certain
amount of tension being experienced by
your side dots however let's say you
took that same weight but instead
perform lateral raises with straight
arms the tension experience of the side
belts even though the weight is the same
would be substantially different and
that is the case for most exercises most
exercises have differences in external
and internal leverages and so just on
account of the difference in external
leverage or moment arms experienced at
the shoulder during something like an
overhead press versus a lateral raise
means you'll be able to use
substantially different weights but that
doesn't mean that there's a substantial
difference and the amount of tension
being experienced at the side delt level
and thus the amount of growth being
incurred you can't tell me that only the
front delts will grow from taking On's
overhead press from 135 to 225 or a 50
lb dumbbell press to 100 lb even the
data indicates clear activation and I
greatly appreciate Jeff nippard
mentioned this fact in a science-based
full body workout this isn't an opinion
that I personally share first of all
even though the front delt will be
carrying most of the load it isn't like
the lateral and rear heads just
completely turn off and go to sleep
while vertical pressing just look at
this figure from seder backin and
colleagues in the standing barbell press
even though the front delts were the
most active you're still seeing
significant activation of the side delts
and some activation of the rear delts as
well as je nipp correctly points out in
the caption in this clip there is an
issue with using EMG as a predictor over
hypertrophy I outlined it earlier in the
video but you don't want to be using EMG
as the be all and all when it comes to
saying yes this exercise is good for
hypertrophy for this muscle group
because we see a high EMG value this
kind of reminds me of those who taught
trash about low bar squats for Quad
development even though there's minimal
knee flexion and it's the least quad
biased version the fact remains cus
lifters build Tree Trunks from low bar
due to the heavier weights used the
consequence is a worse sfr ratio but
that doesn't change hypertrophy outcomes
oh man so the low bar squat absolutely
targets your quads however it has
nothing to do with the weight on the bar
once again in the low bar squat you are
actually reducing the moment arm
involved for the knees right the
distance between the weight or the
center of mass and the joint the ax of
rotation in this case being the knees
reduces so while you can use more weight
it's unclear how the moment arms and the
tension being experienced by your qua
and the growth you get as a result is
changed so it has nothing to do with the
weight on the bar additionally Alex then
goes on to say that sfr is worse but
that doesn't impact muscle growth that
is kind of just untrue right because if
we assume that someone has enough time
at their disposal to train to the
maximum ability and really to challenge
their recovery limits we want to
maximize how much stimulus they get
versus how much fatigue they get because
let's say you can recover from a 100
units of fatigue that's the maximum you
can train you want to across your
training week acrew as much stimulus for
those 100 units of fatigue as you can
because ultimately that stimulus is what
causes muscle growth so if we can get
200 units of stimulus versus 100 for the
same amount of fatigue that will lead to
more growth in fact arguably twice the
growth in this very hypothetical thought
experiment if sfr doesn't matter for
hypertrophy you could say okay I'm going
to run for hypertrophy now just go for
drugs no more lifting and running has an
sfr for hypertrophy right it gives you
some stimulus for hypertrophy but it
gives you a lot more fatigue and so by
the time that you're all spent and you
can't recover from any more training you
won't actually have gotten that much
stimulus for hypertrophy and so you'll
have missed out on much growth across
your training week so sfr absolutely
matters for hypertrophy if you have the
time to train to your recovery limits as
a final note on sfr it is worth noting
that it's highly hypothetical right we
have some idea of which exercises
produce more stimulus based on for
example whether they put your muscle in
a lengthen position where there's
tension in a lengthen position and so
forth we have some idea of what exercis
is more fatiguing based for example on
how many joints are involved how much of
an e centering component there is and so
forth however a lot of it is speculative
but to claim that this speculative
notion is unimportant for hypertrophy is
wrong getting strong overcomes a lot of
faults from specific
exercises that's the video I just
reacted to Alex leonidas's take on
lateral raises and why he stopped doing
them for shoulder growth overall I would
give this video like a six or a seven
out of 10 I think there's some good
takes in there like for example the idea
that overhead pressing does actually
train the side ads reasonably
effectively and that you can make great
side adult grow gains without doing
lateral Rises but that ultimately you
need lateral Rises to optimize
hypertrophy I think that's all valid
however when it comes to some finer
points like equating load on the bar
with stimulus or tension at the muscle
level and with EMG being a valid
predictor of hypertrophy I do disagree
and that's where I think I take issue
however by and large I think Alex
provides some pretty practical
information for the average lifter and
so a 6 or 7 out of 10 is where my final
score is that's the video If you enjoyed
the video please comment like subscribe
leave a comment if there's anyone else
you want to see me react to from a
sports science perspective and I'll see
you guys my favorite people on the whole
planet in that next one peace