you should probably give strength
training a try if you're a recreational
lifter and you want to make 12p games
while having
[Music]
[Music]
fun doter pack here straight out of the
medical association off athen's Gree
where I went and I was like look I'm not
saying no Socratic oath that stuff is
way too outdated I am proposing the new
oath the real Doctor oath which states I
as a PhD I'm a real doctor and you're
not go back to your hospital and do your
surgeries and give your medication and
whatever else mumbo jumbo Physicians are
coming up with these days but in all
seriousness I think
that if you're a recreational lifter
especially if you're just starting out
but this is advice that even more
advanced lifters can take strength
training specifically and heavily
focusing on the numbers I think that can
be a great way for you to make fun and
relatively thanless games but let's
first Define what I mean by strike
training now I'm not saying start
powerlifting or um heavily focusing on
one repetition maximum strength but the
more traditional more recreational
lifter type of strength training your 5x
fives or your training protocols that
involve a few basic either barbell or
non-b barbell lift and a few accessory
lifts and that's all you do while
focusing specifically on adding weight
to the bar or adding a few reps on the
accessory lifts or just adding weight to
the accessory lifts as well now although
this may not come as a surprise to many
of you uh because many of us have done
those tried and tested programs back in
the day although from a scientific
standpoint we know that when it comes to
hypertrophy you can do machines you can
do High Reps you can do low loads you
can do plenty of things and be very
flexible I think that for a select few
of you out there who may be stuck or
maybe overthinking things a bit or maybe
leaving too many reps in the T or maybe
just
or maybe just there forcing the optimal
hypertrophy training doing that for two
months then leaving it then cutting then
bulking the cutting the bulky and just
overall spinning your wheels for a while
I think that a few solid months to a
year of strength training doing a few
basic movements even if they're
suboptimal some of them at least on
paper um and a bunch of you know classic
accessories chin UPS dips push-ups and
so on and so forth while really focusing
on getting your strength up in the
mostly in the 3 to8 rep range alongside
a slide or moderate calorie Surplus I
think that can be an amazing way for you
to make amazing gains feel like you're
making amazing gains cuz you're focusing
on the numbers and you're telling
yourself that as long as I'm getting
stronger I'm going to get bigger I think
that that could be a cure for a lot of
lifters out there who may be feeling
like they're dude I think that a
traditional strength training program
could be a way for you to have a bit
more fun potentially make some more
games and worst case scenario still
build a ton of muscle break a few PRS
along the way now from a science
perspective if you lift heavier loans
that's likely going to transfer to your
strength more than if you were to lift
light loads so that's one thing you're
going to be making strength gains you're
going to hit new PRS that makes training
fun at least for some and if you haven't
tried it it may be more fun than you
think um chasing the latest PR on the
cable lateral rise for sets of 1520
great what else but it doesn't compare
to hitting the new three or 5 RM on the
squad or the deadlift at least for me
personally and that may be the case for
you as well there's a reason why these
programs are so widely sort of uh
adopted and people enjoy them so from a
stress standpoint you're taking a lot of
boxes you're lifting heavy you are doing
relatively Low Reps so that transfers to
both 1 RM strength also the general
strength from a hypertophy standpoint
because you're continuously chasing that
extra PR and you're adding weight to the
bar you are constantly training very
close to failure although that's not
necessary to maximize strength gains
you're still going to be making strength
gains and because you're just focused on
adding weight to the bar and hitting
that new 3x5
uh weight on the overhead person or
whatever you're automatically putting
yourself in a position where you are
constantly overloading and you are
constantly training close to failure
without necessarily thinking much about
it because you're solely focused on just
adding weight to the bar the same goes
with accessories as well where you're
either trying to add weight so let's say
you're doing chin-ups and you've started
doing weight at chin-ups and you're
trying and add more weight over time and
get to a specific goal or you know even
if you're adding reps if you're unable
to do let's say 10 plus chinups that's
still you focusing on just beating the
number you're not necessarily that
concerned about whether the exis is
optimal and whether you are following
the right periodization scheme or what
your block will look like you are just
going in eating like an absolute Beast
lifting like an absolute beast and all
you care about is those numbers going up
that in itself may actually lead to more
gains and any traditional sort of tried
and tested General strength training
routine will do but I'll leave some
recommendations in the description below
for some of the classic programs that
we've all done over the years however if
you do feel like coming up with your own
program and selecting a few basic either
bar build or even machine based lift but
ideally I'd go for the Barb lifts cuz
those are the classics those are the
lifts that we have strand standards for
I'd go for the squat the bench ver the
deadlift the B over rad the overhead
press chin up push-ups like just these
seven lifts and a couple of accessories
for side delt uh biceps and maybe Cales
and obviously you're looking at a solid
program thank you so much for watching
don't forget to hit the like button hit
the Bell icon subscribe notify buy stuff
and soon my ad app the app that myself
and do M will have been making for 3
years now which takes the thinking from
your training completely away from you
and tells you relax buddy I got it I'll
do your stupid training what do you want
to do you want to do twice a week only
Cal training I got you I'll do that you
want to do an arm specialization cycle
with no legs like your boy I go you
there you want to do only legs cuz
you're a cycle once a week cool 7 days a
week I'll do that too the most versatile
trading app out there register your
interest it's not out yet but but it
will be out soon but you will be the
first to know if you register your
interest that said I'll catch you guys
next time peace
[Music]