all right next question what are your
thoughts on dorian yates high intensity
training or the idea of doing one
working set to failure per exercise as
per mike m√ºnster and arthur jones so
this is interesting because I think it
was like two or three days ago I was
listening to adoring the eights on Joe
Rogan's podcast because I've been
listening to his podcast lately for some
reason and it was really interesting he
actually said that he attributes his
look to that high-intensity low-volume
training style and he thinks that that
approach is what gives the bodybuilders
of the 90s era that really grainy dense
look I'm not convinced if there's really
anything to that I feel like there's
just so many other variables like I know
that their drug protocols have changed a
lot the guys are look tend to look more
bloated nowadays and you do have really
grainy guys like branch Warren and some
others who resemble that look of Dorian
and I don't think that they necessarily
have the same training style but there
could very well could be something to it
but that said even though I tend to
advocate for higher volume training in
the sense that it's a higher volume
training is in a direct correlation with
increased muscle mass and I tend to
interview guys who've published this
research on training volume I'm also
very open to research on lower volume
training and higher intensity training
so two people who have really kind of
driven this area forward are actually on
other first names but Fisher and Steele
maybe I'll link a few of their papers
down below if you guys would like to
read it but they basically come at this
from a different angle than a lot of the
other experts that you've probably heard
a lot from like dr. Brad Schoenfeld and
James Krieger and and those guys who
tend to advocate for more of a higher
volume approach these guys tend to argue
that well you can actually get most of
the hypertrophic bang for your buck just
by doing one all-out set to failure
which is much closer to what guys like
Dorian Yates used to recommend so when I
look at all this literature and all
these studies with like these kind of
conflicting results what I think is if
you're gonna go the high-intensity
approach then you almost have to by
default go lower volume if you are going
lower volume then I think it is
important that you take set
failure because it's when you start
combining a very high intensity all out
every set to failure approach with also
a high-volume approach that you start to
run into potential injury and
overtraining issues so the way I see it
is if you're going to be training higher
volume then you need to be training less
frequently to failure and with
relatively lower RPE s if you're going
to be training very intensely with many
sets taking to failure then you don't
want to train also at a high volume and
I think that you can have success taking
both of these approaches and what I
would do is period eyes it so you'll
have some blocks of training where
you're training at a higher volume with
the lower intensity and then other
blocks of training where you're doing
more of like a Dorian Yates style
high-intensity program at or lower
volume if you cycle through that and
design it and what I would think to be a
smart way over say a calendar year you
can come up with a really intelligent
macro cycle there so I'm totally open to
all that but I think that just sticking
to one kind of pigeon holing yourself
into one approach like oh I only do the
y8 style HIIT or I only do high-volume
training is probably not the best way to
really maximize on your potential
[Music]