not drinking enough water each day can
actually prevent your body's ability to
break down fat the amount of water you
drink has almost no effect whatsoever on
how many calories you burn unless you
are hyperhydrated and no longer healthy
or hypohydrated very dehydrated and also
not healthy anymore if you are
hyperhydrated you generally just don't
feel like drinking fluids for hours and
if you're dehydrated you'll almost
always and almost everywhere be really
thirsty so as long as you're not Ultra
thirsty all the damn time and if you are
have yourself a sip of some kind of
fluid then you're good to go an addition
of extra water to a metabolic system
does not meaningfully increase the
metabolism I wish you could just have a
couple of extra glasses of cold chilled
beautiful Arctic water per day and the
fat would just melt off but this is
First Rate influencer fed dog you'd
burn more calories drinking dog
liquefied why am I saying that I
shouldn't say that look if you throw up
a lot I'm done I swear