for example in the squat you can say
okay after 3 minutes I'm breathing
normal I feeling strong again and my
quads feel like we're ready to go but my
lower back is still cramping and still
has lactic acid it's still weak if you
do another work set what do you think is
going to be the limiting point it's
going to be your lower back which means
your quads are like did anything happen
did we just try or what the went on
if your lower back has five good reps in
it but your quads have 10 good reps in
them it doesn't matter if you tell
yourself on one rep in reserve you're
six reps in reserve for the quads for
the muscle that matters so the
synergists have to be good to go another
example is forarms and the lap pull down
if your forarms are still throbbing and
you can't grip anything it's not time to
do lat pull Downs again you got toing
rest out even if your lats feel quite
good