[Music]
this is the pre-workout Josh got for me
man sports game day this is my first
time trying this he says three hundred
milligrams of caffeine and there's
nothing like I need to worry about me
right now you'll be good absolutely
WMV F is like so strict do you just like
the water testing or yeah they do but
they have like a couple other like they
have a MP citrate band and one three
dimethyl I mean by the time you would
compete again that would be out of your
system completely right it's true but
they still polygraph board right oh
really like I would if I cook it and oh
no I cook it with like probably get
really nervous
gotcha so didn't realize they did
polygraph - yeah I was like I took it
with the old Jack Jack Sergey right but
like they have like a grace period Alito
January 1st 2015 whatever it was but as
long as you take it since then and
you're good which I haven't all right
what's going on everyone so I'm here
with my boy Josh love guys and we're
driving in my 40 game which is been
Mikulski's training facility if you guys
listen to my podcast with Josh you would
have pretty longer talk a lot about some
of Ben's custom equipment and that sort
of thing so I've been wanting to train
here for so long so I'm really excited
to be here training with Josh today and
we're going to be hitting a lower body
workout so hopefully that will go well
my lower back is still a little bit
questionable so I'm a little bit limited
in terms of what I can do and how heavy
I can go but
talked about this a little bit last
night and I don't think I don't think is
going to be an issue because I guess I'm
assuming van has like a bunch of
different machines and stuff yeah it
doesn't know all right let's get a quick
tour
those are so nice yeah they're in kilos
- that's a little different for an
American Jim oh wow they spin wow that's
that's really cool I'm excited to try
that maybe I should we should do like
chest or something
instead of legs I hit the gym all chest
no legs okay so they've got a seal row
over here see that would make life so
much easier for me oh wow that's so
sweet you hear yeah trampoline oh it's
just like a wall
posing around man whatever we happy here
oh yeah that's actually awesome
it's cool right yeah yeah that's
actually sweet oh dude
some of this equipment looks unreal yeah
I'm going to try this actually could you
so it's gonna be so it's a pullin
machine
[Music]
neeli
virus
so but I guess they force your wrist
anymore I actually don't know I don't I
like a vertical legs do you yes and
we'll do what everybody but this is a
like section
[Music]
to the Metro
women
right I'm not sure they're okay and are
you pointing your toe down or up or you
keep it up okay all right yeah let's go
out into it I've ever trained with him
yeah we did this we did this one from 45
oh my god you're gonna aim for six full
range and then three partial okay okay
let's do it
[Music]
dream come true
[Music]
my table
okay let's go
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
I say
five I'm going to drop back to 75 and go
to failure again and then one drop
according to Josh Ben kuklinski had both
of these like extension machines
specifically designed so that they're
mirror images of one another so this one
he can sit in and do extensions with
this leg hanging out and then over here
do the same thing except with the other
leg signing out so he had they only make
this one but then he had this one custom
made you doing the single leg knob to
lace actually matches his strength for
about it
right
[Music]
I'm going to go just get take one off
and the ban doesn't start I'm going to
go again and based upon Holmes's fetus I
let him judge will just continue sure
okay
[Music]
oh good stuff
dream come true
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
now it's more than cars
yeah the principal I know since I'm
talking one was just debris okay yeah
look at that were likely to
[Music]
ah
[Music]
one condition
yup
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
with Josh I was definitely one of the
more taxing workers have had a very long
time muscular endurance wise very high
volume very high intensity of effort
lots of sensors taken close to failure a
lot of higher rep stuff and I in part
because my lower back is so give me some
trouble so I was able to load it quite
as heavily for a very high rep axe lot
like I was doing 20 reps sets very
taxing on the cardiovascular system as
well so the very high level of
difficulty huh workout gonna finish off
the leg workout and now we're going to
slick mess around with some upper body
stuff this is a machine row a chest
supported machine row so the handles are
here and this is one of the types of
machines that Joshua is explaining on my
podcast so you can load the plates here
here or here and it'll load different
parts of parts of the range of motion so
how is that set up now to load the the
top end or the silver ranges or the
system
this is gonna overload the end range
okay gotcha what appears to be at the
beginning yeah and like I just tried
this and it like it feels so different
because yeah yeah if it's down here it
feels really light at the beginning and
then as you get to the top it gets more
difficult I found the best feel for me
was loaded heavier at the bottom and
then as you get to the topic it's easier
because it's like perfectly match to the
strength curve but yeah it's such a cool
machine and then over here is a similar
chest press machine so as you can see
you can do the same thing here load the
top or top low middle earth sorry top
low middle end of the range of motion
Oh
guys
work out at the Joffrey check out his
channel
well it doesn't have to be helped me
just something with like high protein
maybe like nothing to Bernie see I got
was burning two freshmen
I'll get rice and the noodles so I'll do
the Brussels sprouts one Procyon skate
chicken
I'm gonna get guacamole
and some of the cheese Oh No
I'm gonna try a little bit of the creamy
white ginger a little bit right here
rice some noodles
yeah noodles Brussels sprouts with
vegetable yeah that's it and this is
like a creamy white ginger sauce I think
Josh got sprayed on my brown eyes
[Music]