what is going on everyone so Stephanie I
just got here at the Tampa International
Airport and we're headed to Houston
Texas for the weekend and going there to
train at alkalete and film and AB
science explain video so I'm really
excited about that and I will just be
taking a couple videos break from the
informative content to give you guys
some behind-the-scenes stuff of training
to help elite 40 depends if he does
inform in its channel sort of not a lot
of it having like he throws in his life
because as new drivers kind of care or
like a little bear people care about
this horse but before like it was just
like informative content for about two
weeks leading into the Alpha Lee thing
because I'm doing an AB science explain
video I wanted to do a little crashed I
still doing intuitive eating I didn't
track the whole time I also didn't weigh
myself the whole time I was just kind of
going by digital changes in the mirror
and so this is the meal that I got at
the airport so this is a real treat for
me at this point chicken sandwich french
fries and a whole lot of ketchup Preiser
sofa
lots of lemon shoestring fries I'm not
the just because I'm like doublet artery
or six open lobster for me over my head
this is cause this is my sign so it gets
a little livable give me a thumbs up if
you want to see a Marja wanna sign we
have made it to Houston Texas and we are
here at Kroger you just picked up some
basic necessities exactly you did what
is it boss
boo boo boo boo have you ever heard of
that just some like sandwiches and stuff
like that just so we don't have to like
eat out at restaurants too much fiber
one Brown my real dinner would not start
with cold chicken or videos kosha bit of
hot chicken
we're not going yet we're going to be a
hot meal one in Texas
potato I'm gonna roast people on
sidewalks so there's no cars either is
downtown Houston is over there trust me
think of it a stock book but it's photo
is out there please be here on the right
there's some varying types building the
great flavor of note
over here Ernie can't see very much I'm
building a slanted roof there's a wild
Jeff man who wears the minimun part
moose ballplayers
Houston wanted a you use an Astros
Astros all that sort of thing
Hyatt Place in Sugarland Texas their
room is nice
all right thank you this is very nice
breakfast area on to the left take these
things off the man he refuses to use it
the way it's supposed to be this side
turn this side doesn't but he doesn't he
refuses to push it from the right side
right first try looking at you do it you
just all over again oh well you know you
have a better hotel energy efficiency
that's actually pretty cool I like that
oh that's what I'm for how long that how
to find more comparables in a bid that
we have challenges Oh oh wow I don't
know these Jeffries games will nacho
Fortune jeopardy right all the prices
right right right
how much for a rotating television
device for much for an Asian or
expensive so this is a new Sony Alpha
6500 I just picked this up yesterday and
the mic that I'm using is a rode
videomic pro and I actually haven't
tested this out yet so I hope that the
audio is at least a little bit better I
also want to use this to do like walk
and talk videos where I do like kind of
like informative videos they're just
sort of like off the cuff so me walking
around sort of things because sometimes
it was really annoying trying to get
those clips and then there was a bunch
of wind so now Stephanie and I are going
to absolutely Jim check that up for the
first time it's 841 p.m. here which
means it's 9:40 1/2 a time really work
out for us it feels really late yeah
we're going to do a light shoulder
workout and tomorrow's a leg day so
rest of tonight crush them like tomorrow
out week it says we're here but I don't
know where across over athletic I have
no clue this is what it looks like yeah
I just don't know what building it is
there yeah someone feel alright no this
is bush it was daytime about you this
would be like so much more obvious
woman's roasting this was right there
I don't account I made it the receivers
doesn't I don't know why we ever thought
to look on the other side of the Perot
who made it and I will say it's pretty
cool to actually be here though I
remember when he moved into this place
like I was watching summer shredding
2015 and this place open so it's pretty
cool
now can you just bounce a woman's foot
yeah we're gonna yeah yet so there's
that one penis and then there's the gym
right here it's actually where we take
involvement July 1st entire day come
here like right here oh right here like
right there so grown with everyone 517
spotty South section deputies only just
water on race machine right here from
here to like to write their best life ah
it's not right thanks for swimming with
this letter with this machine are you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Hey
well elbows off a good one hey go that's
it you got it
okay perfect
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
like I mean we're upright and kind of
locked in you like Japan you really
can't be with it sorry fella
[Music]
me
[Music]
I love it yeah I wanted to do I really
think it's going to take off because it
tastes good and all right thanks Amy
All Right see ya 11 p.m. workout
complete I'll check in with you guys
tomorrow morning
[Music]