hey folks I'm Dr Mike welcome to the
targeting the muscle series back again
barbell standing overhead shoulder press
that's a lot of words to say for one
exercise that's what we're focusing on
and making sure you get a really great
stimulus to your front delts if you need
that sort of thing and of course your
triceps as well
oh that's my wife Crystal she is of more
normal size than me and I am no longer
able to do this exercise properly
because my arms got too big and I'm sure
you'll have a comment about some
bodybuilder that has bigger arms than me
and can still do these properly and then
I have nothing to say to you except I'm
not that flexible and I cry a lot at
night before I go to sleep but that
crime will come later first let's get to
our first tip
[Music]
where to put
as they call it in Jewish the Haynes
ideally
in most cases you'll get the best
stimulus the lowest fatigue by putting
your hands just outside of shoulder
width
right here but it's not a hard rule some
people can actually go a bit wider and
get a ton out of the exercise without
discomfort some people can go a bit
narrower ideally you want your hand to
come just to the outside of your
shoulder at the bottom of a press
that is for the purpose of maximizing
hypertrophy because that maximizes the
range of motion and the degree of
stretch we expose the front belts and
triceps to that is not a guarantee that
it will maximize how much weight you can
lift in the exercise
vast shoulder pressing for strength and
if you Google my name and standing press
or military press or shoulder press and
Google the number 275 you will see your
boy pressing 275 pounds for a set of
eight
a few years back damn that's just strong
you're gonna say it's fake weight just
kidding it's real I used to be a great
shoulder presser and I got to Jack to be
able to do it in any case that was a
nice tangent to nowhere but what I'm
trying to say is strength is cool and if
you want shoulder press for strength
you'll have to play around starting with
the grip I was talking about just
outside shoulder width to see where you
can lift the most weight but for
hypertrophy purposes just as I should a
width is usually good but feel free to
play around a finger width here or there
to see where is best for you
you're probably thinking it so I'll just
come to the chase how much are we
allowed world's strongest man style to
Arch living shit out of our backs during
the shoulder press Crystal why don't you
show us what a completely upright zero
Arch press looks like
yeah
beautiful and then give us give us some
give us Arch oh yeah oh hell yeah what's
up Olympics 1952. go ahead and rack
awesome thank you for that time
here's the thing
if you try to stay completely upright
you end up in a situation in which the
barbell kind of floats in front of you
and then you have to press it around
your face which is fucking weird
radically reduces how much weight you
can use radically reduces the forces
exerted and also you have to really push
your shoulders forward which can make
the joint feel strange in my experience
that's no bueno so this idea that you'll
see in a lot of other YouTube videos not
to shit on other content creators though
fuck all of them just kidding Jeff
Nipper you're the man the rest of you
fuck all of you just kidding many of you
are great some people especially from
Old School 2010 YouTube would have demos
where they're like make sure to Crunch
your abs and crash like this I'm like
you pussy motherfucker you can't press
the fucking bar plus a few goddamn 25s
on that bitch fuck out of here nobody
strong presses like that you're not
gonna get big pressing like that it's
fucking impossible the people who teach
you to press like that don't actually
lift weights in that regard what you
want to do is take a gentle natural
little tiny baby Arch and simultaneously
lift your chest up bring your shoulders
back a tad that forms a super powerful
shelf and it allows you to press more
vertically you'll still have an arc
we'll talk about that in a bit but it's
much more of a natural movement if you
lean back a ton and you get lower back
pain don't fucking lean back that far
but you're gonna lean back a little bit
and it's less of a lean and more of a
lifting your chest up pushing it out and
starting from here Crystal would you
like to demonstrate that technique
so do the first do the first like really
curved over super straight one yeah see
the ABS are crunched press that's kind
of weird right it is weird right so and
then chest up nice and firm hit it
beautiful and down and rack excellent
[Music]
next tip it's kind of an awkward tip and
there's so many jokes to make off of it
I'll just let you make them in the
comments press as close to the face as
possible
right here if you Arc away from the face
your Force production drops because the
lever arm increased it's not a terrible
thing but it's really bad for tracking
you don't know how many uh you you push
the bar out too far and all of a sudden
you lost two reps like oh my god did I
hit my maximum recover volume am I
getting weaker well if you keep the bar
close to the face it standardizes it and
cool enough it allows you to present a
lot of force into the bar instead of
losing it that way and then you can lift
more weight which is cool that's not
what we're after we're after the
standardization so Crystal why don't you
show us the wrong way where people are
you know six inches away from their face
you probably use that sort of thing yeah
there you go I don't know what the fuck
that was but don't do that now the right
way real close to the face
zip and back down and one more the right
way
zip and back down beautiful and rack
[Music]
all right next tip is as soon as the bar
passes your forehead
you want to tilt your head and push it
through
so you're going to start with your chin
back chest up and as soon as the bar
passes your forehead you're going to
lean forward a little bit pushing your
head through and simultaneously driving
the bar just a little bit backwards
the alternative to this as Crystal will
show you in a second is kind of like a
high incline press situation by pushing
your head through
your optimizing mechanical advantage by
staying close to the tilt of the joint
right which means you can lift more
weight which is cool strong man and
weightlifters will get a lot out of that
but for hypertrophy purposes when you
push your head through and you push the
bar back you actually get a little bit
of side dealt growth as well and a hell
of a trap stimulus so it checks all the
boxes and if you're going to do that
high incline press variant where you
just stand there and do this it is a bit
more stress on the lower back in the
sciatic area it's not like the worst
thing in the world but it's more
sustainable it transfers better strength
and power to do it the right way as soon
as the bar passes you get a tilt it's
going to feel weird if you've never done
this before I've said that a few times
to you
I've never spoken to my wife before
outside of this occasion it's a paid
relationship in any case
you'll get used to it and it's going to
feel super fucking natural not
Supernatural super period
natural also period let's do it
let's try the wrong way first to take a
nice
Arch just press straight yeah this is
okay but it's really kind of like an
incline press
the better way to do it is to stay close
to the face and as soon as the forehead
passes notice Crystal tilts her whole
body and head forward just a little bit
you don't have to do this bullshit of
exaggerating where you like trust will
do some kind of duck walk shit yeah do
some kind of like Black Swan shit whoa
holy fuck and the bar flies back that
way it's all stupid it's gentle it's
subtle but it works and that's what I
tell all the ladies
last tip of the date
is to control that eccentric here's the
deal control The Eccentric on a standing
barbell overhead press
is a gigantic pain in the ass it's
humbling you have to use less weight
it's offensive you want to be athletic
and all like
weightlifting type shit you know fucking
cloak off and shit I feel that 100 me
personally if I ever see cloak off in
real life I get a blush turn red
erection I want to get close I kind of
want to smell them on the other hand I
don't want to like crowd them out
because it's God a male God like I'm
totally married and about a 150 straight
149 but Dimitri klokoff if you can hear
this
foreign
okay so in any case
let's try the slowest soundtrack first
give us some athletic bullshit where
yeah fuck yeah fast eccentric we're
really doing it yeah
no good
slow eccentric nice press
and then a three second ride oh shit
yeah pause
and then again
slow notice fast on the way up is great
but on the way down it's super slow
perfect rack amazing amazing amazing
folks
it's been so nice
to have Crystal round for a few videos
and um
look if you want to like like I know
this is a contract and you're not really
my wife
maybe we could uh I'm not saying get
married that's crazy it's like third
time we're meeting
like do you want to like maybe just like
a coffee or something I don't drink
coffee but like um just like maybe like
iced tea or something like maybe beer
like just a movie or like a park or
anything
anything
okay pick up seminar stay tuned for
details I'll see you guys next time
[Music]