[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of the science applied series in this
video we're hitting a more posterior
chain focused leg day meaning we're
gonna be targeting the glutes and
hamstrings more than the quads and this
is gonna be the second lower body
workout for the week so they three of
our new upper lower split which is based
on my new upper lower size and strength
training program now for the record the
workouts that I'm doing in these videos
are not exactly the same as those in the
training program but they're based on
many of the same training principles and
follow very similar volumes so you guys
can have an idea of what to expect if
you do decide to pick up the program and
as we'll see at the end of the video
when we tally up the total training
volume for both sessions now you can
certainly run these workouts as a four
day upper lower split and still have
enough weekly volume to make solid
progress especially if you're further
from that more advanced end of the
training experience spectrum okay so
after completing the full warm-up
routine which I'll be covering in a
future video we're gonna jump into our
first exercise for the day which is the
deadlift
we're doing two sets of five reps in
week one and then adding one set every
week until we reach a total of four sets
in week three before again returning to
two sets of five in week four but with
more weight and I like this volume
focused double progression for very
technical lifts like the deadlift
overhead press and even the pull-up
because it allows you to accumulate more
practice with the lift which will
improve strength rapidly as you get more
proficient with the movement and you'll
also reap more size gains from that
progressive volume accumulation now you
can pull either sumo or conventional
however if you're accustomed to always
pulling with one variation it may not be
a bad idea to switch to the other for
the next month or two
just to experiment and potentially
improve any weak points in the lift and
especially since the sumo deadlift is a
very nice accessory movement for
developing conventional deadlift
strength and vice versa now the main
differences in terms of muscle
activation patterns but that sumo
deadlifts hit the quads a bit more and
conventional deadlifts hit the spinal
erectors of the lower back a bit more a
glute and hamstring activation is
actually very similar between the two so
periodically very
these movements make sense also I think
it makes much more sense to put the
deadlift on a lower body day rather than
an upper body day or back day since so
much more of the lower body is targeted
than the upper body granted an
activation study from knowing colleagues
found that the lats are actually highly
active in the deadlift but only near the
beginning of the lift we're at about 70
percent of the way up there's a massive
drop-off in activation so no doubt the
lats do play a very important
stabilizing role in keeping the spine
extended and preventing the bar from
drifting out in front of you also this
2002 paper found that the upper traps
are most active at the point where the
bar is passing the knee while the mid
traps are most active at the beginning
of the lift
however these muscles of the back are
still only playing a stabilizing role
contracting isometrically without a
concentric and eccentric contraction
whereas the quads glutes and hamstrings
are all lengthening and shortening under
load placing much higher work demands on
these muscles than any of the muscles of
the upper body okay after that we're
doing three sets of eight on a wide
stance box squat where we're gonna add
one rep each week until we reach 10 reps
in week three and then go back to eight
reps in week four with more weight and
because this is a posterior chain
focused leg day here we're making four
modifications to the squat that are all
going to help transform the lift into a
more glute and hamstring dominant
movement first we're using a low bar
position where the bar sits down on the
rear delt instead of up on the upper
traps and according to this 2017 study
from glass broke at all if you're
seeking to develop the posterior chain
hip musculature
so the glutes hamstrings and erectors
you may want to use the low bar back
squat now when using the low bar
position you want to make sure that
you're still keeping the bar perfectly
centered over the middle of the foot on
the way down and on the way up so to
make this possible you want to initiate
the descent by really sitting your hips
and back without causing your chest to
collapse a forward and you don't need to
worry about losing your balance and
falling back since the box is there for
you to sit on anyway which is the second
modification and using the box is really
going to allow you to sit your hips and
back which is another cue that's going
to emphasize the hip musculature over
the knee musculature and you want to set
the box to around the height of your
kneecap or to the point where you reach
parallel once you're sat on the box and
the third modification is to use a wider
stance up to
two times shoulder-width if that's
comfortable for you since according to
research from Paoli and colleagues a
large stance width is necessary for
greater activation of the gluteus
maximus during back squats and finally
we're going to be using more foot flare
than usual rotating the feet out by as
much as 45 degrees since one of the
primary functions of the glutes is hip
external rotation so the combination of
the low bar placement the cue to really
sit back onto the box the wider stance
in the increased foot flare we can
transform the more quad dominant
standard back squat into a very glute
and hamstring dominant and box squat
also even though I think specificity is
crucial for developing squats strength
meaning if you want a big squat you need
to squat often variations on the squat
like box squats front squats and pause
squats are still highly specific while
training potential weak points in the
standard squat so including variety like
this not only makes sense for
hypertrophy but also for maximizing
strength over the long term and this
exercise may feel a bit awkward at first
but just be patient with it and start by
loading lighter than you normally would
on a normal back squat in this rep range
okay up next we're doing three sets of
twelve reps on the constant tension
barbell hip thrust now this is an
exercise that's been discussed a lot but
one thing I don't see many people doing
is using a constant tension approach
where you focus on the top half of the
range of motion and while there isn't
anything necessarily wrong with allowing
the hips to flex all the way down to
allow for a greater range of motion
research from where Ella Tao found that
the glutes fire the hardest when they're
in or near full hip extension meaning
you'll get the greatest glute bang for
your buck by focusing on that top aspect
of the thrust also I find that many
people use the very bottom aspect of the
range to just let the bar passively rest
which again isn't necessarily
problematic especially if it allows you
to load more heavily but it may not have
the glutes firing to their maximum
potential throughout set also even
though it hasn't been focused on the
glutes per se more and more research has
been hinting toward a potential benefit
to a more constant tension approach
where you don't allow the muscle to rest
in between reps so I think that on an
exercise like the hip thrusts which can
benefit from more of an intentional
internal focus performing reps without
that little break at the bottom in
between reps it makes sense also even
though we're focusing on the walk
aspect of the lift you still want to be
careful to avoid hyperextending your
lower back at the top so be sure to end
the range once your hips get to that
neutral position and then reverse the
motion under control and here because
we're trying to isolate the glutes I'd
recommend going lighter and really
focusing on nailing down the mind muscle
connection as much as possible
and we're gonna pretty much finish off
this workout with a quad and hamstring
superset so three sets of 20 reps on the
leg extension super setted with three
sets of 20 reps on the seated leg curl
however what we're gonna be doing
differently here is rather than
finishing the 20 reps on the lake
extension and then immediately jumping
right into 20 reps of leg curls we're
actually gonna rest for 30 seconds
between each and every set so we'll do
20 reps on the extensions rest 30
seconds do 20 reps of curls rest another
30 seconds to another 20 reps of
extension and so on until you complete
three sets of each and I like this
approach especially if you're doing
higher rep super sets because there's no
rule that says you need to rest
zero seconds or as little as possible
between super sets it's mostly just a
tool to help you keep the pace up and
having that 30 seconds rest between
super sets will help you catch your
breath and allow you to push yourself
harder on every set without feeling
winded for no real benefit so rather
than resting say one minute between
drown just split the time up and rest 30
seconds between each superset and see if
you can notice how much even that little
bit of rest time allows you to recover
in between those exercises and of course
we're at the end of the workout here
we've got the heavy dead lifting and
squatting done so the main purpose here
is to just squeeze in a bit more volume
in a bit more of that metabolic stress
oriented rep zone to really finish
things off and finally we're doing
seated calf raises and AB wheel rollouts
to finish out the workout with the
seated calf raise we're doing eight reps
with a full pause at the bottom and a
squeeze at the top with a nice and slow
negative and then on the final eight
reps we're gonna kind of just pulse out
the reps in the middle of the range so
I'm not bouncing out of the bottom but
not pausing or squeezing either and for
the AB wheel rollouts we're doing three
sets of eight reps and the main thing to
focus on here is thinking about the
movement as a sort of dynamic plank
where you're making the plank
progressively more difficult as your
arms move out in front of you and the
lis
lengthens also this 2008 study from
Judas Attell showed the AB wheel
exercise to have the highest EMG
activation out of the four exercises
tested including the crunch so it's a
solid movement to include and I just
want to make sure that you're squeezing
your glutes throughout the entire range
of motion and you want to prevent your
spine from extending on every rep by
actively engaging your abs and if you
find your lower back and dipping down
too much you may need to cut the range
of motion a bit shorter until you master
the technique okay so guys I'm going to
tally up the volume here for each body
part for both leg workouts and put it up
here on the screen if you'd like to
pause and read for more on volume and I
think this is plenty of volume for
beginners and probably enough for most
intermediate trainees make progress just
simply running these workouts as a four
day per week split however if you are
more advanced you may want to add in a
third leg day each week perhaps adding
in a little more volume for what your
specific week area is whether that be
hamstrings glutes quads calves or abs
and since my upper lower size and
strength program is geared more toward
intermediate to advanced level lifters
it uses the six day per week split
hitting every body part three times per
week and if you guys would like to jump
in with that training program and you
can pick it up at Jeff nipper comm I
actually just finished up week 3 myself
and I'm loving it so far so I'll put a
button to that program over here if
you'd like to check it out don't forget
to hit the thumbs up button if you
enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next video