[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks dr. Mike here with Jared
feather
harada-san spears Asian we are gonna
show you how to not do incline dumbbell
presses and how to do them remember
incline dumbbell presses or a chest
exercise focusing on the majority of
chest hypertrophy with a slight bias to
the upper pecs but the front delt and
triceps will also get a hypertrophic
affect the target really is the upper
pecs so let's remember that as we go
through these tips and tricks to make
sure you doing this not wrong and doing
it right
the first mistake is looking for an
ideal incline to activate the pecs or
something like that the target is the
upper pecs and the more you incline the
more the upper pecs are involved until
they're not involved much anymore in the
front delts take over too much and then
if you lower the incline a ton you
actually get more and more and more
whole PEC activation but at some point
the upper part of the pecs aren't
getting as big of a fraction of that as
they were so what's the right answer the
right answer is feeling out try all
three inclines lower incline medium
incline and high incline being basically
30 degrees 45 degrees and around 60
degrees see how they feel are they
hitting the upper chest do you feel
tension to the upper chest is there burn
through upper chest
is there a pump in your upper chest when
you're done with a few sets and is the
upper chest feeling weak and really
weird and lower and strength after
you've done whatever variation you've
done if it turns out that the low
incline lasts your upper chest and the
high incline and medium incline really
just hit your front delts low incline it
is on the other hand it's low in client
hits just mostly the rest of your pack
but the upper pack isn't really
prioritized and you only really feel the
high incline your upper PEC that's your
go-to try both start at 45 degrees work
your way from there based on what the
muscle is sensing in your body and don't
worry about what everybody else is doing
next mistake is thinking there's an
absolute 102 Flair the elbows it's
perfectly fine to do inclines with your
elbows tucked in close as long as you're
feeling your upper pecs being stimulated
and your shoulders and elbows feel
comfortable in that position and you can
produce a lot of force Jared Joseph that
looks like incline press like that is
one percent fine and then you few elbow
flare a little bit more hate it that's
totally cool too as long as you are
feeling your upper pecs and everything
else feels good and then if you want to
take all the way out that's also super
awesome a lot of people really feel the
chest this way if your shoulders are
really hurting in this position don't do
it any one of these is okay so long as
you are feeling your pecs stimulated and
your joints feel good the next mistake
in the incline dumbbell press is to not
have your chest a rib cage properly
expanded and the other version of that
is too extreme of an expansion where
you're attracting too much so what we
don't want to see is a completely flat
or rounded back your shoulders forward
and then you're trying to incline press
like that exposes the shoulders not such
a great position a lot of times the
front delts take over and the triceps
too you don't get a deep stretch of your
pecs at the bottom not the best what you
want to do is just slightly arch your
back but more think of it expanding your
ribs depress your scapula a little bit
hit some reps Jared that's a really
great-looking incline press and you get
a full extension at the top and a big
stretch at the bottom everything's nice
and stable what you don't want to do is
take this too far and start doing a
powerlifting setup where you're tucking
your feet arching as much as you can at
that point just reduced the incline and
then what ends up happening is if
Jared's gonna try to lockout notice that
he can't even lock out as elbows to
complete a rep because thus caps are so
far behind him you don't want to get
into extremes you want to stay go back
to the right ones you're just a normal
elevated chest scaps down but not back
and then all of a sudden you're doing
high quality reps next mistake is to
lower range of motion it's super
tempting to not lock the dumbbells all
the way out yeah that doesn't mean you
have to press them for three seconds at
the top of your triceps but it'll lock
out just means you did a full job of
using your packs on your triceps and of
course the much more common is not going
all the way down if you're freaking long
and you're super narrow rib cage you're
very inflexible shoulders you may
actually be able to get a full pack
stretch without going all the way down
that's incredibly rare 95 out of 100 at
least folks you'll see on the internet
even
pro bodybuilders don't go all the way
down with any kind of oppressors or just
trying to use more weight to show off to
themselves mostly and they haven't
thought it through so you know a lot of
folks stop short of that unless you have
gigantic arms and everything super bound
up you probably don't need to do that a
really good way to ensure you going all
the way down is to gently touch your
outer shoulders with the dumbbells every
single time pause for a split second and
come all the way back up Jared shows us
show us what that looks like all the way
up Jared's gonna come and gently touch
shoulders and all the way back that way
when you touch your shoulder gently you
know you're getting good enough stretch
you enough to worry about it show us
what some crappy lap reps look like be a
pro bodybuilder real quick you're
locking out too much you got to do only
mid-range yeah there you go yeah pump it
out baby war time war brother iron and
steel don't do that next mistake super
related to the rom mistake is doing
different range of motion with every rep
you have to have a standard if you are
not flexible enough to touch your
shoulders and lock out at the top at
least get to where you're going down to
the same relative position go down to
ears or something like that and then
come all the way back up almost
certainly will be flexible so go all the
way down dude if you're not at least
keep ever up the same chose Jared what a
bunch of different reps look like people
say oh I'm do an incline press will do a
good full range of motion for the first
one and then the next one they won't
lock out all the way and then they won't
come down all the way and it's like how
many reps is that who knows right every
rep short right should look essentially
the same all the way down and all the
way up how many reps did you do one two
it's super easy to count because all the
reps are the same good enough Jared
so half consistency by doing the right
thing every single time even if you have
to cut your reps for whatever reason
shoulder pain or something cut them to
the same depth of every single time so
you can track your progress apply the
right amount of stimulus not be confused
about if you've been getting stronger or
if you're actually just cheating the
reps form not control of the eccentric
is the next mistake the eccentric
lengthening contraction is hugely
stimula fiber trophy and by not
dive-bombing hour inclines we get to
have more muscle growth and be safer
okay it's tempting to just rock it the
weights up and then let them come back
down without expanding
energy you'll be able to do more reps
like that we're not here to do reps
we're in here to have every single rep
the high quality stimulated muscle
should show us what it's like to really
be a inclining machine and not control
her up and it comes down and then up and
it comes down and something's going on
and you're even doing too good of a job
with this there you go drop them drop
mind yourself yes yes much better there
it is to have control on the eccentric
show so if it looks like now that
doesn't mean each rep is five seconds
I'm ready Center just under control
you're still activating your PAC scene
triceps gentle touch and up and control
and up notice it's really a one second
eccentric he's doing but he's still
under control he's still getting the
maximum benefit of movement without
risking too much injury believe it or
not the incline dumbbell bench is not a
hip exercise crazy I know I thought you
were supposed to be using hip try for
all the stuff here's the thing if you
solidly plant your feet into the ground
a little bit of hip Drive without your
butt leaving the seat is totally fine
for maximizing concentric force so long
as your eccentric is really well
controlled however if your butt is
coming off the seeds what the are
you doing you train your upper pecs by
using your upper pecs to power the
movement as nothing to eat hips so you
definitely don't want to be
loosey-goosey you want to be nice and
solid notice he has his feet planted his
hips are wedged into the seat and he's
gonna do a good rap perfect control and
even if it's powerful do a powerful rep
chair but don't let your hips come up
really high power everything is still
stable now if you wanted to cheat
himself and add a ton of fatigue for no
reason yeah get it really pop those hips
hell yeah who knows what's going on now
at that point you're getting extra
credit for a test that's never gonna
happen
for someone who's not counting anything
okay don't use your hips it's totally
fine to be super stable have a little
bit hip drive in there you never want
your butt to leave the actual bench
because yeah you'll get more reps but it
won't increase your Peck stimulus at all
which is why you're doing this and also
it'll generate a lot of fatigue moving
your whole body and also a lot of times
when you have to do that you're already
well beyond normal failure going beyond
failure is super super fatiguing it's
not worth the stimulus in most cases
the last mistake is misusing dumbbell
loads this is gonna be kind of an
interesting thing you may not have heard
before but here's the deal on movements
like dumbbell movements that are
relatively unstable at very heavy loads
instability detected by the body reduces
your maximum ability to produce force so
sets of 5 to 10 in the dumbbell press
end up not producing nearly as much
force as sets of 5 to 10 in the barbell
press because the barbell is Auto
stabilized Smith machine as well if
you're into that sort of thing but the
dumbbells get really awkward when
they're really heavy and you spend way
more neural energy or neural priority
controlling them then you do actually
pushing with your upper pecs if you want
to go heavy so that's a 5 to 10 or vest
on barbells Smith machines and other
machines for incline pressing for
dumbbells you probably want to save
dumbbells 4 sets of 10 to 20 reps
what about 20 to 30 reps you can use
dumbbells but you have another problem
fatigue in the 20-plus rep range starts
to destabilize your technique because
you're in so much pain right that you're
focused more on getting the reps done
than actually getting good reps it's
much better to do that rep range on a
machine where you're locked in the
technique is the same every time you can
just go go go in addition to that
something I've experienced is you
actually start to have forearm cramping
or your forearms get tired holding the
dumbbells like this the entire time sets
of 25 a lot of times turns into just
forearm pain you don't even know what
you're training anymore
ideally there's for sure exceptions to
this incline dumbbell pressing should be
done in the 10 to 20 range save barbell
free weights and machines for the 5 to
10 especially Smith Machine and barbell
free weights and for the 20 to 30 for
sure is a good time to use machines and
not use dumbbells folks that fit for
incline dumbbell pressing do the
movement right do it consistently and
you will see progress don't worry about
how much weight you're doing just be
concerned with good technique and you'll
automatically get stronger over time
thing is if you do the dumbbell incline
all wrong you end up having to use more
weight which is super No
you need training partners to load the
dumbbells up on you it's not a race to
who can do the 200s it's a race in some
sense to see who can get the bigger pecs
the way you get the bigger pecs is to do
the movement right if you have questions
or comments shoot them into the comments
below if you want us to do other videos
and other exercises please shoot it in
there and if you want to help answer
some questions by all means do help
everyone out there if you know the
answer answer some of those questions
folks thank you so much we'll see you
next time
for the next exercise