[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at how to train the
neck through a variety of different
training techniques while avoiding
injury and maximizing strength and size
of the neck musculature but before we
get into the training technique itself
let's have a quick look at why neck
training is so important in the first
place for me I would say the first
reason is aesthetics and my experience
it's usually photos like these that turn
people on to neck training there's
literally nothing different about the
two images here except for the width of
the neck and you can clearly see that
the guy looks so much more facially
attractive on the right and the same
thing goes for celebrities who have had
their necks photoshopped smaller I mean
you can see just how much nerdier almost
goofier Channing Tatum looks with his
neck shrunk in on the right and this is
what actor DJ Qualls actually looks like
and here's what he looked like if he
trained his neck and of course I've had
about a two inch neck transformation
myself after just one year of consistent
neck training now luckily one thing many
people do find is that once they
actually start training their neck it
grows pretty fast and I would say that's
probably because it isn't a muscle that
is gonna get a lot of external loading
and just regular day to day activities
so once you actually do start hitting it
properly it should actually grow pretty
fast I think it's also important to hit
the neck from an overall strength and
athletic perspective in my opinion every
athlete involved in contact sports can
benefit from neck training because the
neck stabilizes the head so
strengthening it can improve performance
and prevent concussions and injury so
football and hockey players boxers and
MMA fighters all can benefit from direct
net training and it's actually pretty
common to see these athletes include
direct net training in their strength
and conditioning programs now I've also
noticed as have many others that neck
strengthening can reduce day to day neck
pain and headaches as well okay so we're
gonna start by hitting the front of the
neck through a forward flexion which is
going to be handled mainly by the
sternocleidomastoid muscle but it's also
important to develop the back of the
neck which will be training through neck
extension
and we can also train the neck through
lateral flexion however since lateral
flexion is mostly handled by the
sternocleidomastoid as well I wouldn't
say it's a top priority for increasing
neck width but definitely can help
ensure proportional growth also rotation
or anti rotation of the head is
important for certain athletes like MMA
fighters or NASCAR drivers and I like to
use rotation exercises to sort of pre
activate the entire neck warm things up
and establish a mind muscle connection
so before doing any direct neck training
I think it's important to do a quick one
to two minutes dynamic warmup
so you don't pull a muscle or get a
zinger the next day which is basically a
really really stiff neck to the point
that you can't turn your head one
direction which can take a few days to
go away so before anything I'll start
with 8 to 10 head rotations alternating
directions so I don't get too dizzy and
then I'll lie down on the bench and do
10 to 12 slow tempo bodyweight neck
curls and flip to the side do another 10
to 12 lateral curls with head weight and
then do the same for the rear and this
phase is actually really important
because you're focusing on taking your
neck through a full range of motion
getting a comfortable stretch at the
bottom and then trying to touch your
chin to your chest at the top and you'll
feel a really strong neck contraction
and of mind muscle connection doing this
after that I'll do a few five-second
stretches side to side and then do my
last warm-up drill which basically adds
a head rotation to the mix so here you
want to do a neck curl as normal except
you're gonna try to touch your chin to
your shoulder rather than your upper
chest and then alternate sides from rep
to rep and finally I'll finish out the
prehab stuff with a few side-to-side
rotations with an isometric hold I
seriously love this drill and if you
don't have anything to load you can
actually get a crazy neck pump and burn
just by doing this on its own so if you
do all this in a straight sequence you
should be able to complete the full
warm-up in just a couple minutes and now
you'll be ready to train much more
safely and effectively okay so up first
is the basic neck curl now there are a
few ways you can set this up the
simplest way is just to hold a plate to
your forehead position your shoulders at
the back edge of the bench and curl your
neck down and up you'll definitely want
to use some kind of protective headgear
for this
nice and thick to is good or you could
just use a towel and I'm just now
realizing that this might make for some
pretty cool merch so I'll keep you guys
posted on that now you want to make sure
that your neck is actually doing the
work here not your arms or your abs so I
find taking a looser grip on the plate
or even actively pressing down sort of
mashing the plate into your forehead
prevents you from cheating with your
arms also once your neck starts to
fatigue your abs may try to get involved
by crunching the weight up and down so
you want to curl your legs in under the
bench to lock things in and really make
sure that the only movement is happening
at the neck as far as loading goes I'd
recommend loading in a more moderate to
light rep range for neck work generally
in the 10 to 20 reps own even as high as
30 reps since you don't want to risk
compromising any of the spines
supporting tissues or soft tissues just
to go heavier and as long as you're
training relatively close to failure you
can get the same results with higher
reps and with less of an injury risk
still I think many people do
underestimate their strength potential
on neck curls I've personally done 45
pounds for a PR set of 25 or 30 pretty
strict reps that actually pales in
comparison to some guys with really
strong necks for example here you can
see alex from the channel alpha destiny
doing 90 pounds for many reps and I
wouldn't necessarily recommend loading
that heavy for most people if you find
yourself still stuck at the 5 or 10
pound plate after training for a while
and maybe time to start setting your
strength standard a little higher so up
next is neck extension and again the
simplest way to load this is by placing
a plate on the back of your head and
doing lying neck curls and while this
can work I don't really use this
exercise any more myself for a few
reasons
find it a bit harder to maintain balance
on the bench in the chest down position
especially once you start loading a bit
heavier and because your neck is much
stronger in extension a single 45 pound
plate actually won't be heavy enough
even for 20-plus reps once you get
decently strong on these so this is
where training gear becomes pretty much
essential so I'd strongly recommend
investing in some sort of head harness
so you can load extension much more
effectively and comfortably now many of
you guys will know that for the last
four or five months I've been using the
neck flex which I find incredible for
this basically you can use it to Train
tension but also forward flexion in
lateral flexion which is unlike any
other head harness that I've used and
I've used a nice few and many of them
make forward flexion pretty much
impossible to load so you can load this
with band resistance as well and it also
comes with a door anchor so you can very
easily set this up at home which I
actually do most of the time now if I
just want to squeeze in a quick
10-minute neck workout without any real
setup or risk of getting stared at at
the gym even though I don't personally
think there's anything to be ashamed of
there
but anyway you can get a complete and
full neck workout in using just this one
piece of gear especially if you use the
chain included to load some weight for
extensions which you can do on a cable
rack or with a plate so I wouldn't say
that the neck flex is required to make a
net gains but it definitely makes it a
lot more convenient and totally saves
you the trouble and potential
embarrassment of having to put a plate
on your face and you can easily train
your neck from home if you don't want to
do it in the gym and neck Flex was kind
enough to hook the channel up with an
affiliate link so if you guys want to
grab one and take your neck training up
a notch you can support me in my channel
in the process so again with neck
extension in general whether you're
doing it on the bench with a plate on
your head or with the head harness you
want to take the neck through a full
range of motion getting a full stretch
at the bottom and then lifting your head
up till you reach a neutral head
position at the top and I'd be careful
not to hyperextend the neck at the top
so just stop and reverse the movement
once you get to that neutral head
position and you can also include neck
bridges in your training program however
I personally think they're a bit
redundant if you're already doing all
the other stuff we've talked about but
with that said I know many wrestlers and
combat athletes really benefit from
these movements and I will include them
in my own training from time to time so
if you guys would like to see me cover
neck bridges that's something I can do
in a future video so guys that is all
that I have for this one I don't forget
to check out the link in the description
to the neck flex like I said it's
something I've been using for a while
now and I thought this would be the
perfect way to bring more attention to
it because I really do think it's a
great piece of equipment so shout out to
them for being the first and only
technique Tuesday a sponsor like I said
it's not mandatory for progress but I
definitely think it helps also if you
haven't seen my neck and try
science explained video I definitely
recommend giving that a watch as I dive
into more of the research behind neck
training over there now please leave the
video a thumbs up if you enjoyed it
don't forget to subscribe to the channel
if you're new and I'll see you guys all
here next Tuesday