if you have gnarly consistency and
you're kind of burning the candle at
both ends and it seems like the harder
you work the more ground you lose then
backing off taking all of your so first
of all Point number eight de load every
few months take an easy week of training
or no training at all when you get
really tired do that right now if you
think you're overdoing it and then
coming back slice everything in half cut
all of your volumes in half you
typically do 10 sets of of of legs now
you do five do that low volume for a few
weeks you might actually start getting
better gains right away and if you think
okay this is really way too increase a
set here and there just to get it just
right so that you get really tired and
really sore and then when your next
workout comes up you're completely
healed and ready to go again like
yesterday my chest was sore and now it
is not sore at all triceps are not sore
at all and guess what in a couple hours
here I do my fucking chest and tricep
workout perfect so I know I'm healing on
time but for me it's a surprisingly
small number of sets that ends up
checking the Box in many instances if
for you could be more fewer sets just
make sure that whatever it is you're
training with start on the low end and
work your way up