remember all those terrible things your
uncle did to you in that awful situation
back at the amusement park remember you
probably don't remember cuz you're
psychotherapist spent many years
repressing those memories for you money
well spent that's when it's time to
Unleash the Beast grind the Reps and do
as many as you
can hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance
periodization we have done a video last
week we talked about basic super simple
tips for improving your ability to do
pull-ups whether it be a Max pull-up or
pull-ups for reps This Time advance
periodization example and theory on how
to improve your pull-ups I will say
compared to our other advanced
periodization stuff the theory here for
finding limiting factors is actually
very
simple however the structure of the
periodized training for Pull-Ups for
reps which is what the example is going
to be which I'm sure a lot of you guys
are interested in and
girls that's going to be a little bit
more complicated so let's just get right
into it here's the sequence generally
speaking of advanced periodization to
improve a lift you find the limiting
factors you do hypertrophy work to
increase the muscle size underlying the
limiting factors you do strength phase
if you want on RM eventually or you do a
work capacity phase if you want to do
Max Pull-Ups for reps and then you do a
peaking phase respectively for one or
the other so here's the thing
though limiting factor in the pull-ups
generally speaking the sticking point
and almost everyone's pull-up unless
they're not strong enough to even sort
of get out of this position the sticking
point will be close to where the bar and
Chin interact and that's just a terrible
leverage point for pull-ups but also
you're also tired significantly by the
time you reach that high
so your limiting factors on pull-ups are
almost always going to be lats the rest
of your back rear delts and your forearm
flexors your biceps and bracket radialis
and things like that that are not as
strong as you want them to
be because almost everyone has the same
limiting factors for pull-ups training
pull-ups is much more straightforward so
you don't have to do this whole
diagnostic phase that we did with bench
presses squats deadlifts and all the
other stuff we just go straight
into hypertrophy work that
trains generally speaking your ability
to do pull-ups and all the other
musculature that's involved what does
that look like we'll save that for the
example but basically do a bunch of
hypert trhy work if you're working on
other parts of your body which I assume
you are it's probably good to reduce
them for example if you're doing usually
lots of bicep curls and lots of rear ad
stuff if you really want to improve your
pull-up I would reduce the rear ad
volume probably eliminated all together
because maintenance volume for your
adults almost certainly is going to be
accomplished by your pull-ups alone and
I would drop the bicep work or integrate
it into your pull-up training just so
that's just enough for what you want it
for pull-ups you don't want to be in a
situation and most of the time when
you're like let's say it's Friday and
it's one of your pull-up workouts you
train biceps on Thursday and they're
still kind of tired and sore and your
ability to do pull-ups is impinged by
that no bueno so you might have to
restructure your training such that when
it's time to go train pull-ups your back
and your biceps and your rear ads and
all that stuff are pretty fresh right
then you are going to spend a few mesle
Cycles in the hypertrophy range
generally speaking for getting the
strongest you can possibly get on
pull-ups that sets a five to 10
if it's a work capacity situation we'll
talk about that in a second then you can
just do regular hypertrophy training
since a 5 to 30 and then get into the
work capacity work for Pull-Ups
so if you want the biggest pull-up on RM
which is like quite rare right but it's
you know how much weight can you tie and
still do a pull-up some people talk
about that kind of stuff what you're
going to do after the hypertrophy work
is you're going to switch away from
General work which can involve pull-ups
but also a lot of assistance exercises
and you're going to switch to doing your
favorite preferred pull-up variations
mostly absolutely keep in limit uh you
know keep in the uh other training that
you know your back training your bicep
or adult all that stuff still kept in
but taper down a little bit and you're
going to be doing lots of training in
the 3 to six repetition range the basic
strength range to get really really
strong at pull-ups that's going to
require of course added weight etc etc
and you still have assistance work but
now that assistance work like you know
some rows and stuff will reduce down
into the 5 to eight rep range to tailor
your body incrementally more to produce
very high forces so even your assistance
work which is designed to a little bit
improve or at least maintain your hyper
uh your muscle growth is going to start
to look a little bit different and start
to look more strength likee just all in
line with
specificity now that's if you want to
eventually Peak with a pull-up on our if
you want to Peak for as many pull-ups as
possible you take a different rout
after your general hypertrophy work is
done you begin work capacity instead of
strength mesocycles because you don't
want to get strong you want to build
your ability to do work ability to do
reps such that you can do as many reps
as you possibly can which is the
goal again you use mostly your favorite
pull-up variations the ones that you
want to uh get the most reps on could be
one could be a
few and
then you're going to be doing most of
your
training let's say you think you're able
to
do about 10 pull-ups
maximum most of your training is going
to
occur in a loading this is your body
weight and you can do 10 you're going to
train most of your training with
slightly less weight than your body
weight for slightly more reps than 10
you're going to do a lot of body weight
work
and you're going to do a lot of work
that's just a little bit higher than
your body weight that introduces some
really much needed variation so we don't
just have to do our body weight all the
time but the variation is very tight
it's very limited it's not very much so
when you're doing weighted Pull-Ups for
example you're not going to do them for
like sets of three when you can only do
10 regular pull-ups you might do them
for like sets of eight and when you do
assisted pull-ups you're not going to be
doing them for sets of like 25 when you
can only do 10 pull-ups you might do
more like set of 12 or sets of 15 that
way as you improve on all of these
abilities it follows the trajectory of
your improving pullup 10rm or rather
your ability to do as many pull-up reps
as possible so as that number goes to 11
and then 12 and the 13
hopefully you will follow along with
your
weights to make sure that you stay in
that range of just a little bit above
just at and just below that raw pullup
rep number that you're
pretty close to estimating you're
capable of doing at the time right
and if we're just talking
about the actual pull-up itself right
four reps close to your body
weight what you can do is you can still
overload it with load like this and I'll
show you guys an example in just a
bit you do a week where you just do your
body weight for you know three or two
reps in reserve next week you don't have
to add a rep you can do the same reps
but you add 2 and a half pounds what the
fuck yes that does mean you do the very
demeaning act of putting two and a half
pounds on a on a dip belt and tying it
around your waist and making sure anyone
in the gym that sees you doesn't
recognize who you are because it's
offensive and then you do whatever eight
that you did last week next week you do
five the week after that you do seven
and a half the week after you do 10 for
example now you're doing 10 PBS hanging
for the same reps that you started the
Mesa cycle at doing
free the next Mesa cycle you take the 10
pounds off and you start back at zero
except you'll probably not do eight
pull-ups which is two reps in reserve
let's say 10 is your best now you're
going to probably do like 10 and that's
still to R now your pull-ups have moved
up to
12 and you keep going through that cycle
that's just for that training right in
that range that you're supposed
to for another workout of that
week you would do the one above in
loading so that means you start at 10%
over your body weight with the weight
assisted this is if you can do like 10
to 20 plus pull-ups this is very
realistic so let's say you weigh OG whiz
150 PBS that means you start that
pull-up workout not at body weight but
you start it at 15 lbs hanging and you
slowly work up until you're at like 15%
of your body weight just a 5% move right
which for you is like s and a half
pounds so you start at 15 PBS and you go
up to let 22.5 or for Simplicity 25
pounds when you hit 25 pounds you drop
back down to 10% over like you know D Lo
next Mesa cycle back to 10%
and then you go and do pull-ups again
but now you'll be able to do more reps
so as you can see the right around your
pull-up body weight you add a little bit
of weight and go back down add a little
bit of weight and go back down at 10%
above you go to 15 then back down 15 and
back down but every time you go back
down it's more reps than you could do
before on yet another day another option
so we have three types of workouts you
could be doing this is the third you do
slow Ecentric pull Downs or or better
yet if you have access to an assisted
pull-up machine and you can do these
things with bands and maybe partner
assists some way that which you adjust
to be able to do more repetitions than
you ever could with your own body weight
and then you stick to sets of around
five reps more than you could with your
own body weight and you progress that on
load so for example you say okay I can
do 10 pull-ups with my own body weight
but when I get in and let's say stick
the assisted pull-up weight stack at 40
pounds because a lot of times the
friction and everything it doesn't
really feel like 40 you're not really
being helped that much I can do 15
repetitions pretty close to
failure so what you do is start at 40
next week 35 then 30 then 25 then D
Lo right and then back to another number
that you think you can do just five more
reps of pull-ups assisted then you could
raw same thing works for pull Downs if
your 10 rep pull up Max pick a weight
for pull Downs you can do for 15 strict
reps with a slowly cental control full
stretch and then stay at around 15 reps
and increase the load a little bit over
time that'll keep you at 15 reps Del
load then that 15 rep max on that pull
down will be higher instead of 150
pounds maybe it's 160 hour even 170 and
then you go through that process again
so you always keep that other day so day
number one let's say we do it in order
of intensity which is probably how you
should do it well actually let's see let
me not get too far ahead of
myself yeah hell yeah so once I talk
through this we'll show you the example
and you be like ah so day one there's
other work to be done but the primary
work you do is weighted pull-ups that
are an average of 10% heavier than your
body weight and when you float up to 15
you cut back down Del Lo repeat and then
that number moves up number of reps on
Wednesday let's say you do
basically right around your body you
start with body weight and you only move
up by 2 and a half pound increments
until you hit 10 pounds extra then you
take the 10 pounds off Delo repeat and
then you get more reps so we have one
above in in load we have one right right
around just at in load and then the
other day Friday you would do assistant
pull-ups or pull Downs for example with
an average of five reps more than your
initial estimate at your at your your
best so if you can do 12 pull-ups then
you start doing sets of like you know
first set would be 17 assisted pull-ups
whatever is hard for 17 and then you
slowly keep that 17 reps but you
decrease how much assistance weight
you're doing or if it's pull Downs you
increase how much load you're lifting so
that you're still doing 17 reps on week
number four of the progression put it
more challenging with more weight closer
to failure D Lo repeat and continue that
three-pronged method trains you with
just a little bit heavier loading as
them pullup just at very similar loading
and just below the loading and it allows
both for very beneficial variation both
in exercise type and a loading range but
also at the same time floats up with you
so that the specificity is always really
tight so you're always getting good at
pretty close to body weight Pull-Ups so
that eventually when you taper and Peak
there's a huge success with increasing
how many pull-ups you can do right so
peaking phase you guys can pause this
and look at that but basically what you
want to do is you train hard in the
first part of your peaking phase with
both lots of Pull-Up work and accessory
work after a few weeks you pull out or
heavily reduce the accessory work to
where it's just pull-up work but still
hard and then like oh a week or two out
you start to reduce how much pull-up
work you're doing how much work means
how many sets per workout it does not
mean that you're not training hard when
you're training fewer sets
right the sets are just as hard each
time your body starts to be able to
impose less fatigue on itself because
the volume is dropping I mean our
assistance volume already went that's a
big step your main lift your main
pull-up work volume is dropping the
intensity is still high what that that
does is that drops fatigue it raises or
or at least maintains in the last two
weeks your Fitness Fitness minus fatigue
is preparedness your preparedness your
ability to eventually do a shitload of
pull-ups goes like that and then that's
when you test at the very end very low
fatigue High Fitness and voila you're
doing lots of Pull-Ups so let's look at
an example of
that here the example is very specific
you are trying to do as many repetitions
of pull-ups with your body weight as
possible and your current best is 11
reps okay I've been in the situation
myself
specifically so for your hypertrophy
Mesa Cycles on day day one you would do
lots of sets of 5 to 10 in weighted
pull-ups and then of course other back
and armor would follow day two like a
Monday Wednesday Friday or even probably
better a Monday Thursday Saturday okay
day two sets of 10 to 15 assisted
Pull-Ups so we have a heavier day and a
much lighter day and then other back in
armor day three we're easy on the
Pull-Ups so we just do three doubles
three sets of two on perfect technique
free weight pull-ups with your body
weight just to keep that Groove going
something I mentioned
earlier and lots of back and arm work
after that workout rest recover repeat
and in another week and increase the
load increase the load increase the load
you would do that for all of your
hypertrophy mesle Cycles which during
that time you may actually gain a slight
amount of body weight which is sweet
because then your back is growing now
here's the fucking mind
fuck if you're really serious about
improving how many pull-ups you can do
during maybe a 12we hypertrophy block
you may gain something like 5 pounds of
body weight maybe 5 to 10 pounds of body
weight the number of pull-ups you can do
for reps might go only up by a few but
don't worry you'll have the opportunity
to lose this weight later and really
Peak your pull-ups and that's going to
happen in the next training phases we
have two work capacity mesocycles and
then a peaking mesocycle during these
work capacity mesocycles if you've
gained some weight during hyper trophy
which you should if you're really
serious during the work capacity phase
you should seek to lose all of the
weight you gained and maybe even a
little bit of some and there's going to
be so much volume in that work capacity
phase there's no way you're going to
lose muscle but that entire time you're
going to be better and better and better
so just real quick to
review two to three hypertrophy mesos
makes our hypertrophy block our weight
goes up by 5 to 10 pounds body weight
goes up work capacity phases two of them
in this case could be three weight goes
back down by 5 to 12 pounds even you can
lose a few extra pounds and that'll
really make you good at doing lots of
pums in the work capacity meso this is
where our earlier model that we talked
about of doing slightly heavier right
around and slightly lighter really
really comes to fruition right so day
one in the work capacity Meesa one is
remember we're doing roughly 11 pull-ups
as a Max we do sets of 8 to 10 weighted
pull-ups and then other arm and back
Works slowly increasing the weight
that's that 10% plus dat two we do sets
of 10 to 14 minimally weighted pull-ups
now notice I said 10 to 14 because we
could start with around
10 and actually work up to
14 because now 14 is our best pull-up
ability during the first this first work
capacity meso we're already up to 14 how
well because we did a hypertrophy meso
we like double the size of our back or
something your pull-ups are going to get
really good they're going to start
climbing during this work capacity maso
itself which is a really big deal
and if you add remember it's weighted
pullup so if you add more than 10 pounds
strip and go back and your rep will jump
that's how we get to that 14 it's going
to be like and you know three weeks in
where you got up to 10 pounds workout
number four zero again you're like holy
shit I just 14 pull-ups this is pretty
fucking amazing I already got three
pull-ups better work capacity meso
2 you'll notice one big difference all
it's almost exactly like work capacity
one except all the reps are up by
ooh about two why because we got two
reps stronger probably as a result of
the first war capacity Mees so in this
example it's uh I would say optimistic
it's um average to a little bit
optimistic totally possible with a
serious effort for you to gain
essentially four pull-up ability during
the hypertrophy phase and then gain two
pullup ability during work capacity
phase one and maybe even another two
after during work capacity phase two for
those keeping score at home that's maybe
eight extra pull-ups you're now able to
do that's a big deal so work capacity
meso 2 is almost exactly the same as
work capacity meso one except day one it
sets of 10 to 12 weighted pull-ups why
because it's just a bit heavier than
however many pull-ups you can normally
do but now you're not doing 11 anymore
as far as pull-ups you're doing G whiz I
don't know 17 or something like that 16
you're well on your way right so sets of
10 to 12 then sets of 12 to 16 weighted
Pull-Ups just a little bit shy of your
your body just a little bit more weight
than your body weight and rorm if it's
more than 10 PBS constantly
progressing and then sets of 17 to 22
assisted pull-ups of course all that
extra arm and back work is there after
every workout notice is their after of
workout doesn't stop you from doing
pull-ups hard and also when it's time to
do pull-ups again you've recovered not
only from the pull-ups but from the
extra arm and backwork it's paired very
well together because if you're doing
arms and back between those workouts
like Monday Wednesday Friday you're
doing pull-ups Tuesday Thursday Saturday
doing arm and back work you never have a
chance to recover violates the stimulus
recovery adaptation training principle
and it's no good right so we work
through those work capacity mesos and
then the peaking
meso looks a little bit
interesting three days in the peaking
Mesa
cycle day one you work up you warm up
carefully starting with assister
pull-ups then a couple reps of regular
Pull-Ups
and then you go to a heavy
triple on weighted
pull-ups what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now a heavy triple potentiates your
nervous system so much that when you go
into just one heavy triple one one heavy
set of three increasing the load every
week eventually like the week before you
Peak you'll fail at you're very close to
failure you're at their best
triple just one set the next sets after
that a few sets it says of body weight
pull-ups are going to be Mega PRS you're
going to feel like you're flying because
a heavy triple let's say by this time
you can do three sets with 50 pounds
hanging take 50 pounds off the pull-up
and you're going to be like holy fucking
shit we'll come back to that heavy
triple in a bit that's workout one day
two is sets of 10 to 14 pull-ups which
is now under what you can do
maximally come up 10 pounds rorm Etc and
then on that same day after you do your
sets of you know whatever pull-ups up to
10 pounds with weight and then go back
down getting closer and closer to
failure you're going to do assisted
pull-ups in the 18 to 23 rep range so we
have one workout for our regular
pull-ups after a triple to potentiate
right regular and then day two is we
have
the
slightly sort of in that just heavier
range and then slightly in that just
lighter range so we're taking one stone
and throwing it at two two birds die
that's great why because this is a
peaking protocol and we want every
Monday workout or day one workout to be
really fresh so we can really show off
and start to really get close to our
best ability to do fresh pull-ups which
is why day three isn't that normal rep
work which would make you tired for next
Monday day three is you just do three
doubles of perfect technique pull-ups
minimum arm and back work go home and
rest couple days later you come back in
that Monday feeling fresh hitting a mega
hard triple and then boom multiple sets
of what are now probably going to be PR
attempts
right two weeks out you take all of your
assistance work for arm and back or most
of it at least and just remove it from
the program keep keep doing the program
as
is the simplest Peak here is
this the last week of the peak okay
here's the last week this next week
you're going to test on this
Monday take the sets of pull-ups that
you're doing and just cap them at one
for each kind of Pull-Up so you're going
to do one heavy triple one high rep
pull-up with body weight close to
failure one rep away from failure that's
Monday Wednesday or Thursday is you're
going to do one set of slightly heavier
pull-ups one set of light assisted
pull-ups leave the gym your fatigue is
falling at this point your Fitness is
staying constant or even
elevating
Friday you're going to go and do the
same three doubles of perfect technique
pull-ups and fuck off no assistance
nothing just go home and rest this
entire time your diet should be locked
in so that you're weighing basically the
same thing every single
day and hopefully you did the fat loss
diet during this time so you're now at a
slightly lower body weight than when you
started this whole thing six or seven
months ago long time but a lot more reps
and
pull-ups when you come back on Monday to
hit your mega PR attempt what you should
do is warm up to hit a hard
single with
weight so instead of a triple go to a
single CU you don't want the
fatigue and get up to like a single
that's like pretty fucking challenging
like maybe the same weight you would use
for a three RM triple just do it once so
last week you did 50 pounds for a hard
fucking triple this week put 55 pounds
on well warm up to it 55 and do a
fucking awesome technique pullup o rack
with 55
pounds
rest 3 to eight minutes in length
depending on how much pull-ups beat you
up if you're one of these people that a
couple seconds after like I can do it
rest three minutes trust me no less than
that get your shit together turn on your
fucking iPhone switch the screen and do
the zoom and color the shit and aperture
whatever you know videographer shit I
didn't the videographers in my high
school people that got beat up but Scott
the video guy he was the one doing the
beatings that's why I hired him I don't
deal with that shit too pretty to get
beat up said no one ever that looked
like me in any
case as soon as you're done with that 55
pound single for example three to eight
minutes of rest if you think you've had
enough rest rest just a little more that
is actually an itative Loop that goes to
Infinity not you guys know what I mean a
little bit more rest than you may think
you need Gear Up chalk phone wave to the
girl you liked tell her eyes on me
comma exploitive you guys fill in the
blanks whatever you like to call females
in order to bring them down to your
pathetically low level and then calmly
calmly no rush begin to execute the Reps
exactly as you were practicing them
don't get that bullshit butterfly shit
you you'll have it a little bit but just
be like this is another awesome working
set I'm posting to all of my three
followers on Tik Tok and I'm going to do
the good technique that I'm known for
and then as the pull-ups get harder then
you Unleash the Beast psychologically
cuz remember it's reps what you don't
want to do is get super psyched up for
reps cuz in the first pull-ups really
easy you're like huh why did I get
psyched up as you do pull-ups and the
shit starts to really resist you still
with a good technique remember all those
terrible things your uncle did to you in
that awful situation back at the
amusement park remember you probably
don't remember because you're a
psychotherapist spent many years
repressing those memories for you money
well spent that's when it's time to
Unleash the Beast grind the Reps and do
as many as you can and you're going to
be looking at your video after and
you're going to count the fucking reps
because you knew probably lost track
having a psychotic episode and be like
oh my fucking God I did 11 reps six
months ago and I just fucking did 19
reps and you will ask yourself how how
can I pay Dr Mike back for this
incredible eight gifted repetitions that
I technically worked like crazy for and
wasn't a gift at all how can I pay him
back and the answer is this folks just
buy me another Lamborghini it's not that
hard they have a dealership there's
different colors you point to one my
Butler's point to it I don't never show
up that place you get one you ship it to
me it's the least you could do and I
mean honestly it's the least you could
do let me know if you guys have any
questions let me know if you guys have
any personal stories about what has
worked for you to increase your pull-ups
and uh yeah oh and by the way that's all
down there there's links to beneficial
stuff that we have and all sorts of apps
and diets and all kinds of things that
give me Lamborghini money buy something
you know if you're feeling spry anyway
you don't have to buy anything but if
you want please do thanks for tuning in
and we'll see you guys next
time