oh that's it rest rest rest rest good
stuff holy crap thought I was going to
eat that bar yeah for real that was 23
so far so very good very good 30 you
have to make it to 30 but it all has to
be in the next set this is like a bad
dream where it's just more reps all the
time elbows
[Music]
in folks I'm Dr Mike for Renaissance
periodization this is Jared feather IB
Pro also for renissance ization J is
just a little bit sick but what he lacks
in health he's going to make up for an
anger yes towards actually the chest of
Robin masado she is a champion
powerlifter she can bench press 250 lbs
but today she's going to be doing reps
we're going to see reps of what huge
chest and tricep workout but it's going
to be quick we're going to do about
three sets of benching then after that
we're going to do some inverted Skull
Crushers and then after that we are
going to do some push-ups but those last
two exercises are going to be myed into
hell what's a my oh you'll find out real
soon I can't wait let's get to it for
these Reps for after these let's
practice competition
pauses beautiful every rep from now on
for the rest of this workout on the
bench press is competition pause all
right folks exercise number one in our
rapid fire chest and tricep day is going
to be the bench press typically not
rapid fire uh takes a long time to warm
up for a long time to set up but Robin
is so absurdly strong in technical the
bench we have to show you that this is a
real human that exists so tldr I'm not
that tall but she's like a head shorter
than me which means she's probably like
3 fo8 and God damn can she bench so
really really good watch for her
technique she's going to be controlling
The Descent she's going to set up her
powerlifting Arch which she ask her to
do it's not mandatory for hypertrophy
but by taking your shoulder blades and
scooting them back at the very least and
possibly arching your back just a tad
you pre-stretch chest and you make it
really safe for your shoulders give that
a shot in your training instead of just
benching flatback and it might make the
difference let's go
train yeah Robin let's
go
control one more oh God you got
this lock it that's
it like I'm not used to doing more than
three you could tell you could tell the
powerlifter starts to gas out she's like
five reps what is this a man count can't
count that high we it for you that was
12 reps I think was it amazing doing it
that way takes a lot out of you oh yeah
sure if you're a lazy powerlifter I'm
kidding you're not though I'm not so
kidding so you are how long have you
been lifting weights uh 23 years holy
shit yeah you could have had a beautiful
23 y old child but instead you decided
to upgrade your own physique I know yeah
I could start when I was 15 you know
what's funny I got both because when I
was 9 years old I had my son Jared
feather I'm gorgeous and he's gorgeous
look at this I know he looks sick but
he's usually more lively another set
holy shit right shit that's right we're
not powerless oh my God I'm literally
I'm going to be able to get maybe like
two or three let's try for five and see
how it goes holy crap ready let's do it
feel pumped I'm not used to this
[Music]
way to
control one more one one more one more
one
more move it finish shit Robin 185 has
never felt so heavy good shit good shit
how long how long you been powerlifting
um 7 years okay yeah 7 years so before
that it was mostly like hypertrophy type
of shit yes it was a lot of like
hypertrophy strength missing um competed
in Brazilian jiu-jitsu so just you know
different goals I wanted to Mach ma yeah
I know all that shit you trying to fuck
with me no don't finish the shit I got a
spinning all kinds of shit to do after
that that's good arm drag though I like
it did you ever roll you ever do she say
she should be a black Bel a blue belt
I'm a forever blue belt you're trying to
like there there's Matt over here go we
can get a popping all right you talking
that sh oh shit oh shit baby yo you know
what I'm saying 2024 we all equal men
and women and shit we about to Dam she
might be bigger than you so hey hold up
hold up hold up if I lose we cut it out
if I win we leave it in you know we're
also going to leave in your next set a
damn come on okay hey you had six you
said two that was Triple I'm going to
have little SpongeBob arms just wait
till later boy is that going to sound
funny oh yeah let's
go come on got
it oh my God one more one more one more
one more
stay tight finish fuck yeah yeah yeah
yeah awesome going to have Mike do a
swirl around the pole yeah yeah I'm
going to hold it and he's going to do a
a dance for
us I'm done using that bar right no no
this is your nose is actually going
right there Seas on this next exercise
be stronger so uh close grip just like
uh pinkies on these lines here yeah
oh God yep and then take a false grip
just like you have there elbows
in yep see how to back your feet up a
little bit 3 in there you
go oh
yes
wait
oh you're sick we're going to do these
and as soon as you go real close to
failure we'll tell you to stop mhm you
won't move you're just going to come up
and you're going to rest here or you'll
just rest here and as soon as I say go
again you set up and go again we're
going to be going kind of roughly every
10 to 30 seconds more like every 10
until you sort of can't do this anymore
you ready for the pump I'm ready sounds
good oh yeah
more
more good slow and
control God breathe don't go anywhere
you're good you're good you're good
you're good you're good you can stand up
you can stand up breathe it out good job
very good this is going to bring you
close to muscular failure and there we
stay for the next few
sets yeah okay let's hit it again oh
shit right now yeah oh
yeah yes one more
Robin way to turn the elbows in big push
one more one more one more one more one
more slow control oh yeah push it out
rest good job so so far I believe your
total is 18 reps we want a total of 30
repetitions before we let you out of
here okay my just started
twitching two
[Music]
more oh that's it rest rest rest rest
good stuff
holy crap was going to eat that bar yeah
for real that was 23 so far so very good
very to 30 you have to make it to 30 but
it all has to be in the next set I'm
totally kidding you have two more sets
so let's do four and three okay yeah
rest a little bit longer and then we'll
hit four you're doing great Robin this
is awesome shit control those negatives
elbows in
slow two
more come on push
rest rest rest and then go last one
here the force into it let's go go lock
it beautiful rest good stuff rest a bit
we'll do the last three this is really
great almost there this is mean this is
mean it's mean we're this is a very mean
Channel we do mean things to very nice
people such as yourself damn yeah three
hit it last three you got this Robin all
day let's do it let's finish up strong
oh my gosh
[Music]
last one coming up elow way out yeah
Robin hard yeah
finish you got a rest we got one more we
got one we got a finish this is like a
bad dream where it's just more reps all
the time elbows in Finish strong Robin
let's go you got it you got it you got
it finish yes that's it that's it good
job good job take a little break and
then we do our last exercise okay which
is going to be wall runs with Robin just
running through walls bitch that traps
like that are you fucking kidding me can
you run through
walls I don't mean teleport I mean just
like boom yeah you want me to do it
please oh hold on we we paid good money
to be here we don't want to ruin the
place back to me Scott I'm the important
YouTube person oh um all right last
exercise really Speedy workout we got
the my rep shit knocked out that whole
thing took like 2 and A2 minutes no
problem triceps are gone probably what
six approaches to failure dope now we
finish off scary lifters here now we
finish off with push-ups standard
push-ups we're going to coach you
through the technique we'll see if she
can get a total of 20 to 30 we'll shoot
for 30 but we don't know what else is
left functioning on her it's a lot of
volume for a powerlifter so believe it
or not uh let's finish off strong let's
get it done and your grip will be a
little bit ner than mine feet uh nice
and sturdy okay up just a little bit so
you don't want your butt here we're not
having sex with the ground but up I know
it sucks and you're going to just touch
your chest to the ground you're going to
look forward so that your face doesn't
touch
first touch and up and
control and up chest has to touch every
time everything has to be under control
so uh slightly narrower your shoulders
are not remotely that wide uh very good
right there holy crap look forward keep
your butt up tou your chest to the
ground
good two we're counting we're up let's
do
[Music]
it 11 one more
control yes rest breathe same idea don't
go anywhere okay 30 is our goal I can't
run out the door you can try Jared's
Jared's really fast 30 30 total yes you
already got 12 it's easy the worst thing
that'll happen is your arm get so big
they'll turn into black holes and suck
everyone in and just kill everyone all
right yeah but that's unlikely but it is
accurately the worst thing ACC the worst
thing yeah I mean it would destroy the
Earth the solar system everything but
then we wouldn't have to do this anymore
that's true Dam you must be in a lot of
[Music]
pain at least one
more good good good good good good good
job rest breath good stuff that's 18
total
damn another four hit it oh my god let's
go Robin four minimum this is so mean
Robin your Technique is
phenomenal
yes finish lock it lock it rest that's
it that's it good good 23 excellent
excellent
excellent The Identical rep scheme as
last time by accident yeah your bodies
are very a very planned machine your
muscles are like I'm going to quit right
now oh yeah I feel like I'm good to go
and then all of a sudden it's like nope
yes it just like it's like a kill switch
I think that you have probably more fast
twitch fibers than most people on
average that's I actually did a a DNA
test and it said that I did oh shit um I
got a DNA test done and it said I'm
100% saw that coming thank you Jared
it's a lizo quote
[Music]
beautiful let's
[Music]
go one more slow God damn it up fast yes
rest good don't go anywhere we have two
more
left
control slow milk this last refer
everything is fucking got hell
yes yep finish strong that's it that's
it beautiful my
God that was fuck I could hardly do
that folks that was it rapid fire Robin
how do you feel I am Cooks absolutely
cooked which muscles on you seem the
most pumped my triceps and definitely my
PEC PEX and triceps done mission
accomplished Jared you're still with us
I'm here you look great haer than usual
folks give Robin a follow she's super
fucking strong super cool super jacked
and I must say incredible hair look at
that hair he's jealous I'm not ever
jealous of anyone's hair because I have
plenty of my own oh my God it's gone
it's gone um anyway give her a follow
she's awesome and uh Jared feather
probably you don't need to follow him
because someone will be running his
account maybe posterous Le cuz he's
going to die real soon yeah uh hopefully
I'll die shortly thereafter and we'll
see you guys next time Jesus Christ
[Music]
yeah yeah