you guys ever been to the gym and you're
just you train a bunch train super hard
2 hours later your body's like you want
to hit side do like thank you Frank no I
don't I can't do this anymore and if you
try to do it your Central Drive is so
low that normally you get the 20s for
sets of 12 on lateral raises you get the
20s and you're doing sets of six or
eight maximum you can't pull anymore and
it's not because the muscles are sore
tired it's because the rest of you is
tired and can't produce that forcely
someone's like your your delts still
sore you're like no they're tired you're
like my delts no I'm tired and if you
can really honestly say that you could
use some specialization because then you
can back up on some muscles put them at
maintenance you'll give yourself so much
breathing room to take those local mrvs
of the muscles you want to get big at
that time and really fill them in so
that when you're on set number eight of
side delts and someone's like how you
feel and you're like yes I feel
my delts and they're getting tired thank
 God and you know what in two
days when they're healed I'm ready to
hit it again and not six sets but seven
and then we're going to see how that
works