a new study showed that you don't need
to go to failure to maximize muscle
building in this new study that were
following colleagues they compared going
all the way to failure on the leg
extension and leg press to going one to
two reps in reserve on the same
exercises one leg was assigned to the
failure condition whereas the other leg
trains sub maximally all the way
throughout the study going all the way
to failure on each set led to a greater
drop off in rep performance from set one
to the last set so training to failure
appears to be consistently more
fatiguing than just keeping a rep or in
the tank additionally very similar
muscle growth is observed in the
quadriceps in both conditions suggesting
that one to two reps in the tank might
be just as effective for hypertrophy as
going all the way to failure even when
you're doing the same number of sets
that's why I generally suggest leaving a
couple of reps in the tank on your first
set for an exercise and gradually
inching closer and closer to failure
with each additional set and generally
reserving failure for the last exercise
for a given muscle group in a given
session those are the results of