you can do upper body first okay in
every single session three days a week
upper body first for two months straight
maybe two whole Messa Cycles or one
whole long cycle and your lower body is
trained last and just with a few sets
and not very hard so the lower body just
maintains no lower body growth
maintenance for lower body growth for
upper body two months later three months
later four months later whatever you
rotate lower body goes first all the
time upper body last upper body only
maintains because you just don't train
it that hard because you know you can't
lower body you train first you
cram it in and your lower body makes
gains so some months your upper body is
maintenance lower body's going up and in
other months your lower body is
maintenance upper body is going up and
just like that over time everything gets
jacked