hello everyone in welcome back to
another episode of the ice cream for PRS
podcast my name is Jeff nipper and
joining me today I have a special guest
from Australia his name is John Paul
Kalki welcome to the show John thank you
for yeah it's my pleasure like I said I
really appreciate you coming on the show
so why don't you go ahead and tell our
listeners a little bit about yourself
your training background your academic
background and I know you're a coach as
well so maybe you can tell us a little
bit about that too yeah sure so for
those who might not know I'm a
competitive power lifter so I don't
haven't done any bodybuilding or
anything like that I've competed in
power looking for a little while and
like yourself Jeff I left in the IPF for
the International powerlifting
Federation here in Australia it's the
powerlifting Australia so with that
t-shirt here yes so I looked at the
powerlifting Australia and I've been
competing for a few years now I'm 22 so
I'm still the junior but I have been
lifting for a little while before that
like through my youth I guess I did lots
of like random stuff so do you like a
bit of track I like athletics played
like Australian rules football which a
lot of people might not be familiar with
but I'm did a whole bunch of that's kind
of stuff and I'm quite a small person
I'm not very tall and I'm 5 foot 3 so I
wasn't very good at the 4 sports that
wasn't very good at like running so then
I kind of said you know I need a lift
some weights I need to get stronger if I
want to be competitive in kind of
contact sports and then did a little bit
of that and realized hey I'm better at
lifting weights than I am it like
running around a field so I might try
and pursue that so did that for a little
while so at the moment I've been to
three World Championships raw I compete
mainly raw I have done a little bit of a
quit stuff but I mean I lift mainly raw
so I've been to three worlds my first
one in 2013 in Russia I came second and
then I won last year and I won this year
as a junior in the 66 class or the 145
pounds for those listening for the frame
units so yeah I've done a lot a couple
cool things I've got a common sport old
record I got one small to be honest a
couple of deadly for the records so yes
done a couple of calls
he turns on my academics I studied the
University of Melbourne I'm actually
wearing the University of Melbourne
thing here now
I study Bachelor of Science and I
majored in Anatomy so anatomy physiology
is kind of like my area it wasn't kind
of like sports science specialist but I
always have a bit of interest in sports
science but it's been mainly in anatomy
physiology so that's kind of my area and
I do the coaching as well I coach out of
the gym that I train out of here in
Melbourne of the city in strength
whether via powerlifting clubs so I'm
pretty lucky enough to be able to do
that and kind of combine my passions for
obviously you know science and Anatomy
and movement with what I kind of love
doing in my spare time which is lifting
weights ER it's pretty cool yeah that's
very cool I've I've definitely got
academic interest in anatomy as well I
actually wasn't introduced to it until I
was in school for dentistry actually for
a couple of years and then I realised
that I loved the anatomy more than I
looked the dentistry so that might be
something that I actually turned back to
has at some point down the road but yet
it's it's fascinating stuff I I love
studying the human body so let's get
into some weight classes stuff JP I saw
your video on YouTube if any of our
listeners haven't seen it I strongly
recommend that they go and give it a
watch in case they have any questions or
concerns about making a weight class for
a powerlifting meet but I was hoping
maybe we could get into the details here
a little bit in terms of your general
approach and how you go about making
weight for a meet so maybe you can tell
us a little bit about that yeah for sure
so like I said before I compete in a 66
kilo class or 145 pounds and in
powerlifting there's I think in the
men's like eight weight classes and it's
a second smaller so there's 50 9s and 66
or so lifts and pretty much one of the
smaller classes and to be competitive in
the smaller classes particularly big
weight cuts are almost mandatory I'm
gonna say like if you want to be
competitive to the best of your ability
at an international level it kind of has
to be cutting a little bit of weight I'm
very I'm very competitive
and one of the things I'm really big on
not only repelled from her through
everything is taking advantage I guess
from every avenue you have to be as
competitive as possible and when I first
started lifting and I was one of the
things I want to do was I read the
rulebook like three four or five times
over because I want to know every rule I
wanted to know every little thing I can
manipulate to give myself the best
possibility like the best possible
result because palate thing isn't
necessarily who's the strongest it's
who's the best pal with that and it
doesn't matter what it takes to get
there obviously within the rules so
cutting weight is obviously something
that I've really taken extremely and I
have made it I think a bit of a
reputation for being a big white color
so I think some of the bigger cuts that
I've done at Worlds I cut about 5 kilos
or 11 pounds I had my junior nationals
in August where I was I cut about six
kilos or 12 to 13 pounds and actually
woke up on the day the competition two
and a half two point seven kilos so
what's that six pounds over so I woke up
in the morning off over like two you
know two point seven kilos over so be
cut so what I'm a big fan of I just feel
like that's the best way to do to do
things right yeah go oh yeah so I was
gonna say like I find that really
interesting
I guess you if you were gonna get some
pushback from people they would say that
you know the more weight that you cut or
the more drastic you take your cut than
your performance is is gonna be impaired
as a result of that have is that
anything that you've you've noticed
yourself or maybe with your your
athletes yeah under sense so like Jeff
like thanks for Michigan forth I've got
a video on YouTube called how to cut
away I think it's called Kennecott wait
like a pro so do you have any questions
and specifically what I do to actually
cut away feel free to check that out but
I also made a video not too long ago
called on YouTube on my channel heavier
is better and it was pretty much kind of
addressing what you just asked about
what's the take on how heavy you should
be and like of obviously is gonna be an
impairment in performance when you do
cut weight and is that impairment I
guess we try to say is is that loss in
performance worth the slight performance
increase you see from being heavier and
I'm gonna say yes yes it is because well
watch my video have you is better
but uh but it definitely is like for the
most part bigger people this bigger
weights that's kind of wise the sport of
powerlifting is split in two weight
classes and the weight that you lose I
think it's really important I think one
of the things that people get confused
about quite consistently is and you
probably understand this a little a
little bit better than most Jeff is that
the cut that you do the weight that you
lose in the in the weight cut has to all
be transient it has to be temporary it
can't be it can't be a physical like
loss in mass you can't lose muscle
tissue or fat tissue in two or three
days like it doesn't work right you
can't possibly you know burn that many
calories in three days to lose fat or
lose muscle mass and if you do that's
what's really gonna hinder your
performance but if you can like empty
yourself of fluids right if you can
enter your gut of all the stuff that's
in your gut or if you can reduce your
like literal way temporarily and then
come back up then the performance drop
will be very minimal and I guess the
benefit of being heavier is there I mean
like a perfect example is at the Junior
Nationals I did but I mentioned earlier
in August that I can feed it up I
weighed in at 66 point zero zero ten
minutes before weighted tim is for Wayne
started I was still sixty six point one
zero so I still a hundred grams over I
walked out into the warm-up room and
scream does anybody have any chewing gum
Chuck some 21 mouth chew chew chew chew
chew chew spit visit I was like number
one lucky no luck number three jumped on
the scale 60 6.00 and before I stepped
onto the platform or for my first squat
I weighed myself like after halfway
through my warmups I weighed myself nude
again and I was sixty nine and a half
and before my deadlifts or 71 again so
all the weight comes back like if you
rehab if you read feed properly of
course so the weight needs to come back
and the performance benefits are very
much real all you need to do is compare
myself for example on the day of my raw
- of Junior Nationals - all the guys I
was competing in in the same weight
class like I weighed the same as some of
these people but I'm genuinely bigger
like you look at me and go like you are
physically bigger then next you although
the scale say you weigh 200 grams more
you know I mean because that's the
benefit I can bigger than you of course
I'm gonna lift more more weight than you
so that's what I just see the benefit
coming from of course there's gonna be
impairment in performance if you cut too
hard don't rehydrate properly there's a
whole bunch of finer points but for the
most part if you do it right
yeah hundred centers there's some very
potent I guess benefits to cutting late
and being bigger than your competitors
right right
so when you say heavier is better you
mean heavier in in your training right
yeah well have ya a person like like the
cut itself isn't the benefit it's the
result of being bigger than people like
yeah if I step on the platform at 71
kilos and the guy that I'm competing
against plays sixty seven kilos like I'm
literally five percent heavier than him
or four percent of you so my total will
reflect that my total theory be three or
four percent more like it's just how it
is so if you can be heavy in training
and then still be heavy in competition
but only you know make weight for that
brief period in time then there's your
benefit I guess right right so let's
talk about the the difference between
say doing a prolonged cut into a meat so
say you take 12 weeks slowly lose say
you know six to ten pounds of body fat
by being in a caloric deficit over the
course weeks versus what you do which is
lose the say I don't know five to ten
pounds in two or three days which I know
I know which approach you favor right
and yeah I think I think I would be
convinced that that probably would lead
to less performance detriment so over
the long-term than being in a prolonged
caloric deficit and then not doing any
any water manipulation or anything like
that yeah I see what you're saying so I
guess me trying to say is say for
example a 66q ago 71 kilos out 12 weeks
out yeah rather rather than
procrastinating you leave it to the last
day like I kind of do with my weight
cards and I could kind of do it in my
exams you should probably start a little
bit earlier right like stat your
assignments a little bit earlier I agree
that the caloric deficit thing and
losing weight is good because well it
has its place but I just preferred you
because if you lose weight say you start
at 71 and you
over the course of 12 weeks lose three
kilos of mass when you come into the
competition weighing 68 kilos you are
smaller than you could have been like
you could have been 71
like that that's their kind of weight
loss that I mentioned before all of you
genuine weight loss at losing actual fat
and potentially losing actual muscle
mass when I would just say don't lose
that fat and don't lose that muscle mass
because that's kind of a good thing like
that supports strength fat supports
recovery so losing fat is a detriment to
your training don't lose it keep the fat
keep the muscle as much as you can and
lose water at the last second so I
probably say if you're gonna do that
train it you know train that 22 pounds
25 pounds above weight class then over
12 weeks then you might want to cut
through a calorie deficit cut some mass
but still come in heavy like a week out
you should still be like 10 or 15 pounds
over your weight class and then just do
it all in one day and then come back up
again particularly if you've got a 24
hour way and like that would be the
dream but in a two-hour way and it's
still possible so yeah I'm just very
much a fan of not necessarily being it's
not the being heavier in the training or
being heavier two days out that's a
benefit it's being heavier on the
platform it's standing next to your
opponent in the warm-up room bigger than
he is and saying I'm bigger than you I'm
gonna lift more weights and like yeah I
think you're the good thing yeah I I do
think it's also a good idea to be bigger
during training though because from a
bodybuilding perspective I mean I've
seen it and there there there will come
a point at which further reductions in
body fat will lead to detriment to a
greater degree than your wilkes would
improve because of the weight loss you
know what I mean like there yeah I'll
come a point where here you're like your
wilkes will be going up and up and up
because you're dropping weight and you
haven't started losing strength yet or
at least you haven't lost much strength
and then there'll come a point in your
cut where your strength loss exceeds
your wilkes improvements yeah you lose
strength faster than you're losing body
weight yeah exactly
so obviously you want to avoid that
point if you're gonna try to to cut into
the meat exactly alright but I like the
idea of eating
a lot as much as you can handle and I'm
assuming that's what you do in your your
preparation for the meet all the way up
until three days out or whenever you
start doing your your your manipulation
right well yeah that's a really
interesting point actually just because
a lot of people make that mistake that's
what they kind of stuff up on and that's
what causes the big difference you see
in performance that they say from guys
that cut big weight so you'll see people
say oh the way clap the way cut really
affected me you know I missed my second
squat my second bench only got one squat
one bench one deadlift or two others you
know the way cut really affected me and
it's the eating prior to weigh in and
the eating prior to the weight cut
specifically that stuff's people up so
let's use it that example again of what
you said of a caloric deficit theme
these guys go in a caloric deficit say
for example it's two weeks out or maybe
ten days out and there's still a little
bit over still four kilos over three
kilos over and we're talking about some
that's not very advanced like for me if
I was four kilos over I'd stress out and
say well I'm in a little bit light I
can't eat I'll come to I'm too light you
know because I'm experienced and I know
what I need away and I don't want to
wait for keyonna wait five kills over
but let's say you what's on it's a
little bit more intermediate and they
look at the way they go whoa I'm three
kilos over still how I'm gonna get get
down so instead of being in a small
caloric deficit they freak out and they
like drop the calories even more and
then they're having their unless it's a
week out they've lost another kilo over
that week a lot of it was probably water
anyway I'm still two kills over what do
I do
cut the calories harder it's three days
out milk or four days out no carbs no
carbs a little bit of protein and then
it becomes a day out there's still a
kilo over they cut their water and all
of a sudden they don't wait just
plummets because they haven't been
eating they haven't been in taking any
sodium they've cut their water and all
of a sudden their weight plummets they
weigh in underweight which he actually
quite see often is instead of just
making away away Akeelah wonder and the
major problem is that they've been
cutting for two weeks and it's just
impossible to regain all that losses all
the losses that you just had in the last
two or three weeks it's impossible again
one of things that I really advocate and
I actually didn't mention this in my in
my youtube video so
for those that are listening lucky you
guys you got a special little bonus tip
here is depending on the person I highly
highly recommend that's something
between 36 to 60 hours out before the
weigh-in you have an enormous meal like
a gigantic gigantic me like yeah I don't
care if you're four killers over ten
kilos over or 1 kilo over you have the
biggest meal of your life thank you
stuff your face until you cannot breed
have 5,000 calories in one sitting like
you eat as much as you can because if
you're depending on the person again 36
to 60 hours out that's enough time for
that mass of food to pass your system so
that food isn't in your system if you
have again Jeff will know this better
than I do
nutrition is not exactly right here but
if you have say a 3,000 calories sitting
like that's not gonna add fat to your
body if in one meal like one meal isn't
enough like 3000 calories over 3,000
caloric surplus isn't gonna add a
significant amount of fat to your system
you're not gonna wait every uh yeah it
takes a prolonged period of caloric
surplus to put on weight right not just
one damn meal like you're not gonna put
a weight on one day a meal so what
you're gonna do though is give yourself
heaps of energy it's gonna like it
really really does help your endocrine
system it helps your energy levels it
just helps you recover and then it's
from that meal on that you start your
cut that's when you really like you just
cut in carbohydrates you slowly taper
off your for the volume of food that's
when you might take your laxative to
really end tell your gut so all the food
that you ate in that really big refeed
meal I guess you can call it has entered
your system your guts are empty your
bowels are empty but you've had the
benefit of that really big meal so now
that you're not exhausted you're not
coming in to weigh in looking like a
zombie going holy crap I haven't eaten
in two weeks because you had that really
really big bowl of pasta two days ago
and it's that the positive effects are
still there so that's a really really
important thing that but I think people
need to understand is that don't get
scared like you have to almost be
arrogant with your weight clock right
cuz you can't be like stressing out
thinking oh my god I'm not gonna make it
I'm not gonna make it and then do silly
things because you'll just impair your
performance too much so yeah the
nutrition is a very very delicate one I
guess right yeah this is all awesome by
the way I think people are gonna really
enjoy your perspective on this
what was I gonna say okay so one of the
things that I noticed with the with the
prolonged caloric deficit because and
the reason I keep going back to this is
maybe it's not as prominent in the in
the powerlifting community but I come
from a bodybuilding background so guys
primarily deal with people who who have
physique goals as well so they also want
a you know look a little bit lean or
maybe lose a little bit of body fat do
powerlifting as well even even if
powerlifting might be their main focus
at the moment they still want to be
relatively lean so what I've found is
that when we try to cut body fat and
where we're doing the prolonged deficit
say over the course of I don't know 8 to
12 weeks or whatever and then on top of
that we try to do you know the the
reduction in carbs and then the water
cut and all that stuff it is just a
disaster and it doesn't work as well so
I think I think the reason me or at
least part of the reason why you're able
to to cut that much water weight is
because you aren't afraid to eat in the
the weeks leading up to the meat right
so you have lots of glycogen to pull
from and as you know glycogen holds
water so you have lots of water they
pull from whereas if your body is
depleted going into that water cut it's
gonna be a I think it's gonna be a lot
more difficult to pull that water out
yes because I would have come from other
sources yeah yeah so I think that with
that in order for that approach to be
successful in the way that you've you
found it to be successful I think I
think that eating into the meat in your
in your prep into the meat is really
really important yeah exactly right and
you need to be come to and say like two
weeks out I'm four killers over and I
don't want to lose any more weight so
you and even then your approach might
actually might actually will work right
so someone's over you have a caloric
deficit for 12 weeks but that caloric
deficit has to end at some point and it
has to end earlier than I think people
want to believe it has to end two weeks
out and two weeks out you might have
said okay great over the last 10 to 12
weeks I've lost three kilos like my more
weight averages three kilos down you
know some littles fat hopefully but from
now I'm gonna go into calorie
maintenance and you have to maintain for
at least or at least the week let's say
probably even two before you start your
actual water cut because like you said
if you come in if you try and start a
water cut from a deficit like you said
it's gonna be a disaster
you're already depleted how much more
can you drain out of your system to
squeeze out the last few kills a few
pounds it just doesn't work so yeah
you're right you have to come in eating
you have to come in fed and that last
two weeks I mean we're just talking
about weight yeah we're just talking
about body weight but you ever think
about how that affects your performance
the last two weeks that's when you might
be doing your openers your seconds even
in train you might be doing heavy
doubles heavy ones like you don't want
to go into training super depleted like
you want to coming to training you know
a little bit fared a little bit like you
know with a bit of energy so the last
two weeks I'm just gonna say I don't
think you should be in a calorie deficit
I think you should be eating so yeah
calorie deficit great do that for a
prolonged period prior to the last week
or so or two weeks yeah I just want to
get your opinion on an approach that I
tried successfully so for the Canadian
Nationals in 2014 it was my best ever
meet I managed a 446 Wilkes which is my
best performance in meat so good for a
body older like me what I did leading
into that meat was I was already at 74
kilos
dead on average when he was yeah ya know
like ten weeks out
I was just 74 and what I did was I
slowly hiked my calories up
so I started because it's probably
started twelve weeks outta that's
something like 2,600 calories a day and
then by the time I was a week out I was
eating 3600 calories a day so I actually
increase my intake by about a thousand
calories a day people might be skeptical
about how I didn't gain weight like how
I maintained on the the same yeah I mean
by increasing my calories that much yeah
you've a problem I probably just
expended more through my training or
something but whatever the case was I
was getting away with eating a lot more
food and I didn't really do any water
cut or anything I was just careful about
it you know like the night before I made
sure I didn't like drink a ton of water
anything like that but I kind of just
woke up and weighed in what I weighed in
at so my question sorry what did you
weigh in at uh it was it was in the high
73 s it was like 70 3.5 or something
like that fairly fairly close not as
close as you cut it but it was I was
pretty much up there do you think I
would have been better off trying to
gain weight like say ten weeks out
actually weighing 78 kilos or something
like that and then doing a water cut or
do you think that as long as you know
I'm eating enough then the way I did it
was was good enough I reckon say for
example when you were at that point four
weeks out when you're having your 2600
calories yeah and you weight 74 100 say
yeah your morning light was averaging
that I think and you increase your
calories I think I would have if I was
in your shoes and I was cuz obviously I
don't know I'm not a strict with my
daughter's you are obviously yeah but if
I was in your shoes and I had a decision
ahead of me I would have probably been
even more aggressive that you would have
taken him um I moved up a weight class
last year so last year I competed at
Worlds at 66 and then I said to myself
I'm gonna spend the next six months in
the 74 but you know it's just my nature
I didn't want to compete at 74 swaying
71 I was like well if I'm gonna compete
at 74 I'm gonna do my best to fill it
out right so yeah I ate like a heap like
I have no idea what my calories would
say were like but I just ate all the
time I put on the weight really quick I
got up to seventy eight and a half
morning weight I think and during that
period I did it all in like ten weeks
like I just put it all it was a lot of
it was fat but in that same week block
also before the Junior Nationals in
August I was hittin pb's every week or
PRS yeah every week I was like oh I've
never lifted this much weight before bag
dinner for triple we've never done this
before
hidden this like just hidden TVs week in
week out just because I was putting on
weight like there is no way that my
central nervous system was increasing in
efficiency that quickly it was simply
having more mass that made me lift more
weight and I think it was that
particularly that six month block that
really kind of sold it to me saying like
being heavier just makes you lift more
weight like my wheels going down are
considerably like I put on more weight
than I put on strange but they're
straight
just came like just by being way more so
I think I'm trying to get out as if you
were 74 and then say 12 weeks out and
then say you got to save any sevenish
say 3 weeks out and then held at 77 and
then just did a really quick cheeky
water cut over one day like three
killers honestly nothing like it it
comes off all you need to do is stop
drinking water for 15 hours or so have a
small dinner take a small like a week
laxative and three kill just comes off
and then you have two hours that's
plenty of time to put on back two or
three kilos it's in awaiting 17 for you
and weights 77 and you will have lifted
a little bit more weight and your will
storm have been affected because your
official weigh-in would have been
roughly the same right seventy three
point five or six or whatever might have
been so yeah I'm just such a big fan of
being heavier like yeah whatever you
weigh just be as heavy as you can manage
while making your weight class I do need
to quickly actually touch on the fact
that it has less of an effect when
you're bigger like bigger people don't
see the benefits as much so about
percentage so let's quickly on the
specifics here so I'm assuming you
wouldn't recommend as drastic of a cut
for a beginner or an intermediate and
then is there a difference between male
and females so give give give us some
like direct numbers like you can
probably get away with cutting this many
kilos if you're you know a beginning
female and then an advanced female
beginning yes so on that beginners just
never cut weight like I've got a guy the
gym that's competing in a month or so
just under a month four weeks or so and
he weighs 96 and he's signed up for this
meet yesterday and he said 93 is a 105
105 don't even waste your time like
beginning if it's your first thought
don't even look at the weight classes
just whatever you weigh is whatever you
weighed don't even watch your time
people say I want to be competitive or
under this and I always say your first
meet is like such a small blip in your
career like think back to your first
meet Jeff it was like you look back at
him like almost laughing no what was I
doing like I had no idea what I was
doing so don't need more about it for
those clock don't even waste your time
depending how competitive you are maybe
start to consider a third fourth fifth
count but really for the first year
don't even waste your time it's just
waste of energy in terms of how much can
you get away with wow that's a very
loaded question
the rule of thumb that I've always been
told by mr. Robert works himself who's a
CEO of Calicut rather and the dude who
comes up with the wilkes formula at ease
there's a bunch of cool stuff he always
tells me 4% 4% of body weight and you
can get away with it at 4% and there is
no detriment to performance that's his
rule of thumb I've kind of taken that a
little bit further and I've done 8%
myself it's different so I'm gonna say
8% so 8% of body weight what's that for
my body weight 8 times 7 T kilos is 5
and a half kilos so it's about right 8
percent for me the only little like I
said earlier young a little time that
might not work out as well is 8% for a
say for example at 120 kilo go like
that's like 11 or 12 kilos which
percentage-wise is like the same
obviously but you just won't see such a
benefit in your total like cutting 12
kilos as a 120 or 10 kilos or 120 it
just doesn't have the same performance
benefits because as we said before as
your body weight increases sure your
strength increases but if that doesn't
scale well when you're super really big
so yeah because all that weight that you
put on is just gonna be fat it's really
hard to put on muscle naturally at that
body weight so it's less of a benefit
for bigger guys men and women wow that's
a different question as well I don't
have personal experience not being a
woman so that kind of makes nothing in
that regard but their theories there so
I mean I actually get funnily enough I
get such mixed feedback from the girls
that I coach I do ask him especially
once I'm close with I do asking personal
questions and I and like menstrual cycle
stuff is stuff that's important and
timing of that around meats
some people say that they hold weight
more at the time some people say they
drop water weight at the time I get
different stuff all the time so with
women it's a lot more difficult so I am
a lot more conservative with my girls I
go I could um yeah so with the girls
obviously because of the hormonal
response to such such drastic changes in
hormones over the course of obviously
for the four or five weeks is be a lot
more considered to be safer because you
don't want to come into a period into
the meet when all of a sudden just
hormonal
just hold more water and it makes it a
lot harder than we were anticipating so
a lot more inconsistencies there and as
well like I know it's a little bit of a
generalization and I mean I don't wanna
offend anyone obviously but I do find in
my experience that girls tend to be a
little bit more anxious they get more
stressed out when it comes to Meads
they're not as confident they're not as
I guess arrogant as men up to be honest
cause men are arrogant I'm arrogant when
it comes to me I'm confident my body
weight I come in saying you know what
I'm five kilos over perfect I don't
wanna drop anything else but if I do one
of my girls coming in three or four
keels over
they freak out they get nervous they get
anxious they start doing silly things
like starting themselves two weeks out
so again I say cut it safe go into your
killer and get said be at your weight
class will be one or two kills over
don't do silly things like cutting huge
amounts of weights unless you have the
absolute top end and you're willing to
take those risks but if you're at an
intermediate level competing in
nationals that's just it's not worth the
time they're full of girls right and do
you ever have trouble sleeping the night
before the weigh-in like when I've had
to cut a bit of weight I've found it to
be a little bit stressful especially if
I'm a little over and you you're a lot
over so usually that's a really nice
should actually be asleep the night
before is a good one I've only ever once
competed without that wake up I'll it's
at least it wasn't a quid con so I
didn't bother cunning for Al it was just
a local meet a quid and I came away in
71 and it was a at the time that I did
that competition I was really fairly
experienced I really wanted worlds I'd
competed internationally three times
twice at a more regional level done an
open national so I was reasonably
experienced already and I was just
competing at a local meet like my local
gym was hosting a competition and they
asked me to lift those like a lift for
you guys elissa quits I might I might
making some fun so I trained in training
a group but I really struggled to sleep
like just because I was nervous I wasn't
expecting myself to be nervous for a
local contest I was like yeah whatever
like this will be a breeze but I was
nervous and I couldn't sleep
and it was probably the same as being
coming into a world so I slept probably
the same maybe I got my four or five
hours so I thought I found out really
interesting that even though I wasn't
dehydrated I found difficult to sleep
more so because I would nervous I was
less so about the dehydration
don't think as well as
it depends on the timing of your
weigh-in so if you're assuming in a
morning lane it makes it hard because
seoeon's are like 7 a.m. and my rule of
thumb is 15 to 18 hours of weigh cut
water cut so you might stop your water I
say for a 7 a.m. Wayne you might cut
your water like what's that 12 well 11
a.m. or midday the day before so you get
to sleep that night really dehydrated
and it genuinely does make it hard to
sleep the best way is you can get like
I'm competing at the Oceana is in 3
weeks I've got away and that's it like
thing off the top my head maybe 12 or 1
because that's perfect because I don't
actually start my dehydration pretty
much when I go to sleep I don't have a
sip of water I'm gonna sleep like an
hour later so then they were most so you
don't sleep dehydrated you actually
sleep quite well hydrated I agree on to
another point of people who like a sort
of the day before man I'm really not a
fan of that because trying to sleep
dehydrated makes it really hard like
sleeping thirsty is really difficult so
if you can just sort off all your weight
the last minute it helps everything else
makes you sleep better the last thing I
will say is that if you get sleeping
pills that obviously legal and not on
the banned list at all
that really helps so like I said before
take advantage of every route you can to
improve your performance if you can take
a sleeping pill to help you sleep or to
relax you then that's that's very
beneficial also yeah what about people
who are just stressed about cutting it
that close like you know I've got a
couple kilos to go I'm not afraid I'm
not sure I'm gonna pee that out do you
ever you ever have to deal with that as
a coach I mean I know you're a very
confident yourself because you've done
this a million times yes I've never done
an aggressive I've never done an
aggressive cut like that just because my
offseason weight for bodybuilding kind
of lines up nicely with my competition
weight for power lifting all that kind
of stuff so yeah yeah yeah yeah that's
that's what it comes back to what I said
before about it's gonna be an
individualized approach like I said yeah
so example I know is very general but
with my girls I tell them to cut too
much so if I've got a guy or a girl who
I know as a person and that's where
being a coach is important that's where
being personal as a coach is important
if I've got a guy on coaching who I know
gets anxious about the lifting who gets
anxious about stuff like this or there
they're just an edgy person then like I
won't advocate cutting huge amounts away
I know obviously I'm a big proponent of
it but it's gonna be done in the right
context don't waste your time cutting
seven kilos for a local competition
where you're not looking to break any
records or win the con like if you're
gonna score less than say 380 Wilkes or
360 worlds and you're just competing
locally and you're not gonna be breaking
any records and you might not even win I
don't waste your time I can just waste
of imaging if you're the kind of person
you get stressed you see the scales are
not before and freaks out don't do it
don't do it to yourself yeah so yeah
that's where the individualize approach
has to be is really important and there
aren't many people that can't like it
takes experience and my cuts have been
getting bigger and bigger because it
become more confident over time so I
mean it wasn't like I said hey you know
what if I want be competitive I have to
cut keeps away I want to be really big I
just drop these outlines based on this
theory that I have and I just came in to
my first comp six kilos over like
there's no way that was gonna happen
because I was a state I was nervous is
like is this really gonna work I don't
work really well is like wow maybe next
time
and that's where being meticulous with
tracking your body weight every day
morning and night so you know be the
last time you know at this time so hey
yeah last time I weighed in half a kilo
under so this time I can probably come
in way half kill or more and then you do
your weight cut a little bit more
aggressively you make weight again you
go wow that worked and I wasn't affected
next time I climbed a little bit heavier
next time we're coming up with heavier
next I'm recovered a little bit heavier
well here's my limit I can't come in any
heavier than this because this was
really hard so knowing your body really
well is important then and getting a
practice and experience with it yeah I
said if you're gonna cut weight the
first time you should do it cut half of
a half kilo like one pound two pounds
but then you get better at over time you
become more confident over time so
that's where the whole individualized
thing is important because if a guy
isn't confident the detriment isn't
physical its mental they come in
exhausted because it's stress for two
days like not worth it again right the
fine line yeah yeah so in terms of
refeeding after the weigh-in are there
any particular foods that you go to or
foods that you avoid and then the same
goes for rehydration do you use special
formulations or water or what do you do
there that's a good question like I said
before I'm not a dietician and I've
studied he
anything in that regard but I've got
some general principles that I kind of
go up and they're very simple so things
like that's too slow to digest so don't
waste your time trying to have that's
like things that are high in fat
I just got sitting you got not be
digested and just be dead mass sitting
in your stomach right you mean stuff
that's fast adjustable so when it comes
to carbohydrates the same principle
applies taking high glycemic index foods
right taking sugars high in sugar taking
foods that are going to be absorbed
really quickly again other rules of
thumb water is absorbed a lot quicker
than food so and you can only take in so
much into your stomach before you feel
full right like 10 minutes after I mean
I'm already full so you don't want that
stuff in your stomach to be water
because that'll just absorb real quick
anyway
you're better off trying to take as much
food as you can early so that way there
has time to kind of get into your
systems ready for the weigh-in ready for
listing and you can scale your water
laid out like you don't have to take any
water straight away it only takes 10 or
15 minutes for water to start absorbing
through your stomach so don't over
stretch the water even though it's the
water that you've cut it's the it's the
sugar that you need to get into your
bloodstream it's the glycogen that you
need to replace so kind of go to that I
have bananas I really like fruit so
bananas and apples easy to chew easy to
digest good sugar chocolate lollies I
mean in Australia we have yeah candy I
don't know and that is okay okay yeah
shall we having to tell her I don't know
if you have to tell oh yeah we have it
yeah yeah yeah so taking the one over
tell our by taking just stuff that's
easier to chew easy to digest stuff
that's not gonna sit in your stomach
right and obviously things that you're
used to eating like don't go oh Jenny
cinnamon I need happen to tell us women
have it but you've never had it before
and it makes me feel sick like that's
the worst thing that could ever happen
so stuff that you've had before stuff
that you might take before training in
terms of like drink energy drinks really
good obviously like sports true strength
to have sugar in them already
electrolytes and the big one you're
taking as well is sodium like you need
to take him as much sodium as you can
that's one of the people forget so I
have taken like what's a salted chips
just add salt to stuff like I just pour
salt into things just because I mean if
you water kind of properly you've just
really cleaned out your system of all
sodium so you need to take that back in
yeah and that's not those electrolytes
I'm just coming back from those energy
you have like pretzels salted chips
whatever it takes that to replace that
salt so I mean like I said before I'm
real competitive I do take things to the
extreme and very very extremely than I
approach it's a point where like I
welcome to MyWay with my coach like like
I said Robert Wilkes coaches me at
international levels so he'll come into
me with Wayne he knows all my attempts
he signs off all the forms I literally
come in just wearing nothing but a pair
of shorts I step onto the scales nude I
step off the scales and I've got Cooper
Nana's with me already I bring the
bananas into the way with me that
already opened as soon as I step up the
scales I shove him into my mouth drink a
bit of water flush it down I start
spooning the teller all the meantime
Roberts starting off the form saying yep
this is a these are the openers I love
this is John Paul show them my passport
you know I 10:05 okay identify all the
while I'm still eating in the background
on a choo choo choo choo choo drink I
walk out of the way it's like holding
banana peels and an empty to live oh
yeah because it's I'm not gonna wait
five minutes - you know like I take it
to the extreme so yeah they go to the
easier desk foods high sugars low fats
and stuff that you've taken before yeah
it's kind of yeah I think that's a good
point about the energy drinks like I
like those but they're actually not
really high in sodium like there's not a
ton of sodium in those so one of the
things that maybe people could do is
like just actually shoot like half a
teaspoon of salt and with some water
that's an approach you know I've used
for for bodybuilding contests the
iteration and stuff like that so yeah I
mean it's not that it's kind of gross
but it's like whatever like you've
you've done all this stuff you can just
shoot back a little bit of salt so we've
got about 15 minutes left and I'd like
to talk a little bit about peaking for a
meet when it comes to training and your
approach there so how does training
differ for you from offseason to meet
prep in terms of you know your your
frequency intensity volume and exercise
variation or anything else that's a good
question
I'm not super extreme on that regard
like I don't do kind of anything
revolutionary it's pretty standard stuff
I mean stuff that most people kind of
already do or aware of so obviously in
the offseason it's depending on what
you're trying to achieve
it's kind of just cleaning up your
weaknesses bringing up stuff I do try to
avoid competition it's like I mean I
compete in the sumo and and like just
for example last year the last I assume
at last in on Christmas Day because
you're damn into the gym real quick
squeezing some moves no I'm crazy um but
then from that day I didn't actually do
once to a deadlift until I'm gonna say
sometime in March I think I'm at nine
weeks without ever doing a deadlift with
all with a sumo stance and that one time
I did it was I did like three sets of
two like a week out from that equipped
comp because I competed equipped sumo
quickly practice how to do these again
and it's kind of like the old saying
like you know it's like riding a bike
skills don't really go away very much
yeah so in the offseason I'm happy to
take some time away from the competition
lifts and move more towards like a lots
of variation and building a really
strong base I think that's what you see
a lot of times and not just in
powerlifting but in like all sports like
I saw this a lot when I'm doing
athletics these guys get really caught
up especially juniors
we're trying to get like the best
results and the best progress as they
can as quick as they can and they seem
really good success because they're
really specific with their training and
they see really good success so I've
seen guys like win national
championships when I was a junior
competing in athletics and then end up
nowhere as an open like they don't make
it at all as a senior performer because
they've gotten kind of nothing to build
on they're just they're really really
good at their craft and they can't get
any better because they've got my base
so right now I'm happy to kind of
progress a little bit slower if it means
it sets me up better long term so
building um
building a really strong foundation is
really important I mean I like lots of
variation I like my front squats are
like high bar stuff I like close group
from the bench like I said I like doing
heaps of conventional deadlift even
though it competes sumo just because you
want to kind of be well-rounded I mean
the example I always use is if someone
front squats 250 kilos I'd bet my bottom
dollar that they low bar back squat more
than 250 kilos you know like I'm kind of
be good at your lifts you kind of have
to be strong things so building a big
base of strength through heaps of
variation lots of sets of six sets of
eights at the 10 is really important so
if I'm like months and months and months
out I just do heat to that stuff a
little bit less a little bit less
structured I'll come in say today I want
a deadlift dimensional three sets of
three it this way but then I wanted
adhesive ghr piece of glue just with
unprescribed weights maybe a draft
guideline and rips and sets so it's a
lot more varied obviously coming into a
meet specificity is really important so
the intensity Rises like relative
intensity like percentages in terms of
and a lot of it is practiced like I just
do heaps and heaps of practice like a at
the moment like I said I'm competing in
the Oceania Championships that's three
weeks away and I really want to do
something special about deadlift like
it's my last competition as a junior so
I am kind of putting my squat a little
bit on the backburner just to squeeze
out one last kind of chance at anything
really special than the deadlift before
I kind of taper that off into next year
so I'm dead lifting three days a week
and only one of those days a week it's
really heavy and people say do the thing
three days a week like you're crazy and
I'm like no no no it's okay it's like so
a lot of its practice a lot of it's a
skill acquisition cleaning up staffs
making things kind of perfect so yeah
executing day so you know you have
tomates high percentages you know 89%
lots of singles ones and twos and threes
and lots of competition specificity like
I'm not really doing much front squats
not really doing much convention in fact
I'm not conventionally at all it's just
sumo yeah low basketball competitions
dog bench
that's pretty much it right so yeah
while you're on the topic a deadlift so
I'm assuming you'll be like kind of
doing your openers for singles do you do
your opener or any second attempts on
the deadlift in this remaining three or
four weeks because people people are
always worried about the deadlift
because it's like oh you don't want a
deadlift too close to the meat because
you know that's gonna fry CNS and all
that kind of stuff so what is your
approach there yeah that's a good
question yeah as a general rule of thumb
like my squat priory my deadlift in
programming aren't too dissimilar in
terms of rev sets
percentages so like if I'm gonna do say
three set of three at 89% I'll do that
under squat and I'll do that in depth it
doesn't bother me what I will do though
is do probably my deadlifts earlier in
the week relative to this courts so that
way I do get a little bit more time
between deadlift like last heavy
deadlift in comps and like meats versus
last heavy squats so just for just for
argument's sake I mean these are just
arbitrary but say you meats on a
Saturday so I might do squats on a
Saturday Devlin's on a Tuesday during my
training cycle so that my last heavy
deadlift would be on the Tuesday say
what's that like 11 days out and my last
heavy squat will be on a Saturday
exactly seven days out so relatively
speaking I've got a little bit more time
between my last you know kind of main
deadlift session and mile and the me
versus my squats in terms of like hidden
attempts in training yeah a big fan of
hit intense really good for confidence
so what I like to do is roughly in two
to four weeks depending again on the
level of the lifter and what it is
you're trying to do is hit seconds so
hit your second in training and if a
tireless hard it doesn't matter just try
and hit a second so that way you can't
kind of come into you mean you know
you're in your lifts a zero so you know
you thought listen training you never do
it I don't even think you can do it and
I do like to openers maybe ten days out
or so like depend on the lift you know a
week to ten days out for squats and
deadlifts and bench a little bit closer
again but I like to do them in doubles
if you can do your opener for doubles
maybe two doubles or three doubles
that's a really again a big confidence
booster I was like if you do two doubles
that you're open up you've pretty much
done you're open to four times like
there's no reason why you couldn't do it
on the platform and all those four reps
that you did you're open about two of
them were after really haven't done it
so like really really big confidence
like that's a big thing especially like
your guys coming in saying this is a way
you've done four full reps so don't
stress out about it and then the third
is what you kind of rely on your tape
are kind of getting you towards it's
your third that's where you kind of say
well my second in training was really
like my second attempt to Train was
really hard but today it's not going to
be as hard because I'm refresher and
that's where that extra five or 10% is
to kind of go for a third and what are
seconds for you as a percentage of one
RN usually
good question like um pretty much 100
like 100 he said yes
I pretty much and depends how you define
like RM so I probably define the RM is
like training our room yeah so I'm doing
my training RM yeah my putting my
training RM is whatever it might be and
then hit my absolute training room in
the meet as a second but it won't look
like a 1% because you're tapered was
your fresher yeah so it ends up it will
be quicker so it'll be a weight that
you've probably done in training for you
know use an order regulation so I mean
at nine and a half or maybe even an hour
10 so you would have done the safe for
example in the lead-up to Worlds as flow
2:17 1/2 in training 2:17 1/2 kilo or
480 pounds so I did that in training and
it was hard like it was really hard but
it wasn't a if anything it's more of a
confidence boost that was hard or the
fact that I did it is because two days
before that I just squatted six sets of
three two days before that I did heavy
front squats so I was like kind of under
fatigue so when you coming to you meet
and you you're going for your second you
go and I haven't squatted in like three
days like my legs are fresh like I'm
ready to go so then you hit it with a
little bit more speeding like it I've
got more in me so then you can you know
add your seven half kilos or you know 20
pounds or so so you got a little bit
more there so you're hitting him in
training is important especially being
on a fatigue I'm really big on the
psychological aspect if you can hit lift
and training under fatigue knowing that
man I just had a heavy diller session
two days ago and I'm scoring today and
I'm scoring okay it's gonna be so much
better on the on the platform so that's
really good for you mentally right yeah
that's an approach I haven't I usually
don't hit seconds in training leading
into the meet I just from a fatigue
standpoint I feel like that could you
know backfire
a little more easily than just don't a
little lighter like night you know I
usually don't go higher than 90 or 92
something like something like that when
I'm doing a percentage based programming
but I for a confidence I can absolutely
see how that would that would really
help but you're also you're also peeking
into the meat so like it like you said
it depends on how you define RM so your
your true RM is probably a little bit
higher than then the hundred percent
that you're plugging in anyway right
yeah yeah so you coming in you do you do
this like I just feel like you should do
seconds your signature stuff
he done before because if you take like
a reasonable jump to a third like say
for example say for example your PR
deadlift is 250 right coming into me
like the best you've ever lifted is 250
kilo 550 pounds if you come in knowing
that your PR your second attempt I'm not
a big fan of second times being pr's
like I'm not a fan of your second
attempting 255 because even if you get
that 5 kilo 11 pound PR like how much
more have you got in you in your thirdly
are you genuinely coming for me
expecting a 15 kilo 33 pound PR like if
you are unless you're anything really
good that's like that's pretty ambitious
so I prefer guys to come in say for
example your deadlift VRS 250 kilo 550
pounds
I prefer guys come in to their seconds
at 247 1/2 or 250 yo yep I've done this
before now I can build them at 7 a half
at 10 kilos get your third you finish
today getting three other three on you
lived seven half 10 kilo PR you're happy
with that like there's no real no realer
yeah I'm down sorry yes you know I agree
how far out are you are you hitting
those seconds generally safe say for the
squat say for a squat I'd say equal 7 is
15 days I tend to do 15 days and then
for delivery 19 ok 18 is like my kind of
go to do yeah and then yeah but I guess
it just depends like there's so many
variables yeah no I understand I'm just
trying to get a general picture of yeah
yeah so for example I did I had dinner
yesterday and yesterday yesterday was
Friday uh
for me it was Friday anyway right of the
27th and I'm lifting under 7 or 16 so
that's oh that's about 20 days out so
it's actually kind of lines up with what
I was saying before so it just depends I
mean I've had guys do it later like
unless we need to adjust right say
you're in the middle of your training
block between 10 and 3 weeks out and
they're like struggling like things are
a lot harder than you would've liked you
might say the taper has to be longer or
more aggressive so we'll change this
change that that's where the yes if it
kind of comes into it you know kind of
watch over your lifters and make sure
that they're recovering and you make
adjustments as you kind of go but yeah
I'd say 15 to 19 days out for squatting
and deadlifts for your seconds and bench
you can kind of get away with it being a
bit later you know maybe maybe 12 or 10
days out yeah yeah awesome thank thanks
for
so let's quickly touch on meat week
itself and what your training looks like
for meat week and then I'll forward
everyone to that video if they haven't
watched it already because that'll put
this whole conversation in a lot of
context so yeah what do you do meat week
yeah cool
the week of the competition tends to
vary particularly for me so this
probably doesn't apply to us like too
many people but it definitely is
something that's probably pretty
interesting because I do a lot of my
competitions like internationally or
like away from home it varies like
heavily so it does make it stressful
ideally say if I do have competition at
home like I had my nationals here in
Melbourne actually so that was pretty
handy so if I was at home it kind of
tends to be you like a week out like I
said so seven days out my to my squat
doubles and training next day other day
I might do some bench doubles and so in
terms of the training and then for the
next few days it's just all singles like
I don't do anything more than singles on
very big of specificity very big of
mental imagery so I'm a bit like kind of
everyone anyone that trains under me
knows it's a successor one that's what I
do she said someone so just sticks it to
one one squat bench two dead leave
during that last week no training the
last two or three days again depending
on fatigue you are but it's a 6-1 so I
do six ones that maybe anything between
65 and 80 percent depending on fatigue
levels and stuff and I tell all my guys
like you know say you meet PRS deadlift
is 250 I want to do six sets of one at
200 kilos six days out of five days out
but every time you approach the bar your
head you have to think it's to sixty
kilos like you've got to think this your
third attempt you're gonna look at that
bar and think that this is about to
crush you you have to do everything you
can to pull and you know you know I told
my god I stand a platform don't you look
up in training in the gym and I want you
to see like look into the referees eyes
I'm just looking to the look into the
lights that I'm like shining on some
platform watch it hear people in the
crowd calling out your name we go Jeff
go Jeff you may hear that stuff but like
in those last few singles in your week
rule like prepared for you mentally kind
of think last few days is obviously when
I do my big weight cut which we spoke
about so you want to try and move as
little as you can sleep as much as you
can eat when you can
when you don't have a naughty when you
don't have to and then also you get into
the venue and stuff I again move as
little as I can like we're pretty lucky
with a talent show they look after us
you got guys that kind of come with you
and hold your bags for you and put the
headphones in your ears when you need to
and bend over if you drop something so
you don't mean to waste your energy so
that's pretty lucky when you're moving
internationally it makes it really hard
like like I'm going to miss Beca Stan
for this Oceania Championships and my
flights are like I think I leave eight
days before I lived and was Becca stands
in which for those who don't know it
borders as a bashar took me honest on a
whole bunch of places in central asia
getting that's really hard so i'm gonna
fly from melbourne in korea that takes
ten hours 19 hour layover in korea
they've got eight hour flight to
Tashkent
and then an hour bus ride to where I'm
staying so that's like a 40-plus hour
commute so that really does throw stuff
into the works like I said I'm flying
eight days out and that's kind of what I
want to be doing my heavy sport doubles
so again that's weird being a versatile
with your programming is important
because I'll need to change that I don't
know what the training venue is gonna be
like there if I'm gonna be able to train
so yeah it makes a little bit harder but
the last week last week tends to just be
about I guess the overall themes about
recovery obviously and practice just
darling things in making sure your
techniques on point your mental games
ready to go you know what you you know
what your temps are ahead of time and
yeah you ready you're ready to take on
your thirds because everything's about
taking on thirds and going to read it
through and actually yeah yeah exactly
alright GP well it looks like we're
about there for time so thank you so
much for your time I really appreciate
you coming on the show
why don't you tell our listeners where
they can find you you offer online
coaching and programming for power
lifters where can people learn more
about that yeah sure so I've got a
couple of places thanks Jeff I have me
firstly so I guess the social media wise
you can kind of follow my youtube
channel I mean just search John Paul
Cathy I'm not even super familiar I'm
only new on YouTube just posting a
couple of things but irregularly you can
jump there I'm gonna Instagram quite
regularly bit more frequently my
Instagram name is at strong but I used 5
7 s it's 5 TR Ong
on Facebook on Facebook as well
facebook.com for /jp okie is my athlete
page if you're interested in finding out
more you're getting questions or you are
looking at online coaching send me an
email
it's Jay kalki at live.com so it's my
surname j CA uch i at live.com shoot me
an email haven't helped you guys out or
answer any questions you might have that
programming at coaching otherwise I
think that's very much all the social
media streams I use a lot on Twitter or
anything like that so don't bother
looking for me there but thanks to me
Jeff it's been a pleasure nice chatting
about about some little particular
things it's kind of stuff that you know
I don't really get to talk about about
this kind of like in-depth stuff with
many people so cool to to kind of
express all the stuff that's buried in
the back of my head and share with
yourself and all your listeners so
thanks very much for having me
oh yeah the pleasure is all mine so
thanks once again JP and yeah maybe
we'll do this again sometime understand
my thank you very much bye bye bye