there's the endomorph there's an
ectomorph and then there's the mesomorph
three different body types to explain
all of the variation in humanity which
one are you and how do you optimize your
training the answer is body types are
fucking bullshit what if you're prone to
putting on fat but not prone to putting
on muscle there actually is no category
in the three body types for you cuz
remember the endomorph is someone who's
like supposed to be pretty jacked but
also fat the ectomorph is not fat or
jacked the mesomorph has a shitload of
muscle and very little fat where the
hell are skinny fat people and the fact
that the scale missed this altogether
and not a lot of people came up with
like wait a minute they forgot a whole
fucking type of human that's kind of
absurd right it's kind of insane in fact
reflects that the scale is total dog
shit