very good technique he's got a slow
eccentric he's even taken a pause at the
bottom this is excellent stuff
just kidding his eccentric got faster
oh fuck as soon as I say something the
small gets into some bro raps
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I am an exercise in sports
science professor at Lehman College in
the Bronx creator of the RP hypertrophy
app and I'm going to look at some videos
of the trend twins today to see if and
how much they know about training and
maybe even some special Sports
supplements let's do it so if you want
to know how to get that
superhero chess a superhero look right
he's poking out well
I'm going to take you through our tip
routine there are like identical twins I
guess there's two of them and one guy's
got cut off sleeves and the other
doesn't
they seem to look almost the same
not so good with faces Trend twins I
can't believe it's happening all right
all right fellas tell us how to train
chest show you how to grow some actual
knockers I think personally the chest is
the best part of a physique when you
have a shirt on you know because if you
got the chest like rounding out and you
could see it through a shirt nobody's
fucking with you right no one I mean
chests are cool in shirts some people
will fuck with you just because you're
jacked that they're few and far between
and usually sociopathic you know tells
the guys at the club like hey I'm
walking here whoa which is the kind of
how I imagine the trend twins talk and I
wasn't very wrong look at this view like
through the compression shirt like all
you see is the ABS and then the literal
tip and the best part about having
literal tip that's why you all lift
weights isn't it
the best part about having big titties
is if you wear a pump cover bro you
don't even have to have abs you could be
fat and the chest is going to give you
that appeal true if you have big packs
it doesn't really matter what's
happening down below as long as your gut
doesn't stick too far out big chest kind
of reps itself you know we're gonna have
a bench here me and Mikey we like
pushing hey Mikey of course one of
them's named Mikey is it is that they're
both named Mikey hey Mikey hey what
Mikey
out of here we like pushing strong heavy
ass weight because if you were pushing
past your limits you're trying to get
stronger every time Progressive overload
on a mainly bench compound you're gonna
force your chest to get bigger stronger
the muscle cells are going to become
well-rounded muscle cells do not become
well-rounded they either grow a shrink
yeah it's nice until the brophysiology
hit I was with Progressive overloads
great compound movements are great
especially when you're young like the
trend twins pile on the weight they're
going to be paying attention to
technique make sure the technique is
good and the progression is actually a
result of getting stronger not just
getting Wiggly with the technique let's
see what Mikey has to say the thing that
really separates like physiques is like
the density and the muscle maturity so
density is straight up not a thing it's
just not muscle maturity is a concept
that a lot of people have tried to
describe just something you get when
you're older but I honestly think muscle
maturity is really just a factor of
people eventually getting leaner over
time and when you get Ultra lean usually
you're able to do this later in your
life then it reveals the definition of
muscle that you just were never prepared
to see give that grown man strength look
like type shit you know we've unlocked
that eight years of benching we've been
locked this shit if you can bench four
five oh look at anybody bro they have
tits I think it has to do with the
muscle density and the fact that muscle
density again here we go me and Chris
heavy lifts and our shirt is so dense
like genetics play such a huge role so
let me actually describe to you what
higher muscle density would be density
is how much weight you can shove into
how much volume and how you look is
exclusively based on the shape of your
muscle and its volume it has nothing to
do with its density there's no evidence
that muscle density actually changes in
training over time with humans but let's
say muscle density was widely elevated
that means for an external look of
someone that weighs 180 they might weigh
200 pounds and you'll be like how the
fuck you weigh 200 you only look 180
they're like but feel this muscle and
then they Flex then you felt it you'd be
like oh my God that's like pure hard
rocks and it's like heavy What the Hell
in a gap but nobody can tell so you
actually end up having a sleeper
physique where if muscle density was
really a thing like they say it is you
could be way stronger than you looked
which is I think the opposite of what
they're saying here they're saying
muscle density gives you that like tank
look but it wouldn't even in theory and
in practice and almost sure
foreign
's very good full range of motion even
taking some pauses at the bottom what I
would like to see is a bit of a slower
control on The Descent on The Eccentric
to first of all reduce the forces that
occur in the transition between
eccentric and concentric which are a
little bit probabilistically injurious
nothing to worry about but if you can
reduce them that's great and also by
slowing down just a bit and controlling
the weight a little more on The
Eccentric you probably grow more muscle
because it's a great muscle growth
stimulus this is for chest gains to grow
literal tits so yes you can still
make sure you're asking ass off the seat
definitely that was great advice use the
arch no ass off the seat because ass off
the seat is just pure ego lifting like
you're using your hips to bench are you
trying to grow your hips oh that doesn't
make any sense so generate as much force
as you can but keep the leg drive to
whatever it is that gets you stable and
then use your chest for the rest
here we go
this technique's not terrible it's quite
good A bit rushed I would like to see
more of a back arch I would like to see
more of shoulder retraction that
actually keeps the shoulders safer and
it puts your chest into a pre-stretched
position which actually grows it more
and it lets you lift more weight it's
kind of the best of all those things
they're suicide gripping which I don't
have a terrible problem with if you're
interested in taking the injury risks to
the face you can get good at it and it's
all about leveraging if you leverage the
bar back here there's not really a way
unless you Spaz out or something that
it's going to roll over your fingers and
kill you
like the way that I feel after doing a
heavy compound like to the max is just
and then you go it's the last you go
blast hypertrophy after it's like the
pump is literally insane would you
believe me if I said the pump would be
insane if you did hypertrophy first as a
matter of fact if you weren't tired from
benching you could get a real great
hypertrophy first and only workout
ah
come on you got foreign
three reps touch and go at 405 is in
competition anywhere between 405 to 425
for a Max I don't know if they're peaked
right now or if they're on Trend but
aren't they always on Trend I sure
better be
oh yeah oh up with it up with it
4 55 that didn't go this is just me
talking that shit when you Biff on four
reps with 405 there's not a situation in
which you take 455 in your next attempt
it's just you're just not good for it
and it clearly he wasn't the sad stuff
is fun it's dope go for 455. but as you
become older 25 30 35 the probability of
you getting hurt on any one of these way
outside of your comfort zone PR attempts
starts to climb this going for 455. this
is the epitome of bro lifting in the gym
that's why the trend twins are the trend
twins they are Bros to the end and they
say some really good stuff but then shit
like this is like I just wouldn't do it
because it's not worth your time that
shit felt like a ton bro
oh
I think you're just in your head bro did
you know that you're nowhere else ever
but in your head think about that
yeah come on
[Music]
my hands are way up I hate this shit
guys fundamentally the most important
thing after Miss lift is you have to
have like a loaded six cylinder of
excuses people are they're pretty smart
and they look at you and they watch you
miss it and inevitably some of them
they're gonna start to do their their
GPT in their head and they go oh this
person isn't the strong as they go nope
right away you get in there with some
excuses and it fucks with their mind and
they go oh okay it's just that his hands
were and I love that halfway through the
excuse he just abandoned it he's like my
hands were like hey fucking you know
whatever the reason that you didn't get
425 is you're not strong enough to get
it on that day and it's not a big deal
if you want to see the full uncensored
version of this video much more extra
content some stuff we did not put into
this video our members area is up for
grabs give that a shot and maybe we'll
see you guys there
so we're doing incline Smith Press very
good uh for extra hypertrophy work which
wouldn't be required if you just trained
heavy but I guess I'm being a dick
because you could really like control
you can control the weight all the way
down on a barbell too way all the way
down and like get really deep you can
get exactly as deep out of our belt
very good technique very seemingly very
mindful got his shoulders retracted back
chest seems to be up he's got a slow
eccentric he's even taken a pause at the
bottom this is excellent stuff
just kidding his eccentric got faster
as soon as I say something the small
gets into some bro reps
now he's not touching his chest anymore
it's just doing the mid-range this is
this is just so you get more reps and
move the weight around a bit and feel
your swag this doesn't have to do with
anything optimal or growing the most
muscle but he's done like what five reps
or six reps of this this is good now we
are on to seemingly incline flies I
think could be a fly press combo that's
a lot of weight
yep it's a fly press so the fly press is
something that kind of starts out as a
fly and then as you get deeper it turns
into a press and then as you press
halfway up you finish with the fly great
exercise I would love to see them spend
a second or two at the bottom really
milking that stretch and going slow on
the way down let's see if that happens
no it does not
they do have tasty juicy packs don't
they oh there's two of them I mean four
they're twins right let me tell you guys
about the RP hypertrophy app with over
28 preset programs already in the app
you could choose to make your own you
could modify an existing program or you
could just run the programs exactly as
they were written by me personally this
app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
okay we're on to our 50th exercise for
the day
this is the
machine fly he stand kind of upright and
a shoulder to stand forward even at the
bottom I would love to see him reach
Arch back shoulders back as far as
possible to really open up that chest at
the very bottom and as that chest opens
you slow down and pause at your deepest
position which rips your PEC fibers a
new one and seems to cause more growth
than any other kind of technique here so
this is a terrible technique but it's
not to refined
oh no
they're doing the side angle pack press
bullshit folks let me tell you about
this exercise is inordinately
uncomfortable to do and to get in the
machine it was not designed for it to do
this you're also pressing from sort of
here to here there's not a lot of
stretch in the pack and the stretch is
where more of the growth happens than
the contraction P contraction not a ton
of growth happens can you get a little
bit more in inside the chest fiber
activation and Recruitment and growth
potentially by a tiny fraction with this
maybe but also like that's what cable
flies and machine flies are for and
they've already done machine flies so I
would say this is starting to look like
junk volume this whole like taking a
muscle and just torturing it beating it
while it's on the ground I can't even
tell you any more secrets it's just
bleeding out of its mouth and you're
kicking it again like it's fun for the
soul to really like trash a muscle but
it's been shown a few times that at some
point the damage is so much itself to
recover from it takes away from the
total stimulus magnitude it takes away
from the Adaptive ability of the muscle
because your body has one pool of
resources from which to grow muscle and
heal damage and there's a balancing act
there and if you go way too much damage
your body's like hey I'm not trying to
grow anything I'm just trying to make
sure your pecs fix themselves for your
next workout fix doesn't need improve
just fixed to be as good as last time
oh man are you guys counting the chest
exercises with me this is like exercise
number five or some shit like that too
much in one session it's not the work
I'm against you gotta split that work up
through the week so these dips are fine
again slower control on the lowering a
second or two at the bottom to get the
packs to really stretch opening up big
with the chest these guys can get deeper
than this the lower you go the more the
stimulus Rises and the relative cost of
fatigue that you're paying decreases in
proportion so the stimulus to fatigue
ratio of going super deep on all of your
dips and presses is just really awesome
these this is an okay technique here
there's a distinct lack of Mind muscle
connection you can see he's moving his
body turning it halfway through maybe
for the camera this is not like a very
intense set like he's getting the work
done but it's not of a high qualities
positioning isn't precise every rep
looks a little different than the last
maybe quite a bit different this is not
a distinct cut off top and bottom end
for the range of motion it's exactly
what you would expect background
someone's kind of too tired to be doing
hard work anymore but they're still at
the gym
so not only did they do push Downs I
assume for some number of sets now
they're doing one arm push Downs second
tricep exercise we must be about eight
exercises at this point I have no idea
how they're still going and to be honest
they're not really going right you can
tell there's a palpable difference in
intensity final exercises I like to end
up close grip bench there's been so much
chest and tricep work done already the
vast majority of it of relatively low
intensity or relative efforts the guys
are just tired and they really just kind
of blew their load on benching that I
just don't know what it is we're getting
out of this close grip work now because
it's close grip work because it's with a
barbell chances are the guys are getting
close to failure again it's my bet you
put a human male and a barbell they're
gonna go to failure but again it's just
so late in the game and so stimulus
driven that now such huge fatigue levels
I just don't know if it makes sense to
be here anymore
you see the gripping really close and it
prevents them from going all the way
down that close of a grip prevents you
from getting as much of an extension in
your triceps and as as much of a stretch
as possible that's not ideal I would
prefer to see them grip a little bit
wider so they could actually touch The
Bard or their chest keeping their elbows
flush on the inside and touch relatively
high up so touch just above the nipple
line and that way you get a humongous
stretch on the tricep we actually do
have a video an RP of how to use the
close grip bench to Target the triceps
better encourage you guys to look into
that if you want some more technical
details that was chest and triceps good
stuff generally a lot of good movements
lots of compound pressing very decent
range of motion but always everyone
including myself can be criticized and I
would say this is a good their Deuces
good B minus work B minus I know I
switched my grading scale from one to
ten to grades but I have a professor
after all so I might as well hand out
actual letter grades B minus good effort
uh some stuff trending in the right
direction but if you want that b plus a
minus a A plus work you're going to have
to work on Cadence controlling data
Centric more accentuating the deepest
parts of the range of motion controlling
the weight and keeping the Reps similar
the entire time and of course arranging
your workouts such that they are
effective but don't take 16 hours to
complete and are spread more throughout
the week brochure is brochure it's cool
but the reason a sciency folks don't do
the brochure anymore is because we found
a slightly better way at least alright
so that was Trend twins chest training
you guys want us to review other folks
let us know in the comments who you want
us to review and we'll take a look
fairly and with a bit of biting sarcasm
really just jealousy that I'm not a
trend twin
see you guys next time
[Music]