we're going to see how many push-ups you
can do in one minute how many you think
you can do in one minute zero I I can do
265 push-ups you're bald bald claim Mr
Kevin Hart let's find out what a push-up
[Music]
means hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am the
creator of the RP hypertrophy app which
there's a link to in the description if
you want to buy stuff and get me richer
and I'm also an exercise and Sport
Science professor at Leman College in
the Bronx in New York City in the United
States in the world and it's a world
which happens to be co-occupied by Mr
Kevin Hart comedian actor and person who
lift
[Music]
what I didn't know I could do that for
that long let's find out if his lifting
is either amazing good okay terrible or
the worst thing that's ever happened
let's go but it's not about me today
it's about you it's about us giving you
some tips and things to do at home
that's so nice I hope the tip IPS
workout so the first move we're going to
go through is some man makers right man
makers man makers a man maker is
technically extensive transgender
surgery and hormonal treatment boy are
we starting off heavy
today just being tactical Scott watch
saying his name in vain you're down in
The Stance right and you're here you're
going to do a
pushup oh God this shit again folks if
you're trying to maximize your ability
to have a bigger more muscular bicep
forearm back of your delt and your
entire back rowing out of a weird 3/4
push-up position is not the bee's knees
it also prevents you from getting a
really good stretch at the bottom I
would much rather see this done bent
dumbbell row style where you bend over
hinging at the hips and then row just do
your push-ups and when you get really
tired and stop take 20 or 30 seconds
work it out grab the dumbbells hinge and
then do some rows and you get all the
benefits you don't have to combine a
bunch of exercises into one everyone was
always trying to get one exercise that
does it all you know that's like putting
ice cream into your pasta for the love
of fucking God just eat your pasta and
then eat your ice cream sometimes mixing
shit just kind of makes both things
worse you know like alone girls that I
think are pretty seem nice but when I
get around them they spray me with mace
they yell at me they kick me in the
balls not the consensual kind so maybe
I'm just not supposed to be mixing with
other humans h
back to the video give me eight of them
eight of them eight you don't make any
noise when you do it man makers are you
a man oh damn he's really getting after
it holy shit I will be afraid of my
trainer which I guess is a good thing I
am a man watch let me see are you're a
man let me see like a little boy than
me keep your back flat don't rotate
there you
go say it again one time walk
two hey hey stop playing damn being
careful a Hearts trainer is probably
tough cuz he's so funny he throws you
off your game all the time you're like
I'm trying to trying to be tough with
you God damn it shut the up stop making
me laugh e b got sweat stains because
it's called working out e oh jam look at
that pit sweat you know he's serious
okay here we go now we're going to go
into a dumbbell front squats which is
good for your back making sure that you
don't bend over good for your core is
good activation well you already know
what I think about core
activation I don't know what it is and
why people keep talking about it uh
front squats are definitely good for
training your entire core back and front
so the gentleman here the personal
trainer he's definitely correct about
that but the main target uh you believe
uh me if I told you is the legs it's
actually the legs yes right here K I
want you to do 12 you're going to keep
your elbows locked in you're going to
squat keep your chest up and you're
going to go 12 yeah I would much prefer
he takes the dumbbells and as in our RP
instructional videos puts them like this
on top of his shoulders that way with
just a gentle push most of the load is
taken in through your shoulders if
you're top end curling if you tilt over
even a little bit it's going to start to
unravel and it really turns into like a
really difficult bicep and shoulder
exercise minor critique but n the less I
think worth sharing with you guys based
on the way my legs look cuz they're kind
of
small you would think I don't work my
legs but I do hey how racial are we
allowed to get here
Scott zero zero racial
people of West African ancestry
typically have smaller calves because
through their evolutionary lineage they
are optimized to run and jump better
which actually means that your calves
should be mostly tendon to get that
bouncy reactive force and so if you're
black and you have small calves you got
an uphill battle come in your way but
good news the rest of you is born
perfect start laying you on your back he
oh Kevin you see how he ignores all of
his trainers cues like bowling over at
his back failing to activate his core
not going sufficiently deep though he
does have some pretty impressive calves
I must say you Fe to turn too far out
there you go keep your chest up see how
he's bending keep your chest up there
you go the trainer excellent critique so
far want to activate the core all
right brother what's the next one
there's no way that this filming
involved Kevin Hart actually training
because I literally think he did three
reps and was like that camera guy next
we're going to go through 21s but
isometric hole on the curls you're going
to curl
seven isometric hole right here seven
and I want you to do 21 I didn't do 21
cuz we only got enough time for you to
do
21s the isometric hold is a good way to
waste a lot of energy just curl up and
down folks quick in the ascent slow and
controlled in The Descent full range of
motion every time and repeat you don't
have to make things fancy holding in the
middle for no reason and holding and
doing this um it's wasting more energy
than it's giving you muscle growth
stimulus what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
[Music]
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours now
ask me who I am right now we going do
I and we do why do you think I talk like
that I'm I'm from Texas hey I'm from
Texas okay and
Texas that's that's that's love right
there Kevin Hart should be curling
deeper I hate to interrupt a Comics
routine but this is no good we want this
full extension stop moving your elbows
brother I'm not trying stop moving your
elbows since you're doing all that
talking I'm trying to do I H I'm okay
with the way I talk you have to be
confident in who you are I love the
trainer we're going to see how many
push-ups you can do in one minute how
many you think you can do in one minute
zero I I can do 265 push-ups you bold
bold claim Mr Kevin Hart let's find out
what a push-up means clock started and
I'm ready not
terrible he can go slower he can go
lower he can pause at the bottom but his
range of motion isn't awful 15 20
25 funny enough even counting by fives
he's probably not going to make it to
265 42
4350 time ain't up
450 at home hold on at home finish your
full minute please because he stopped at
58 seconds what damn zero respect is the
number one requisite for being a good
personal trainer cuz you might be
something out there on the world when
you come to the gym I'm going to shit
all over you cuz you need reality to
strike
if you don't do anything right your
boy's yelling at you I love this trainer
guy I want his number not for just
calling him or texting him in the middle
of the night naked pic I wouldn't rule
that out maybe just trainer talk you
know like naked pic in the middle of the
night I'm not really sure what that is
it's like hey pretend to be a beetle
that's clinging onto a window for dear
life go there are two contexts in which
this makes sense you're a beetle
clinging for deer life on a window or
you are an adult dancer at Magic City in
Atlanta there's no in between oh shit
all right that's dope I would love to
see Kevin really stretch out at the
bottom of each repetition but he's got
that chain on I don't know if that's
just like modern African-American
fashion or if that is really a weighted
chain either way it's impressive another
thing is he's got his legs out in front
of him which is extra fucking hard and
really makes this impressive Kevin
Hart's the real deal in the gym also
look at that bulge my God Scot the video
guy did you notice that or is that just
me again Kevin Hart you might be 4 foot6
but there's two of you in there that are
4
foot6 ooh around the
world this is cool this is cool it's
Dynamic uh it's fun yeah no hate on this
exercise ooh roll outs this is brutal
this is actually a phenomenal L exercise
and it is exactly as phenomenal as it is
embarrassing because you realize you're
not nearly as strong as you thought you
were the fact that you have to roll the
plate Out means it makes you do the
Ecentric the lengthening part of the
contraction slowly cuz if you do it
quickly the thing will just roll out and
you'll fall on your face this is
actually an unbelievably excellent way
to challenge yourself and it'll your abs
up like you wouldn't believe I'm all for
this exercise this is brilliant
stuff I don't know what this is I don't
know why his hands are behind his head
this is a single leg leg press
it's on one of those Life Fitness leg
press machines which suck because the
range of motion at the bottom is Dick
and if you're strong enough you just get
shot out of that chair so whoever made
that
machine you've done better things with
your life I hope um I'd like to see
Kevin get a lot deeper on this and
slower and more control and actually
hold the handles they're there for a
reason
yeah yeah whatever the that is Dildo
Rose I like to be able to really pull on
a well let's just call it what it is a
cock and ideally I'd like to pull on two
cocks at the same time but there's
nothing in the gym that can really
replicate that oh wait throw these
towels around this bar and you got
yourself a f specific workout pull them
close to me never push them away ever
free cocks are always a blessing um all
right if you guys like that we have an
Extended Cut in our memb section which
requires you to pay money I know paying
money is bad but laughter is good so is
learning check out a member section and
maybe you'll have some fun Kevin Hart
now recovers from back surgery oh I
didn't know that holy shit a back injury
can be never ending and everlasting
depending on how you handle it and how
you treat the recovery process oh it's a
men's health video prepare for terrible
you know even now I can't go and run
three miles I can't the reality behind
that is you're still healing and you
have to understand that that's a process
respect this is good he'll probably make
a really good physical therapy patient
CU a lot of the worst patients are
people that don't have patience
ironically and uh they'll rush and get
reinjured and they just never kind of
Zone in to be like you know what I'm
going to do this in a graded slow ramp
up and I don't care how long it takes
and those people are often successful so
if you ever get hurt in the gym or
outside of the gym and you have to do
physical therapy even if you do it by
yourself take it smooth and take it slow
and be patient that'll pay huge
dividends there's an award you win for
coming back so fast that you get hurt
again it's I forget what it's called oh
yeah it doesn't exist so I can say
that's the toughest thing I lost 17 lb I
lost 17 lbs when I was in the hospital
all muscle mass whatever it is that I
had was definitely gone losing 17 lbs of
muscle sucks the benefit of losing 17
lbs however is that if you eat well and
you start training with weights you gain
back a crapload of muscle really really
fast your muscles have a muscle memory
of sorts you'll get back your old size
quite quickly especially once you're
able to train hard and you can get
really really lean because if you stay
the same weight at the hospital but you
lose muscle and you gain fat you got to
lose that fat and then regain the muscle
but if you lose weight total that means
you didn't really gained much fat you
lost a bunch of muscle as you gain your
muscle again you're going to be really
really sharp at the end of that process
so uh bit of a silver lining literally
as I was going through physical therapy
I started to see myself
get back to a place of positive weight a
place of positive weight that's a big
positive and that helps me balance the
things that are tough for me to be able
not to do now that was nice Scott thanks
for putting that in there good mindset
shit mindset shit I love it we're going
to do some moves out here we can use a
tire I love it training on the farm top
of the thing right here you can move Bo
all right that's cool jumping around
stuff it'll get the blood flowing not
exactly the best workout for looking
better but get you moving and it's
healthy good for you good job good job
you could do this at home you could play
with the kids while you're doing this
how the would you do that guess getting
the kids involved huh I'm not legally
around to be allowed to be around
children or mention them
ooh so here's what I want you to do I
want you to do a flip okay flip control
let it Drop Hop through it coming back
flip it for 30 seconds hop through it
this is cool stuff to get a little work
I didn't get the blood flowing like it's
not going to make you jacked or lean or
look much better but it's fun and it's
healthy and just the whole family can do
it I don't know I ran out of positive
shit to say this sucks last move we
going to do I'm going see if you can
hold this hey bear oh to whaty so what
we used to do hey what hey
Barrel
Kevin Hart's like I thought that was
called baale of hay not a barrel but all
all right his face right there says it
all my man what I want you to do is I
just want you to walk this around like
this good old classic strong man
training some of my favorite training is
strong man training or as I like to call
it strong and man SNM for short you fill
in the blanks at home what I really mean
it's training in a certain sense I'm
being told what especially not to do and
that I'm
pathetic Good
Times ah Chuck always eating all his
goddamn hay yeah so you walk around
Jesus Christ why you eat so much of this
hay Chu come on bro it's called former
cares well now we got to get him out of
here one more time brother all
right what is the point of this movement
is it to spend calories maybe is it to
have fun being active sure is it to
optimize your physique for
Hollywood no no it's not guys what US
What's Understood doesn't need to be
said this was us and the outdoors on a
farm putting putting these great objects
to
use
[Music]
yeah Kevin Hart
hilarious impressively strong and jacked
excellent mindset for recovering from
back injury
and uh his trainer is not half bad
either but uh like most trainers we'll
have their client do some rather random
things to be moving around with I give
the trainer and his Texas accent a 10
out of 10 I give Kevin Hart an 11 out of
10 for comedy and I give the most of the
workouts here let's go seven out of 10
eight out of 10 pretty good just could
use a little bit of optimization here
and there
and uh yeah that's it
so see you guys on a farm in Texas peace
all right if you like that YouTube
thinks you might like this video that
I'm ostensibly pointing to now mind you
there's no video here when I'm pointing
to it so it's quite strange for me but
for you I'm sure this will all make a
lot of
sense