time and time again all the literature
reviews come in and they show us one
thing that on average and there are some
Nuance here you get better results
training twice a week for the same
muscle than you do just once a week and
in some cases you even get a better
result training that muscle three times
a week than twice a week There's a very
nuanced conversation about two versus
three but the conversation about one
versus two is not very Nuance for muscle
growth you do probably want to be
training each muscle at least twice a
week whether much higher than twice a
week is going to be better I don't know
I think if there is a benefit to be had
on balance of probabilities it is likely
that an effect is in favor of slightly
higher frequencies so if you came to me
and you're like look I want to maximize
hypertrophy how do I do so based on the
most up-to-date evidence in 2024 I would
say train each muscle two to four times
a week we don't even know for sure that
three times a week or four times a week
is better than twice a week but if there
is a benefit in either direction it is
in favor of two to four times a week not
in favor of once a week that is how the
evidence is leaning at this point but
you need multiple weekly workouts to get
your best results and