why is modern society so fat there's all
of these images from the 1960s of
beaches in America and everyone looks
lean and athletic and you see it's
because of the insert your favorite food
demon of choice here it's the red 40
it's the seed oils but the aams raiser
of this is just food is tastier more
calorie dense cheaper and more available
than it's ever been before what did you
think was going to happen just from
first principles just make that forget
Is it artificial or is it natural what
do you think would happen to those
people yes very predictable and in a
certain sense a little bit disappointing
and so when someone's like it's actually
all the insanely tasty food you love to
eat all the time that's making you super
fat you got a tendency to be
like I got to stop eating that stuff but
wasn't it the microplast can I eat can I
make microplastics tasty at some point
it's this insanely simple reason that
describes probably 90% or more of the
variance and obesity from historical
times to now