a lot of people think cardio is only
going to the gym ratcheting up the
treadmill and incline walking for 45
minutes looking at the wall in front of
them and just suffering what you could
be doing is doing a little bit of
swimming getting on the bike doing a bit
of jogging unless you're a contest
bodybuilder it's okay to do some jogging
for cardio you're not going to lose your
leg muscle completely off your body in
most cases you've got a ton of different
options you can join a rec league for
basketball or something and all of a
sudden tons of different types of cardio
means that they're never really boring
they're always fun also you can't really
wear out a single part of your body if
your cardio always changes you don't
wear and tear that stuff if you do only
ever the elliptical at some point your
shoulder starts hurting the elliptical
hurts it like either stop doing cardio
or you hurt a shoulder more but if you
have a swim programmed in there maybe
some bicycle work then you can keep
doing cardio and lay off the shoulder
for a bit and then voila you're well off
and while you're