if you're currently waking up early to
go train and you're trading faster
you're probably limiting your muscle
growth carbohydrates are used in a
variety of ways first they're
specifically your body's favorite form
of fuel you perform best when you have
the most fuel around if you don't have
sufficient carbohydrate around whether
that's as glycogen whereas blood glucose
you likely won't be performing your best
and if you're not performing your best
you won't be giving yourself the best
stimulus for muscle hypertrophy the
effect of pre-exercise carbohydrate
intake on volume mode performance was
only significant when the fast preceding
that meal lasted more than eight hours
when the fasting period was lower than
eight hours there was no effect of
having carbohydrates before trading
session that said it wasn't so much that
the effect was lower when the fasting
window lasted less than eight hours it
was more so the fact that in these
studies there was greater variants in
the studies that had fasting Windows of
under eight hours and thus the effects
as estimate was less precise and wasn't
significant as you train your muscles
glycogen stores get depleted and
eventually get so low that your
performance can be impeded and having
carbohydrates before or during the
training session can enable you to keep
that elevated which then can help
provide more fuel that goes towards your
performance and improves your
performance