rp+ welcome back dr. James Hoffman here
and we are talking today about one of my
favorite topics is actually just setting
up one of your training sessions so so
this that's far we've talked about all
sorts of stuff we've talked about the
training principles we've talked about
periodization at nauseam and how to make
sure everything's set up sequentially
throughout the training year now we're
going to talk about actually getting
your one-on-one training sessions with
either your clients or your athletes set
up really really effectively so some of
the things we're going to talk about
today you can see on the slides here are
gonna be setting up a good warm-up for
your session whether it's a sport
practice session a resistance training
session or whatever we always wanna make
sure we have a good warm-up to start
we're going to talk about some exercise
order considerations we want to make
sure that we are sequencing our
exercises in the most effective way that
we can well talk a little bit about
setting up rest times and some specific
considerations between exercises another
really interesting area that a lot of
people kind of mess up a lot and then
we'll also talk about setting up number
of sessions per week or per day so we'll
talk about training density to some
extent and then last but not least we'll
set up talk about using potentially
using cooldowns as another option so
let's get right into it first thing I
want to talk about first big slide here
is a warm-up now warm-up is something
that people still to this day I get this
all the time will people be like ah man
I don't need to warmup that's lame those
people are absolutely crazy so all
sessions whether it's a resistance
training session a conditioning session
sport practice session whatever it is
should start with some type of warm-up
the benefits of the warm-up you can see
on the list here are massive massive
massive I'm just going to point out a
couple that are noteworthy first off we
can actually start to see improvements
in strength and power no surprise there
we can actually see lowered viscous
resistance in the muscles so your
muscles actually get into a kind of a
more fluid like state they're not quite
so stiff we can see enhancements and
muscle blood flow we can actually see
improvements in reuse me reaction time
and we can actually see the muscles are
able to contract and relaxed in a faster
rate which is pretty cool so there's a
whole bunch of good reasons you can see
on there
for doing a proper warm-up let's get
into how we kind of set this up and put
it together so the next slide our warmup
generally consists of two parts now I'm
gonna give you these recommendations and
you can put a little asterisks next to
this because the warm-up is highly
highly highly individualized and what
that means is not everybody's going to
go through the same order of operations
for a warm-up some people can just kind
of walk over to the gym do their sets on
the bar and then they're ready to go
some people need a little bit more of
extensive warmup time that's perfectly
okay so what we're going to talk about
today are just kind of some general good
warm-up rules or good warm-up
applications so not necessarily meant
explicitly for everyone all the time but
a good place to start so the way that I
like to structure our warmups it kind of
comes in two parts the first part is
what we call the general warm-up and
this is generally just 5 to 10 minutes
of pretty easygoing kind of steady-state
movement or activity so usually here
what we're looking at is something like
walking on a treadmill or an elliptical
walking to the gym or just doing
anything that's kind of like low
intensity movements kind of repetitive
kind of very similar to our steady state
type exercise and our big goals here are
just to increase heart rate blood flow
which is q on the slide here increase
body temperature increase your
respiration a little bit and help you
get ready to start thermal regulating a
little bit more so we'll actually start
to see increases and things like
perspiration sweating so again just kind
of like 10 minutes 5 to 10 minutes of
not super intense activity really just
getting some general movements whether
it's walking cycling rowing elliptical
type stuff jogging just to get the body
going a little bit after we've done that
so we kind of did our general warmup
portion we're gonna move into what I
like to call the specific warmup and
this is where we're actually going to
start moving into kind of more
contextually specific movements to that
session so this is going to be somewhere
around 8 to 10 maybe upwards of 15
minutes of sports specific movements now
what we're going to be doing here is
we're going to be trying to keep a very
large degree of specificity to whatever
session that we're doing so a really
simple example is like a weight training
session so you might go in do your
general warmup take a walk on the
treadmill for 5 or 10 minutes
the next thing you're going to do is
probably go over to the squat rack and
start getting ready to do some squats
what's a good idea for warming up the
squat well probably going to get under
the bar
with a lightweight probably no weight on
the bar and progressively incrementally
add weight warm up to your target sets
really really simple example right the
key here is we're going to try and start
matching the movement patterns of
whatever we're doing so if it's a
resistance training session we're gonna
match the actual movements in this case
squats if it was a sport training
session it might be a little bit
different right it might include some
sprinting type activities some ball
movement if it's a rugby ball or a
basketball or football
it might include racket movements if
you're in a racket sport or a club sport
like baseball and golf something like
that right so we're gonna start matching
the movement patterns and then we're
incremental II going to start trying to
match the forces velocities and power
outputs of the movements that we're
going to do and we usually do that by
increasing the effort by having our
athletes either move faster or
increasing like the weight on the bar
right all of those things will work so
again we're not doing like crazy random
stuff for our session we're going to be
doing things that are going to be
warming up the muscles the movement
actions in a very specific context chew
away to the things that we're planning
on training in that day so a lot of
people like to use the specific warm-up
as an opportunity to do dynamic warm-up
stuff like doing some kind of
calisthenics some like high kicks some
shoulder rollouts things like that
that's perfectly fine time to do that I
would say you still want to do that
general warm-up first just kind of get
your heart rate up get your breathing up
a little bit doesn't have to be super
extensive but something a little
something is better than nothing here
and then if you want to move in to kind
of a dynamic warmup that's perfectly
okay and for a lot of like team sport
activities probably a pretty good idea
if you're just doing a regular like
weight training session dynamic warmup
might not be necessary but it could be
used by a personal preference basis okay
so again we're going to keep it within
the realm of the session and we're going
to be making it harder and harder and
harder and harder as we go let's go on
to the next slide so here's a couple
examples so this is kind of an example
of a weight training session and what
this might look like so if you look at
the column on the Left we have a good
example right so if we're doing
something like a squat and we're working
up to a weight of about 315 that we're
going to be doing four reps a good
example here might be doing just the bar
or body weight for about 10 reps or so
moving up to like 135 doing some around
5 to 8 reps moving up to 225 maybe doing
somewhere around 3 to
reps moving up again to about 275 maybe
for one or two and then what we can also
do is what we like to call a pap a post
activation potentiation set at the
actual first workload so if my first
workload was at 315 I might do a single
or a double at 315 to get a nice feel
for the movement and then I'm going to
take a rest and I'll be ready to start
my actual sets this will feel really
really good once you start working this
into your routine how many of you guys
have ever done that first set and you're
like oh man this first set always feels
like death and then you get to the
second set you're like oh that wasn't so
bad right why is that well because your
nervous system was still firing up and
getting acclimatized to the loads that
you were using so one of the strategies
we want to implement in our warm-up is
actually getting acclimatized to that
load before you start that target set so
that's what a good example might look
like I'll take a rest and then I'm ready
to move into my first sets at 315 for
however many reps that I'm doing right
one of the things that we see all the
time which is a poor example of a proper
warm-up is actually maintaining high
reps throughout the warm-up as you go so
a lot of people will say okay well I'm
squatting up to 315 for tens today I'm
gonna do the bar for 10 I'm gonna do
very similar numbers I'll do 135 for 10
I'll do 225 for 10 I'll do 275 for 10
and then I'll move into my first working
set at 315 for 10 what do you think the
problem is there well unfortunately you
just did a whole bunch of work that is
not really gaining any fitness for you
it's really just adding fatigue right so
you can get the same effect by tapering
down the actual number of reps as you
increase in weight without generating
quite as much fatigue if you keep doing
all those reps so it's kind of a
misconception that you have to maintain
the actual reps that you're doing as you
were warming up you don't need to do
that it's probably a very poor strategy
because it's gonna add fatigue and take
away from either the intensity or the
number of sets and reps that you can get
throughout your sessions so generally
we're gonna taper our reps down as we go
up in weights the number of warm-up sets
that you need is largely dependent on
how strong and how well-trained you are
people who can squat bench and deadlift
really really high weights generally
will need to take a few more warm-up
sets than those of us who are maybe in
the more moderate range or those of us
who are in the more beginner range right
so if we're using relatively light loads
probably don't need a ton of warm-up
sets if you can even
bench 500 pounds you better believe
you're gonna have to take a few warm-up
sets to get up to 500 if you want to
maintain your packs on your body so
these are just some examples right you
see this all the time but generally what
we want to see is kind of a tapered
approach where the number of reps are
steadily going down and the intensity of
exercise is moving up all the way
towards our first kind of target
activity you can take the same idea that
we did with weight training and apply it
into a more sport specific context like
warming up for sprinting or warming up
live drills for your sport session or
plyometrics or even cardio to some
extent you can start warming up to your
target cardio pace before you jump right
into your race pace for that actual day
or activity so we're going to take that
same idea of kind of ramping things up
decreasing the ramps getting ourselves
acclimated to the intensity of exercise
before we actually move into our first
overloading plan sets make sense so far
cool all right let's move on to the next
one so I put this light on here because
I think it's important to note right the
warm-up is meant to get you potentiated
for exercise what that means is it's
meant to get you fired up for exercise
right we want our cardiovascular system
our skeleton excuse me our neuromuscular
system we want all of our different body
systems ready for exercise that's the
point of the warm-up right a lot of
people unfortunately use the warm-up as
kind of like a time to do overloading
exercise which is basically defeating
the purpose of the warmup
so what we want to establish is that the
warm-up is meant to gradually progress
and potentiate the athlete or your
client for the session it's not meant to
significantly fatigue them and I can't
tell you how many times I have been
either participated in or have witnessed
sport sessions where our athletes were
vomiting at the end of the warm-up right
what does that person done there's no
way if you have an athlete who's so
fatigued that they're vomiting or
they're like totally sweating crazy
breathing super heavy there's no way
they're gonna have a productive training
session if they're that fatigued in the
warm-up what are they gonna do for the
next hour and a half not much right so
again keep in mind the goal of the
warm-up is not to be overloading and
fatiguing is to progressively potentiate
the athlete and prep them for the hard
training that you're about to do in that
session the hard training comes after
the warm-up right so we don't want our
athletes to be super fatigued
at the end of the warm-up they should be
fired up and ready to go let's go on to
the next one the reason we bring this up
and it kind of ties into the next
section that we're going to talk about
is because the exercise order can
negatively be affected by fatigue within
the session now we're going to talk
about exercise order in the context of
mostly sport training what do I mean by
that we're talking about for like team
sport strength power sports and during
sports things like that there is a
little bit of flexibility and wiggle
room for a purely physique sports within
this discussion the reason we bring this
up is because it might not always apply
but there is a little bit of wiggle room
there so if you're doing like
bodybuilding physique style training
some of this might be flexible if you're
doing kind of more rigid sport training
like track and field rugby soccer
weightlifting things like that this is
very very very much applicable so now
one of the things that we want to
establish right off the bat is fatigue
has nasty effects no brainer there right
so fatigue is going to be a direct
inhibitor of force producing ability
your ability to express technique in a
lot of your movements and it's going to
have a very very potent effect on your
ability to move fast and explosively so
it affects the force the velocity and
the neuromuscular coordination right so
we want to make sure that we are setting
up our exercise sessions in such a way
that we are managing the fatigue acutely
throughout the session so that we can do
things that are really really sensitive
to that excuse me really really
sensitive to fatigue first and then work
our way down to things that are less
sensitive to fatigue later and this is
pretty intuitive most of you have
probably figured this out before if
anyone has ever asked you to do sprints
after doing a hard squat or deadlift
workout you like no way I can't do
sprints right now if I do those Sprint's
they're gonna be super slow why because
you're fatigued what about the reverse
if somebody said do a few Sprint's and
then I'm gonna have you squat you might
be a little tired from doing the sprints
but for the most part you can move into
the squats largely unempioyed
and that's where the relationship that
we're going to describe right now so
let's go on to the next one we're gonna
establish a proper kind of hierarchy of
exercise order so again this is mostly
for kind of our rigid sport training
this might not be as applicable to
physique training but still a pretty
good idea
so in terms of what things go first in
an exercise session what we have number
one on the list is what we call I like
to call pure power movements these are
movements where the velocity is the kind
of characteristic that we're training
the most important thing the movement
speed right
these are usually things done unresisted
usually the athlete's body weight alone
and we're asking them to move as fast as
they can right so this is going to be
sprinting plyometrics any kind of
agility or change of direction type work
any of those things so kind of again our
pure power movements they're pure power
in the sense that they are not done
against an external load they're usually
just done with the system the body and
we're asking our athletes to just move
as fast and as hard or change direction
as abruptly as they can right these are
gonna be some of the most sensitive
exercises to fatigue if we're carrying
around too much fatigue from the
training session or from the warm up
we're gonna immediately see decreases in
performance on these activities which is
no good right so they're number one in
our list as we move down number two are
going to be our power and rate of force
developing movements now we're going to
differentiate these from number one as
these are usually done against an
external load so what are some examples
of things and our power and rate of
force developing movements well this is
where we're gonna see our weightlifting
type activities right your snatch
derivatives clean derivative jerk
derivatives all those weight lifting
movements are gonna be popped right into
this category this can also include
things like doing loaded jumps resisted
sprints something like that and it can
also include regular kind of resistance
training methods that are being done as
explosively as possible especially if
the movement speed is being tracked
right so again the fastest movements
come first next we have very very
powerful explosive movements usually
against resistance third is a very big
category and this is just our base
strength work right so the strength work
is not as sensitive to fatigue it will
kind of hang out a little bit longer now
that's not to say that if you have
somebody who's really really tired you
will not see a decrease in strength you
absolutely can see that however what we
find is that doing the strength work
whether it's done as work capacity basic
strength max
strength will tend to hang on a little
bit longer than any of the power or
speed stuff so now within strength again
it's a big category we're gonna say the
largest muscle mass activities come
first so the things that have the
largest muscle mass the most number of
joints are also kind of the most
technical components Wolf's come first
and this will usually be our big
compound lifts like our squatting our
dead lifting or rows or presses things
like that
now you might have multiple strength
activities within the same session
that's totally normal
generally we're going to proceed in
order of decreasing size and
technicality right so the most muscle
mass most technical things generally
will come first and then when we all
work our way down in terms of the amount
of muscle and technical component for
those lifts so if you're doing something
like a squat and a bench press and the
same day you might be like okay well
those are both strength movements right
well generally the squat has a higher
technique component and it certainly has
a bigger muscle mass component than the
benchpress so for the most part unless
we are doing a light a heavy light kind
of thing for the most part we're gonna
probably put the squat first and then
the benchpress
after that so we can make sure that the
more technical more muscle mass
movements are the freshest and can be
trained the hardest right after that any
accessory work that we're doing this can
include just like kind of delts triceps
ABS calves biceps any of that kind of
stuff that will generally come at the
end so again we have our a little
hierarchy here our pure power movements
come first things where the movement
speed is the emphasize characteristic
absolutely come first next is our big
power output rate of force developing
movements this is generally like our
weight training movements our plyometric
movements and our fast explosive
movements next comes our strength stuff
big muscle mass most technical comes
first work our way down and then last
but not least we have accessory work
things that are kind of bonuses add-ons
for the session but not necessarily
super critical or important let's go on
to the next slide so here's just some
examples of what this might look like
don't take these overly literally you
don't have to be like technically the
gym squid isn't it relax it's fine right
so here's just some examples of how this
might look in some different sport kind
of context so if we have an in-season
phase that's going to be generally the
most complicated we were probably
having a little bit of all these things
peppered in in some way here's what we
might see a jump squat which is going to
be unresisted jumping movement right
where we have somebody jump up as high
as they can either from full squat or
maybe a half squat position 3x3 maybe
some cleans from mid thigh followed by
some high bar squats followed by some
benchpress right we use that same
hierarchy to set up our session now not
all sessions are going to be that
complicated the in-season kind of
workouts generally are going to be the
most complicated in terms of this
hierarchy as we move kind of backwards
if we get into our specific prep phase
where we might just be doing something
like strength excuse me strength we
might start off with some push press
maybe some incline bench press some down
sets of incline bench press and if we
want to add some triceps maybe some
freedom press or some modified school
crushers or something like that at the
end totally fine
again the push press being the rate of
force developed emphasizing movement
came first followed by the strength
movement followed by the accessory work
at the end as we move into the next
slide we can see an example of more
general preparatory stuff like if we're
doing a strength endurance type session
we're probably going to start with just
squats moving into maybe down sets of
squats maybe an accessory leg movement
like a lunge or a hamstring movement and
then if we want to add some calves or
midsection type work at the end totally
fine and then for something like
hypertrophy it might be a little bit
different this is again where we have a
little bit more wiggle room some people
will are diehard
exercise order fans where they'll say
isolations can only come you know at the
end and you shouldn't do shouldn't kind
of blend them in between there's no rule
against that for hypertrophy again the
key for hypertrophy being how much
overload can you generate in terms of
volume so long as you don't drop the
intensity too low so an example might be
something like again squats more squats
maybe a leg press with like a rest time
constriction protocol on there and some
calves something like that again the big
compounds still coming generally first
on the top of the priority list working
our way down to the things like the leg
press the calves are maybe hamstring
work later on less complicated less
muscle mass make sense so far all right
let's move on to the next one one other
kind of component within the session
that we want to think about is how we're
actually going to structure our rest
times rest times is a really really
interesting topic because it kind of
touches on a number of different areas
of sport physiology that people tend to
get all crazy crazy
crazy confused so if you look a lot of
the recommendations from things like the
NSA ACSM and even some select articles
that you might find on like journal
strength condition research a lot of
them seem to suggest that taking really
really short rest times might have a
very positive improvement excuse me may
positive influence on things like
growth hormone and testosterone release
from the session well what we have found
is that acute hormonal changes really
don't seem to have any major noticeable
effects whereas chronic hormonal changes
have massive massive effects so another
example of this that was semi recent in
the literature was wearing a mouth guard
right you can wear a mouth guard while
you train and supposedly that would
increase your testosterone I don't know
any guys who have gotten jacked just
from wearing a mouth guard unless you
know something I don't know so it's just
an example again of is there an effect
there yes what is the big picture items
say well acute changes in hormone
concentrations generally don't account
for Diddley dick to be nice so what we
really need to see how chronic changes
where do most of the adaptations that we
get come from well generally most of
them are work dependent meaning how much
volume of that activity did you actually
do so why am I going in this big crazy
rants big circle about rest times well a
lot of the strategies for rest times
have kind of confused these two things
where they said we're trying to improve
hormones or we're trying to improve our
ability to generate high workloads right
so what are the most important things
let's go onto the next slide this is
actually from one of the I think this
was from the NSC a book that I'm
borrowing just to show as an example
this might not be the best strategy so
for looking at doing strength stuff
power stuff recommendations of two to
five minutes between sets are generally
very good now five minutes is probably
being on the upper end for most people
especially if you're working with female
athletes females can generally shave off
one minute from the top and low end of
this recommendation but two to five
minutes is a very very safe spot within
five minutes they should be virtually
fully recovered in terms of their bio
energetic limitations like the creatine
she should have already completely
refreshed they should hopefully not be
super out of breath and they should be
able to resume exercise
two to five minutes is a very very good
reasonable recommendation some people if
they're very very strong very very
muscular might need a little bit more
people who are less strong less muscular
can probably be on the lower end of that
again a little bit of flexibility for
each individual but two to five minutes
is a very safe zone now if you look on
this chart we've said hypertrophy is on
there and you can also see muscular
endurance is on there and they say
thirty Seconds to one and a half minutes
and I put no on there just to give you
some food for thought so again this gets
back to that previous rant a lot of
these recommendations have come around
trying to optimize acute hormonal
responses right that is not necessarily
what we're going for the goal for
hypertrophy generally is to generate the
biggest workloads that you can so taking
an excessively short rest time
consistently all the time will generally
come at the expense of the intensity of
exercise or the number of sets and reps
that you can achieve right and it makes
sense so if I tell you to squat you know
to 25 for 10 and then say all right you
got one minute rest are you gonna be
able to keep squatting 225 for 10 maybe
you're probably gonna have to take the
intensity down to maintain 10 reps or
you just won't get the same number of
reps right that could be useful in some
circumstances which we'll get to in a
minute but for the most part what we
find is that that unfavourably gent
lowers the intensity or the workload so
we have kind of an interesting conundrum
here with hypertrophy we're taking some
short rest time might actually be
beneficial especially at certain times
throughout the year like if you're doing
a metabolites emphasize phase but we've
also found that generating those big
workloads is also very important so
there's kind of a balancing act between
the metabolite benefits that we gain
from taking short rest and accumulating
lots of byproducts in the muscle as well
as generating big workloads so what we
have basically estimated so far is that
the effects are probably equivocal for
hypertrophy again generally trying to
achieve the biggest volume loads
possible is the better strategy so for
the most part you want to make sure that
you're lifting heavy getting those big
sets to get big reps in and not taking
such short rest times that it's
constricting you from doing that but
again throughout the year if you want to
take slightly shorter rest times or if
you're doing like I'm at AB
Faye's it might be appropriate to take
like less than a minute rest so
generally for hypertrophy we say two to
five minutes is still probably a good
idea if you want to shave that down to
like a minute or well or two minutes or
so that's okay maybe not all the time so
just keep in mind right some of these
recommendations are good in some ways
but don't account for the big picture
items like total volume load so just be
skeptical when you see stuff like that
so 2 to 5 minutes
can't go wrong across the board for
hypertrophy there's a little bit of
wiggle room to maybe shave a minute or
two off of some of those recommendations
all right let's go onto the next one so
again PCR or phosphocreatine is
generally going to replete within about
two minutes
in a usable way it'll be fully repleted
within about five minutes or so so after
about two minutes most people should be
good to go from a bio energetic
standpoint unless they're really really
jacked and muscular right so again we
don't necessarily want to deliberately
constrict rest if it's going to
compromise the amount of volume that we
can generate in the session there are
some exceptions to that especially for
hypertrophy if we're trying to
accumulate metabolites like taking short
rests doing super sets doing occlusion
type training things like that and then
again the training status of the
individual might play a role right so if
they're not not super trained not super
strong they can generally recover a
little bit faster simply because they
don't disrupt their own homeostasis as
much within each exercise so it's not as
disruptive for them they rebound quickly
not a big deal those who are more
trained more strong more muscular might
take upwards of 5 minutes maybe upwards
of 10 minutes if you're doing really
really crazy stuff if you're like Chad
Wesley Smith sighs and you're doing high
rep squats it might just take a little
while but that's normal right and that's
for really really strong really really
trained people for the most of us
probably somewhere around 2 to 5 minutes
is kind of a sweet spot where we're
still getting metabolic benefits but
we're not constricting our rest so much
that we're not able to generate big
volume loads anymore all right let's go
on to the next one the number of
sessions is another thing that we want
to consider when designing our sessions
we know that training density plays a
big role so how much training per unit
of time
we want to make sure that we're getting
our single sessions in when we can but
we might actually excuse me actually opt
for multiple sessions with the
the same day certainly within the same
week in some cases what we have found is
that we can actually split up our
sessions per week obviously if we're
equated for volume law but we can also
start thinking about us splitting up our
sessions per day which can have a
distinct benefit so instead of trying to
grind out a really really long peak week
like two two-and-a-half hour workout in
some cases it's probably a pretty good
idea to maybe take that same volume of
training and split it up into multiple
sessions throughout the day and what we
have found is if you do that generally
you can decrease the amount of fatigue
generated in each session so they're
carrying less residual fatigue from the
each individual session you can actually
see improvements in the intensity of
exercise in the subsequent session the
number of reps completed or just their
ability to express things like good
exercise technique in that subsequent
session instead of doing again that
nasty crazy two to three hour workout
the back end of that workout you're
going to start to see the negative
effects of fatigue right so they might
not be able to hold on to the intensity
the volume or the technique if you can
split that up maybe into two times one
hour sessions that second session they
might be able to be a little bit fresher
in what they're doing and not just
dragging and grinding through so in
general what we find is that taking that
big session if it's going to be really
really long like two hours or more and
splitting it up into multiple sessions
like two sessions throughout the day is
a really really good practice however
there are obvious practical limitations
in there especially if you're doing
personal training stuff like that you're
lucky if you can get two times per week
with a lot of your athletes or your
clients right if you're working in a
strength conditioning setting this might
be more applicable because you have more
control over the athletes timeline so
you can say alright we're going to come
in at 8:00 a.m. do this you have sport
practice at 1:00 p.m. and then at 6:00
p.m. you're going to come back and do
this other part of your training session
so you can be a little fresher there are
some obviously excuse me there are some
obvious pros and cons there right so the
pros are you can get a little bit more
out of those sessions if you break them
up a little bit the cons are it's wildly
impractical for most people so you might
not be able to get them in twice in the
same day it is an option we still want
to make sure that we're accounted for
weekly volume loads but it's a nice way
of trying to maintain the intensity and
especially the technique of those really
really long sessions by splitting them
up
all right next one we're gonna see a
example of that so here's just what a
session might look like and this is kind
of a pretty simple session we had some
push jerks some cleans from in thighs
some squats and bench press looks very
similar to the one we saw earlier right
so we could just grind through that
whole workout if we wanted to but
certainly by the time we got to the
maybe midway through the squats or maybe
as we get into the bench press we're
going to start feeling some of the
effect of what we have done so a decent
strategy might be to split up those
sessions into two smaller sessions right
we're maybe in the morning we can come
in and do the jerks and the cleans give
them some time in the day to rest get
some meals and then later in the evening
they might come in and just do the
squats in the bench process and just do
the strength work again a little bit
more impractical but a really really
nice way to maintain the technique and
the intensity in that ladder subsequent
session make sense all right let's go on
to the next one we can also think about
this in terms of like some what some
people would call concurrent training
style stuff where we're talking about
okay we have a resistance training
session and we have a sport practice
session maybe we have an endurance
training session again we can take the
same idea and not try and cram all that
volume into an arleigh for our workout
throughout the day it's probably a
better idea to move some of those things
around and split them up right so an
example might be having your athletes if
they're like a soccer or rugby athlete
something like that they might go in the
morning do any of their power agility
work that they have to do so if they're
doing sprints or change of direction or
cone drills or anything like that have
them do that in the morning when they're
nice and fresh usually they have sport
practice either in the kind of afternoon
or later in the day so we'll say sport
practice midday and then p.m. resistance
training now if you're looking at that
it should look pretty familiar right
that looks very similar to the exercise
order recommendations that we made for
the session before right in the morning
we had the stuff that's the most highly
sensitive to fatigue so we get that
power speed stuff done nice and early
they come in they do their sport
practice sport practice might not be
something that you have control over
generally it's not you just have to do
your best and we know that that's
strength training we'll hold on a little
while longer than some of the other
things right so we can come in and do
their strength training in the evening
after they've had some time to rest some
time to eat and hopefully we won't see
too many negative side effects now if
you're doing three sessions per day you
can imagine that there's going to be a
lot of fatigue
rated just in general from the total
amount of exercise so it's not correct
to say that doing this eliminates the
fatigue and they won't carry any fatigue
over into the resistance training
session that's not what we're saying
we're saying they're probably going to
be carrying less fatigue just from
breaking up this training session so
instead of having you know a four-hour
training session we had hopefully maybe
three times an hour and 20 minute
sessions instead right so the quality of
those lat ladder sessions will certainly
be higher in terms of intensity
hopefully volume and certainly technique
all right let's move on to the next one
and the last one for this one cooldowns
this is something that can be used there
are some distinct benefits of cooldowns
but of course I'm going to give you the
devil's advocate version maybe way some
of the costs as well so cooldown
activities are usually kind of
calisthenic type activities done at the
end of a session to kind of help the
athlete reduce soreness reduce stiffness
and just generally feel better about the
training session so usually what we
actually see there are some distinct
benefits of doing a cool-down typically
we see decreases in the amount of Dom's
that that session generates so people
don't get as sore from those sessions we
can actually see decreases in the joint
and muscle stiffness reported so they
usually don't feel quite as tight quite
a stiff looser and more relaxed and
usually there is a marked decrease
perception of fatigue so if you ask
somebody how tired are you how tired you
feel they will usually indicate a
decrease after doing a cool-down which
is cool and that might seem really
really beneficial however there are
other considerations that you need to
make right so decreasing Dom's and joint
soreness is not necessarily a good
strategy to adopt all the time there
might be a good strategy during a
competitive season right where you have
a fleet and they need to be competing on
a regular basis they can't be too sore
too stiff all the time that might be
good but when they're doing their
general preparatory style training that
actually might be a poor choice what are
some reasons for that well first off
right we're essentially doing exercise
that is not leading to any significant
amount of fitness and you've probably
already heard me refer to this as
garbage volume or garble volume right
so again cool-down activities it's still
exercise that you need to account for
now it's not the most overloading
exercise in the world right but if it's
not then it's not generating Fitness at
the same time that's the problem so
you're having them do things that are
not directly generating Fitness they are
probably certainly adding fatigue at the
same time and we also should consider
that there is a potential for doing
those cooldown activities to kind of
wash away some of them excuse me
metabolic accumulation and inflammation
that you have just generated from that
training session which is going to be
kind of the snowball that leads to the
avalanche of adaptation right so some
people look at this and they say okay
cooldowns are good right it makes me
less sore
it makes me less stiff it makes me feel
better and in some cases that actually
could be a good thing but in other cases
that might be a poor choice because that
soreness and that stiffness is a
cellular indicator that something good
has happened and I need to get bigger
faster stronger if you take that away
you might be robbing yourself just a
little bit over time of how much fitness
that you actually gain so again it's not
that it's right or wrong it's a tool in
your tool kit there are some benefits
but there are some costs as well the
cost is time that you could have just
been recovering and I would make a very
very strong argument and saying whenever
you have a session if it's not during a
competitive sports season
I would actually favor stronger
relaxation recovery modality it's like
instead of having them do a cool-down
have them sit on their butt put a meal
in their belly and have them do nothing
for a little while that's going to have
a massive massive positive influence
some people like to do cooldowns so
there's plenty of inter-individual
variability there you can use personal
preference if you like what I would
encourage you to do is think about a
little bit more critically and say what
are the pros what are the cons is there
maybe a better time or a less good time
to use cooldowns all right so hopefully
after a today's lecture you have a
pretty good idea of how to start
implementing all those things that
you've been planning for a very long
time in your annual plan now we're
actually putting them into the real
world and having a good training session
I will talk to you guys again soon
thanks for tuning in rp+ see you next
time
[Music]
you