hey folks dr mike israel here for
renaissance periodization today's topic
is advanced deloading strategies
ah
sounds very exciting well rather than a
deload part all right so here's the deal
basics of deloading we've done quite a
few videos about them hopefully scott
the video guy links these in the
description or maybe even does the
pop-up thing i have no idea how that
works
usually when we post or
make videos about deloads you guys have
a ton of awesome follow-up questions
some of them about how to modify
deloading for very specific situations
or asking like hey can i do this instead
of that
and here's a video to answer a bunch of
your questions and maybe even give you
some new ideas to think about that you
may not have come up with
so three tips for today on more advanced
deloading modification strategies tip
number one
is condensing your deload sessions so
let's say you train six times a week
monday through saturday once a day on
all of those days
on a de-load week typically the
classical d-load is like low volume but
heavy in the first three days and in the
last three days it's low volume and
super light and it's so so easy in those
last three days
the question is like you know if your
normal workouts like an hour and your
heavy deload is like 30 minutes your
light d-load might be like 15 minutes
each for each workout and the question
is like do you really need to drive to
the gym
to do 15 minutes of working out and
leave and the answer is maybe not so
what you can do instead
is do your normal deload workouts like
you would do them for the heavy ones
first part of the week so you do three
workouts instead of taking an hour each
one of them takes 30 minutes to 45.
awesome
drive to the gym and back every time for
the last three workouts during a deload
week which you can do
is instead of coming in on thursday and
friday and saturday you come in only on
friday
and you do all of your deload for
essentially your whole body all three of
those dealer workouts in just one
workout and that takes you drum roll
like 45 minutes which is super easy and
it's a super easy 45 minutes because the
weights are so light and it's just all
basically technique work
so what does this do
you essentially don't have to have the
stress of going to the gym three times
and the nuisance of coming to the gym
and driving through traffic and people
are yelling you turn on talk radio
there's insane people you turn on fm
radio there's stupid music and why you
show up and it's 15 minutes and you're
like really i drove all the way for this
stupid crap and then the girl that you
were like at the gym finally is there at
the same time you're like oh my god
she's going to notice me notice me
senpai or whatever
insult shit and she does and she's like
oh my god you're so weak
because you're lifting all your super
light weights and you're so pissed why
are you doing this to yourself so
instead of doing all that you can save
yourself a ton of driving a ton of
stress
and even even fuel costs and just show
up once
and
this is awesome because it gives you a
mental break
and not just a mental break from stress
but a mental break from being at the gym
do you guys get this thing where like if
you train super hard for a whole message
cycle like your last week of training
especially early in the deload process
after you're like i hate the gym fuck
this place stupid ass music and asshole
people everywhere and the machines are
never free and blah blah it could just
wear on you any place you see a lot
wears on you like back when i was um in
like high school and stuff i i had no
friends i loved school i was exceptional
at school it was the only thing i did
well i love doing it but like you can't
even get sick of school after a while
and the summer vacation is kind of neat
because you come back really refreshed
you can do the same thing with a gym so
what you do is instead of for the last
four days of that week of the deload
coming in three times out of the four
you just come in once and then like you
come in once and you barely work out 45
minutes of easy shit at the end of that
weekend not only is your fatigue reduced
physiologically but psychologically i'm
fucking ready to go to the gym it feels
like it's been ages and that's exactly
what we want so you can absolutely try
this one
tip number two
is just using bodyweight exercises
okay you can do exercises that you did
so you can deload with exercises that
you use this whole meso same ones that's
totally fine but the fundamental purpose
of a deload
is to make sure we're not losing any
muscle and we're increasing the rate at
which fatigue dissipates because it's
been shown that training easy actually
tends to drop fatigue faster than doing
nothing at all crazy i know that's why
d-loads work so
if we're checking both boxes of spares
muscle and is a little bit of activity
such that it brings down fatigue we're
already winning you can just do this
stuff at home with bodyweight exercises
like you can do some push-ups maybe if
you have some dumbbells a bit of
dumbbell work some some uh curl some
laterals bend over do some bent over
rows some body weight squats and lunges
and you're kind of golden like that's it
because remember that last deload
workout you know first half of the week
deloading
maybe you should take it a bit more
seriously a bit heavier
again not a must you can do body weight
this entire week but especially in the
last half of a deload week when it's
really easy
like you're driving to the gym to do an
amount of physical
resistance that you could generate with
your own body at home and two dumbbells
or maybe not even two dumbbells
and this if employed and i've done the
first one a bunch i've done this one a
bunch
the great thing about this not going to
the gym thing is for sure it does this
whole like gym detox mental thing but
also it means you can avoid the gym
altogether and thus go like live your
life and go on vacation during your
deload week which is really going to
drop fatigue and it's also really fun uh
and it is really cool it makes you not
this person that's totally inflexible
because you know it's like people like
hey you want to go to like on a cruise
with us and it's all your friends you're
like no man fucking deload bro like you
can deal it on a cruise as a matter of
fact that's even better so wouldn't in
all cases worry a ton about the specific
exercises you can do some easy
bodyweight moves get a little bit of a
pump going feel your swag a bit and
that's it
that reduces a ton of fatigue especially
if you do the regular cruise things like
eat
sleep
possibly have
physical relations with your sex of
interest um
again i don't have any friends so i
don't know what else people do on
cruises people drink a lot on cruises
that's apparently really fun
but not very fatigue reducing
tip number three
experimenting with new exercises okay so
traditionally the deload is you use the
same movements you've done for the last
four to six weeks and you deload with
them however you can add a little twist
you can deload with the new exercises
that you might want to use in this next
mesocycle ahead
this approach deloading with these new
exercises now of course same loading
paradigm and volume paradigm heavy ish
or like working weight-ish but very few
reps and sets and then the second half
of the week even super light and very
few reps and sets if you use the
exercises you might want to use in the
next mezzo it gives you a couple of
really awesome advantages first you can
play with setups like hand position foot
position different techniques different
loads without needing to hit certain
rars or reps etc because remember if you
start all of your new exercises in week
one
in week one
you essentially have two things to do
one is play around with these new
exercises you theoretically picked that
were going to be good
and try to adjust to them but also you
have to check the box of like i also
need a good workout there's only so much
playing you can do to where the session
becomes either wildly and efficient or
you're like fuck this leg press just
doesn't work i have to switch this other
leg press which means i have to warm up
on it again which means i have to find
my footing again this workout is dog
shit right it's not often that that
happens but it can happen
if you try the two leg presses during
your deload there's no pressure at all
and you can be like oh man this actually
feels really groovy this is awesome i'm
ready to go and then the next week in
week one you already have all your
setups and everything like that
uh and sort of that's to point to if a
machine or setup you're trying sucks
you didn't just like waste a workout
having a shitty work on a sheeny machine
you'll have to potentially waste another
workout trying another machine which
could also feel you can just try a bunch
of machines and see what works and be
like ah this setup works really well i'm
gonna use it
when you do find a machine or a movement
that you like you can use the multiple
sets in a d-load week or a g-load
session to really fine-tune the
technique and be ready to get great
stimulus to fatigue ratios in your first
week of actual accumulation ahead you
know like you thought you were gonna
this like you know bench press machine
has like the dildo handles that go like
this right you thought you were going to
be here you do one work set a warm up in
a work set during your first week of
training and you're like ah fuck let me
see if this works better because it kind
of feels weird on my shoulders you do
this and you're like ah that's good but
like i did like a bunch of junk volume
warming up and kind of hurt my shoulders
my first set sucked it's not the end of
the world it's totally fine but it's
like blah however if you do that all on
z load you can be like
that sucks and oh that feels really good
by the time you do your first workout on
your first mezzo coming up oh my god
like you're locked in you know exactly
what you want and
you can do this to test out a bunch of
stuff different range of motion uh a
different position settings on machines
like do along the chair lower or higher
that's all shit like when you're doing
and also trying to stimulate at the same
time it's like like
you could do like let's say you have two
sets of pressing plans before moving on
to another you know type of press or fly
you could do like one set of pressing
this is an actual first week without
having to try this exercise one set of
pressing could be like the shit was too
low like the bench was too low the other
one is too high and you're like god damn
it and you want to do the third one to
see where you really get it because then
you could write down oh number six notch
next week i'll do that and it's gonna
work fine but you're actually out of
pressing sets whereas if you do this in
the d load week it doesn't fucking
matter because use light weight and just
try three or four different sets for
just one or two or three different reps
and you're like oh okay number six
beautiful then the first week you put
the machine to the number setting
perfect little seat and you're like oh
my fucking god we're jamming from day
one right you don't have to worry about
in the deal with week pressure for your
next set to be ultra stimulative and
super in line you can literally play
around and find out what works best
lastly
you can try exercises and machines you
would have never ever tried
and then if they feel good you can put
them in the next mezzo because remember
like the way we think about metacycle
design is it's always opportunity cost
right you pick your top stimulus to
fatigue ratio movements and you mostly
just do those and there might be a
machine or setup
that you're looking at people using and
you're like that guy's using that wrong
for sure
but i think i could use it better but
like i have other ways of training my
back or shoulders or whatever they're
doing on that machine
that like are like guaranteed killers
and i'm not going to trade one of those
away but if you try that shit the new
wacky stuff in a d-load week you may
learn one of really two things one
that guy actually pretty smart is the
best way to use the machine and it still
sucks fuck that i'm never using that
again
or oh shit like this is a thing i just
sort of not invented but discovered an
awesome high stimulus fatigue ratio
exercise and boom i'm going to use it my
next measure that would be amazing a
quick analogy for that is kind of like
um
you're going to a restaurant and maybe
it's a restaurant that you like visit
when you're traveling to some place and
you have like one or two meal items you
love at that restaurant and because you
have to travel someplace like let's say
it's like a couple states away you go
stay with your aunt and uncle for a week
every year when you go to that
restaurant you're like i know the
fucking mac and cheese with whatever
combo is my fucking jam
there's all these other menu items that
look kind of interesting and good but
like we only go to this restaurant
literally like once or twice a year i'm
not gonna fuck up
my amazing restaurant trip then i
fucking can't wait for this mac and
cheese all year long and i'm not gonna
like go on a limb and do some other shit
right this kind of allows you to taste
the other shit
for free and be like oh oh shit i want
more of that fuck this mac and cheese
that can wait for another year kind of
the same idea right but when we have
these like
definite go-to good things a lot of
times it's difficult for us to branch
out and try some other shit right
so
all the stuff taken together all these
cool little
sort of tips and tricks do you have to
do any things no
can you just rock a conventional deload
absolutely
are these things
a bit sub-optimal versus regular
deloading no and in fact in context they
could be more optimal
so
i would say give them a shot if they
make sense to you and if you have use
for them
and if you have use formulas basically
like if you hear what i just said you're
like wow that sounds like it could fit
me really well and i want to do it it's
almost certainly going to work super
super well nothing about deloads real
quick and this isn't actually in my
slide don't be anal about the shit just
do a lot less than you usually do get
some movement going and that's like 90
of the dealer effect anyway people are
like oh well i'm trying to deal with
trade fucking that's me actually oh
should i go out of here or should i go
there like fuck it doesn't fucking
matter yeah i literally mean it doesn't
matter not just as a joke uh it barely
matters at all so now you have this new
fancy d load paintbrush folks i want you
to do one big favor go out and just
paint the world your favorite color
peace
you