welcome to the house of hypertrophy how
can we effectively train the biceps I've
previously hypothesized incline codes
may be one of the best biceps exercises
why incline codes place the shoulder
into extension and due to the biceps
attachments this stretches the biceps I
viewed this as a significant Point since
emerging research suggests exercises
attaining a stretch of a muscle tend to
build muscle faster however when I made
this hypothesis there had not been a
single study comparing incline curls to
other biceps exercises this has now
changed a recent study has put incline
curls up against preacher curls for
building the biceps in this video we're
going to be dissecting this study and
along the way we'll also detail other
biceps training literature to provide
some general recommendations let's Dive
In
the researchers recruited 31 women with
some training experience and assigned
them to either an incline or preacher
co-group the incline group performed the
exercise from zero degrees to no higher
than 110 degrees the preacher group
performed their exercise from around 0
degrees to around 90 degrees of elbow
flexion some of you may be thinking wait
a second range of motion wasn't equated
between both groups isn't this a red
flag
I believe it would have been ideal for
the researchers to equate range of
motion but I don't think this was a
major limitation of the study why as we
will see a little later on in this video
emerging research potentially suggests
larger ranges of motions may not be
necessary for optimizing muscle
hypertrophy
nevertheless both groups train their
exercise for 4 sets of 6 to 18
repetitions to failure three times a
week before and after the study elbow
flexor thickness was measured at 50 60
and 70 percent of approximately the
upper arm length the reason I say elbow
flexor is because the measurements at
these regions would have included both
the biceps and brachiolis
it was ultimately found growth across
the three regions tended to be better
for the preacher Co group so does this
study prove incline curls are
sub-optimal it unquestionably puts a
wrench into my original hypothesis
incline codes were one of the better
biceps Builders and this study raises
the possibility I was wrong but this new
study does have caveats to it the
differences between the preacher and
incline groups didn't actually reach
statistical significance in any region
now statistical significance is often
misinterpreted and a lack of statistical
significance doesn't prove there's no
real difference between groups but this
still raises a potential alternative
explanation for the results 31 trained
women were involved in the study and
maybe it's possible through chance the
subjects in the preacher Co group had
better average muscle building genetics
thereby explaining why this group saw
better average growth
another consideration is I noted
subjects perform their reps to failure
but a clear definition of failure wasn't
provided so it's not truly clear for all
subjects literally took their reps to
True failure or if they just stopped
their reps when they felt like it also
no researchers actually supervised the
training sessions finally recall I noted
muscle thickness measurements included
both the biceps and brachialis due to
this we strictly don't know if the
greater average growth for the pre-traco
group comes from the biceps brachialis
or both by no means does this mean this
study is worthless and that limited
study should be binned science is a
process as time goes by and we
accumulate more research as well as
higher quality research we get closer to
what the truth might genuinely be as
I've hopefully demonstrated in previous
videos and as I aim to continuously
depict in future videos there are
already areas of the hypertrophy and
strengths training research that are
strong enough to where we can draw
training recommendations pretty
confidently and some of of these areas
even provide insight into individual
differences I do have good news another
research group seems to be working on a
study comparing dumbbell preacher to
Incline curves until this study is
released I think it might be most
sensible to reserve confidence
statements on whether preacher codes are
superior to Incline codes my main
purpose with this video was to update
you all and ensure you're mindful of
this new data and the possibility I was
wrong nevertheless let us describe some
other noteworthy studies surrounding
biceps training and then we'll provide
some general training recommendations
[Music]
this study by Pinto compared partial
range of motion preacher codes in the
middle position to full range motion
preacher curse and found elbow flexor
growth at around the 60 region tended to
be greater for the full range of motion
group two Studies by Sato and Pedrosa
compared partial range of motion
preacher codes in the initial position
to the final position
the Sato study found that initial
position tended to produce greater
growth across 50 60 and 70 elbowflex
regions while the Pedrosa study found
similar thickness gains at a 50 region
between both but greater thickness gains
for the initial position at the 70
region combining these three studies it
seems the initial part of a preacher
curl is particularly important for
biceps growth in fact if preacher curls
are superior to Incline cove's four
biceps hypertrophy could this be related
what I mean is although preacher curls
are performed with the shoulders flicks
which somewhat shortens the biceps it is
most challenging at the initial position
in the exercise where the biceps are at
a more stretched length conversely
although income curls are performed with
the shoulders extended which better
stretches the biceps they are most
challenging when the biceps are
progressively getting shortened
therefore if preacher coasts truly do
build the biceps better perhaps this
means that placing a muscle into a
position of stretch isn't all that's
important rather ensuring the exercise
is challenging at their length and
position might be a more critical Factor
once again remember this is a hypothesis
future research will provide insight
into whether preacher coach genuinely
build the biceps better than incline
girls moreover a study by Nunes might
actually oppose this hypothesis these
researchers compared barbell to Cable
preacher course barbell preacher curls
are more challenging when the biceps are
at a longer length while cable preacher
curves are more challenging when the
biceps are at a shorter length it was
found to Elbow flexor growth was similar
between both this study connected to why
I thought incline codes could still be
great for the biceps since if it did not
matter whether the biceps are maximally
challenged that are longer or shorter
length the stretch attained with incline
curls may be powerful enough but a
caveat with this newness study is elbow
flexor growth was just measured at one
region whereas we know this new study
and other research looked at growth
across multiple Alpha flexor regions
nevertheless let's transition to General
biceps training recommendations
[Music]
experimental you could certainly try out
preacher curls if you've not tried them
already as time goes by I'm sure we'll
just accumulate further research
comparing other biceps movements
but for now if you want to keep things
simple just select whatever biceps
curling exercise you like be it a
standard curl face away cable curl or
even incline curl considering the bigger
picture the biceps are highly involved
in elbow flexion and supination we know
the brachialis and brachioradialis are
also highly involved in helper flexion
but this study using fine wire
electrodes demonstrates how the biceps
display the highest activity when elbow
flexion is performed with supination
whereas when elbow flexion is performed
with pronation the brachialis and
brachioradialis display higher activity
other fine wire electrode analyzes
support these findings accordingly any
exercise involving elbow flexion with
supination will do well to provide a
biceps growth stimulus although we know
this new present study finds preacher
curls evoked more growth across three
regions versus incline curls it's not
like the incline group lost bicep size
they still grew
with regards to face away cable curves
one could speculate this is the single
best biceps exercise not only does this
movement place the shoulder into
extension like incline curls thereby
effectively stretching the biceps bitter
also provides more consistent tension
throughout the range of motion thereby
loading the biceps at a more lengthened
position as is done with preacher course
I'm hoping future research explores this
it's imperative to mention you can
certainly train the biceps with multiple
exercises in an overall program a study
by Costa demonstrates this one group
purely trained their biceps directly
with barbell curls across Monday
Wednesday and Friday while another group
performed the barbell curls on Monday
preacher curls on Wednesday and incline
curls on Friday ultimately growth across
three regions of the elbow flexors
tended to be better for the group
varying their exercises now let pull
then variations were also trained by
both groups but I'm unsure if this
really confounded the results
if you're curious about further ideas
for creating an effective muscle
building program our high quality
partner Alpha progression can help it
contains an extremely flexible custom
workout generator that can tailor a
program to your needs you determine how
often and how long you want to train for
and whether you want to focus on certain
muscles you can also specify what
equipment is available to you there are
well over a quadrillion input
combinations on which custom workouts
are generated a great thing is the
training philosophy in the app is based
on meta-analyzes and literature reviews
there are also aesthetic graphs that can
track virtually everything like your
strength progression number of workouts
body weight and even set numbers per
week and the circumference of body
regions the link in the comments and
description gives you a free two-week
trial of all the app's features and if
you like the app and go beyond the link
gives you 20 off a subscription rest
assured the app is of the highest
standard we don't just partner with
anyone at the house of hypertrophy
let us enter the land of speculation for
a moment as alluded to earlier there is
research suggesting longer ranges of
motions may not be necessary for
optimizing hypertrophy this study
involved putting partial leg extensions
at the initial position up against full
range of motion leg extensions and found
the partials at the initial position
produced overall better rectus femoris
and vastus lateralis hypertrophy another
study involves putting partial reps at
the Shrek's position on a calf exercise
up against using a full range of motion
and found the partial and the stretched
position tended to produce greater
medial and lateral gastrocnemius
hypertrophy
yet another study used a multi-hit
machine and indicates a partial range of
motion at the stretched position
produces greater overall growth compared
to using a full range of motion now this
specific study has only been presented
in an abstract at a conference but it
will presumably be published soon in any
case could this information extend to
other exercises such as coals recall if
preacher curves are superior to incline
curls a potential reason for this is
that preacher codes more effectively
challenge the biceps at a longer length
but performing partial incline curves as
the initial Position will effectively
and ultimately challenge the biceps at a
longer length the same logic holds for
standard curls full range of motion
standard curves are most challenging
when the elbows are flexed to 90 degrees
but performing partial standard Curves
in the initial position more effectively
challenges the biceps at that longer
length if you're feeling experimental
You may wish to try out implementing
partials at longer lengths you could
even experiment with integrated partials
with each rep ultimate dating between a
full range of motion repetition and a
partial long length repetition a final
option is with exercises that are most
challenging at the middle to shorten
muscle position like incline and
standard curls you could perform reps
two or very close to failure with a full
range of motion and then immediately
transition to performing partial reps at
that longer length
here are the summary bullet points some
of you may be wondering what about
preferentially targeting either the long
or short heads of the biceps As We
examined in our Ultimate Guide to biceps
hypertrophy there currently isn't any
strong evidence to suggest we can
meaningfully bias the growth of either
of the biceps heads so it's just not
clear feel free to consider checking out
our guide to side delts hypertrophy