what's going on everyone so I hope that
you enjoyed the intro clip to this video
I just wanted to throw some clips
together over some music as an intro to
this video so I'm going to take you guys
through the whole workout I've got a lot
to talk about so I'm going to let the
clips just roll for the most part so
this is actually combining to work out
so one where I'm wearing a black tank
and the other I'm wearing like a light
grey tank so two separate workouts both
of them I kicked it off with bench press
so this is actually a warm-up set with
295 and then the first day I went in and
did three sets of three with 315 you can
see the bar is moving kind of slow and
then the next day I actually didn't have
a training partner so I had no one to
lift off for me or spot me so I was just
a little bit more conservative working
up to about an hour pe-8 here on my own
I'm still getting used to doing my own
lifts off still feels awkward and I
still feel like I'm expending just a
little bit too much energy doing that
but I did go with 295 for 3x3 and as you
can see moving really really well
this work it was also really late at
night I think I was training around 10
p.m. so I wasn't feeling fantastic going
into it I didn't have pre-workout or
anything because it would have kept me
up all night but I did manage to to bust
out a pretty easy three sets of three
here so yeah kind of random to kick off
a arm workout with bench but I do like
to get the the main big movement out of
the way first before I start moving on
to the so called accessory stuff I so
usually kick off my biceps with either
the preacher curl with an EZ bar or
machine preacher curl the goal here is
just to kind of get the blood flowing
it'll allow the muscles and the joints
to get warmed up and just to kind of
activate my biceps historically when
doing barbell curls I've always
struggled with having my biceps fire I
tend to
he's the weight up a little bit too much
and I could control for that but I've
actually found that activating them with
a little bit of a warm-up work so I'll
do four to five sets on the preacher
curl just to get them activating
actually has been pretty helpful to me
and I don't view this as like a pre
fatigue thing the literature is pretty
clear on the fact that when you pre
fatigue a muscle going into a compound
movement it just tends to contribute
less and a lot of the smaller more
stabilizing muscles tend to take over so
that's not an effective technique but
for me I have found that it allows me to
get a little bit of a pump and activate
my biceps leading into the main movement
which for me is easy but curls so for
these I do three sets of four to six
reps and I actually haven't increased
the weight on these for the last four
micro cycles so you'll see this is a
week later here and I'm using the same
weight but what I have done is focused
on controlling the movement a little bit
better so if you looked at the first
week I'd be using quite a bit more
momentum than this it's still not
fantastic but for me it's pretty good
and also focusing more on controlling
the eccentric I'll probably drop the
last one here just due to fatigue but
that's something that I've used to
progressively overload so I'm not
overloading it with weight but
overloading it in terms of how well I
control that tempo and control the
eccentric so I go with an EZ bar here
mostly just out of comfort I find like
the the straight bar tends to put a
little bit of unnecessary strain on my
wrists and as a result of this of course
you've got the wrist in a not fully
supinated position so this does bring in
a little bit more of the brachial
brachioradialis of the forearm and also
the brachialis muscle so I make sure
that to sort of offset that in
my subsequent curling exercises I really
try to make an effort to ensure that I'm
supinating through it the range of
motion and yeah I think I really need to
do a bit of a better job keep in mind
this is the third set but I'm letting my
elbows get quite a bit too far out in
front of me there there's a lot a lot
too much shoulder flexion going on there
and I think this is one of the values of
getting this angle for your curls is
that you can see just how much cheating
you are doing and even though I do
justify a bit of cheating by controlling
the eccentric and I do think that
there's value in having cheat reps at
the end of the sets moving forward I'm
going to definitely try to keep my
elbows back a little bit further on
those so after the EZ bar curls we moved
on to incline dumbbell curls so
typically I'll do these both arms at the
same time so I'm not alternating side to
side but every now and then I will
switch it up I feel like I can get in a
little bit better of a groove if I
switch from side to side but the
disadvantages of switching from side to
side is that it will it takes twice as
long and then also I think from a
metabolic stress standpoint you are
allowing tension to completely dissipate
for about two seconds on each side
between each rep and I'm not sure that
that's the most optimal way to go about
stimulating the muscle throughout the
course of a set but I think alternating
between the two approaches is fine so
one of the things that you want to keep
in mind here is really keeping your
elbow back and keeping your shoulder
extended now towards the end of the set
I think the shoulder is naturally going
to come up a bit as you can see me doing
it there but the idea here is to put the
long head of the bicep so the outside
head of the bicep into a more stretched
stretched position so that it can more
forcefully contribute to elbow flexion
and that is just one of the sort of long
head focused exercises that I like to do
and this is another one of them so this
is the Bayesian cable curl so you can
see you keep the shoulder back and
essentially curl the weight up on
so I can't really curl it anymore I
guess and one of the things that I like
about this is that you do get a full
stretch on the bicep at the bottom and
also you have a more constant tension
curve throughout the range of motion so
if you're doing just say a standing
barbell curl when your elbows are flexed
at 90 degrees you have peak tension
whereas with the cables it's more
constant throughout so with the barbell
you know at the bottom of the range of
motion and at the top of the range of
motion there's virtually no tension on
the biceps whatsoever whereas with the
cables you have tension on the biceps
throughout the whole range of motion so
this is a great exercise I don't like to
go too heavy on those so I did three
sets of twelve to fifteen just because I
find it gets awkward and I tend to
really cheat too much on those when I
when I go heavy and that sort of defeats
the purpose and so I like to keep those
relatively light and use them as a
finisher and keep the reps somewhere
between usually 10 and 20 reps so after
that it was on to triceps so I started
this with of course the bench at the
beginning but then tricep press downs
after that so this is my main sort of
heavy movement or heavy isolation
movement anyway tricep press downs with
a straight bar and I did six to eight
reps with the full stack there trying to
keep the elbows in place and one of the
things to note between this which is the
skull crusher and the press down is the
shoulder position again so here you have
more of a flexed flexed shoulder
position and because the tricep or
specifically the long head or the sort
of inside head of the tricep assists and
shoulder extension when you put it into
flexion it's going to be more stretched
and as a result more able to forcefully
contribute to elbow extension as the
long story short is that when your arms
are up overhead like in the rope
extension or in the skull crusher the
long head so not the outside part that
you kind of see in the side tricep but
the part that you would see and say like
a front double bicep from
front is going to be contributing more
than say in a tricep or a pushdown or a
pressed down for example or a dip or
something where the shoulders are not
flexed so yeah then we finished it off
with some ABS and I'll be doing some
form of crunch twice per micro cycle or
around three times a week and then I'm
going to give you guys a quick physique
update 166 pounds and that's going to
conclude this video thank you so much
for watching guys I'll see you in the
next one