all right what is going on guys so as
you can probably tell I'm not in my
usual studio setup here Steph and I
actually just finished moving into her
new place here in Florida so everything
is still a bit of a mess as of now that
what I did want to come on here and talk
about some recent events in the online
fitness community and I want to talk
about some critiques that have been
leveled against my training
recommendations and I want to go through
the so called volume intensity debate
that's been going on here on YouTube now
Before we jump into that I do want to
give a quick shout out to Squarespace
for sponsoring this video
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that I used to run Jeff nipper
calm and I'll have a little bit more
about that at the end um so since I
posted my original video responding to
Jeff Cavaliere I've gotten a decent
amount of pushback on my training
recommendations that I laid out there
and so I want to go through the top
three arguments that I've heard against
my recommendations here in this video
one by one now one thing that I've been
hearing quite a bit is that my personal
training style is an intense enough for
I'm personally not training hard enough
and maybe that's something that I need
to hear I think we all need that slap on
the back occasionally in that reminder
that hey maybe you're not training as
hard as you used to and if that's the
case then I can only thank you guys for
that I want to do a complete honest
audit of my own training and if it
happens to be the case that I'm not
being fully honest with my own intensity
in the gym then it's only gonna stand to
benefit me by cranking that intensity up
I'm not a fan of using excuses in the
gym and there are so many that you can
always grab at and I know that pushing
yourself hard in the gym is super
important for continued progress so it's
not something that I want to skip out on
and to be honest one thing that I've
been using as an excuse more lately than
I should be is when I'm filming myself
in the gym I can get so hyper focused on
creating the best content that my
training intensity can suffer as a
result and that's just an excuse that I
don't want to use anymore I don't think
that's good enough and I think that if I
need to split out my real training
sessions in my film sessions where I'm
doing demonstrations or what have you
then that's something that I can do but
I'm actually going to put that aside for
this video and instead just focus on
actual training recommendations rather
than my training itself because that's
what's going to be most broadly
applicable I'm also going to put some
clips up here from my latest full-body
workout up here on the screen that's
gonna be my next series of videos my new
high-frequency protocol along with my
new program that's gonna be coming out
in January and also gonna have some
timestamps linked down below if you guys
want to hop around according to topic so
to just briefly summarize my view on
this I'm basically of the opinion that
training to failure has a larger
negative impact on recovery than it does
a positive impact on muscle growth so in
other words the difference between going
all the way to failure and leave in a
couple reps in the tank is really small
when it comes to muscle growth whether
good or bad so some studies show that
it's a little bit better to go to
failure some studies show it's a little
bit worse to go to failure and actually
just last week there was a new study
published that had subjects do leg
extensions to failure on one leg and leg
extensions to an RPE of about 8 on the
other leg so they were leaving up to two
reps in the tank and what they found was
that muscle growth was more or less the
same between the two legs but there were
trends toward better muscle growth in
the non failure leg now also say that
I'm a bit skeptical at the idea that
failure is categorically more fatiguing
I personally think it really depends on
the exercise so for example if you were
to take a set of deadlifts to failure
let's say you're going to do 8 to 10
reps on deadlifts all the way to failure
that's going to be extremely fatigue in
comparison to doing a set of lateral
raises or doing a set of bicep curls to
failure which for me personally I don't
find all that fatiguing like I feel like
I'm good to go again within a minute or
two and it doesn't really seem to impact
my training the next day if I go to
failure on those lighter isolation
exercises so I think to say failure is
categorically more fatiguing is a bit of
an oversimplification but for all that I
think the general point that it's more
fatiguing than it is beneficial does
hold and so it should be used sparingly
and I tend to put it in the same
category as I would like cluster sets
drop sets and those kind of advanced
intensity techniques and that it can be
used as part of a complete program but
it isn't a really central piece of the
puzzle ok so up first is this idea that
we all need to stop it with all the
science we need to put the books down
and we need to just go in the gym and
training harder and I can actually
totally see where this is coming from I
myself even find myself getting
frustrated sometimes with an
over-reliance on scientific literature
now that I see from some trainees and
that's coming from someone who
absolutely loves science I think it's
super useful when applied properly to
train so I can totally see how someone
who comes from that hardcore shutup and
training mentality would find this
science-based bodybuilding movement kind
of annoying or kind of misplaced or
whatever but I think that the problem
isn't from having too much knowledge or
having too much science I think it comes
from miss applying or miss understanding
that science there's also this idea that
if the science is just over complicating
things and I don't think that that
should be the case at all I think that
science when used properly should
actually simplify your approach because
it allows you to figure out what is it
isn't likely to be working in the most
controlled way possible so you can
actually focus your attention to the
things that are working for you and kind
of ignore the things that aren't so I
think that the problem arises when
people have all of this random
information that they're trying to make
sense of but they don't have a complete
general training construct put into
place that they can plug that
information into this is why a year or
two ago I set up my training
fundamentals ladder then some of you
guys will remember I actually ranked
effort on the very second rung
just above sustainability meaning once
you've got a routine that you can
actually stick to safely over the long
term the next most important thing is
actually applying yourself appropriately
in the gym no matter how much you
optimize all the other variables if
you're not working hard in the gym it
doesn't really matter so I think that
it's a super important thing which is
why I find it interesting that I feel
like I've kind of been pigeonholed into
holding this position that I don't hold
that you should just train with low
effort and just kind of go through the
motions or just go in the gym and get a
pump or whatever which is actually not
what I think at all actually think
trained training hard is super important
but I also think that just like with all
the other variables there is an
appropriate amount of effort that you
should be applying and that appropriate
amount of effort isn't just cranked all
the way to the max and so I like to
think of it
like this you can think of yourself as
your own scientist you're trying to cook
up the perfect batch of maximum muscle
growth and you've got all these
ingredients so you've got volume you've
got certain exercises you've got a batch
of rest period so you'll want to add the
appropriate amount of rest between sets
and then you've also got a bucket of
effort some people think you should just
add the whole bucket just start pouring
and then just keep pouring until it's
gone and then go get another bucket once
it's gone but I think you wouldn't do
that with any of the other variables
like you wouldn't take frequency and say
okay if you're training twice a week and
you train more trained four times a week
you train more training seven days a
week twenty days a week and just keep
adding more and more frequency you
wouldn't do that with volume either
maybe some people would you shouldn't do
this with volume either and I also think
you shouldn't do that with ever effort
and luckily for us there is now a
reliable way to actually quantify your
effort in the gym it's called RPE
a way of ranking how hard your set
should be on a scale of one to ten and
on the topic of RPE the second argument
I want to cover is that okay are PE and
all this moderating effort stuff is fine
for beginners but as you get more
advanced it's not going to work you've
simply got to push yourself harder if
you want to get to that next level and I
just really don't think this one is true
at all
in fact I would say exactly the opposite
is true I think that this mostly just
comes from a misunderstanding of RPE and
who it's meant to apply to
I'm sorry pe was originally developed in
the way we use it today by Mike Teixeira
who developed it for very high-level
elite power lifters competing on the
world stage including himself and it's
exploded in that community to the point
that today as far as I can tell pretty
much all the top powerlifting coaches
use it on some level or another and you
have super high level athletes like
Russell or he and Bryce Lewis relying on
it heavily in their training and even
though these guys are super jacked I
think we also want to look at what elite
level natural pro bodybuilders are doing
because if it were the case that RPE was
just for beginners and training to
failure was really what it was all about
at the high level then you'd expect to
see these elite level guys training to
failure all the time so what I did was I
went to the results of the WM bf World
Championships online and I did a survey
of the
place finishers that's why just
messaging them on Instagram to see how
it was they actually trained leading in
two worlds and I'm using a drug test and
Federation here just because I think
that once you add anabolic steroids to
the mix it does weaken the anecdote a
little bit that isn't to say people who
take steroids can't get this completely
right they definitely can it's just that
if you're gonna turn to successful
examples especially if you're not
planning on using anabolics your self I
think the guys we've done it naturally
holds a little bit more weight because
it can be difficult to discern what
effect came from the actual training
protocol and what came from the
supplement protocol when you introduce a
massive variable like steroids and we
know from research that steroids
actually build muscle better than
training itself to us in other words you
can build more muscle by taking steroids
than you can by training naturally so if
we want to look at the best examples of
people who can build muscle the best I
think we want to look at the top natural
pros now I'm going to show you these
natural guys and a lot of you guys are
gonna say oh but Jeff they're not
actually natural and that's totally fine
if you want to think that but it's
actually totally besides the point all
I'm trying to show here is that if
training to failure was everything then
you'd expect to see the guys at the very
top always training to failure but that
actually isn't what you see the overall
winner Kendall Richmond said he never
trains to failure but does include other
intensity techniques like drop sets
where he basically just runs down the
rack but doesn't actually reach failure
the middleweight winner Stephen Chang
who has an insane physique by the way I
had to get it translated from Mandarin
by my friend Marvin but pretty much he
said that it's situation dependent but
he doesn't train to failure
the lightweight winner Adria Abbie ole I
think I'm saying that right he had a
really interesting reply it looks like
he uses an advanced periodization where
he splits his annual training plan into
distinct phases so in the first two
phases he uses more moderate effort with
a focus on technique and then through
phase three and four he adds in much
more intensity techniques including
training to failure and then the
bantamweight winner
Brett Freeman said he uses a progression
scheme building from a four to zero reps
in reserve so let's say like a six to a
ten RPE across the course of a missile
cycle but around two months out he
starts taking more sets to failure
including a top set in the back offset I
think I might do a separate video
detailing
how it is these top guys train if that's
something you guys would like to see but
for now I think this does a good enough
job of just totally debunking the idea
that Auto regulating effort is only for
beginners and if you want to make it to
the top then you've just got to work
harder I'm not saying these guys don't
work hard they all work super hard it's
just that their approach is much more
nuanced than just always train harder
and harder and hard alright so the third
argument that I keep hearing is that
people are just inherently bad at
estimating how many reps they actually
have left in the tank and RPE is just
too subjective so you might think that
you're at an RP of eight whereas in
reality you've got like seven eight or
nine reps left in the tank then you
wouldn't know that unless you just
actually pushed it to failure and I
think that there actually is some truth
to this about a year ago I did a video
called you're not training hard enough
which summarized a study that had
subjects pick a weight that they would
normally do for 10 reps on the bench
press and then had them actually take
that weight to failure and what they
found when they counted how many reps
they actually got was that over 40% of
the subjects that got 6 to 10 reps more
than what they normally do and 26% of
subjects that got 19 or 20 reps with
their typical 10 rep weight meaning
those subjects were leaving 9 plus reps
in the tank which is an nearly enough
intensity to drive muscle growth past
the newbie phase however while this
should be a wake-up call for some people
who just aren't being honest with their
efforts in the gym I actually don't
think it discredits RPE at all basically
all it tells us is that when people are
left to their own devices they tend to
train somewhat lazily in the gym and
that isn't really a surprise we also
have other research showing us that
experienced lifters are in fact very
good at predicting how many reps they
have in the tank especially when the
reps are more moderate to low in other
words if you've trained to failure
enough to know what true failure feels
like it actually isn't that hard to
estimate when you've got one rep left in
the tank or two reps left in the tank
this is especially the case if you've
honed in on this skill over time as I
think you should so bringing this full
circle is just train harder good lifting
advice I would say in some situations
yeah it is I think a lot of people can
stand to benefit from pushing themselves
harder in the gym and sometimes that
slap on the back is exactly what they
need in a lot of situations I would say
it's the exact opposite of what people
need to hear especially for people who
are already pushing themselves
appropriately in the gym and they'd be
much better off manage
their effort more closely in fine-tuning
some of the other training variables
overall I'd say we can do a lot better
than this
and if you guys want to check out a full
construct of how to plug all of this
stuff in I'd recommend checking out my
fundamental series where I set up my
fundamentals training ladder it makes a
lot more sense of all this stuff and
before we go I do want to give a huge
thank you to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video like I said at the beginning
Squarespace is the website platform that
have been using to run Jeff nipper comm
for the last four or five years now and
it's where I sell on my training
programs and my new nutrition guide so
if you guys are looking to set up your
own website or your own online store I
strongly recommend checking out
Squarespace
they have beautiful designer custom
templates in 24-hour customer support
that can help you out anytime you run
into any issues um so you guys are
looking to get started you can go to
Squarespace comm for a free trial and
then when you're ready to launch go to
Squarespace com forward slash Nippert
and that'll save you 10% off your first
purchase alright guys thank you so much
for watching don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the new
year oh yeah