I'm at one of the best bodybuilding gyms
in the world where Mass monsters come
from all across the globe to train and
in this video I'm going to see if they'd
be willing to take science-based advice
from me a science-based lifter who's
much smaller than them let's find out a
lot of people think like oh if if you
want the best advice you ask the biggest
guy in the gym so I'm trying to see if
people who are bigger than me would be
open to hearing science-based lifting
advice oh I I would for sure if you're
smart you going to ask the big guy you
got to ask the science guy who's also in
shape obviously then you just try out
and see what works for yourself hey bro
you're obviously way bigger than me but
I'm still wondering would you be open to
taking science-based lifting advice from
me absolutely man I'm always willing to
learn you might not agree with someone's
entire training approach there's always
little things that you can take that you
can apply to your own training but see
your leral raise technique man all right
okay good so I'm going to I'm going to
pick I'm going to you say you open to
hearing advice of course okay here's one
thing I would recommend raising this up
okay and the reason for that if you put
it at hand height and hold it here
you'll feel the most tension while
you're dealt is most stretched because
you're going to get the most tension
when the cable and your arm form a 90°
angle Mak sense so if you go from the
bottom stand up where does that 90°
angle happen about there so you're
getting Peak tension the delt is most
shortened whereas if we raise this up
now you have Peak tension right here so
you are getting the delt nice and
stretched you could probably step out
even a little more and get a little more
stretch here I'm all on the stretch wave
these days I'm not saying it's the most
important thing but I think it matters
that tension when the muscle's in the
stretch position that's what's going to
tear up the muscle fibers like I
emphasize that on all my lifts I mean
I'm pretty big it's working for me it's
working for you exactly that's it bro
this is good I'm going to try this today
my shoulder workout man this is nice all
right we got a certified big guy over
here let's go see if he's willing to
listen to me excuse me bro I was
wondering if even though you're way
bigger than me would you be willing to
take some science-based lifting advice
from me yeah sure of course would you be
willing to show me how you bench sure I
want you to do whatever you would do
just pretend the cameras are not pretend
I'm not here let's take the safeties off
I I don't know why know okay so first of
all I wouldn't like don't do this but
you know wait so you want five plates so
this is 495 lb 3 2 1 let's go dude
[Music]
Yep this is where I'll probably give you
the science based critique trying to go
for the junior world record on the bench
press this year and this is 550 lb more
than I've ever actually deadlifted in my
life which is insane all right Deon
let's get buddy 3 2 1 here we
go drive drive drive come
on work bro so you have like a very
unique benching style which is just like
Brute Force so it reminds me of the
deadlifters who just come and like grip
and rip but then they deadlift like 800
lb who am I to tell you to pull the sock
out of the bar but in your case I don't
think I noticed a lot of leg drive if
you could push down and push the floor
away from you press the bar up and back
if that could help you generate more
power or maybe that would just make you
overthink it and actually press less
when I make any small adjustments where
I kind of have to think about doing it
it always takes my mind off the actual
lift it makes sense and listen like
people kind of have this like caricature
of what science based lifting is what it
is to me is more along the lines of
what's going to work the best that
doesn't mean it has to be based off a
study you can be doing your own
experiment and if what you're doing is
working then why like what am I going to
say you're one of the best bench
pressers in the whole world so it's like
you know come on so yeah that was that
was incredible bro you put on a great
show I appreciate it man all right bro
this is probably my favorite back
exercise so can you show me how you do
it yes how do you load the plates here I
put the 25 here just to have a bit more
of like uh weight and resistance at the
bottom but I love to like re get like a
good stretch that's exactly that is
exactly what I would do as well that's
that's really good good squeeze wow
that's the tempo you lift with yeah yeah
that's very controlled I have to get
incredibly nitpicky cuz this is like
basically perfect she's squeezing her
mid traps together she's pulling them
apart on the negative and then look at
the control on the negative like you can
almost feel the fibers pulling apart on
the negative whereas a lot of people who
do this exercise will just let the
weight freef fall and they only think
about getting the weight up rather than
controlling it on the weight down but
that's when most of the growth happens a
a double plus you nailed it yeah that's
perfect good job no wonder you're so
freaking jacked what a lot of people do
is they get so obsessed with adding
weight that they let their form slip and
they're like oh I'm adding so much more
weight I'm getting stronger but it's
like like no your form is just getting
worse but I think you can become so
obsessive with the form that you just
like you can't get that like umph in the
movement anymore as long as you can
still get that oomph then I think it's
totally fine to be as perfectionistic
about your form as you want to be this
guy is massive even though you're
obviously a lot bigger than me would you
be open to taking a few science-based
tips from me or no absolutely yeah yeah
okay cool um so what's a weak point that
you're trying to bring up on your
physique right now I would say my back
more less is it more midback or more
width so more like thickness versus wi
like yeah more width let's go do some
some pull-ups you want to show me your
uh your Technique all right let's do it
actually I have another question for you
what's your weight right now bro um
345 bro I has like almost 200 lb on me I
need a lot of assistance yeah yeah well
if you're 345 lb that's a nice range of
motion man good control so when I when I
talk about technique from a science
based perspective there's two things
that I look for one is range of motion
and the other thing is control on the
negative okay you did both of those
things great a lot of people on pull-ups
cut the range of motion short either at
the bottom or at the top with the bottom
being extremely important because that's
where the lats are going to be most
stretched yes uh the other thing A lot
of people do is they tend to use a lot
of momentum on Pull-Ups so they kind of
use a lot of hip drive to get themselves
moving which I think is actually an
advantage of using assistance because it
forces you to be a little bit more
locked in absolutely guys who are trying
to get really really jacked like you are
actually almost too proud to use
assistance they almost see it as like oh
I don't need assistance bro but I'm a
lot lighter than you I can do quite a
few bodyweight pull-ups but I find I can
connect with my lats better absolutely
if I use assistance so I thought that
was a really great thing as well the
only thing I did notice and I don't even
think it's a bad thing is that when you
do your pull-ups you almost Arc a lot
you almost keep your head away from the
bar you notice that trying to bring my
chest to the bar you're essentially
squeezing your shoulder blades together
when you do that if you stay completely
upright you'll isolate the lats a little
more through if you just turn side on
what's called shoulder adduction so
essentially bringing it down in this
plane okay whereas the more you lean
back now you're going to get some some
mid trap involvement pull-ups are meant
to be a complete back exercise it's not
a bad thing it's just different ways of
executing it I suppose I'd give you an a
double Plus on your Technique it's great
coming from your we want to see what's
going on I I was also incredibly curious
how many calories do you eat a day you
know what this year is actually less
than usual I'm like 7,000 calories a day
less a day 7,000 bro 65 to 7 usually
yeah closer to seven how many grams of
protein uh just under 400 and your body
weight is 340 the studies do show that
you tend to max out the anabolic
response around 0.7 to 1 g of protein
per pound of body weight so you could
probably get away with like 350 340 350
at a at a up that's true I think I need
like one more couple more couple more
big guys big guys big girls whatever
would you be open to taking some
science-based advice from me even though
you're the
pro I don't understand okay okay I think
a good English no no that's totally fun
is it cool if I give you some workout
tips okay yeah yeah yeah what's a muscle
that you're trying to improve for your
next show what's something you're really
trying to work on my legs so what's
what's an exercise that you've been
doing to try to bring up your legs m
squat squat okay can you show me how you
do it yeah yeah okay let's do it let's
do it so I just want you to front squat
however you normally
would
nice that was perfect your depth is
great your walk out is efficient your
rack position is good A lot of people
have a tendency when they front squat to
kind of like let their back curve
forward but you do a really good job of
keeping your elbows up and keeping your
chest tall you get really deep a lot of
bodybuilders especially will try to load
too much weight to the point that they
end up only going like halfway down
whereas you get all the way down so I
have to ask you another question you're
trying to bring up your legs so how many
times per week do you train your legs uh
two per weeks two days per week okay so
that's that's perfect as well how many
sets would you say you do for your legs
I think 10 about 10 10 sets okay and you
do that twice per week yeah so you're
doing about 20 sets per week yeah so I
have I have nothing for you yeah thank
you so much great all right so I was
curious even though you're obviously
much bigger than me would you still be
open to taking training tips from me yes
of course for him he always likes to get
in new information and learn from others
if it works for him great if it doesn't
then at least he'll learned something
new
right nobody knows everything of course
he there's things that he doesn't know
yet so the more he knows the better
what's a body part that you're trying to
improve this offseason maybe a weak
point or something that you're giving
more attention to um okay so so like mid
traps mid traps okay
you don't recommend anything for back
thickness there's actually something
that I do on the tar row that we can try
it's a tar row okay that turns into a
Kelo shrug so once you hit failure leave
your arm straight and do this so you're
not actually you're not rowing it's a
shrug it's a mid trap shrug that'll
allow you to get more Reps for your mid
traps after you've exhausted your
ability to fully row so it's basically
an extended set Beyond failure I just
want you to try that out so for Mid trap
and emphasis flare the elbows out at
about a 45° angle if you keep them too
tucked it'll be more lat emphasis and
then once you can't squeeze it all the
way up keep your elbows locked and just
shrug here that's it and so keep the
elbows locked and just squeeze just
squeeze that's
it that's it that's it that's it nice
what do you think yeah good good yeah
good all right nice look at his arms
look at this this is crazy dude even
though you're obviously ly way bigger
than me would you still be open to
hearing science-based lifting advice
from me absolutely what would you say is
a weak point on your physique if any
this isn't a good question to ask cuz
I'm hypercritical I think everything's a
weak point so to me that translates as
no weak points one of the things I put
most of my focus into is just the lats
how many days a week do you train your
lats right now I only train four times a
week so I train everything once biceps I
train twice is there a reason for that
like do you do you think that you need
six or seven days for that muscle to
feel recovered because you're hammering
it that hard or do you think that after
like 3 or 4 days I'm not really sore
anymore I could come in and smash it
again I mean there's different like ways
to train as you know and one of the
things that me and my coach have tried
recently is a really high-intensity
program with lower volume so we're only
train four times a week and with how
hard I'm training I do need about six
seven days to rest to come back and have
another good workout when you look at
the studies on training frequency
they're mostly college aged guys who are
not even remotely at your level of
muscular development so it's like I I'm
totally open to the possibility that
like once you get to this level you can
incur so much muscle damage in a session
because of the loads you're using
because of how much sheer Mass there is
that yeah you just do need a long time
for that stuff to get back to Baseline
yeah exactly okay all right all right
bro I was nervous you were going to say
no about that science based thing oh
yeah I'm these are the you like okay I
want you to do it how you would do it so
don't try to scientif it for the video
just
normal nice
that's the tempo you'd normally use at
this point yeah yeah one thing he's
clearly doing is driving his elbow down
that's going to activate his lat and
he's actually not doing what a lot of
bodybuilders do on pull Downs which is
squeezing their mid traps together he's
completely isolating his lat by driving
his elbow down there's almost no no
Swang amazing control on the negative
and he's keeping his shoulders Square so
if you look front on he's not doing this
which a lot of people do to cheat this
is good I think I can tell it's a
non-dominant hand cuz you're like kind
of curling with your wrist a little bit
more also when you extend there's
actually no need to extend back behind
your midline because the lats have no
leverage there so a lot of people have a
tendency when they do pull Downs to go
like way and pull back here but your
lats literally can't contribute to that
motion the the traps can take over but
clearly he's trying to isolate his last
here but that looks really good Queen
you know you said something and the
about the crisp being B I never catch
that and when I switched it just
something's that small I thought that
much harder contraction yeah yeah yeah
it makes sense because you you see like
when you're training your lats there are
multiple joints where tension can leak
it means that if there's unwanted
movement here that tension isn't being
directed as efficiently to the muscle
where you want it last question what's
your favorite pose maybe a front double
bicep front double bicep would you be
down to do a front double bicep with me
oh sure yeah right let's do it oh I was
going to ask you how how heavy are you
bro I wait now is 293 293 yeah makes
[Music]
sense just come up close on this bro
yeah yeah yeah that's great you look
insane yeah Quinton is probably probably
has the most amazing physique I've ever
seen in person like that I've stood next
to and it's funny that I asked what his
weak point was and he was like I don't
know I have so many and it's like I knew
he didn't have one I'm going to go ahead
and Link everybody who is in this
video's uh Instagram YouTube whatever
down below so make sure you go show them
some love let them know that you came
from this video I really appreciate that
if you guys enjoyed it leave me a thumbs
up subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you all here in the next
one why did the big guy cross the
road why did the big guy cross the
road get to tr
there's Tren on the other side I don't
know you said to be funny bro I don't
have jokes like that I don't know