Patrick's training goals are simple win
the Super Bowl so in order to do that
priority number one is to be resilient
he's got to stay healthy this is
interesting so there are two schools of
thought on this in the modern strength
and conditioning uh scientifically
literate side of the community one side
says that injury is pretty mysterious
sometimes when you get stronger you're
more likely get hurt because you have
can can output more force and power and
sort of break yourself any training that
presupposes that it reduces injury
especially as it's core value position
may be misguided there's a Nuance there
it's not exactly what they think but
it's something like that there are
another group of people that think
strength training uh and strength
condition are excellent for performing
athletes also a very large benefit these
people would say is that strength and
conditioning training done properly
makes you more resilient and guards you
against injury I'm in the 8020 Camp
maybe 7030 most strength and
conditioning should be about increasing
the athletes ability to do their sport
the other 20 or 30% is like hey hey
injury reduction is a thing and that's
really good