making the same gains in 1/3 of the time
does that sound too good to be true well
it might just be with the help of drop
sets welcome back local Sigma
entrepreneur and addict for drop sets
soon to be Dr mil wolf back here in the
wolf coaching HQ today we're talking
about drop sets before we fully get into
the science around drop sets let me
briefly explain what drop sets even are
if you've been unfortunate enough to be
surrounded by certain individuals within
your gym you will see them they're using
six pairs of dumbbells for one set and
this is how it works first you do
something called an activation set where
you do a relatively challenging weight
typically for about 5 to 20 repetitions
then without resting you will drop the
weight that you just used by 20% and do
another set and again and again and
again potentially typically you'll use
about 2 to four drops in load after your
activation set well why are drop sets
more time effective if you just listen
you might have heard that there is no
rest time between these sets so as
compared to traditional sets where
you're taking say 2 to 5 minutes of rest
between each set in this case you're
doing your activation set and then
essentially the only rest time you get
is when you're taking the new weight and
getting to position and so as far as
time efficiency goes you can really
reduce how long a session takes if you
switch to drop sets this is all well and
good you know drop sets being more time
effective at a surface level but equally
if they're not effective then who gives
a
you know so let's actually go into the
science and see what the science says
and this is where a recent metanalysis
by my good friend and colleague Max
Coleman comes in you can follow him at
colan atal on Instagram he performed a
met analysis on all studies comparing
traditional sets to drop sets there's
five studies doing this and here's what
they found on average there was no
difference in muscle growth between
employing drop sets or straight sets
traditional sets however the drop set
group on average reduced their trading
Time by about 30 to 70% importantly this
was also corroborated by another
metalysis so it's not as though this was
just one spirous finding so drop sets
are a lot more time efficient and give
you the same growth as doing traditional
sets so why would you do traditional
sets well before we get there let me
give you a few cats to these findings
first this metanalysis only included
five studies while five studies is a
decent amount it's not enough to be
certain as to exactly how much of a
difference there might be between doing
Drop sets and traditional tra secondly
drop sets are likely more miserable and
might even be more fatiguing than
traditional sets let me tell you why
they might be more miserable because
you're essentially doing one very very
long set if you know anything from the
higher rep research we have of people
doing say 20 or more reps per set it's
that yeah you can grow good muscle doing
it but as far as the effective
experience your emotions going through
it you best believe you're not going to
feel great it's going to be a lot of
being out of breath a lot of burn in the
muscle it's not going to be pleasant and
so drops sets might be a little bit less
Pleasant of an experience than
traditional sets and maybe outside of
the lab context that might cause you to
not push quite as close to failure as
you would with low rep training with
traditional sets now drop sets might
also be more fatiguing we pretty
confidently know at this point that
training to failure is at least a little
bit more fatiguing than not training to
failure when you're doing a drop set
what you're essentially doing is doing
more and more reps when you're already
tired and close to failure from that
first activation set so every rep is
pered relatively closer to failure than
if you're doing just traditional
straight sets and so by doing more reps
closer to failure you might be incurring
greater overall fatigue which might
eventually result in you being able to
do less volume across the whole week or
train a little bit less across the week
which feasibly could mean that you do
fewer sets across the week and see less
muscle growth after all there's only so
much fatigue that you can recover from
in a given training week so you could be
doing potentially more volume at a
higher intensity across the week if you
weren't doing drop sets now for the
final caveat about drop sets drop sets
are more practical in certain movements
than others for dumbbell work they're
super practical unless your gym is
really busy because you have to use like
five pairs of dumbbells likewise with
stack loaded or pin loaded machines
they're also very time efficient and
practical because you can essentially
just change the number on the stack and
do your second set and your third set
and your fourth set there's not a lot of
effort required or a lot of extra
equipment required in order to perform
that drop set however with a lot of
barbell movements like the squat like
the bench like the deadlift doing a drop
set can be somewhere between a pain in
the ass and a bit a bit less time
efficient right if you're doing a bench
for example and you're doing a drop set
you need to re the bench go to either
side take some weight off get back on
the bench get set up get your right un
weight by that time it's actually not
that time efficient anymore so on
certain movements drop sets will great
on other movements they may not be your
best choice so how would I incorporate
drop sets into my own training first of
all I would stick to machines
specifically pin loaded or stack loaded
machines and done the work equally as
your first activation set I would try
and stay between five and 20 reps if you
were to go above 20 reps the weight on
those subsequent sets may just be too
low to really optimize hypertrophy after
your activation set I would typically do
two to four back off sets reducing the
load by 20% from set to set generally
try and keep rest time between set one
set two set two and set three to a
minimum the main reason to use drop sets
is not because they're more effective
but rather because they're more time
efficient so if you're someone who
doesn't have enough time in the week to
train to an optimal level using drop
sets might just allow you to get a bit
more growth by training a little bit
more in whatever time you have available
equally another reason to use drop sets
could just be because you find them fun
and that's a perfectly valid reason to
if you're limited by time you may also
want to consider other techniques like
antagonistic paired suets I made a video
on that here reducing warm-ups and other
stuff drop sets might be contraindicated
if you're trying to optimize your muscle
growth as I mentioned they can be very
uncomfortable and they can be a bit more
fatiguing potentially which might reduce
your muscle growth overall if you're
going to do drop sets and you want to
figure out how to count number of sets
you're doing I would typically just
count them as one fewer sets than your
performing so if you did one activation
set and four drop down sets for example
I would count that the same way I would
count four traditional straight sets if
you're using drops sets just for fun I
would typically keep them to about 20 to
40% of your training at the maximum if
you're using drop sets because you're
limited on time to train you could make
drop sets your entire routine if you
wanted to Quick takeaways drop sets are
as effective as traditional trading if
you want to do drop sets do an
activation set and then drop load by 20%
set to set doing up to two to four more
sets that's the video if you like the
video comment like subscribe and I'll
see you guys in that next one
peace that one commenter who told
me I should swear Less in my videos like
I get it it's probably good for you SEO
and some but like I don't know
swearing is kind of part of my thing you
know if you like me swearing make sure
to leave a comment down below saying
 so that
the YouTube algorithm knows to ban us
all