this is my submission for rp video
dating
um
my name's mike
i like moderate
walks on the beach i have like my feet
hurt sometimes
too long
hurts um
that's it i'm lonely
please help wait no sorry folks wrong
video
strength training plateaus they stink we
have three other videos before this
talking about how to break through them
this is the fourth video of that series
finding your adaptive volume window wow
what a fancy way to say finding out if
you're doing too much or too little
training so here's the deal
if you go to a
restaurant and you are still hungry
after finishing your food or you are
uncomfortably stuffed clearly even if
the food is good bad or somewhere in
between there is a volume of food issue
if you serve
the world's tiniest burger it doesn't
really matter how tasty it is people are
gonna be pissed
and if people pay for a burger and they
get an eight pound burger some of them
may be happy but others will be confused
as to how they are expected to actually
fit the burger into their mouths do you
guys know those like fancy burger place
specialty places that have like like six
patties and bunch of pickles and fries
and shit hanging out
how the hell are you supposed to eat
that shit and they give you like a fork
and a spoon like do you tip it over like
leaning tower of pizza style and get at
it but then it's not really a burger
you're like eating like one patty by
itself and a piece of cheese by itself
folks
who run burger places give this some
thought you're doing a bad job and i can
help i'm smart i'm i was gonna say
handsome that even the smart part's not
true in any case burgers aside there's a
similar problem with training
people assume that they are training a
decent amount and often assume that if
some nuance of their training it's the
wrong reps it's the wrong
clustering
sets it's the wrong rest times it's the
technique but the honest truth is a lot
of people aren't making the gains they
want or even plateauing because they're
not in their adaptive volume window
which is from minimum effective volume
the smallest amount of number of sets
per session or per week that you need to
make strength gains up to the maximum
recoverable which is the most you can
recover from and thus any more than that
you would fail to recover and by
definition fail to progress you got to
be somewhere in there right
as an example
if you do one heavy single of squats per
week
uh
how do you know that this is enough
volume to stimulate gains beyond being
like a first three or four weeks
beginner
you don't and you could do a
hypothetical in your head where you're
like well wouldn't more squatting
probably do you better there's a pretty
decent quote by one of the folks
involved with like the squad every day
or super high frequency movement which i
have my misgivings about of course but
it's very good point nikki said
something like um
i think this is john bros who said this
don't quote me
he was like you know if uh if you had a
a gun to your head or something like
that paraphrasing and you had to get the
biggest squat you could in the next you
know six weeks would you really just
squat once a week and this isn't a
frequency discussion don't worry we'll
have one of those later but just total
amount some people just do a certain
amount of lifting and never quite ask
themselves if i did more could i get
better on the other hand if you're doing
like 300 total reps working reps of
squats per week in your strength program
you know maybe
this is a volume that no one can recover
from or very few and maybe it makes
sense to do less because training isn't
like a lot of people just think training
is because it's a good thing and the
more of it you do the better you get
sports movies and culture has a lot of
role to play with that but i think those
are more reflective of what people
actually think than prescriptive you
know like rocky and shit like that like
in a twin man more like what is it we
had a thing in our wrestling room that's
like you know outwork your opponent he's
working twice as hard you go to three
times as far like what are my opponents
an idiot and as beyond his mrv and he's
getting worse should i be really beyond
my mrv like that's really stupid it's
possible to do too much and it's for
sure possible to do too little
at the end of the day you want an
intermediate amount of volume between
those two extremes and where you land as
a matter of nuance would get to in other
lectures and we get into more advanced
topics that you got to be somewhere in
between and it's
like more volume than it takes to make
the minimum gains less volume than is
prohibitive to recover from so that at
least you know you can tackle other
problems and your plateau is not because
you're doing either too little or either
too much
now that's easy said a very different
story when we try to actually do it
there's a mystery with volume
how do you know if you're between these
two values of minimum effective volume
and maximum recoverable
sometimes you don't so you have to do a
little bit of experimentation to figure
out where you are
if you can experiment and figure out
where your minimum effective volumes
roughly are and your maximum recoverable
you can know what's between them and
then actually for a long time for months
and years after in your career you can
be reasonably sure
that if you avoid those extremes you're
probably going to have decent results at
least as far as the volume is concerned
and that's not something you're going to
worry about
after that right
first these can be different for each
lift so you're going to have to do this
by lift we'll just use power lifting as
an example squat bench press deadlift
and
lift by lift by lift you can actually
analyze and begin the sort of training
experiment to see where you're at now
you may be thinking dude i don't got
time for experiments shit i'm trying to
get jacked and strong well sweet but
remember you're watching this because
you have a plateau your clients have a
plateau plateau means you're not making
any gains so motherfucker what do you
have to lose nothing let's get the
experiment going so here's how you find
your minimum effective volume roughly in
strength training it's a different
process for hypertrophy training so
don't get too confused about it here it
is you start at a relatively low volume
weekly so it doesn't matter how many
sessions you have but like maybe six
working sets for a lift plus accessories
yes that does mean
bench
heavy three times on thursday and do
incline heavy or sorry monday and then
three sets of incline heavy on thursday
like wait what what about triceps what
about flies oh that's it
very bare minimum okay
the cool thing is in strength a
surprisingly tiny amount of volume could
potentially great strength gains and a
lot of people overdo it and remember if
you're testing your mev you're actually
thinking maybe i'm doing uh you know
potentially
not enough or potentially too much but
you will test your mev and and this is
assuming you're dropping your lifts to
that and like if you're doing under six
total
working sets per lift per week or per
lift type
uh you probably have to do more because
it's unlikely you'll get really great
gains doing like
two sets of bench monday and two sets of
incline thursday and that's it you'll
get some gains but then again you don't
have a plateau right so
this low volume you started and you go
hard training through this volume you
don't change the volume
for more advanced folks you can start at
a lower volume at the beginning of this
next meso and end up at a higher volume
but your average has to be that low
amount so you can still increase volume
if you want for strength usually we
don't increase we just keep it the same
but the average has to be this low
number all right
you do all the sets well and hard and
you of course add load every week
progressing normally from rp seven or so
to about rp nine to ten same idea same
idea right
during this time every session that you
do you know how hard the sessions are
for example do you get tired at the end
of each session how tired do you get are
your muscles fried do you feel just
completely like oh like oh man like my
hook and triceps and chest are done
there's nothing more to do here do you
get sore are you getting sore regularly
after you deload from this 48 week
mesocycle normal strength training you
test the lift in the next meso early or
whatever test the lift or just you know
via rpe see how strong you are and you
get some decent data now here's the deal
if you gain strength in the lift
by definition you are at or above your
minimum effective volume
and maybe more volume be even better
but we'll talk about that in a bit but
hey you're not plateauing anymore tada
success so that's really sweet now if
you didn't gain strength
you look back at point number three
which was note how hard the training is
and you ask yourself
was the training just not that hard like
if you're doing the training on one like
the third thursday of that fourth or
fourth week or something and you're done
with your push workout your buddy's like
fucking pretty hard huh you're like
i don't know the lifts are hard when i
do them but at the end of the session
i'm just like i feel like i have so much
more to give right
was it disruptive did you do you wake up
the next day
like sore or even like
very mildly irritated pecs or triceps or
quads or whatever muscles you're
training with your strength lifts if you
just can't tell
gee whiz you know you didn't get
stronger and you're barely training at
all
then barely any disruption then it's
probably more volume is the answer if
volume is the question right so if
you're not checking the boxes on this
training was pretty hard
and you didn't gain strength your volume
could very well be under your mvd now 50
000 other things could be the cause but
if you watch the videos before this one
we've already hypothetically fixed sleep
and nutrition and all this other stuff
so it kind of could be a higher chance
that it's a volume problem
if that's the case clearly wasn't enough
you can increase the volume by one or
two sets per session if look if you do
three bench sessions a week increase
each one by two just six more total sets
per week that's a big deal
and you can add it in either main lift
or accessory it's your call and then you
redo that four week or eight week
mesocycle anything in between you test
again you see if you got stronger if you
did no more plateau if you didn't check
back to see how hard it was if you're at
a point where the training is really
hard and you're not breaking through
plateaus it's probably not a volume
problem and there's probably some other
consideration that's the truth of the
matter
now on the other end of the spectrum
there is the maximum recoverable volume
of your mrv
and
if
you make great gains with a certain
volume hey sweet you don't have to
change anything but
if you're at a certain volume and you're
plateauing and that certain volume of
training is like maybe pretty easy and
you've tried going lower doesn't help
maybe you can try raising your volume
maybe you can gain faster or gain at all
for the first time and that's totally
legit a lot of times raising volume
really helps
but if you raise volume beyond some
point a few predictable things may
happen you're not going to be able to
add weekly load like usual like your
strength starts to take such a big hit
from just surviving that volume instead
of adding like 5 to 10 pounds to your
bench every week to hit the rpes you
start adding five to two and a half
pounds every week and you're like i
don't know man i'm getting real beat up
here my strength increases are actually
suffering
adjusted for rpe that's not that great
and that's definitely a sign that you're
plugging up closer to mrv
you could have an early performance drop
and have to deload so instead of
deloading at week six like you planned
you got to deal at a week four because
you're fried out and you'd hit a cap you
underperform and you're like i'm done
and it you know okay things happen you
try that cycle again same 15 sets this
time instead of six sets per week on
average and you hit that the shit hits
the fan again you get plugged up again
you have to deal it again early and all
your check marks you're getting super
sore your muscles are drained your brain
is drained it's all just like oh my god
this is an unreal amount of volume and
i'll tell you guys this
just uh and this isn't a side that's
actually not in the presentation like a
word of wisdom to you take it with a big
grain of salt like everything you're
fucking here on this channel i'm saying
tell a videographer
um if you feel like if you're a legit
hard training motherfucker you know how
most of you guys are like you're not a
little bitch like running away from hard
shit
if you are you know i'm saying hardcore
and you honestly after multiple weeks
feel like you were just getting pummeled
to death by a program
you probably have better results in
strength not hypertrophy i hurt your
feet the pummelling is part of the
problem or sorry part of the part of
what has to happen
strength
you should be pretty feeling pretty
goddamn good all the time not
right before deload then you can feel
pummeled but if you're pummeled all the
time for like six of the seven weeks of
your program just like you're just like
barely collecting air just just trying
not to drown from the volume lowering
volume almost always works because
strength is driven specifically mostly
by how much load you're lifting how
relatively intense it is how hard the
sets are and how heavy they are
versus the how many sets you do so just
to make sure you guys are on the same
page where i'm at if it even if you're
whatever boxes you're checking on this
performance etc that's important stuff
but if at the same time on top of all
that you legitimately feel even though
you love hard training like this just
feels like an insane amount it's
probably too much to make your best
gains even if you're not plateauing if
you're plateauing i tell you you got 99
problems but not having enough volume is
not one of them probably should reduce
so
if you're reaching these problems and
you're sort of hitting the
the end of the road a whole bunch then
your your average mesocycle volume is
probably at or beyond your maximum
recoverable volume and
we can say one thing almost certainly is
doing more than that will almost
certainly not lead to either better
gains or any gains and if you're
plateaued any gains and
if
you fix your plateau but you in the
process find out what your mrv is
and you're making good gains not hitting
it
you have good data now because you have
your minimum effective volume roughly
figured out and you have your maximum or
at least you know like it's above this
point
and you have your maximum recoverable
volume roughly charted out then for the
next probably years
year or two at least any program or
approach you decide to take that takes
you outside of that window that's too
low or too high it's just probably not
going to work classic example is if
you're doing some kind of training where
you're an average you're squatting 10
sets per week of actual squats and
accessory work together let's just keep
just a good example i'm not saying
that's what you should be doing it's a
fine program so
if you've tried and you get pretty good
results at 12 so that's in a 15 you
start to really sort of flutter out if
someone's like hey like for strength for
strength not a perturb you want to try
this 20
set a week like eight week program for
squatting you should probably say no
because for the love of god if you
usually burn out of 15 what in fucking
hell are you expecting is gonna happen
at 20. on the other hand if you know
that anything under about six sets or
five sets a week is just not enough to
make you gains it just maintains you
someone's like dude i got the super
hardcore overload overmax program but
it's only four working sets a week what
do you think you should probably be like
i might try it but if it's too easy
after a couple weeks i'm going to add
some fucking sets because
at some point you're just showing off
instead of lifting like work gets the
strength in they're not just lifting a
weight heavy a few times a week and
going oh i did it i did what like i can
tell you're pretty strong but in order
to get stronger you have to challenge
the physiology not just show it off
right
so
at the end of the day some simple
insights
if the training seems challenging but
it's not crazy disruptive
it's probably enough volume
and
if you're at a plateau something other
than volume is probably the answer right
try a bit less and a bit more training
if you want but it's unlikely to be the
fix for that problem
if the training just seems really easy
and just like not like a lot at all
uh especially if you never really feel
tired or sore
then you can try a small progressive
jump in average mesocycle volume and see
how that fares and if it fails really
well then hey you're good to go this has
happened a bunch in my personal
experience with folks um
i watched
max aydah who's a phenomenal strength
coach program for his weightlifters he
inherited weightlifters that were doing
plenty of volume already
and he through his own methods figured
they probably weren't doing enough so he
had them do more volume like more sets
of five instances of ten presses squats
pulls and these folks were like oh my
god this is killing me and during that
entire time all their lifts weeks into
the five sets of five to ten we're going
up up up and he's like so and they're
like well clearly it's working i've made
crazy prs lately and it was hard but i
was not doing enough right so very very
easy fix there just do more i mean easy
on paper but in reality like i have to
do what to get stronger fuck that and
you turn to the dark side of
bodybuilding you just pretend mind
muscle connection you talk about
symmetry you don't actually ever have to
make progress
so that's the deal now on the other end
if training seems like a ton you're
always teetering on the edge of recovery
um you might very well be doing too much
and a pretty good like hit to the face
proposed solution is take your volume
and actually just cut it in half so if
you're doing an average 16 sets of you
know let's say pulling which is insane
uh maybe like next mesocycle after d
load try eight sets and you know maybe
you can slowly work back up but if you
get phenomenal results of eight steps
don't change anything just stick to
around eight sets for a while probably
pretty good and maybe if you're feeling
frisky on a mass gaining phase for
strength try 10 sets or 12 cents on
average and then maybe that'll be
something that you can really benefit
from even more than eight but like a lot
of times when people do too much volume
they'll do 16 sets and i'll go i'm gonna
go to 14. you go to 14 it's marginally
better but it's still like it's like
instead of the water being like right
here at your lips and you're like this
or like every now and again you breathe
you just fall seawater someone lowers
the water level to here so when the
normal sized waves come you still can't
breathe like that's not that much of a
help so we have to make sure that we're
being really really um
we're taking very concerted decisions
that a third party could look and be
like all right you're really trying to
play around with volume versus like you
know fuck 16. i'm gonna do 15 and a half
sets some people are addicted to volume
they really are and they're like more is
always the answer this is total bullshit
strength is gained through intensity at
an intermediate moderate volume the best
is gained okay at higher volumes okay at
lower volumes that middle range is
really really decent right
what is that range on average if you
know your hypertrophy numbers for mav
mrv it's usually scaled like one third
less right so if your mrv is let's say
nine sets of something per week in
hypertrophy training it's often going to
be six for strength training so so maybe
that's something you can use as a
heuristic to apply to this and give it
some thought folks thank you so much for
tuning in
if you still want to go on a video date
with me i'm married the whole thing was
a joke unless you're a really cute boy
and then send me a dm on youtube is that
even possible see you guys next time
gee i sure hope that's not possible are
there dms on youtube
you