hey folks I'm Dr Mike Israel and this is
another episode of hypertrophy myths
here's the thing guys heavy singles for
hypertrophy your dad did them Grandpa
did him you remember that one time your
parents opened up the old photo album
and you're like Mommy Mommy who's that
you're like that's Grandpa what's he
doing in that picture well heavy singles
for hypertrophy son oh I'm so proud
don't be proud because great grandpa was
a fucking idiot I sure hope that's late
enough for the YouTube algorithm to not
cancel us for swearing here we go
as usual with the myths we got the good
we got the bad
we got the real talk but before that we
have to talk about what the myth
specifically is
and the myth has already said it is a
quote that goes something like this
I like working up to a heavy single then
dropping down and doing reps and it's
usually said by a person who talks like
that
and you can insert heavy double or heavy
triple and this shit just works the same
way so it's not just heavy singles this
myth heavy anything less than five Reps
for sure
especially on the lower end of that
Spectrum
all right what's the good
the good here for hypertrophy by the way
don't you get in the comments and talk
about strength training yes singles have
an important role in strength training
and definitely doubles and triples
but for hypertrophy and I'm talking
about somebody who uh abjectly says look
I want to get jacked and I don't give a
fuck about anything else which is like
most people who go to the gym and or
people who are like especially people
who are involved in competitive physique
Sports especially people's uh supplement
contracts and incomes probiotic Builders
depend on that ship okay
there are some advantages there are some
advantages you can do a few heavy
singles or a few uh or a heavy single or
a double or triple few heavy reps
and you can potentiate your nervous
system
to perform at a higher level in the
several minutes thereafter for your next
working set which would be a normal 5 to
30 rep hypertrophy set
when you do that next step if you lift
it very heavy right before
you can expect to get higher rep numbers
one of these there's a both neural
direct neural unlocking of your ability
to really push one of these is actually
organelle based there's a Golgi tendon
organ in your tendons and it basically
detects force and tells your nervous
system to cap off its activity if it
feels like your tendons are experiencing
really high force and it thinks it's
going to tear if you expose the nervous
system in the Golgi tendon organ to very
high forces after several minutes it
like smokes a cigarette and goes
everything is fine it's okay lets the
flood gets open yes and then you're
actually able to use more of your
fucking raw nervous system to drive
higher forces and more ability you're
sort of unlocking your potential it's
like I know it's getting hit in the face
first time you get in the face it really
hurts the second time you're like I
could be here all day the third time you
wake up in the hospital and the doctor's
like actually it was not all day it was
three hits you have a weak chin in any
case here's the thing if you do have a
single the nervous system kicks in
and psychology kicks in when let's say
you're trying to squat uh 225 for as
many reps as possible and like
previously your best was 10. if you hit
up like 315 for a fucking heavy single
right before when you have 225 loaded on
your shoulders and the set after let's
say you take a three or four minute
break
225 on your shoulders bro you walk it
out you're like oh my fucking God but I
can press this shit it feels like
nothing because you just did something
super heavy right before
when you start doing your reps they'll
be faster
you'll be more powerful you will almost
certainly get a few more extra reps
amazing great your reps will feel
lighter for sure because the Reps will
feel lighter you'll often have a better
mind muscle connection like you can have
better technique and really open up and
really hit your quads as opposed to like
protecting yourself from the weight
because you just expose yourself to a
much heavyweight man with this lighter
weight you feel free and feel like you
would really focus on the Mind muscle
connection and because of all those
factors often your externally viewed
technique is better too so it's a really
big win right and faster fibers do in
fact respond pretty well to heavy
loading so you'll get theoretically some
hypertrophic stimulus from even a heavy
single this is a very steel man don't
worry we'll erase most of these things
or rather replace them with better
alternatives
right now
here's the bat
number one one rep Maxes and even
singles and sorry doubles and triples
cost almost no growth especially if
you're Advanced you just need more
fucking volume and more proximity to
failure and one RMS or anything close to
that it just does not cut it
number two the injury risk from doing a
heavy single or double or triple is real
as fuck and it gets more and more real
the bigger and stronger you get the more
experience you get the older you get the
more you've had heavy loads under your
belt before
guys in the gym that are jacked and on
tons of gear usually and the guy incline
pressing five plates they almost never
get hurt doing sets of 10 to 20 or sets
of even five to ten they generally get
hurt doing drum roll
maybe Scott the video guy will drum roll
this maybe not he'll just be in silence
singles doubles and triples that's how
motherfuckers get hurt nine out of 10
times and the sad thing about when
bodybuilders when power lifters get hurt
with singles doubles and triples hey
look that's true that's like you know
it's like a shoulder uh Soldier getting
shot in Wartime like that's what you do
it's a part of the job part of the risk
when you're a bodybuilder why why you
just got hurt doing something that was
not even remotely required and Not only
was it required
not required it was bad for you because
of problem number three it tires you out
especially if you psych up for it you
psych up for it because you know like at
the end of the day let's be honest and
we're skipping ahead a little bit but
I'll say this again later the reason
you're doing it is because you're an
egotistical piece of shit you want to go
have your no fucking reason so you're
going to do it you're going to psych up
for it you don't take singles you don't
psych up for unless you're doing the
squad every day shit but you're not
doing that you're doing like the fucking
let's get it I want a fucking big single
before my the rest of my workout it's
gonna Tire you out psychologically and
you're not going to be able to put in as
much high quality work for hypertrophy
later
like even the expectation of having to
hit a big single and the fear of it and
the fucking fight or flight can Tire you
out before you even start the workout
it's just draining it for no good
fucking reason
lots of bad downsides
here's the real talk all those benefits
of potentiating and going heavy slightly
you can get with 110 of your working
weight and you don't need to go to 150
or whatever the fuck that converts when
you're close to your one rep max so if
you're about to do 225 for reps instead
of doing 315 for a single do 245 for
reps or like a set of two 245 for a
single double or triple rack wait three
to four minutes and then 225 will feel
super fucking light and super good and
all that good stuff and if you really
have to go even heavier 255 and find 265
and OK 275 but 315 why there's no good
reason to do it gives you all the
upsides of potentiation to go a little
bit lighter as long as it's notably
heavier than the working weight and with
minimal downsides yeah you're not used
to squatting through 15 even if you are
if it's close to your max you may tear
your shirt off anytime you squat through
15 if your max is left roughly maybe on
a good day 3 30 anytime you have 30 on
your back you may fuck your shirt up
it's not likely sure as hell more likely
than doing 225
but if you have 245 on your back instead
the marginal difference in injury risk
is enormous cavernous it's enormous
so if you get all the benefits pretty
much with going just a little bit
heavier than your work weight
but almost the reduction in downsides is
insanely High why the fuck would you do
this right
and if something like singles doubles
and triples don't really grow a ton of
muscle directly
and it's a practice that puts you as a
sizable risk of injury
it had better have a damn good reason
for inclusion for example for power
lifters singles uh don't grow muscle
directly
in any notable way they definitely put
you in a sizable risk of injury so why
do we do that well there's a damn good
reason motherfucker you got to do them
shits because that's what the
competition is it's specificity they're
going to ask you to do a single in
competition you hit better get good at
it doing plenty of triples doubles and
singles but when we look at hypertrophy
training hypertrophy training that's
hypertrophy myths this is not General
weight training myths I perch a few
myths why in God's name would you do
this shit and it doesn't make any sense
and there's only two reasons I can think
of
fuckery is fun it's fun getting together
with your boys doing a couple one RMS
slapping each other's asses damn that
felt good to do taking it to the locker
room more stuff happens
try to fall asleep at night you can't
make the thoughts go away why did we do
what we did I wasn't comfortable with
all that stuff
what is my sexual orientation is it all
of the above
I remember a man one time when I was in
my Jewish Day School I mean the rabbi
fuck anyway
it's fun to have fun at the gym with the
boys even by yourself and hitting
singles is the shit but if you think
about it for a while it makes no goddamn
sense and there's other ways to have fun
like doing Drop sets and shit that's
actually hypertrophic
and really the big reason people do this
is big weight ego that's a com it's a
male thing
like when I walk with my wife through
Costco
100 chance she stops to look at some
bullshit trinket it's a female thing uh
before usjws get in the comments
everything is on a normal distribution
of spectrum and some females absolutely
uninterested in shopping my wife is at
the very end of that Spectrum where she
rarely does the thing but she'll do the
thing
and what do males on average tend to do
they see a big weight they want to pick
it up and it's fucking sweet and that's
what fucking it yeah hell yeah but hell
yeah while being smart hell yeah well I
understanding like yes I could try to
pick up that giant Tire on the road but
I could also pull my bank oh my bank
for you Jewish listeners don't do it
you're too prone to injury JK fellas
maybe
you got to be smart and then hypertrophy
training you have to wait trade-offs is
this worth the risk or is it not and if
you're like look I like doing heavy
singles fuck you Dr Mike I understand
the trade-offs and I'm still making them
listen I'll shake your fucking hand
before you go in the rack and kill
yourself
uh
but respect
but if you just haven't thought this
through or if you think there's some
other mysterious reasons that singles
are good for hypertrophy let me know in
the comments below and uh if you like
this video like it click like YouTube
apparently likes that if you really like
this video and you've never heard my ass
talk before hit the Subscribe button and
then you subscribe to shit we also have
a member section if you're a real
fucking nerd and you want more nerd shit
we have tons of that all the time bunch
of videos every month for a super low
price of whatever the price is like five
bucks and uh other than that go click on
links and click on the description and
buy RP things because remember I now
have I think 37 Lamborghinis although
one of the Butlers got real crazy he was
showing off and he crashed one of them
it actually fell into the lake that is
surrounds my entire house uh pretty sure
he drowned but we were also drunk we
didn't remember what happened to him so
I think it's 36 Lambos so we need that
Lambo back and we're not I don't fuck
with that there's tons of Lambos in the
lake that I just left forever we don't
even bother winching them out it's kind
of cool the fish love them they swim
through them it's like you know like a
shipwreck except Lambo rack that's like
half the lake
um should we just leave it in there so I
have to buy a brand new Lambo and buy I
mean I have to buy I don't go the
Butlers go they get me the lamp as they
come back so uh buy some stuff Lambo
collection must continue I'll see you
guys next time