if you have too much protein in a single
meal your body isn't just going to burn
it off that's what this study
suggests welcome back serious academic
Sports Science Dr Milo wolfia and today
we're talking about protein and why
having too much protein in a single meal
may not really be a thing it's often
been suggested that if you have too much
protein in a single meal your body will
just burn off the additional protein or
oxidize it as we would call it however
the truth is that until now studies
hadn't actually looked at consuming more
than about 40 g of protein in a single
meal after a session additionally
studies until now had only looked up
until about 6 hours after a session and
a meal not any longer than that these
Studies have suggested that much above
20 to 40 gram of protein after a session
closer to 40 G after a full body session
you don't really see any additional
muscle protein synthesis in other words
you don't see any additional benefit for
your muscle growth if you consume more
than about 40 G of protein after Rec
session however like I just outlined
these studies had some limitations and
that's where this study comes in indeed
the assumption that you can only benefit
from about 40 gr of protein at once
after a session and that you don't see
any benefit past 6 hours doesn't seem to
be true with other animals now I'm not
claiming that these animals are just
like humans because they're not however
for example in snakes they will
infrequently consume a huge meal about
20 to 25% of their body weight and they
will see elevations in muscle protein
synthesis lasting at least 10 days and
indeed of the protein in these meals
often as little as 5% is used as
oxidation or simply burnt off now this
study used something cool and new that
is called a quadruple isotope Tracer
using this cool new technology alongside
frequent plasma sampling and even muscle
tissue sampling using biopsies never
look up what those actually look like in
practice they were able to track various
parameters of protein metabolism over 12
hours after consuming protein without
further Ado here's exactly what they did
first on the day before participants
came into the lab for testing they had
standardized meals and they finished
eating by 10: p.m. so that the meals
they had before the testing day wouldn't
impact the results on the day of testing
then at 7:45 a.m. they arrived in the
lab the researchers took a variety of
blood samples and muscle samples
throughout the day the main thing here
is that they first trained performed a
regular lifting session followed by
consuming either 0 25 or 100 g of
protein blood samples were Taken 2 and
1/2 hours an hour before training
immediately after training half an hour
after training an hour after training
and then every hour for 12 hours
following training muscle biopsies were
also taken immediately after training 4
hours after training 8 hours after
training and 12 hours after training to
really track protein metabolism using
the isotope Tracer technology used in
the study they were able to tell how
much of the protein you ingested then
ended up doing various things across
your body an isotope Tracer you can kind
of visualize as a protein that has
attached to it a little tag that you can
see so that you can tell where the
protein that you ingested ended up going
to so the researchers looked at things
from a plasma within your blood
perspective from a tissue enrichment
perspective AKA to which tissues the
proteins actually go and finally to a
post prandial muscle protein synthesis
perspective AKA muscle protein synthesis
after you just ate now there are a lot
of findings so let me break them down
for you one by one as you would expect
when consuming 100 g of protein far more
amino acids surfaced in the bloodstream
AKA in the plasma with 100 g of protein
versus 25 g of protein the important
thing here and this goes contrary to
much of the popular advice in the
fitness industry is that there wasn't
really a strong correlation between the
amount of protein consumed and oxidation
rates within your body in other words
whether you consume 25 g of protein or
100 g of protein didn't impact oxidation
rates or how much protein your body
burnt off very much instead this
additional protein was used to stim
ulate protein synthesis in various
tissues within your body this was
evidenced by an exceedingly High
correlation between net protein balance
and protein intake and a relatively weak
correlation between protein intake and
oxidation mixed muscle myofibrillar and
connective protein tissue enrichment
were all greater at 4 to8 hours after
consuming protein and 12 hours as well
when consuming 100 g of protein versus
25 g of protein in this case enrichment
just essentially means taking those
proteins and adding them into your
tissue now you may not care about
connected tissue protein enrichment or
even synthesis however when it comes to
myofibrillar protein synthesis which is
synthesizing proteins within your myop
fibral the active unit within your
muscle essentially the muscle fiber the
researchers observed greater synthesis
in the 100 G Group by 20% in the 0 to 4H
hour time frame and by 40% in the 4 to
12h hour time frame interestingly muscle
protein signaling and muscle gene
expression didn't follow these same
timelines in fact most of them ended far
earlier than muscle protein synthesis or
myoi protein synthesis is did in this
case suggesting that you shouldn't just
use one as a proxy for the other
interestingly as far as the release of
amino acids from your intestine into
your bloodstream this plateaued
relatively early when you consumed 25 gr
of protein however when you consumed 100
gram of protein that release hadn't even
ended by the time the 12 hours were up
suggesting that with large doses of
protein the amount of time your body
needs to take those amino acids from
your food and even release them into the
bloodstream let alone have them reach
your muscle and other tissues takes a
while as a fun fact only some fraction
of the protein that you ingest even ends
up being in your bloodstream in the case
of the 100 G protein group in this case
we're talking about 53% of that protein
eventually ending up in the plasma over
12 hours going further than that less
protein yet gets enriched into your
actual muscle tissue in this case over
12 hours in the 100 G group only 13 G
got enriched into muscle tissue this
disparity between how much protein shows
up in your bloodstream and how much
protein actually gets used within your
scal muscle tissue has to do with the
fact that your protein can be used up
for example by plasma proteins within
your bloodstream one of the conclusions
from this paper was that when you're
consuming a large amount of protein such
as 100 gr it may just take your body
over 12 hours to fully digest that
protein have it go into your bloodstream
and then have it enrich your muscle and
then in turn potentially turn on
myofibrillar protein synthesis if it
takes over 12 hours you might see how
this relates to for example your dinner
and indeed the idea that a lot of the
protein that you ingest above a certain
amount per meal just gets burnt or
oxidized doesn't seem to be true with
the author stating that at least 85% of
ingested protein in the 100 G group
ended up getting used up for protein
synthesis in various tissues across the
body now as a quick caveat to the
findings within the study I need to
mention that the protein that they gave
subject here was milk protein which
being composed 80% of casine and 20% of
whey is going to be relatively slow
digesting however it doesn't seem likely
this influence the results too much
because oxidation rates for protein
remain low nevertheless less even if it
wasn't slow digesting as a fun fact the
reason the authors picked 100 g of
protein is because that's what they deem
to be the sort of practical upper limit
for making a protein shake with because
if you can imagine making a protein
shake with Four Scoops it's going to be
thick it's going to be sludgy you hear
me so even up to 100 g of protein per
meal may not be such a bad idea and it
may not just result in oxidation of that
additional protein your body might still
use it for muscle protein synthesis but
just over a long time course after that
feeding now before you go off and say
that the study proved that fasting was
optimal for growth let me give you a few
caveats to what the study did and didn't
show first while the study measured
various markers of protein metabolism
like muscle protein synthesis Etc none
of these are actual muscle growth and
indeed this was an acute study when you
look at the correlation between muscle
protein synthesis and actual muscle
growth it is not a perfect correlation
and so just because they found certain
things within the study doesn't mean it
will perfectly translate to muscle
growth as well over the long term as
opposed to just in one specific feeding
and the final limitation is that this
study was exclusively performed in
younger Physically Active men as you get
older and as you're less Physically
Active you generally grow more resistant
to anabolism so if anything with more
sedentary and older participants maybe
the response would have been different
maybe they would have seen even more of
a benefit from having a high protein
dose all at once versus a low protein
dose now that I've broken down the study
let me give you a few takeaways first
just because you have more than 40 g of
protein in a meal after a session
doesn't mean you're just going to piss
out that protein or just burn it off
even if you can only have one or two
meals per day still try to get your
daily protein in just because you're
exceeding 40 or 50 g of protein per meal
doesn't mean that additional protein is
useless as it seems like for at least 12
hours sometimes that protein will be
used for protein synthesis fasting may
not also be quite as detrimental to
muscle growth as we once thought however
it is still unlikely to be ideal and
this study ultimately doesn't look at
muscle growth directly but rather is an
acute study of various markers of
protein metabolism additionally it seems
like connective tissue does in fact
respond to protein and I'm not sure what
this means exactly but at least it's
good to know a big protein feeding can
stimulate myoi protein synthesis even 12
or more hours later and so this might
have applicability to your meal before
you go to sleep for example based on
This research it may be worth having a
relatively large protein feeding as
close to bedtime as possible I would
consider having anywhere between 40 and
100 g of protein at once as close as
possible to your bedtime to stimulate
this effect with that being said don't
think that because you want to have a
big feeding of protein before sleep
potentially that your protein intake
should shoot all the way up to 300 plus
gram your daily protein intake should
still likely be around 1.6 g of protein
per kilogram of body weight per day just
make sure that some of that protein is
backloaded towards the end of your day
right before you go to sleep and because
daily protein intake being sufficient by
and large is the main thing don't worry
too much if you're unable to optimize
things right before you go to sleep
finally if you're looking to optimize
your muscle growth it is likely still
prudent to have at least three meals per
day with protein in it to maximize
muscle growth anyways that's the video
your friendly neighborhood doctor broke
down protein yet again what can't he do
if you enjoyed the video please do
consider commenting liking subscribing
if there's anything you would want to
see in a future video let me know down
below and I'll see you guys my
subscribers in that next one peace