[Music]
welcome to the house of hypertrophy when
it comes to developing your goal
physique or strength levels can a key
component accelerate your gains while
minimizing training plateaus some of you
may be thinking wait a second are you
talking about special vitamins not quite
actually not at all rather I'm talking
about periodization huh what on Earth is
this in very simple terms periodization
refers to manipulating your trading
variables across time linear
periodization and daily undulating
periodization are the most studied
linear periodization mainly involves
decreasing the number of reps you
perform across weeks while using heavier
loads if we consider intensity as the
load you're using and volume as the
product of sets multiplied by reps we
can say linear periodization involves
decreasing volume and increasing
intensity across time daily undulating
periodization mainly involves varying
the number of reps every session of the
week so if for example example you're
trading the bench press three times a
week you may use these variables across
those days you could perform this every
week and progressively overload to keep
trading two or close to failure within
those rep ranges using the same
definitions as before undulating
periodization involves volume and
intensity going up and down across weeks
all of this contrasts with non-p
Paradise training which is just training
with the same rep range and
progressively overloading within that
across time so does Paradise ation lead
to more hypertrophy and strength versus
nonp Paradise training let's dive
[Music]
in regular house of hypy viewers will
know that on average reps between six
and 35 produce similar hypertophy
provided reps are perform two or close
to failure given this information you
may think varying rep Ranger shouldn't
provide extra gains well we can't rule
out their potentially being a
synergistic effect of training with
different rep ranges but let's take a
look at what the evidence says a 2022
meta analysis from Denmark helps us out
for those unaware a metaanalysis
statistically combines the results of
numerous studies looking at the same
topic and is generally considered the
best form of scientific evidence the
researchers found no significant
difference in muscle growth between
non-p periodized and periodized training
this held true for both trained and
untrained subjects the researchers
additionally performed a comparison
between linear periodization to
undulating periodization we already
detailed what linear periodization may
look like as well as daily undulating
periodization but weekly undulating
periodization is another form of
undulating periodization which involves
cycling through different rep ranges
across the weeks the researchers
established muscle growth did not
significantly differ between linear and
undulating models this held true for
both trained and untrained subjects so
at face value these findings tell us
that period of ation may not matter for
building muscle and if you do decide to
periodize training there may be no real
difference between linear and undulating
models so is that all we need to know
not quite metaanalyses are only as good
as the studies contributing to them and
there are two potentially important
limitations with the studies furthermore
there are some other studies that are
worth knowing about before unraveling
these points Let's us first analyze the
effects of periodization on strength
gains
the 2022 meta analysis from Denmark also
evaluated the effects of periodization
on one R max strength gains it was found
periodization did lead to Greater
strength gains Than nonp Paradise
training holding true for both untrained
and trained subjects however there is a
potential limitation we know that
training with lower reps and heavier
loads better increases one R max
strength for example this study had
subject train a program including the
bench West and squats with either either
three sets of two to four reps with a
heavy load or three sets of 8 to 12 reps
with a moderate load bench press and
squat strength gains were Superior with
a two to four reps I bring this up
because in the studies Behind The Meta
analysis the peradise trading tended to
involve more training with lower reps
and heavier loads for example here's how
one of the studies looked a non-p
periodized group only trained with sets
of 8 to 10 reps while a periodized group
involves some training with four to five
rips therefore periodization itself may
not have caused the greater strength
gains rather it might be because the
periodization groups involve training
more with lower reps and heavier loads
we need better design studies to
investigate this further for instance
how would this periodization program
compare to a non-p periodized group that
just trained with lower reps and heavier
loads yet other areas of the literature
may still suggest periodization has
strength benefits returning to the 2022
Denmark meta analysis the researchers
performed an additional comparison
between linear and undulating
periodization for one R max strength
gains and these gains work greater with
undulating periodization interestingly
this only held true for trained subjects
and not untrained individuals therefore
undulating periodization may be better
for increasing one R max strength versus
linear periodization in trained
individuals and since most studies
involved both periodization models
training with lower reps and heavier
loads the same number of times across
the study this wouldn't explain the
finding moreover there's other evidence
periodization could benefit strength
moments ago we mentioned how training
with lower reps and heavier loads best
increases strength this is likely
because they more closely replicate a
1mx strength test and more effectively
develops your skill and neural
adaptations towards this but I'm
skeptical that training only with lower
reps and heavier loads in the longterm
maximizes strength the reason for this
is lower reps with heavier loads aren't
the most effective for building muscle
for example we know this study found
that three sets of 2 to four reps are
better increased strength than three
sets of 8 to 12 reps but muscle growth
was overall better with the 8 to 12 reps
in the very long term muscle growth
might contribute to your strength levels
this is because a large part of muscle
growth is the addition of force
generating units that should enhance
your muscle strength we'll have some
videos on this in the future at the
house of hypertrophy therefore having a
combination of lower reps to develop
neural and skill comp opponents and
higher reps to more efficiently build
muscle may be ideal for improving
strength in the long term so overall my
current conclusion is that periodization
particularly some form of undulating
periodization is beneficial for
improving your One max
[Music]
strength returning to discussing muscle
hypertrophy we mentioned although the
meta analysis found no significant
difference in hypertrophy between
periodization and non periodization
training there are some limitations it
could be argued the periodization
training in the studies was suboptimal
for building muscle what I mean is in a
fair few studies we know the
periodization group spent some time
training with four or fewer reps which
we also know it isn't the most effective
for building muscle rather reps between
6 to 35 provided they perform two or
very close to failure are better for
building muscle therefore it would be
interesting to see the results of
studies that do not have the
periodization groups go as low as four
or fewer reps on their sets another
limitation of the studies is they
largely lasted 12 weeks or less what
about in the longer term we have this
study by Kramer which was involved in
the meta analysis this study was
actually 9 months and it's the longest
study to date that's been conducted on
the topic it compared a non-p periodized
group to a daily undulating group that
varied their rep range between 4 and 15
increases in fat-free Mass were greater
for the Daily undul in group but fat
free mess is an indirect measure of
muscle growth the subjects were also
previously untrained women so you may
question its generalizability but this
isn't always a problem as detailed in a
previous video even so we might just
consider this early evidence of the
long-term effects furthermore some other
studies Point towards varying your rep
ranges benefiting muscle growth such as
this paper subjects performed a range of
exercises for three sets each in a
training session a narrow rep range
group performed 12 reps on the first set
10 reps on the second set and eight reps
on the final set a wider rep range group
performed 15 reps on the first set 10
reps on the second set and five reps on
the third set in other words both groups
did what is known as ascending pyramid
training the only difference being The
Wider rep range group trained across a
wider range of repetitions after 12
weeks of training muscle mass gains were
Superior for The Wider rep range group
the subjects were previously untrained
older women finally let me describe what
may be the strongest reason for varying
rep ranges as alluded to earlier reps
between 6 and 35 appear to be similarly
effective for building muscle however
this is based on the average results of
the studies and we have some data
indicating individuals may differ from
this this is a concept explored very
recently at the house of hypertrophy
with this paper establishing some people
experienced better thigh growth from
either training with 8 to 12 reps or 27
to 31 reps since then I've also
discovered another paper detailing
individual differences seated and
standing C raisers were trained for four
sets each session by previously
untrained men they performed 6 to 10
reps to failure per set with one leg and
20 to 30 reps to failure per set with
the other leg average growth of the Cal
muscles was similar between both rep
ranges but although some aligned with
the average others saw better growth
with a 6 to 10 or 20 to 30 reps in
reality it can be difficult to figure
out if you grow better with a certain
rep range and it could even differ
between your muscles accordingly the
simplest solution might be to vary your
rep ranges that way if some of your
muscles respond better to higher or
lower reps varying rep ranges ensures at
least part of your program is optimized
for this reason and some of the other
reasons covered it may be a good idea to
train with different rep ranges remember
no study to date has found it to be
inferior but I will say if you're coming
from the position where you don't want
to vary your rep ranges I'd say simply
continue training as you prefer the
evidence outlined in this video is not
strong enough to say you're absolutely
going to be missing out on a ton of
gains when not varing rep ranges if you
do want to vary your rep ranges you have
a ton of flexibility on how you may do
this a linear undulating pyramid
approach or even something else like
training different exercises for the
same muscle with varying rep ranges
remember for strength gains undulating
seems to be better so could be ideal to
develop strength and size
simultaneously if you're searching for
further guidance about training our
highquality partner the alpha
progression app can help you create
track and evolve your hypertrophy or
strength training it has multiple
valuable features for all training
levels they incredibly flexible
generator can custom make an
evidence-based training program 100% to
your needs in less than 3 minutes let it
know your experience what equipment you
have and how often and how long you want
to train for there are over a
quadrillion input combinations on which
your plan is based and the plans tend to
involve varying rep ranges slightly for
different exercises that train the same
muscle but edits can be made to vary
even further or reduce variation
depending on your choice Graphics unveil
your long-term progression thereby
saving you time from having to manually
track it there's also a massive exercise
database scrolling through you may
discover variations you never knew
existed the link in the comments and
description allows you to try all the
features of the app free for 2 weeks and
if you like it and decide to go beyond
you'll get 20% off a subscription the
app's reviews speak to its high
quality before summarizing the video we
need to clarify some things some viewers
might have been wondering isn't varying
rep ranges ideal because lower reps
better grow fast twitch fibers while
higher reps better grow slow twitch
fibers despite being logical we've
previously seen at the house of hyry
that the research doesn't support this
we've also just talked about linear and
undulating periodization as we know
they're the most studied but
theoretically there are a trillion other
ways you could periodize for strength or
size and in the pinned comment I've
speculated on other methods finally
we've heavily used the term
periodization throughout this video
since it was used in the literature but
I don't think this was necessarily
appropriate in all cases the pinned
comment also contains my expanded
thoughts on this nonetheless summarizing
the video periodized programs seem to
Just Produce similar muscle growth to
non-p periodized programs similar
hypertrophy between linear and
undulating periodization models is also
found however there are some limitations
to these studies as well as extra
research that might suggest training
with different rep ranges could be
beneficial for hypertrophy you might
wish to do this in some form but if this
doesn't appeal to you know it's still
possible to grow very well without
training with different rep ranges as
for strength periodization programs seem
to result in Greater improvements than
non-p periodized programs and in trained
individuals undulating periodization
seems to produce better gains than
linear periodization thank you for
watching feel free to check out the
alpha progression app or our recent deep
dive into building the LS