[Music]
and I got this morning's we make
breakfast and I realized we had to two
eggs so that's ready to get egg ways
give me all this stuff so a mini grocery
haul sort of expected but hey guys real
quick
guess we will be extra letter today's
fly these up because for some reason the
large eggs have a strange home okay
headaches skim milk I'm actually using
skin up a lot of the proteins for so I'm
just a kind of a top out so if I have
like say I don't know twenty grams or
fifteen grams or something like that
protein high-quality protein in the meal
then I'll just talk it off with milk and
other mass media lot of grapes lately
you can Auto spicy by Chile to Nellie
Lee TVs as always you probably one or
two news today Rob Aries chicken
actually ground turkey turkey baby let's
I brought back I brought back like a ton
of bricks from the states
I'm not going to have those this morning
I'm gonna have hash browns haven't had
these in court or watch and I did forget
to say I have a new roommate is over
here recording your video on this if you
try
[Music]
alright guys so here's the breakfast
I've got as usual egg whites with some
Gouda cheese on top so I've been like
switching that up a little bit I've got
these hash browns for one serving of
those turkey bacon I'm going to put the
ketchup on the hashbrowns and kiwi come
in from ride base sending a bunch of
clothes see a rise is a company that
I've been more complete over a year now
actually really excited when they
reached out to me
some of them there their ribs
see I'll probably use these a lot for
like lat pull-downs seated rows that
sort of thing I am actually planning to
do more bench press training want to do
a bench only neat within the next year
use those with that so these are the
like these these actually look pretty
sweet with jogging pants great yes these
are really nice and that looks swag this
is pretty nice these are another pair of
joggers what color is this slick clothes
this like a bird bird becomes a pretty
good and these are actually super those
see this stuff this stuff is super like
prices are good too 30 bucks
Canadian ok this is this is it it's just
Harmony's yeah their continent pulse
pulse a zip-up okay know what here one's
different
is it it so this is like comes dull a
visa row is probably in the clearance
rack they say okay then so oh here we go
okay so they're colonists oh it's the
momentum hoodie burgundy I got it right
okay so this is the momentum hoodie
Burgundy this is the this is the other
moment of desire army green actually I
like this one better I had a lot of Nu
oh that's way too you I got like I just
got a lot of the big more neutral colors
up like the design like the line yeah
this is the that's the other cool and
yeah this is the army dream I really
like this one oh that's way row oh this
one here I love I love the like
stitching and then the governor if you
can see that but it's really nice and
then the bottom is scooped I think yeah
I'm really looking for me at this moment
I was wrong
yeah it's like it's a stretchy material
so you man really high quality and then
yeah as the scoop on the bottom and then
the stitching on the front in fact and
white I really like this one so I got it
wow that fits that's crazy aesthetic
oh let's say I don't sleep but this is a
Leever belt okay this is the t-shirt
version of this am I getting a decent
angle here at all yeah yeah alright so
guys I just said I just laid everything
out so yeah I'm actually super excited
about this clothing haul and just want
to say it's a real honor to be a part of
the rise team comes thank you I'm going
to rise for the hooking me up I don't
know if I knew the names of them when I
was on boxing it but this one is called
the momentum burgundy hoodie this is one
of my favorites and this is the army
green venture crew neck and then the
gray one whereas this one oh yeah the
gray and black as well I really love
those those are a couple of my favorites
for now that the fall is here and then
also these aligned tanks so the the
tanks with the stitching I have on the
black one right now and you fit really
well and they have like the scoop at the
bottom we're going to go get some pics
with some of this stuff but it's looking
like it's pretty rainy out which is rare
it hasn't been raining much here at all
but yeah you can see it so well you
probably can't see but
a little bit so so apparently there is
this 20 24 20 there was this 25 year old
guy who entered a bodybuilding contest
and he had this congenital condition
where he couldn't relax his muscles I
forget what was called right now but
I'll put it up here and he won the body
go the natural bodybuilding show and he
never lifted a baby in his life so he
just literally couldn't yeah they just
couldn't relax his muscles he was just
constantly tent and so it was actually
Greg chuckles - I saw share this on my
facebook I just saw then so I haven't
actually read it yet but I plan to read
it interesting stuff but anyway I'm
gonna get a pre-workout meal I'm gonna
have some grits and probably just a whey
protein shake something light before
legs and we're going to hit a leg
workout so check in with you guys engine
[Music]
Taylor Taylor
[Music]
[Music]
so that was just a later set three
working sets here into eight to ten reps
and move on to our main compound for the
day
trying to really prioritize hamstrings
on the next
[Music]
just finish up with a leg workout now
going to get some food I'm just gonna
get something at home
yeah first workout training in the new
rise stuff and honestly I have to say
it's like seriously some of the most
comfortable clothes that I've trained in
fit super super well and super
comfortable and I love the look of it so
yeah I just like have nothing bad to say
about it also in Kelowna right now
there's like this super I don't know
this is normal here not because I've
only lived here for a couple months but
like over here it's just like over here
there's like very low white clouds I
don't know if you can see that
yeah it actually looks really cool when
I maybe go over there and see if I can
like get a fingers see we're gonna try
to get some pics by this fountain it
looks like we might have a challenger I
don't know I'm rocked in my crew nook
rise black and wanna sleep in the rise
compression pants these are these are a
pair of Jordans that I got in New Haven
Connecticut I have no idea what they're
called
I'm just taking a video for it
yeah I think that's no but I think
shooting shooting miss ball you get
water oh yeah yeah yeah
[Music]
it's videoing
[Music]
Oh
[Applause]
[Music]