supersets are the single most
underutilized trading technique but I'm
not talking about supersetting two
exercises for the same muscle group let
me explain
welcome back to Wolf coaching soon to be
Dr Milo wolfier and today we're talking
about supersets this topic was actually
recommended by a few of you in the
comment section so thank you for asking
but not the same muscle group supersets
but rather something called
non-overlapping supersets that's a term
I stole from Dr Mike Israel to give a
quick clip on why I'm not referring to
same muscle group supersets for example
doing push downs and push-ups for your
triceps but rather about supersets with
different muscle groups it's because
broadly speaking the evidence doesn't
really support the usage of same bus
Group supersets Beyond just doing
traditional straight sets in contrast to
same muscle hoop supersets we do have a
growing body of evidence supporting the
use of non-overlapping supersets but
before we delve into that science let me
explain what non-overlapping supersets
really are strictly speaking
non-overlapping supersets is
supersetting any two exercises with some
rest between those two sets or not at
Target different muscle groups for
example using the squat and the bench
press would classify as being a
non-overlapping superset using a squat
and a light extension would not classify
because you're using the quadriceps in
both of these exercises so
non-overlapping supersets are simply
supersets consisting of two exercises
targeting different muscle groups
however we can break down
non-overlapping supersets further
specifically one subtype of
non-overlapping superset is the
antagonistic paired superset and the
antagonistic or antagonist paired
superset you're supersetting two
exercises that are essentially opposites
in terms of the motion you're performing
and in terms of the muscle groups
involved the reason why antagonists
paired supersets may be particularly
beneficial is because whenever you're
doing any motion let's say a bench press
the antagonist muscle groups like the
back and the biceps which are resisting
the motion that you're doing while
benching those were always activated to
a certain extent for stabilization and
other things this is called reciprocal
inhibition wherein the antagonist muscle
group kind of resists the pecs and the
triceps in this case and so in the
antagonist part superset what we think
might happen is by first training the
back it will then interfere less so
during the bench press because it's more
fatigued and has just been trained and
so with antagonist period supersets you
could potentially expect a greater
performance enhancement compared to not
doing any superset at all because the
antagonist muscle group is fatigued and
may interfere less with performance for
example of the bench press when you just
did a set of rows AKA antagonistic
motions but enough about the theory
behind paired supersets and
non-relapping supersets and antagonistic
paired supersets what we really care
about is whether or not there's any
evidence supporting their use within
your hypertrophy training broadly
speaking we have six studies these can
be classified into either being acute
where we just have people perform either
traditional sets you know one set of
bench followed by some rest another sort
of bench followed by some rest and then
we move on to for example rows versus
doing paired supersets and seeing how
that influences performance for example
so these are acute studies where
participants just come in for one
session and we look at the effects of
paired supersets on performance and the
other classification of study could be
chronic studies where we actually have
participants either do traditional sets
you know doing your three sets of bench
and then moving on to rows versus doing
a set of bench a set of rows a set of
bench a set of rows and going back and
forth and seeing how well the two groups
respond to this and whether one group
grows more muscle than the other so in
total we have six studies looking at the
effects of non-overlapping supersets on
either acute performance or chronic
adaptations like hypertrophy
specifically we have four acute studies
looking at performance and how
non-overlapping supersets may influence
performance acutely and two studies
comparing traditional sets just doing
the sets of one movement one after the
other before moving on to another
movement versus non-overlapping
supersets and measuring hypertrophy
before and after in two groups each one
employing either traditional sets or
non-overlapping supersets let me start
with the acute studies and let me tell
you first why we would care basically
when you're training what you're trying
to do really is to import a muscle group
with a stimulus now depending on how
much you train what you do during that
session and how well you perform that
can all alter how much stimulus you get
to the Target muscle to grow and so
presumably if we can get you to perform
better in your session that will then
eventually lead to more hypertrophy
there are some assumptions built into
that which is why you don't take acute
studies and just apply them and think oh
if there's an acute effect in a given
session or performance that means we
definitely see more growth but it is
good to see those effects as a sort of
mechanistic link as to why these
techniques might hurt hypertrophy or
might benefit approach for you the acute
data on antagonist paired supersets or
non-overlapping supersets started
emerging around the mid-2010s the first
study try to see whether doing an
all-out set of leg curls before doing
light extensions would enhance
performance in those light extensions as
I mentioned earlier by training the
hamstrings first they might interfere
with performance of leg extension less
by resisting the quadriceps less during
my extensions this study had six
conditions in in the first condition
participants just came into the lab and
did their 10 rep max or as much weight
as they could live for 10 reps on the
leg extension in the second condition
they performed a set of light curls to
failure immediately before their set of
light extensions in the third condition
the day rested with 30 seconds between
their set of leg curls to failure and
their testing set on the light
extensions in the fourth condition they
rested for a full minute between light
curls and light exceptions in the fifth
condition they rested for three minutes
between their set of black curls and
night extensions and finally in the
final condition they rested for about
five minutes between doing their set of
light curls and doing their set of leg
extensions and here are the results when
performing a set of light curls before
the leg extensions generally they were
able to do more reps with the same
weight in other words their performance
improved importantly the greatest
performance Improvement was seen when
doing their leg extensions immediately
after their leg curls or 30 to 60
seconds afterwards so if you want to see
a performance benefit this might be a
rough ballpark to shoot for the second
study had participants superset bench
pressing and Rowing while resting two
minutes between each set of bench press
and bench press and 45 seconds between a
set of bench press and rows compared to
condition where participants simply took
two minutes princess of bench press the
non-overlapping superset group actually
saw greater volume across the whole
session meaning they were able to lift
either more weight and or for more
repetitions across the session so
supersetting antagonist Motions like a
row in a bench seem to actually enhance
performance across session although
greater fatigue was noted by the authors
in this study the third study on acute
performance actually was the first study
to not look at antagonist paired
superset but rather non-overlapping
supersets specifically they superseted
squats and bench press in one condition
participants simply rested for three
minutes between sets of squats and three
minutes between sets of bench press in
the superset condition on the other hand
they rested for three minutes between
any given set of squats but 45 five
seconds after performing a set of squats
they perform the set of bench press in
this study they measured performance
using both the velocity of the first
strap on any given set with a total
number of repetitions performed for each
set with the same load and finally how
many repetitions are performed across
the whole session in short when
supersetting squats with bench press no
major differences were found in terms of
the Velocity on the first trap of any
set how many repetitions were performed
across the whole session or even how
many repetitions were performed on each
set this study begins to suggest that
actually it doesn't need to be an
antagonistic period superset it can just
be a non-overlapping superset and you
still won't see a detrim at least due
performance the final acute study was
quite interesting because in this case
they looked at the effect of different
rest times between sets on how well you
performed they also looked at different
supersets specifically they looked at
both the bench press and row superset
and the pull down and overhead press
superset rest times were either one
minute between sets two minutes between
sets of the same exercise 3 minutes or
self-selected rust the authors assess
performance using total trading volume
across the whole session in other words
how much weight will the participants
able to lift for how many reps across
all their sets when they were doing
supersets as opposed to resting for
sufficient time between each set in
other words in this study the authors
try to determine how long should people
rest between sets during an antagonistic
paired superset or during a
non-overlapping superset the greatest
training volumes were generally achieved
with three minutes of rest between sets
for the same exercise or with
self-selected rest although similarly
great volumes were also seen closer to
two minutes so there may be a trade-off
between two and three minutes of rest
while with two minutes you see worse
performance but you are spending less
time training in other words by
supersetting two different exercises and
essentially training during the rest
time for one exercise you're able to do
more sets in less time that should lead
to Greater time efficiency within your
sessions and with three minutes you see
greater performance but your session
winds up taking more time it's difficult
to say whether that trade-off is worth
making but I would generally turn
towards three minutes for bigger
compound movements importantly the
superset of overhead press and pull
Downs didn't seem to do quite as well
for performance compared to bench press
and roll in other words supersetting
overhead press and pull Downs may be a
bit more challenging in terms of
maximizing performance so broadly
speaking the acute data suggests that
one when pairing antagonist exercises
you may actually see an improvement in
your performance two you can also
superset non-overlapping exercises like
for example the squat on the bench
they're not antagonistic but at least
they don't turn into a must group and
you may not see a reduction in your
trading performance three certain
exercises may be safer to superset
without losing performance for example
the pull down an overhead press maybe
worse candidates for this technique
compared to say the bench press and the
row or a curl and a tricep extension or
a light extension and a leg curl finally
what's worth noting for a cute
performance studies is that generally
the participants weren't super trained
now let's move on to the chronic studies
the studies actually look got
hypertrophy and strength outcomes the
first study used a similar design as a
previously mentioned acute study
supersetting the squat and the bench
press resting three minutes between sets
of squats but 45 seconds between a set
of squats and the first set of bench
press one group trained exclusively
using traditional sets so doing all
their sets of squads then moving on to
bench press and one group did the
superset technique I just mentioned
performance was assessed using common
movement jump one rep Maxes and muscle
endurance measurements in short similar
improvements were seen in counter
movement jump height one rep max is in
the squad on bench muscle endurance in
the bench press but there were greater
gains and muscle endurance in the squat
when doing supersets this is likely
owing to the fact that they simply
perform more work and less time and thus
had more of a muscle endurance
adaptation effect the second study on
non-overlapping supersets actually
measured hypertrophy so to recap the
acute studies there was not really ever
a negative effect of supersets on
performance and thus if performance is
the thing impacting stimulus from
massage and student versus a thing
impacting hypertrophy from a session you
wouldn't expect to see any differences
in hypertrophy when supersetting versus
doing traditional sets or potentially if
doing antagonistic paired supersets you
may actually expect to see greater
hypertrophy because that might enhance
performance thus enhance stimulus and
thus enhance hypertrophy when performed
over the course of a program in this
study participants performed three sets
of light extensions and light curls
twice a week either by super setting
those two exercises or by doing
traditional sets there are always two
minutes between sets of a given exercise
for example in the traditional set group
there will be a set of light curls two
minutes rest then another set of leg
curls words in the supersite group it
was the same thing except this time they
were doing leg extensions in between the
set of leg curls they measured strength
using one rep max on the leg extension
and micro exercise and hypertrophy using
muscle thicknesses of the quadriceps and
of the hamstrings increases in one rep
max and in muscle thickness were similar
for both groups in other words this
first study to look at hypertrophy
directly when doing super presets seems
to suggest that supersetting two
exercises that are non-overlapping and
in this case also antagonistic I like
extension or like curl didn't seem to
impede hypertrophy or strength
adaptations at all those are all the
studies on non-overlapping supersets let
me give you some practical takeaways on
how to implement this in your training
to save time and potentially see more
hypertrophy and straight adaptations for
hypertrophy don't be afraid of
supersetting exercises especially if
they're antagonist paired exercises as a
wool thumb if you try supersetting two
exercises and you find that performance
doesn't suffer or even improves a little
bit those are two good exercises to
Super such as an example with a bench
press in a row work very well as
supersets generally rest between one and
three minutes between sets for different
exercises for example do a set of bench
rest one to three minutes or until you
feel ready to go for a set of rows and
go for your set of rows then rest one to
three minutes and go for a set of bench
and repeat this process until all your
sets are done you don't need to just
stick to antagonist paired super sets in
other words you could superset something
like a dumbbell ladder race and a calf
raise because these two exercises use
very different muscle groups you can
superset them and likely see no
detriment to your performance and in
fact by allowing for more rest between
sets of cavities you know if you're just
doing calves you might find yourself
rushing through the rest time because
you're bored you can actually have a
longer rest time between sets of calves
and potentially see more growth as some
data suggests better hypertrophy when
resting above two or three minutes
between sets if you notice that
supersetting two exercises consistently
leads to worse performance it may be
worth not supersetting those two
exercises as an example I know I
mentioned a study where they superseded
squash and squash and bench while you
could superset those two exercises I
generally wouldn't recommend it simply
because if you're doing a set of squats
that can be very systemically fatiguing
generally just being fatigued could
feasibly interfere with performance
especially in more trained athletes
finally I wouldn't recommend necessarily
using non-overlapping supersets on very
high rep sets it can be quite
challenging going from one exercise
perform for High Reps to another one
performed for High Reps for example if
you're just done doing 25 reps on the
bench press moving into 25 reps on the
pull down can be quite challenging
because you're still out of breath
overall and not really ready to perform
maximally on that set of pull Downs
equally generally with high rep work
that lends itself better to isolation
work and you'll find that you don't need
as much rest between sets so you don't
gain much time efficiency by super
setting those exercises because you
already would be resting for that long
typically anyways so with high rep work
there's potentially a detriment training
performance and you also don't gain that
much in terms of time efficiency owing
through short rest periods typically
employed with higher rep work that's the
video if you like the video please
comment like subscribe this one was
actually quite researched and it was
suggested by you so if you want to see
more videos in this style please comment
down below letting me know what you want
to see peace