hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization this week's weekly tip
number 17.
and if you uh youtube the rest of them
it should pop up i hope i think we have
a playlist i don't know anything about
youtube i'm simply trapped in a dungeon
and our videographer yells at me until
like a chimp on a movie set i do the
right thing
when
not
to lock out your presses and by presses
here we mean chest work shoulder work
tricep work and yes even quad work
usually locking out presses is totally
fine it's a part of the movement and yes
i know you've seen the three videos of
the one lady and the one guy from iran
doing the leg press thing and the shit
buckles forward but generally speaking
locking out is totally safe
however
there are some instances quite a few
in which locking out may not be ideal
and you may actually forgo the lockout
so for example on a chest press you may
stop just short of lockout and go back
down
here are the situations i can think of
maybe you can think of a few more drop
them into the comments and i'll tell you
how wrong and stupid you are just
kidding i'm not that rude in the
comments am i
first
if locking out hurts the joints and not
in a seemingly adaptive way like oh that
feels like it hurts a bit kind of like
training does but then it gets better
over a few weeks if every time you do
you're like ow
something is wrong here this is bad if
that's happening i would back away from
the lockout because like there's not a
ton to gain but a lot to lose
potentially and just like doing some
joint damage and even just having being
a pain in the ass for no reason and just
like you hate training the lockout for
most purposes just isn't that important
a part of the lift so unless you like
really feel comfortable with it you
don't have to do it so if it feels
really weird and joints and it hurts you
don't have to do it no big deal things a
lot of people assume it's going to feel
weird and hurt but then they actually do
it like it feels fine and some asshole
in the gym is like you shouldn't knock
out your joints you're going to die and
that's total bs
next
if not locking out causes better
stimulus to fatigue ratios for the
target muscle which means as an example
let's say we're talking about chest and
presses if not locking out your presses
gives your chest a better pump on
average versus locking out during every
single rep
it leads the chest to feel way weaker
after the workout than if you were to
walk out which is good means it was
drained and hypothetically worked really
hard and thus the stimulus was really
good if your chest gets more sore after
training same give a number of sets lock
out or not if you don't lock it out your
chest is getting more sore hey maybe
that's a really good thing and if it's
better on joints and fatigue
then your stimulus to fatigue ratio
seems higher when you don't lock out hey
go to town fuck lockouts why would you
need them if you're really just shooting
yourself in the foot it's not like this
dogma you have to lock out every press
yeah sure in a powerlifting competition
you do but most of you guys watch this
channel probably just trying to get
jacked or generally strong and that's
totally fine you don't have to lock out
at all if it actually better now here's
the thing
a lot of times guys won't lock out
because they suck at the lockout slash
are weak slash can use more weight if
they don't walk out and they make
excuses and say i feel it better this
way you got to be honest with yourself
if you actually feel it better sweet if
you don't just shut up and lock out
next one
if not locking out
can lead the target muscle to be a
limiting factor to movement and prevent
another muscle that you're not targeting
from actually being limiting factor
again the chest press is a really good
idea like on a chest machine sometimes
the way the machine is designed or just
your body's built or the relative
strength of your muscles if you get
close to lockout and come down towards
the end when you're getting close to
failure it's your pecs clearly giving
out and then when you're done you're
like dude my that's it and chess gets a
huge pump it gets sore like my chest is
definitely what's limiting me on this
exercise however
some machines the way they're built if
you're locking out
then it really turns into a movement
which the triceps are the limiting
factor so when you finish a set go to
failure close lock out and rack
someone's like pretty sweet chest chest
hit yeah you're like i don't know man i
feel like my triceps are giving out
every time in my chest i feel like every
time i go to failure with my triceps my
chest is like three or four good reps
left remember those three or four good
reps left they can't be done anymore
because you failed and you're done but
also like they need be some of the most
effective reps from a stimulus
perspective because they're the closest
reps to failure which generally are on
average at least a bit more hypertrophy
cause more growth so if it's a situation
where locking out is literally making
another muscle that you're not really
targeting like when you do chest press
usually you're targeting let's say your
chest and not your triceps it's kind of
like well this is kind of stupid right
like what am i doing now the conor
example on that
is
for dips a lot of people you see doing
dips they won't lock out the thing is
like if you guys have ever gone close to
failure dips now everyone's built
different and it really does matter how
your body's built
sometimes how the dip stand is arranged
but in most cases it's that last close
to lockout that really fucks your
triceps and then guys will do dips
they'll say i'm doing it for the tries
bro and then they'll go like they do
these kinds of shits and it's like well
motherfucker you barely even turn on
your tries like they could be if you
actually locked out like if they
actually locked out looks like they you
know used to do 90 pounds hanging now
they're just using their body weight and
doing sets of eight and they're like
that's really hard that's not as
impressive so you have to be honest
about what's going on but yeah if the
target muscle
is actually not the limiting factor when
you're locking out stop locking out if
that fixes the problem don't worry about
locking out just do a good job coming
close to lockout when you start to feel
that other muscle engage back off slowly
melt the stretch and go on from there
lastly if locking out feels highly
unstable and thus potentially unsafe i
just wouldn't do it so like if you're
real strong on the hack squat and every
time you lock out like it wobbles and
the machine wobbles and your knee kind
of does like
what kind of thing like fuck that like i
i you guys have seen me uh lift a whole
bunch in this channel and instagram and
stuff and
you know i lock out all my presses
almost always like all all leg presses
and i lock my hack squats out and people
like oh my god cringe what are you doing
when i'm doing the movement i don't feel
a tiny bit of discomfort and lockout and
i feel completely no matter what it
looks like externally internally i feel
completely stable and in control this is
this would be hilarious video to replay
when i bust my shit open one of these
days and i can do the fold back lady
thing with my knees it'll be fine i'll
laugh with you guys when i'm at the
hospital but in all honesty it doesn't
feel unstable it doesn't feel unsafe it
doesn't feel weird so i'm gonna do it
but if for you locking out honestly
honest to goodness you tried it with
your loads on hack squats or like
presses if it just feels all sorts of
wrong likes if i keep doing this my shit
is going to pop through some people's
knees are more flexible and when they
lock out it really isn't right don't do
it then stopping just short of lockout
is totally fine
otherwise
just by default to put the muscles
through a full range of motion and get
maximal development locking out is the
default so you should do it usually but
if you have a good excuse or rather
reason i'm being a dick
and it's maybe one of these four reasons
and maybe it's another reason that is
pretty decent
then uh yeah you don't have to lock out
folks no dogma no religion here on this
channel uh just getting those good
old-fashioned gains in a logical
sensible way and i'll see you next week
for the next weekly tips where you
hopefully have more useful information
peace