it is the intensity of your workout
rather than its duration that determines
your rate of muscular growth both have a
factor if you go in to the leg press and
do one rep max screaming crying your
spine coming out of your the
biggest rep anyone's ever seen and it
the rep takes you 7 seconds because
that's how close to failure you are the
entire time you're at failure if we
trained you like that with just one
repetition intensity could not be higher
than that you would still grow more if
you did two three four five or six reps
like that instead of just one if it sets
a five you probably grow more with two
or three or four sets of five then you
would with just one set of five so yes
intensity is critical you got to train
hard in any given set but the number of
sets isn't a fewer is better it's not a
more is better is if you are within your
ability to recover and progress you're
doing the right number of sets if you're
just not challenging your recovery you
could be doing more sets and getting
bigger benefits