six days a week I'm going to ask you to
follow these four food groups one day a
week well you can eat and drink whatever
you want for many people that's a
profoundly bad idea and I'll tell you
why you can actually eat so much
processed that you can eliminate
hundreds of calories no no thousands of
calories from your weekly deficit you
might even do enough damage to reverse
the whole and end up at maintenance
how if you manage to stuff two large
pizzas in that face of yours which I
know comment below if you've eaten two
large pizzas but don't lie I'll check on
your profile pick and I'll see if you're
really worth that we're down to a
point where whatever deficit you were
running into every day let's even call
it 1,000 calories 6 days of deficit and
well something like 6,000 calorie
Surplus if you really go ham on a fing
cheat day and you might because you get
hungry enough to do that and if it
eliminates the entire deficit and and
you end up just maintaining