welcome to the house of hypertrophy how
many exercises per muscle group are
required for optimizing muscle
hypertrophy might one exercise be
sufficient let's analyze the scientific
literature
[Music]
a 2016 study from Brazil recruited 26
previously untrained men one group
trained the squat to only a second group
the leg press only and a third group
both the leg press and squats after
training twice a week for 10 weeks
fat-free Mass gains non-significantly
differed between the three groups the
raw percentages seemingly favor the
squat group taking at face value this
study May imply multiple exercises for a
muscle fails to benefit muscle
hypertrophy yet a crucial limitation of
this study is fat-free mass is an
indirect and imprecise muscle
hypertrophy measurement it does not
allow us to know if growth across muscle
heads or even regions of each muscle
differed between groups this matters as
Regional hypertrophy exists growth
across muscle heads and even within
regions of a muscle head isn't always
equal for example a 2013 Japanese study
found in leg extensions didn't equally
grow the quad heads or the upper and
lower regions of each head another other
2021 Japanese study found preacher curls
with a partial range of motion at long
lengths did not equally grow three
regions across the biceps different
exercises for a muscle group May produce
diverse regional growth meaning multiple
exercises for a muscle are complementary
to maximally develop it regionally yet I
would say the Brazilian study shows how
one exercise per muscle is far from
useless for hypertrophy
[Music]
a 2021 Brazilian study elegantly shows
how multiple exercises for a muscle
benefit Regional development 22d trained
men were assigned into a non-varied or
varied group both groups train three
times per week the non-varied group
perform the same exercises in each
session whereas the varied group perform
three different exercises per muscle
across the three weekly training
sessions each exercise was trained with
these variables before and after eight
training weeks Rex's femoris vastus
lateralis elbow flexor and triceps
growth were measured at the upper middle
and lower regions growth at some regions
was similar between both groups but
growth at other regions was Superior for
the varied group this was despite the
fact lean mass gains were similar
between both groups demonstrating how
lean mass and fat-free Mass measures
fail to detect subtle hypertrophy
differences another 2014 Brazilian study
further indicates that The Beneficial
impact of multiple exercises some
subjects train the score only across 12
weeks other subjects showing a squat leg
press lunge and deadlift across 12 weeks
the squat was performed to 90 degrees of
knee flexion on a Smith machine this
might seem like a crime but we've
examined previously how machines are not
inherently inferior to free weights for
hypertrophy and one Japanese study found
similar quad hypertrophy between 90 and
140 degree knee flexion squats returning
to the study both groups increase the
size of their quadriceps muscles but
those performing multiple exercises
tended to see greater vastus medialis
and lateralis growth so multiple
exercises per muscle can benefit
regional growth but I still want to
again emphasize it's not like one
exercise per muscle is useless in both
studies one exercise for a muscle still
induced very significant hypertrophy
in the Costa study the variety group
used three biomechanically different
exercises in the same week interestingly
the researchers speculated the
significantly greater upper elbowflex
hypertrophy seen by the varied group may
be a result of them training incline
curls the Fonseca study had subjects
vary their exercises across different
weeks suggesting this might also be a
viable way to train a muscle with
multiple different exercises also these
exercises work biomechanically
contrasting this is an important Point
random exercise variation with little
biomechanical rationale probably
produces a redundant or sub-optimal
stimulus a 2019 Spanish study
demonstrates this 19 trained men were
assigned to a fixed or variation group
both groups trained two upper and lower
training sessions per week for eight
weeks the fixed group performed the same
six upper and six lower body exercises
in their sessions the variation group
used a phone app can consisting of 80
different exercises to randomly generate
what exercises they trained each session
each exercise was trained with these
variables before and after the study
rexus femoris vastus intermedius and
vassar's lateralis thickness were
measured at around the 50 thigh bone
length the data suggest the variation
group experience the lower rectus
femoris growth why the leg extension is
an exercise that develops the rectus
femoris highly and the fixed group
regularly trained this exercise but the
variation group due to the app randomly
selecting exercises would have likely
trained this exercise at a much lower
frequency So Random rotation and
fluctuation of exercises isn't
necessarily beneficial for regional
growth though I do want to emphasize how
random exercise variation wasn't tragic
for muscle hypertrophy it still built
muscle well in these trained individuals
some individuals may genuinely enjoy
random exercise variation although a
practical limitation of this is tracking
Progressive overload cannot be easily
done here
I rarely accept sponsors at the house of
hypertrophy as I don't know or trust
many companies reaching out but I've
been in contact with Alpha progression a
truly unique and advanced fitness app
you can add your own program or use
their custom workout generator that
produces excellent programs you can
paradise reps and reserves and sets and
schedule dealer weeks the custom
workouts can still be edited to your
liking workouts can be tracked live and
the app generates solid progression
recommendations across sessions it has a
clean design with a database of more
than 450 exercises with great text and
video tutorials aesthetic graphs can
track virtually any measure across time
like bench press strength number of
workouts a week body weight and even set
numbers per muscle group and
circumference measures of body regions
the link in the comments and description
takes you to the app and by using this
link you'll have two weeks free of all
its features plus 20 off a yearly or
monthly subscription if you do purchase
the app House of hypertrophy will get 50
so this sincerely helped support these
free videos thank you
2020 Brazilian study by Chavez might be
considered an anomaly subjects either
train the incline bench press only flat
bench press only or a combination of
both with these variables after training
once a week for eight weeks PEX major
growth across three regions tended to be
superior for the incline bench press
group only so performing biomechanically
different chest exercises didn't enhance
regional growth rather this data
indicates an inclined bench press is
solely Superior for overall chest
development it's unclear if these
results apply to free weights since a
Smith machine was used but there are
limitations and considerations of this
study training frequency and volumes
were low in this study the combination
group only performed between two to
three sets per exercise in a week and
maybe higher training volumes change the
outcome I'm also skeptical of the
study's data the incline group saw a 0.8
to 1 centimeter increase in thickness
equating to around a 54 to 62 percent
increase which is abnormally massive
especially when considering the fact
lower frequencies and weekly volumes
were used compare this to a 2013
Japanese study which had subjects
trained the barbell bench press with
these variables for six months using
higher volumes and frequencies versus
the Chavez study yet hypertrophy was
merely comparable to that observed in
the Chavez study thus I'm hesitant to
put my faith in the findings of the
Chavez study
one exercise per muscle can certainly be
excellent for muscle hypertrophy and I
don't think it's necessarily a bad thing
if you want to do this as further
Evidence a Japanese study compared
seated to Langley coals and observe
greater hamstrings hypertrophy with
seated Legos so simply training seat and
leg curls should be awesome for
hamstrings development the same research
is compared overhead extensions to push
downs and observe greater triceps
hypertrophy with overhead extensions so
simply training overhead extension
should be awesome for triceps games but
to truly optimize Regional Development
Across a muscle a few biomechanically
different exercises is likely needed we
just saw overhead extensions produced
overall more triceps growth than push
downs but regional growth differences
between different triceps exercises
likely exist making them complementary
some data indicates dumbbell skull
crushes May tend to go the triceps at
the middle regions whereas potentially
dumbbell overhead extensions develop the
upper region slightly more coming soon
to the house of hypertrophy we'll be
releasing free Ultimate Guide videos on
developing each muscle we'll thoroughly
explore which set of exercises for a
muscle may be ideal for maxing games but
we'll also answer the following
interesting question if you can only
select one exercise per muscle Group
which might be the most productive and
effective finally I have a free Ultimate
Guide to bench pressing ebook that
covers these areas feel free to get it
in the link in the comments and
description
[Music]