what's up everyone so as usual around
this time of the month I'll do my
roundup of the coming months issue of
mass so mass stands for monthly
applications in strength sport so the
whole issue which referenced over fifty
peer-reviewed articles I'm just going to
be doing a deep dive on one piece which
covered a paper published this year
looking at the difference between
so-called Groot super sets and separated
super sets and just so we're clear on
the terminology group super sets refers
to doing exercises back to back without
rest that train the same muscle so for
example doing two exercises for the
chest right after one another would be
an example of a group superset and then
an example of a separated superset would
be say doing one set of benchpress and
then doing a set of leg extensions right
after it with a rest and the basic idea
behind both methods is that you're able
to save on time by cutting out some of
the rest periods between the exercise
the group superset method is also touted
often by bodybuilders as being sort of
intensity technique and the theory goes
that you can activate more musculature
by doing two exercises for the same body
part back-to-back so in this study the
authors looked at the effects of both
different types of super sets on two
different things so muscle activation
and then indirect markers of muscle
damage such as creatine kinase levels
and muscle soreness and the subjects
were twenty sort of trained men as they
were familiar with weight training but
not competitively themselves so all the
subjects performed a single training
session and those in the group superset
group did five sets of leg press and leg
extensions back-to-back of around ten
reps to failure with no rest between any
sense then they rested for three minutes
and did the same basic thing again so
five consecutive sets with no rest
between sets for the bench press and
peck peck the separated superset group
had the same basic setup except a
superset in five sets of the bench press
with five sets of leg extensions they
rested for three minutes and then did
the same thing again for the leg press
and peck that and you can pause the
screen right here if you want to look at
their actual training protocols you can
wrap your head around the study design
so the main differences had to do with
recovery creatine kinase levels which I
as a marker as muscle damage remained
elevated for the grouped superset group
at all time points up to five days and
may have remained elevated for even
longer than that group super sets were
also associated with higher levels of
dogs or delayed onset muscle soreness
however it didn't reach statistical
significance there were also some
differences in EMG activation we're on
the final few reps of the fifth set of
leg extensions there was more muscle
activation in the rectus femoris muscle
of the quad with group supersets
but the increase was fairly small and
the rectus femoris muscle of the quad is
just a supporting muscle anyway where
the vastus medialis intermedius and
lateralis would be considered the prime
movers forney extension and so it's not
clear whether or not this would
translate into a meaningful hypertrophy
for the squad musculature overall and
the same thing goes for the chest
exercises the anterior delts were more
active at some time points with group
superset indicating that perhaps the
pecs were fatigued from the bench
pressing causing the front delts to take
over a bit but this is kind of a moot
point anyway since most people want to
activate their pecs more when doing the
PEC deck exercise not their front delts
and super setting bench press with the
PEC deck isn't shown in this study to be
an effective way to increase activation
of the pecs themselves so here are a few
practical takeaways that I took away
from this piece first if you're going to
be doing super sets it should be because
you're limited on time otherwise resting
3 to 5 minutes between sets optimize
hypertrophy according to the most recent
data on topic if you are limited on time
and you do think that super setting
would be a viable strategy to help you
get more work in in a shorter amount of
time and you should probably use
separated super sets since it won't
affect the quality of your work the
quality of your training and it won't
impede your recovery as much or for as
long I'm sure if you're on a higher
frequency program doing those group
super sets might impede your recovery to
the point that it will decrease your
performance in later workouts in the
week however I think group super sets
can have their place in one's training
program especially anyone following a
lower frequency program since that sort
of decrease in recovery for up to 5 days
may not matter as much if you're resting
a long time between bouts of training
the same muscle group anyway and Greg
also mentioned some potential merit of
occasionally shock in the muscle or
running a shock to Musil cycle or micro
cycle so if you really just want to
blast a certain muscle group then doing
group super sets is shown to create more
muscle damage and be an effective way to
potentially do that but perhaps an even
more optimal way to sort of structure
your rest periods would be to sort of
stagger them in a way where say you were
doing leg press and you had three
minutes of rest between each set of leg
press instead of super setting say I
don't know tricep extensions right after
you finish your set of leg press you
should wait a minute then do your set of
tricep extensions then rest another
minute and then go back to your leg
press again so the total rest time
between leg press sets would still be
the same but you have about one minute
of rest to allow for like global
recovery so that your tricep work wasn't
impeded as a result of doing the leg
press work right before it does that
make sense and that method is covered in
more detail in the issue itself but I'm
going to leave it at that for this one
so mass is running a sale today and
tomorrow so August first and second so
if you'd like to gain access to all the
old issues and its current issue
then you can do so by subscribing at the
link in the description box I've also
linked my move on tomorrow August July
I've also linked to my July Spotify
playlist in the description so if you're
looking for some new training music you
can check that out and finally I'm going
to be going to Vancouver tomorrow with
Stephanie we're going there to watch
Kendrick and Travis Scott and Ram AM
tour so I'm going to probably vlog that
a little bit so maybe I'll do a week's
break from the science-based content and
then after that we'll be right back on
schedule with a genetics science explain
video so you can stay tuned for that if
you guys like the video please give me a
thumbs up subscribe to the channel if
you're new and I will see you guys in a
couple days