there is no one right exercise just
exactly like there is no one right food
for you yes someone what's your favorite
food they're like uh mac and cheese with
tuna in it you're like okay it's fine
it's a weird choice but whatever it
can't possibly be your favorite food for
forever because if you have to eat it
all the time you get sick of it and then
whatever was your second is now your
first same thing works with women am I
right yeah no no takers all right some
exercise on average just on the
mechanics don't do that great and I can
specify what kind of mechanics one is if
an exercise targets a lot of muscle
generally it can't possibly Target one
muscle a lot specifically and thus for a
specific muscle it has a poor stimulus
fatigue ratio deadlifts for example what
exactly does the conventional deadlift
train you can't answer that question
because that question is an answer of
like 80% of the muscles of the body
glutes sort of hamstrings maybe
adductors some quads technically tons of
lower back but not exclusively depending
on how you pull midback upper back traps
holy