hey guys dr. Marquez all here for
Renaissance period ization rp+
& RP university talking to you guys
today is about so we're continuing on
with the course of the training
principles in today's lecture is lecture
2 simply because lecture one was
introduction but this is the first
training principle the most important
training principle of specificity so
first we're going to start off with a
simple definition just to make sure that
we kind of understand where the rest of
this talk is going and remember all the
principles have very simple definitions
fundamentally but to apply them the best
we need to know a very deep technical
definition to make sure we're very very
much correct in our application we're
going to talk about the technical
definition after that we're gonna give
some examples of how the principle can
be properly applied possibly over
applied there is such a thing and under
applied we're going to talk about a
couple of sub principles of specificity
these aren't important enough to stand
on their own because there's so much
constrained by the principle of
specificity but they're definitely
important enough to list and explain
without just explaining them within the
general concept and then after that we
are going to talk about what programming
applications that are kind of a way now
that we know what this principle means
what does that mean we have to kind of
the big picture
watch out for in a programming to make
sure to do and make sure not to do so
fundamentally specificity can be defined
very easily basically if you here's the
definition if you want to get really
good at something if you want to improve
measurably at it your training should
probably be focused on doing that
something or should look like the sport
or ability itself that you're training
or at least be training its components
right it's kind of like a relatedness
sort of thing so whatever you want to
get good at you had better be training
something that looks and feels and works
like the something you're training for
you can't get too far away or you're
training to where your training looks
like nothing what you're training for so
just to really quick examples soup
simple definition she's super simple
examples you know you don't train for
gymnastics if you want to be good at
basketball you want to be gonna BES well
you probably train some components or
the whole game of basketball and if you
want to be strong and that's your number
one goal you don't do distance swimming
you can also do some distance swimming
but distance swimming is probably gonna
get you good at what was it the thing oh
yeah it's gonna get you good at distance
swimming and strength training is going
to get you good at being strong sounds
super obvious but there are some deeper
implications for the training process
that people do violate when they design
program so it's not quite this it is
generally this simple but if we look
into some specifics there are some
mistakes that can be made so let's go to
the technical definition here it is just
going to read it off its super wordy
technical definition of specificity your
arrangement of training for a particular
sport or ability and by that we mean
like the sport of basketball or the
ability to be strong because being
strong is not a sport right has to
reflect the demands of that sport and/or
ability by either training them directly
or at least training the underlying
systems that support those demands we'll
talk about what the underlining systems
are in just a bit but basically training
should be similar to what it is you want
to get good at in one or some or all of
the following ways the kinematic
similarity should be there right the
actual positions and velocities of how
your body moves around the kinetic
variables should be similar what kind of
forces you are exerting and are being
exerted upon you have to be similar and
bioenergetic variables what pathways are
you using to produce ATP is it going to
be the phosphocreatine pathway for
explosive performance the glycolytic
pathway for intermittent performance or
is it going to be the oxidative pathway
for a performance that involves longer
duration or some combination of those
that should reflect fundamentally what
it is you're training for so for example
in kinematics runners should probably
stick to running or something that looks
a lot like it because that motion of
running has to replicate the
act of actually running in competition
to transfer best to training strength
athletes on the kinetic side and the
fourth set of things are asked to
present hi
sometimes maximal forces so a lot of
their training the core of their
training should have them lift heavy
things to produce high forces if you're
a strength athlete but you don't produce
a lot of high forces and training you
are misunderstanding the specificity
principle and leaving a lot of gains
kind of on the table instead of making
sure to outline your training properly
and then an example of the bioenergetic
alignment you know a wrestler has to
buffer a lot of lactic acid right a
lactic acid builds up from grappling and
if you buffer it properly it doesn't
build up as high they're also you know
in times of less activity or during
breaks in the match it can really go
away you can get more of your
performance back wrestlers should be
pushing that lactate threshold in
practice so that they can be better at
that exact thing in the actual
competitions for which they're trained
so there's a small caveat to it this
very direct specificity can be violated
on occasion only if that violation at
least trains the underlying systems that
support those direct abilities so for
example football is a sport in which we
don't exert ourselves for 40 seconds at
a time it is a sport in which we exert
just for several seconds at a time
really fast running really hard hitting
tackling etcetera so if you train just
specifically in a narrow minded approach
to football you're gonna get very
powerful and very strong very fast but
you might be missing out on some muscle
size to make you even stronger more
powerful and more fast especially when
opponents are resisting your movement so
hypertrophy training which is
characterized by you know set durations
that you know can be 30 seconds to a
minute in length and of course the load
is going to be less than what you would
experience on the field getting hit to
submaximal because you're doing it for
reps seems like a violation of
specificity but what we're doing in
hypertrophy training for football and
why it does fit into the grand
architecture of the specificity
principle so we're training an
underlying mechanism that is incredibly
important in football which is muscle
size the muscle size then potentiates
strength improvement it potentiates how
much ballast we carry so we can't be
moved around as much and it potentiates
power and speed so muscle specific
training hypertrophy training isn't
directly specific to football but it is
specific in the grand scheme because it
does support an underlying ability
whereas if we trained football players
by making them do distance swimming well
neither the swimming nor the ability to
have a very profound level of endurance
past two minutes of play is a really
important American football I mean the
average play lasts a couple of seconds
you get plenty of breaks in between
plays there's no reason to be able to
train yourself to do a repetitive
basically cyclic effort for a long time
doesn't pay off and as a matter of fact
we'll learn later that might cost you to
some extent so if it trains the actual
activity are very similarly great that's
specific and if the training modality
trains the some underlying
characteristics that transfer very well
to our actual activity and help it
that's okay too
specificity for the reason quite kind of
that there is direct specificity and a
little bit of indirect is a spectrum so
for example what is most specific to
competition bench-pressing for one rep
max what kind of training mm the kind of
training is most specific is competition
bench-pressing
for one hour max with the exact rules of
the actual bench press competition sets
of three a little bit less specific
that's a five a little bit less specific
sets of eight with a wide grip a little
bit less specific still dumbbell presses
less specific still overhead presses
even less specific bicep curls to make
sure that the triceps don't get too much
stronger the biceps and start causing
elbow pains less specific still but
because specificity is a spectrum we're
not going to be trying to get get rid of
everything nonspecific we're just going
to make sure that most of our training
fits towards that one end of the
spectrum and if anything on specificity
is really far down the other end of the
spectrum we're gonna have to have a real
good reason why it's there it's gonna
have to be an underlying systems
provider and if it's not it might not
belong in our train
remember we only have room for so much
in our training more the specific stuff
has to be in there than less in addition
to that the specificity and this is a
very important point for a part of the
specificity principle is that the direct
specificity of training has to increase
with proximity to competition so if it's
four months away from your powerlifting
competition you can do sets of ten and
the front squad even though that's very
very unlike what your low bar one or max
squad training is like but remember it
does train an underlying system quad
size which will translate to quad
strength will translate to a bigger one
or M squad and you're doing it far away
from competition as the competition gets
closer you might switch to sets of three
or five low bar as the competition gets
really close you might do doubles or
singles low bar and then boom you're all
the way there
your specificity increases as you
approach the competition because you're
taking all the general underlying
factors and you're wedging them into
very specific ability you could have the
same average specificity over the course
of a macro cycle of training but do it
backwards and get really shitty results
so if two weeks after your last meet and
sixteen weeks before your next one you
did doubles and triples and a low bar
squat and then a couple weeks later you
started doing fives in low bar squat
then a couple weeks later you started
doing your a couple months later we
started doing front squats four sets of
10 and then you had a competition that
week after yeah it's a little
specificities the same triangle is the
same size right but we flipped it
inverse and and now it doesn't work
anymore so big part of specificity is
that given that not all of your training
will be directly specific that you have
underlying systems forth which is more
general training you want to put more of
that general training more of the
variation away from specificity further
away from the competition as the
competition is closer you're going to
want to make training more specific so
what are some examples just simple
examples of application well here's an
example of proper application how to do
this properly so a gymnast knows kind of
what routine she needs to do her best at
her conference championships coming up
she practices parts of that routine at
their own sort of time and builds muscle
in the gym the particular kind of muscle
that makes those parts easier to do so
she's you know trying to do like some
sort of Iron Cross ass or situation then
she's gonna try to build up her lats etc
to make sure that it's possible to have
the strength to do that so on and so
forth so all of her muscle building
isn't just working out it's specific to
making her better at those parts of a
routine and as her competition gets
closer and closer she's just putting in
putting the routine that she has in
parts together as a whole practice as it
more often as a whole more often in
competition pace and then when the
competition comes she does her best
course it's possible to over apply
specificity so what does that mean we
tell someone about the best specificity
principle we may also tell them it's the
most important both of which are true
they go oh my god and they don't hear
any other other principles there's a
couple of six other ones and they think
oh my god specificity is so important I
have to make sure I do it right and they
take it all the way as far as it'll go
so for example a soccer coach basically
has all of his practices as a full field
of play soccer matches every practice is
a soccer match well what's the problem
with that it's probably not enough
training there's an overload problem
most soccer matches don't involve super
crazy exertions they involve occasional
exertions with a lot of waiting and
strategizing instead of waiting all that
time if you had small-sided games or
drills you could work athletes much
harder and condense more overload and
training into a shorter time thus
getting better faster it's almost like
going to a wrestling going to wrestling
tournaments instead of wrestling in a
wrestling room to get better at a
tournament you spend a whole lot of time
waiting you spend time getting there you
spend time looking for snacks in between
matches you could spend an hour or two
between matches depending on how you're
seated is that good part of training no
of course not is it very specific to the
tournament yes but does it get you
better as fast as possible no way so if
we just played soccer games all the time
especially a lot of players would get
really screwed over and overload the
goalie I mean how many rushes to goal
are there a couple every game let's say
maybe 20 shots on goal per game isn't
crazy and a super competitive
20 shots on goal that's only 20
opportunities for the goalie to exert
and practice and improve upon his skills
that sucks right one big factor we have
to realize about specificity is that
game play is often more often a time to
show off how good you are not a time to
improve how good you are games do a much
better job showing off how good you are
versus improving the ultimate example
would be do you get better at body
building by literally doing body
building competitions putting oil on
your body tanning and posing what's a
small part of it but mostly it's
training that looks nothing like what
you're doing on stage is it building the
underlying system so it makes you better
absolutely but it's not directly
specific so we wave or reply specificity
we forget about variation doing some
different things every now and again to
keep ourselves progressing we forget
about or load training isn't even hard
anymore because it has to be so super
specific then we trade off a lot of the
other we get zeros on a lot of other
principles big old one on specificity
and it's too much specificity because
not because there's anything around too
much specificity but because we screw up
all the other training principles and a
lot of the mistakes we're going to be
making all these examples of
over-application are under application
of training principles is going to be
basically an over application of one
usually means under application of some
others which on the net balance isn't
negative so there is such a thing as too
much specificity for sure under
application example not applying enough
specificities for example a marathon
runner runner runs one day week ok
cycles another day ok so kind of gets
you in general shape does the elliptical
on another kind of general adult fitness
swims on another day and does
rock-climbing in another day and then
she's hoping to reduce her marathon
times well gee that's a lot of not
running no it's gonna get hurt a good
general shape but is good general shape
enough to make it the best marathon
absolutely not
ray she's gonna realize that because
chilly runs one day a week she doesn't
have that kind of endurance transfer
that maybe she's gonna have shin splints
because she's not used to using the legs
as much and a variety of things that
just make her not as good her pacing is
gonna be off because she doesn't have an
opportunity to practice or pacing nearly
as much
so basically the under application of
specificity a lot of times is the or
application of a principle we'll learn
about later which is a variation too
much variation means your training is
not specific enough you don't get as
good as you could have been all right
into the sub principles so the sub
principles are kind of play supporting
roles the kind of slight tangents from
the principle specificity they still
make sense in its sort of grand
architecture but they're definitely
worth their own discussion because they
have some cool implications of their own
that we can't miss so first the
principle is what we call training
modality compatibility fact some fact to
lay this out before we set out the
principles so there's only a certain
amount of room in each muscle cell to
put stuff like the machinery that makes
you contract or mitochondria that gives
you endurance you can't have a cell that
has the most contractile machinery
possible and the most amount of Condry
impossible because they literally
compete for physical space it's like
saying you want a car that has the
biggest possible engine that you can fit
into a car and also you want the car to
have the ability to seat seven people
it's just one of the other unless you
want to make the car bigger right and if
you want to make the car bigger as you
made the car bigger now we can make the
engine even bigger so you never really
can fill out everything ever because we
have is working with a certain unit
there's trade-offs the nervous system
has a limitation in its ability to be
functionally flexible more particularly
the nervous system can be really
well-trained to save its energy and save
it's sort of demands on the body and ask
the muscles to contract maybe not super
maximally and but with a lot of
endurance so the nervous system can get
really good at sort of repetitive tasks
stimulation like running for ten miles
the nervous system can be really good at
telling you to put your leg one in front
of the other on the other hand the
nervous system can also get good at
really really explosive activities
summoning all of your motor units
everything in your brain to try to get
you to have one gigantic explosion of
effort
it's a jump or a push or throw if it
gets really really good at one of those
things it's literally using the same
systems and structures and circuits that
it would be to get really really good at
the other one of those things you can't
be the best at both because you're using
the same thing it's like having your
computer be full of all sorts of word
processing programs and programs for
designing all kinds of presentations and
you know Adobe Photoshop and stuff and
also at the same time having your
computer be optimized for gaming and
online gaming there's only so much room
in your hard drive in your processor can
only eat out so much you kind of gotta
pick which one you really want to
prioritize we could you have a computer
that does both okay but not either one
of those the best right because if you
have a gaming computer that's supposed
to have everything free except for you
know programs to make the gaming
experience go well you know you load up
a bunch of other crap on there
especially if you have it running at the
same time and your gaming experience is
gonna slow down significantly and vice
versa so same thing in the brain as a
computer it only has a certain finite
amount of resources there got to try to
get you muscles to do as much of
everything they can there's some
competition there in functionality in
addition there is only so much
contractile tissue you can ask for body
mass so we'll come back to the cell
example you can stuff a whole lot of
mitochondria into cells and not have a
ton of contractile tissue so the muscle
cells are really good at endurance but
they don't exert a lot of force they
don't have the mechanics to literally
produce much force but they're super
awesome and endurance at low levels of
force on the other hand you could have
very little mitochondria in a muscle
cell when a whole lot of contractile
machinery great for force production or
explosion super crappy at endurance
because the mitochondria literally
produce most of the energy that we need
for endurance activity and they're just
not really around in sufficient amount
to replenish that kind of volume of
activity so you can say okay well why
don't I just have a whole bunch of both
kinds of muscle fiber types well let's
say you want to be the best combination
thrower slash endurance runner you could
have a whole lot of slow twitch fibers
for the running side and a whole lot of
fast food showers to the throwing side
but because you're going to need a
certain number of fast twitch fibers
certain amount of muscle fiber that's
faster twitch to be an elite thrower and
a certain amount of muscle fiber that
slow twitch to be an elite run
without weight down without being
weighed down by other stuff how the hell
are you gonna do that you'd have to
weigh like 400 pounds or let's say 350
and a whole bunch of slow twitch muscle
reserved for the running and a whole
bunch of fast twitch muscle reserved for
the throwing but then when you're
running where the hell what the hell
does the muscle for the throwing do fast
which muscle doesn't help you at all
when you're running as a matter of fact
it can hurt you significantly just by
accumulating lactate if you run slow
enough maybe it doesn't activate as much
and then it just sits there it's like a
150 pound backpack that you have to
carry around everywhere you go there's a
reason marathon runners weigh like 150
or less pounds is because they
physically want to carry as much as
little extra stuff as possible so
because we're limited to how much
contractile tissue our body can carry
and wants to carry because of extra
weight we can't fill it up with an
infinite amount of stuff we have to
choose right so we can't be amazing at
everything and here's the thing some
training modalities or specific
abilities have much less of those
systems that they use in common some
have more systems that they use income
the ones that have less systems that
they use in common kind of compete more
for resources and more demand so for
example if you lived with a roommate and
you both more or less ate like really
similar stuff could you just buy in bulk
and shove all of your food into a pretty
small pantry and fridge totally because
the big containers they're nice and tall
and you can shove them in you could buy
in bulk and put stuff everywhere no big
deal there's a lot of overlap between
what you eat but if you have a roommate
that's a completely different diet then
your eating can you fit all the stuff
well they're gonna buy some stuff like
just make sense to buy in bulk that
don't sell in small amounts and soryu
you can have more overall stuff just
more different jars of stuff and because
jar space is we have to have the actual
can be made of something all of a sudden
we start to run out of room because
we're trying to do too many different
things at once just the same way some
things for example we'll get more into
this in just a bit
endurance ability use some systems and
some abilities like the ability to be
very fast
or powerful we use a lot of the same
systems so they don't have a lot in
common and they compete kind of for
resources to see which one is gonna be
best thus interfering with each other
right so if you want to be the best at
some abilities you have to trade out a
lot of other abilities if they're not
compatible with those and if they are
very compatible then you don't have to
trade off a lot of those abilities at
all this is especially true if you want
to pique those abilities at the same
time can you be a pretty good physique
athlete and weight lifter yeah but you
do physique during the kind of peak for
a show in July and peak for
weightlifting show in January and you
have kind of six months to really retool
your training to become a really good at
one while the other sort of suffers but
if you try to peak at the same time
let's say you have a weightlifting meet
in July and a week later you have a
bodybuilding competition geez that's a
lot of competitive demands and you're
not gonna be very good at either one of
those things so there are definitely
some abilities that are more compatible
than others and fundamentally it's
always a trade-off so let's talk a
little bit more about this if you want
to do concurrent training training for
two or more things at the same time to
get as good as possible what are some
limiting factors well first training
time why can't you get good at both
things to their maximum abilities so you
are either training for one thing or you
training for another thing right for the
bodybuilding weightlifting example you
do it snatches and cleaning jerks you do
a lateral raises an upright Road you
can't very well do both at the same time
so if you want to fit in everything it
takes to be the best weight lifter and
everything it takes to be the best
bodybuilder you have run over the amount
of time you have to train in a week okay
so we can't train infinitely in a week
let's say we can train 10 hours we're
gonna have to remove some weightlifting
training and remove some bodybuilding
training
thus hurting both point number two what
about recovery time right the more you
are recovering from something let's say
soccer play the less you can be
recovering from something else
sketball so let's say Tuesday Thursdays
you play soccer Monday Wednesday Friday
you play basketball and you have other
teammates in basketball that also play
Monday Wednesday Friday but they don't
do soccer so on Wednesday you'll come in
and you're slow you're tired your coach
goes what the hell's wrong with you how
come you're not moving you're a coach I
had soccer practice yesterday so instead
of using that time to recover from
basketball use that time to Train soccer
and they'll use the rest of time to
recover from at least some combination
of soccer and basketball well that's no
good how are you gonna be the best
basketball player if you were busy
recovering from soccer a lot of the time
when you're trying to recover from
basketball you can't there's no way to
do it because we're dealing with finite
resources and lastly not of least
importance are conflicting physiological
conditions so a good example these are
for why it's really difficult to be
super powerful explosive for one or two
times and really good at endurance at
the same time there is our literal
physiological processes that are
different to optimizing one or the other
and they're usually relatively mutually
exclusive that means you as your body
gets really good at one it gets worse at
the other other opposing pathways here
example so molecular regulators of cell
activity the ones that really get up
regulated and make you better at power
include ones like mTOR right the you
know so mammalian target of rapamycin
it's a protein that basically organizes
hypertrophy and strength adaptations in
the cell to some large extent mTOR has
not really turned on with endurance
training another set of molecules and
regulators sort of generally called a
NPK adenosine monophosphate kinase that
system has turned on a PK directly
impinges on mTOR literally as a NPK
turns on it switches mTOR off or
switches it down it's like turning up
one knob on kind of one of those switch
lights that has a knob instead of a
switch and turning another one down at
the same time you can't have both lights
on at once because there's only so much
energy coming in to the actual circuit
that's not really good NPK breaks down
muscle and rewards endurance adaptations
while mTOR buildin that's
not good at all brings us to our next
point what kind of muscle size
physiology is Donna is is sort of put
forward by power training and rewarded
in power well big muscles produce more
power but on the other hand small
muscles a low level of muscle size is
rewarded because it has a higher
relative endurance in endurance sport so
if you're really gigantic you're not
going to be very good at endurance sport
but if you're really really small you're
not going to be very powerful again
trade-off that there's no way to be both
what is how can you be both big and
small at the same time you can be medium
but then you're not really great at
either one of those things
fatigue States the kind of training that
is required for endurance generates a
ton of fatigue but you're carrying all
the time good news is that fatigue
doesn't really interfere with endurance
training very much at all I mean crazy
levels of fatigue to start interfering
with endurance adaptations on the other
hand power as a training variable is
incredibly sensitive to fatigue as soon
as fatigue Rises beyond some pretty low
point on a scale of endurance for sure
we start to see declines in power
training ability declines in power
output
you just get start getting worse and
there's no way to get better unless you
drop that fatigue so if you try to train
for both power and endurance at the same
time and really get the most out of them
or one of the fatigue environments from
endurance literally poisons the training
for the power environment and that's no
good at all we can't have the best of
both worlds
what about fiber type well fiber type
probably changes slowly and to some very
small extent with long term training and
also there's genetics for fiber type
that we all start out with that give us
kind of a big basic blueprint of the
average of what we're gonna be the rest
of our lives
slow twitch fiber types are really
rewarded in endurance activity while
fast which pas fiber types are rewarded
and in power activity so even through
training or genetics okay you can't have
both right it's one or the other
particularly when you're talking about
literally zooming in on cells you can't
be good at both you can't have both it's
two different kinds of machines all
right and lastly our neural
characteristics endurance training
favours and actually develops your
nervous system into being able to
perform submaximal repetitive
contraction of the musculature
submaximal repetitive movements that
don't fatigue you a lot the purpose the
fatigue earnest resistance but power
training both trains and rewards
explosive highly fatiguing movements
because we don't care about fatigue is
we only have to do it a couple of times
then we win the event so we're trying to
get our nervous system to be amazing at
two different things which is pretty
much impossible we got a big very
serious problem here
so concurrent training there are
intelligent ways to combine certain
things but fundamentally we have to
admit we're working at a trade-off can
you have a combination best pickup truck
station wagon race car yeah you can is
that going to be the best pickup truck
no way it's got too much race car and
station wagon and stuff to interfere
with the best pickup truck for example
instead of having a ton of bed space you
have a big engine and also you have an
elongated car because you need the
station wagon part too right so can we
have a good average approach totally but
do we have to admit that if we take it
on the track it's gonna get embarrassed
yes it's gonna be a great pickup no is
it gonna be a great station wagon also
probably not because we're working with
limited resources and one thing has to
trade-off away from another so got this
cool little chart up for you guys and
this is mostly for your own sort of
personal knowledge but remember we said
that some modalities interfere much more
highly with other modalities than they
do with still other modalities so we
have a list for you here's a one to 11
list as a one to ten list but the kind
of the first one is a pretty cool
example not from training of modalities
that tend to interfere greatly with each
other versus ones that don't tend to
interfere very much so the first one is
muscle gain versus fat loss okay its
nutritional but it's still a great
example how much does attempting to gain
muscle and do your very best that
interfere with fat loss well let's see
gaining muscle and doing your best means
hyper caloric diet more calories than
you burn how much does that interfere
with fat loss almost completely and
anyone other than beginners and very
other interesting times of the training
process so is a huge interference there
so so what's the lesson there the lesson
is if you try to do both at the same
time we're probably gonna get very close
to nowhere
probably a good idea to maybe do them in
sequences or phases so they're not being
done at the same time
next one remember the ones at the top
the ones I'm reading first they're the
most interfering down to the least and
this will make very good sense to you
once I start kind of reading them off
endurance interferes with speed training
so endurance training interferes of
speed training a lot why because speed
training is done at a low fatigue super
explosive state of fast twitch muscle
fibers endurance is very opposite of
every single measurable quality except
for the fact that you're still using
your legs right endurance training
interferes with power just a little less
than speed because power has a bigger
force component and not as much of an
explosive component of speed it's not as
fatigue sensitive but everything else is
pretty much the same huge interference
effect endurance training interferes to
strength training quite a bit so can
people be both very strong and very
injured yes because they don't need the
nervous system qualities of incredible
explosiveness anymore and strength
training is a bit more fatigue resistant
it doesn't get damaged so much or
impinge so much with high fatigue levels
as due power on strength so you can have
quite a bit of both still pretty big
interference what about endurance and
size well muscle size we really don't
super care about fiber type we care
almost not at all about nervous system
characteristics or explosiveness and
training for size quite a big fatigue
threshold so there's not a huge level of
interference there but there's still a
significant one next level of
interference so number six does training
to be as big as you can interfere with
speed well Hali yeah it does but you're
gonna be pretty fast cuz you've got a
lot of muscle and that moves a lot so
it's already nothing like endurance
interfering with everything else
how much does size interfere with power
well if you just trade for pure size
you're doing lots of sets of ten sets of
twelve there's not very good power
training but you do have a lot of big
really strong muscles that is no longer
super interfering how much does size
interfere with strength well again sets
of ten sets of twelve vs sets of three
to five much more fatigue versus
strength training there's some
interference there but it's not huge you
can be really big and really strong at
the same time the rest of these are only
minutely different from each other so is
it possible to train for maximum
strength and maximum speed at the same
time yeah there's only a tiny bit of
fatigue based interference is it
possible to train for strength and power
at the same time be very good
absolutely you just have to make sure
that as the competition approaches maybe
the last couple of weeks you pull most
of your strength training to really left
to really let power rise and what is the
difference between power and speed again
tiny little fatigue difference a little
bit of a specificity difference power
and speed almost don't interfere each
other at all
so if you want to say I want to be as
powerful as possible and as fast as
possible while g-getting as powerful as
possible is probably a really good way
to becoming as fast as possible so is a
huge overlap there so if someone says
now hold on you're trying to train for
powers be the same time training
modality compatibility sub principle
says it's not a good idea it's actually
says it's a great idea because the
compatibility is incredibly high but if
you tell someone you want to be training
for marathons and you want to be the
fastest 60 meter sprinter that you can
be you got another thing coming that's
going to be a really big problem
so some principle number two is called
directed adaptation technical definition
is that adaptations are best made and
retained after they're made when similar
stimuli are presented in the sequence
without too much short-term variation so
the example here is that every single
week week to week to week you train week
one strength week two strength week
three strength week four strength at the
end of that process you're going to be
pretty F and strong because you're
getting the body very similar signals or
and over and over I remember physiology
is relatively especially
intermediate-advanced resistant to
adaptation and it doesn't like to hold
on to adaptations it you know get
annotation and I'll try to drop it off
as fast as possible because that app
tastes are metabolically expensive and
they leave you to less flexibility your
body kind of wants to be ready for Anna
sort of all things at all times but if
you say hey look we need to get strong
your body think is strong yeah yeah I'm
making some adaptations next week early
hey body strong again you know okay
we're gonna have to do something about
this next week hey strong again oh my
god
next week strength again after four
weeks of strength training your body's
gonna be starting to make some really
serious inroads on strength some of
which are going to be relatively more
permanent than others nervous system
alterations they don't just go away
after a while is a your body's thinking
and an evolutionary since of course it's
not really thinking this like month of
strength training I feel like this is a
pretty consistent stimulus and
consistent challenge for us in our
adaptive evolutionary environment
probably a good idea for me to keep some
of these adaptations around for just a
little while maybe a couple
couple months here because we could come
back and challenge us again with
strength it's getting pretty consistent
right just like if you know you keep
bidding getting bit by the same no sort
of half deadly snake venom you build a
resistance to that venom and it stays
around for a while because your body's
like yeah I feel like that snakes coming
back we got bit every single week for
the last five I'm just gonna drop my
resistance of that venom same general
idea same kind of adaptive system logic
there on the other hand if one week you
train for strength and the next week you
drink for power and the next week a
train for speed and the next ring you
train for size what the hell is that
your body is supposed to get good at
exactly remember a lot of those are
competitive modalities to begin with so
we have that problem but still even if
it get as good as possible on all of
them it's getting a really really mixed
message that's why we may sort of make
fun of the bro logic like confuse the
body bro yeah you want to present
novelty and variation in strategic ways
but you want that variation to exist in
a certain particular amount of time long
enough for the body to really start to
develop it systems and keep that level
of development right that's a really
good idea a good analogy and actually
kind of an example because this is still
sport and movement related is a dance
class analogy I like to use I've taken
like one and a half dance class in my
entire life
I hate being taught how to dance I make
my own groove damn it but it's a pretty
good analogy cause here's the deal let's
say that your significant other are you
or going getting sort of taken and going
to dance classes once a week there are
two approaches we can take let's say
we're going for about eight weeks we can
do you know salsa dancing one-way
blankie dancing that actually modern
dance the week after and-and-and you do
different kind of dancing classes every
single week for eight weeks certainly
enough kind of different kinds of dance
to do that on the other hand we can take
just salsa dancing classes for eight
weeks straight at the end of that eight
weeks the average person who is not like
a dance prodigy how good are they gonna
be at any one of those dances they
learned they're gonna suck you think one
class of modern dance and then you move
on to other kinds of dance this is just
enough class to confuse the living
out of you you want me worse than
dancing after visions lose your
confidence getting a you know showing
off your dance moves from another class
and they're like nope that's all wrong
and they keep
rewiring all your systems but if you
take the same eight weeks and train
salsa dancing salsa dancing salsa its
salsa after eight weeks you gonna be
pretty damn good at salsa dancing and
when you quit four months and come back
it's gonna take you very little time to
pick up the old moves used to have one
then a couple of weeks you'll be as good
as you ever were at salsa dancing but if
you take 8 weeks of random classes you
can take 16 and 32 weeks of random
classes at the end of that with three
times more training time you're not
gonna be very good in any of those
because there's too much confusion
there's no directed adaptation so direct
adaptation separate principle really
tells us that if we want to get good at
something we don't have to train that
something all the time forever but we
have to train it a meaningful block of
time several sessions strung together
each one with presented overload if we
get too wishy-washy start training 50
different things at once we're probably
not going to get very good at any one of
those things because there's no
summative ability to take one and build
on top of the other
you're breaking down too often and not
building enough so last point of
discussion here what are some
implications I mean these are not all of
the implications we could write a book
about all the implications of just
specificity some of the program design
implications that you should be
concerned with that this principle the
passive specificity gives us well first
one before you design any program have a
clear goal as to what the purpose of the
program is and what you want to improve
sounds audience folks most of you
watching this will probably remember
times when people ask you questions or
you ask them about their programs and
they were kind of thinking okay hey can
you help me design a program you're not
sure yeah what's what's going on and
they're Kokee so um here are my sets and
reps what do you think and you go so
what is it you want to get the best that
you want strength power my per trophy is
this first sport and they're like yeah
mm-hmm and you're like I'm sorry I
didn't misunderstand we were saying we
do you mean like at all those oh just
everything why don't we just insert like
ability to move objects with our mind
and I lasers
powers the ability to create a universe
in your own hand we just add everything
if it's not really coming to the expense
of anything else if we can have
everything we want but we can't right so
a lot of people will design a program
kind of thoughtlessly putting sets and
reps together and their benchpress will
go up all right maybe they do a lot of
sets of threes that's a 5 a lot of
pauses and they'll go yeah like my texts
just aren't it like too small I want
their pecs and then you ask them so is
your program tailored to two hypertrophy
in your pecs and they're like and yeah
like a bench like good hold on what do
you want more a bigger bench or bigger
pecs because you can have a good deal of
both but especially the short-term you
got to pick which one's more important
to you your bodybuilders and power
lifter don't train exactly the same way
and that person might be like oh you
know I've never really given it any
thought
do I want more good bench is important
pecs are important so that thought
process that you started them on they
should have had that before they ever
wrote the program because then their
program would have given him what they
wanted so before you ever write a
program do some soul-searching so to
speak figure out what it is you want out
of that program and it can be a bunch of
things you just have to prioritize them
she's okay I definitely want to get
better at benching so I'm gonna put
heavy benches first in my program but I
also want a good deal of size I know
those things interfere with each other a
little bit I'll just put some size
training after every heavy workout still
have like days to drop fatigue I'll get
plenty big and play strong it'll be
sweet that is totally cool or you can
see I just want to get super strong I
already have pretty decent size sets of
three and five it is most of the time to
your program with a very little added
volume totally awesome and if you're
like now you know what I don't we care
about strength anymore it at least for
the next couple months I just want to
get huge pecs then you know sets of you
know six to twelve wraps or something
like that on average more isolation
moves etc not so much we're worrying
about nervous care system
characteristics and precise technique of
benching much more about making sure the
volumes have or the muscles have high
volumes of work and recovery etc now
you're getting what you want so before
you ever design a program specificity is
so important because it tells you look
if if you want something you gotta train
in these exact ways to get it but if you
don't know what you want how the hell
are you supposed to know a line the ways
to get it you're not gonna get what you
want do you order blind
off of a menu at a restaurant are you
just hungry they say what do you want to
hear like I don't know just give me some
food right and you'll get food but is it
gonna be the food that you wanted no but
if you actually look at the menu I want
macaroni cheese and steak
boom boom order and you get exactly what
you want so make sure you have clear
goals to what you want or else you get
something pretty much I ran point number
2 for program design considerations from
specificity at intermediate levels
especially because in your super like
rank beginner or novice you just get
better at everything you can train
everything and get better everything at
especially intermediate levels has
become apparent that Fitness is not a
concept it's just not a concept the only
so if someone says I want to get fit
they've been working out for a while the
question you have to ask them right
after is fit for what hey is world
Strongest Man at the time of this video
recording Eddie Hall is he fit for being
the world Strongest Man yes very well
fit the strongest player in the world
can we say he's out of shape you know
he'd only lift a car so many times until
you're like I don't know what out of
shape looks like but that sure as hell
is not out of shape is Eddie Hall fit
for running marathons no it's a
different kind of fitness you probably
run 200 meters and get winded and follow
nothing wrong with that cuz that's not
what he's trying to do on the other hand
you get a marathon runner to come to
world Strongest Man qualifying
competition they won't be able to move
any of the implements let alone load
them where they're supposed to go or do
reps of them easily physically won't be
able to roll some of the dumbbells are
they out of shape of course not there
are the best some of the best shape in
the world it's a different kind of shape
so remember this quest for fitness has
to be answered with what it is exactly
you want right a lot of times again it
comes down to soul searching it
Renaissance a lot of our clients come to
us and say you know I want to get better
at CrossFit I want to get better at
weightlifting and then some individuals
who maybe haven't given enough thought
two or three months into the process as
they get better across from
weightlifting and for sure check those
off the list ago you know what I've kind
of wanted
ABB's and we're like why didn't you tell
us I don't know I felt kind of conceited
about it admit what you want and go get
what you want and everything is good but
if you don't admit what you want and if
you just want to be in shape you're
gonna find that there's a lot of
different kinds of shapes all different
you know good at different things pick
the one you want and go for it at least
at some time interval you can pick
another one later right and point number
three there are modalities that are
relatively compatible like power and
speed
there are modalities that are very
incompatible like endurance and speed
and everything in between
understand how big of a trade-off you're
making between those modalities and set
concurrent goals with the realism what
does that mean that means if you want to
be the most powerful and fastest you can
be man you're in for a whole lot of both
of those but if you want to be as
powerful and as endurance as you could
be you're gonna have to understand that
you can't measure yourself up against
the best power athletes in the world
anymore and you can't measure yourself
up against the best endurance athletes
anymore because you're gonna be nowhere
near either one of those because you're
trying to do both you're gonna get a
half measure of both and there's nothing
wrong with that it's cool to be in super
overall general great shape just
understand that you won't be in an
amazing specific shape for anything else
like what's the best bodybuilder
marathon runner looked like probably
someone who weighs like 170 180 super
jacked super lean not enormous legs and
can run a marathon is he gonna be
running the Boston Marathon and just
around 2 hours absolutely not he'll be
finishing middle of a pack if he's lucky
he's gonna be winning bodybuilding shows
left and right no way man that's not big
enough but is it gonna be looking pretty
sweet and being pretty in turn of course
so understand the trade-offs in and make
them intelligently after when you're
sequencing your training when you're
doing training and you're doing training
design it's a good idea to Train similar
conditions together so if you are
training to be big and strong at the
same time that's pretty good as opposed
to training to be light or dieting to be
light and having a high level of
endurance at the same time so it's a
good idea to Train generally in the same
several months to be as big an you can
of strong as you can but if you
which the goal to being as enduring as
you can and as light as you can just for
appearance or maybe to improve your
gymnastics ability probably a good idea
to train those at the same time if
you're training to be as endurance as
you can and as big as you can at the
same time tough if you want to lose a
bunch of weight and to be as strong as
possible at the same time really tough
so make sure to sequence those
conditions together so that you do the
best and all the ones that you can and
they don't never fear with each other as
much as competition date nears training
should be more specific that's point
number five it's super obvious people
screw this up anyway and if you're
training to be a weightlifter and
someone comes in deep in your offseason
the only thing you're doing is singles
in a snatch and clean and jerk your
training is probably messed up you
should be doing plenty of wraps plenty
of sets getting bigger getting stronger
if you're doing sets of 10 and sets of
eight a week and a half before your
weightlifting meet you're also doing
something wrong so make sure that your
specificity increases as you get close
to the competition last couple weeks it
should look a lot like competition
training and here's a really big point
point number six save kind of one of the
best for last after you make a program
or you look at a program that somebody
else made or you look at a program that
you want to purchase and you've seen its
structure you could go to every single
part of the program and ask about every
feature of the program is this feature
training the direct ability itself that
I want to improve or training an
underlying driver of that ability is
this making me better at low bar
squatting directly by being the low bar
squat or is this giving me the spinal
erectors strength or size that it takes
to love our squat a lot that's an
example if the answer is no to either
one of those if for example you have a
powerlifting program that has you
running a half marathon on Saturday does
that make me in any way stronger no does
that support the underlying systems for
strength No then it's a discarded
element you can throw it away it's a
really specificities almost like a kind
of like a very fine-tuned cleaning brush
you have this big training architecture
you can clean off a lot of crap that you
don't need by asking is it specific to
the actual goal or is it an underlying
systems trainer if it's neither one of
those you probably don't need it
you'll be down to a smaller program well
that's easy to recover from that gets
you all the goals you want and doesn't
interfere with anything you don't folks
that's it for specificity next time we
will talk about overload
[Music]
you