and there's one other thing that I do
recommend sometimes especially for the
purposes of bodybuilding is do a lower
volume block primarily use machines
Smith machines and ideally have a
training partner and train to
failure folks I am Dr Mike isol for
Renaissance pation and I have the
esteemed honor privilege of having Dr
Eric Helms here from technically the
University of New Zealand at Auckland
the Auckland University of Technology in
New Zealand it is in New Zealand God
that I that up and Eric has a PHD
in sport and exercise science so making
people more jacked and more athletic and
more strong and more fit and in a sense
happier is the thing he cares about
maybe one of the most things in this
world now there is a
problem Eric is what I would consider if
not the preeminent researcher on repon
reserve the preeminent uh and current
best theoretician on reps and Reserve
because to be a good theoretician you
have to know everyone else's research
front to back have tried to apply it to
your life apply it to your clients apply
it to other people and really have a
holistic understanding of R which I
consider you my absolute number one
Authority on R yeah now mind you this
all sounded like a compliment was really
a great insult because on the internet
Eric the point of this video here which
why we have you uh people are telling me
that R is stupid and then another word
that starts with with a G which we don't
say anymore cuz it's very mean and they
say this and you ask them why and what
you get from that is they say look I
know how to read
studies yes when there's 80 people
yelling at you you will go to to R and
it's really true R fine fine fine but
out in the real world real people are 18
or 19 R away from whatever the hell you
charitably 3 four 5 six R more than you
think that is their first away from
failing you think so if we tell regular
people listen go start your Messa Cycles
at three reps in reserve they're really
at six% Reserve which everyone agrees is
too far away to remotely do efficient
hypertrophy for any one of them
beginners and so we're stuck with this
conundrum of like shouldn't we be
telling people just to go to failure
because that will really actually be
three R because people don't actually
train hard Eric is it true that people
in the real world have a very big
problem with estimating R and are
significantly and largely way behind in
their estimate tell us a story great
question and um according to the Mike
mener crowd I actually have a PhD in
being a wuss because my PhD was
specifically on auto regulating what a
waste of time I know Auto regulating
powering training using an rir based
perceived exertion model so um after
studying for years to become a wuss I
have learned some things um and the one
thing that is actually challenging to
answer about that question is what is
going on in the real world because when
you do experimentally test um people's
rir accuracy I can't tell you with
confidence that that's the same as the
type of R accuracy that people have in
the real world in all cases and I'll
tell you why the way we measure rir
accuracy is by actually having people go
to a Target rir typically yep on bench
press and then they'll stop at lock out
and they'll call out when they think
they're at a Target rir we set for them
so like two R correct call out when you
think you're at a two great two and then
we go keep going go go go go go go go go
go go go go go and then the spotter
takes a smoke break and you die perfect
yeah thank you for participating no
problem so yeah so essentially what we
do is we we calculate the difference
between predicted rir when you said two
versus how many reps did you get when
you're being keep going you push them
further you see the difference and
you're like okay you actually got 10
reps you stopped it we thought was two R
ours eight it turns out you were 100%
correct exactly okay and then we measure
also what's called R directionality
because there's multiple ways to to fail
right so you could say I got two more
and you get one you could say I get two
more and you can get three both of those
are an R difference for an absolute
value of one but if we assess the
directionality is it a negative or
positive number on average in the groups
then we can see if they're trending
towards with that accuracy towards
undershooting and thinking that they're
closer to failure than they are
overshooting and pulling kind of the the
Bro on Instagram thing of yeah that was
definitely a nine and a half and like
you actually are on the ground while
you're saying that right so over times
depending on who I've talked to on the
internet in the comments uh people will
level the critique that people are
always saying they have more when they
don't kind of like these you know egoed
out ego lifters more baby exactly or if
you're have a cult based around being an
ego to out lter AKA hit sor sorry then
don't apologize to those people you know
I'm kidding people Dogma bad um then the
critique is now they're not actually
going to failure you don't know what
true failure is and I think that is one
that that is I can understand the
position and I can understand why they
might be skeptical of the research but
there's not many other ways to really
ensure the r accuracy now you can level
the critique at that model where you do
it to a predicted are then you go to
fail you look at the difference and you
see where it is that maybe that's not
actually valid because there's
expectation if I say two I'm probably
going to do two um and I would say there
could possibly be an effect of that but
it's not the only tool we have to
estimate that um but I will say the data
using that method of comparing predicted
versus actual R bring in people who
train out in the world who say whatever
the yep you hit them up with a work
set that they warmed up to yep you say
tell us let's say to R when that happens
so happens your go go go go go and see
how many more reps they get exactly I've
been in three different Labs including
my own Dr zeros is out in FAU and also
uh Darren kandal lab in Canada
University of
Vina and then there's also other
research that's been done of what Regina
uh it's a v or an R Regina yeah a v got
it yes there's also uh work that's been
done out of Daniel hacket lab in
University of Sydney
uh so all these various independent Labs
have done this type of research all
bought and sold by big failure Big R
which bigger than big failure yeah oh my
God Mega conglomerate almost as big as
big volume so uh with these four Labs
that I'm aware of and there's a few
other um they've all measured this and
they all come to very similar findings
that's how you know things probably true
yes and so what the findings the
findings are that while there are some
small effects on things that modify it
generally people are pretty accurate so
you're typically reporting somewhere
between an accuracy of less than one rir
error so Point like 34 or something like
that to as much as maybe two reps off in
certain conditions now those conditions
are higher reps that's when discomfort
can actually get in the way of your
actual perception of true failure um and
also doing higher like 20 plus over 12
over 12 yeah starts to have to have
that over 12 um and then potentially uh
some other impacts that haven't been
consistently shown but through all the
research done across these five labs and
a few others Halprin was actually able
to meta analyze the actual versus
predicted R back in 2021 I believe and
their average error was one so power
there was a decent amount of variation
around it but you could say that the
average person regardless of whether
they're trained or
untrained are going to be with within
one rep of what their prediction is
typically under predicting so that
that's one accurate thing if we give
some credit to the mentor crowd sure
people aren't overshooting more often
than they're undershooting right and
that's really important because if we
saw it one way or the other be like told
you people weren't trying here's the
thing like you get people in a social
setting where there's an expectation yes
and all of a sudden like they're going
pretty hard but you could say look like
if they were undershooting it wouldn't
look like this if they were overshooting
so if it's about even it's kind of like
look maybe people are going to a little
bit easier outside the lab but if they
were mostly going easier outside the lab
what explains the fact that you know
many of them unders shoot versus
overshoot L they're trying to like
posture like I really can do 110 kilos
it gets to be a lot of supposition at
the end of the day it seems like we
don't have to suspect that people are
nonsensically far off in R corre we can
suspect maybe the studies are a little
bit biased little this and that so with
its three R off it's not six it's not 10
yes Eric we have a system at
RP which we think maybe does some kind
of job at guess and checking yourself to
make sure you're not delusional about R
because like look people can be off and
being off is not great if I describe you
that system briefly can you red team it
for me or say like that actually quite
good but maybe there's got these
problems with it would that be okay I
will but first let me just say to give a
little bit of credit to that type of
research there have been some efforts to
confirm are we seeing this by some
objective data and for those who aren't
aware velocity Based training which is
where we actually have what's called a
linear position transducer or linear
encoder or sometimes less valid a uh an
actual accelerometer but ideally a
linear encoder it's actually a tethered
system that measures displacement and
tells you the average concentric
velocity of the rep and we know that as
you get closer to failure the bar slows
down if you have maximum attempt to move
correct which you are coached to do yes
okay
um and if and regardless if you hit true
failure it's going to slow down to the
point you slow down at some point yes so
one of the things you can do is
establish a r velocity relationship for
an individual have them with Mo for an
individual correct for an individual for
a lift because it's different for a lift
than individual absolutely it does um so
you have this individual motivated to go
to failure with maximal intent to
accelerate every rep on bench press at a
given load and you take the last five
reps and you look look at the mean
velocity on those five reps and with
some understandable technical error you
prescribe a velocity Zone that is
associated with that rir and you can
either use that to actually monitor
training or you can use it to
experimentally confirm oh we had them do
an R rating which band were they in and
you can say okay they were on average
this type of error and I've been a part
of studies on well-trained individuals
where basically we look at it and we go
yeah that's pretty accurate or I mean
and they could be faking the slow down
but at C at a certain point you have to
go you know what we've got the actual
reps observing them you know actual vers
predicted and we slapped a linear
encoder on the bar and we did see the
velocity slow down to what we saw in a
two- failure test with no R prediction
just go to failure and they match up and
tough to fake all that yeah when you've
got that and that's coming out after a
meta analysis and they align you've got
pretty good consensus that yeah okay at
worst people on average are are one
further rep from failure than they think
they are in these studies or one rep too
close to failure sorry I I think earlier
I might have misspoke but one they
they're basically UND shooting under
shooting by one on average correct so
then one every one of every five or six
people is overshooting by average
because these are standard
probably relatively normal
distributions they're actually not they
they do skew towards saying oh I think I
I I I have fewer reps left than I
actually do few reps so people do
sandbag it on average but again
by a
rep 500 on average not 10 yes okay and
so the RP thing yes what we say is look
choose your first microcycles load and
rep targets to get around three Rish
there's a couple if it's a longer Mees a
little more if it's shorter a little
less and the RP perch app does this just
say three R week one you don't know if
that's really three R and look like you
don't fine what we say is every single
workout that you come in on average you
increase by a rep or you increase by
let's say two and a half kilos 5 pounds
is you just keep increasing and you try
to hit the same reps you did you must at
some point either quit or really hit
failure unless you plan on getting
stronger and more strength endurant for
the rest of time that point at which you
hit reliable failure you're trying your
best to hit 10 reps with 315 pounds even
though at 300 you only hit 10 and now
it's basically that's it you're done you
hit nine
reps um you can be pretty God damn sure
you're going to failure and then you
look back at what you thought was 3 R
and you go was it really because you
pick a three R load and it takes you 12
weeks and 60 pounds of bar increase to
get to failure you sure we're not
at 3 but if it takes you four
weeks and 15 pounds of bar increase you
probably pretty goddamn close and so as
you do more musle cycles and get more
experience you get better at picking
that first number someone like really
like only 500 in the light presser trust
me bro 5:30 I'm at last week for 12 if I
can do that that' be amazing this is
close for me what do you think about
that method what are those detractions
what are its upsides I like it I think
it makes sense when it's delivered in
that context there are potentially
better ways to do it in a coaching
environment but if you're self trining
and using an app this is all for self
trining that's a nobody watching you
yeah there's only one other thing I
would add to it to improve it but before
I get to that I I'll just say why why I
like the method uh for one progression
is the Great Arbiter right so if you are
eventually adding reps adding load on
the bar or you know trying to get closer
and closer to
failure if the rir is so off and you're
undershooting it so much that the
stimulus is so low that you can't do it
then that will become apparent y right
um likewise if you are undershooting it
but you're still making great progress
who gives a exactly oh no I was at
a 4ir but I'm making great gains the
only downside to that is that if you
hang out with one of the people from the
the camp that I disparaged earlier uh
they will not like you yes but they'll
not like you even more because you have
good gains and you're proving a point
against their correct you not only a
damaging their ideology but you are also
not displaying the quality that only
matters in life not being a good person
only men can do yes but how hard close
to failure can you go yes so that's why
I like it I think it's a great way the
progressive overload is a great arbiter
the other thing I like about it is that
there is a point where High R
predictions mean meaning assessing when
you're further from failure becomes less
accurate six what the is that even
yeah and it's right around five
interesting yeah so um and like I said
earlier that is modified by how many
reps you're doing like if you're trying
to assess when you're at five rir in a
set of eight or a set of six that's
probably a little easier than doing that
in a set of 30 yeah so High Reps and
also being farther from failure are more
difficult and challenging to assess uh
the former because there's more
generalized cardom metabolic
cardiorespiratory fatigue pain that you
could push through but it just feels
hard and discomfort and repetitions in
reserve are linked to some degree uh and
then the latter point is just that yeah
when you're further away from the line
at the end of the tunnel it's harder to
gauge the distance yes right so those
are the reasons why I like it three Rs
within the band where we have pretty
good accuracy sure
um and then secondly like I said
Progressive overload is the Arbiter
another tool that I like to use when I
teach people how to get better at R
accuracy is something that is well
accepted in gyms these days especially
here in Vegas film yourself oh yeah I
love it nak it or we closed you know
that that is optional and also dependent
upon the Gym's policies ah so I will say
that most bodybuilding gyms you are
mostly naked anyway yeah that's just
called body what's another cloth what's
another three Ines of exact half inches
of cloth yeah I mean honestly ybs are
just an excuse to share nipples right so
anyway when you film yourself you get a
little more feedback that's just another
form of feedback when you're just
training and you're not filming it it is
how hard did I feel you're going off
memory and depending upon where your
attentional focus is it can be limited
yes uh and like one beautiful thing
about what I talked about earlier is how
linear encoders give you an objective me
measure of bar velocity you can also see
stepping out side of your feelings how
fast did it look like I moved yes and I
can't tell you how often powerlifters
they'll look at the video and go oh that
was that that was easier than it felt
yeah and that's because velocity is
something that is a little more divorced
from your feelings and typically when
you're doing a set where you care about
the velocity it's hard right you're
lifting heavy uh in a powerlifting
context so it feels hard and even
putting 85% of your one RM on your back
especially when you're fatigued to deep
into a mesocycle if you especially if
you have a High squat relative to your
body weight or just a high absolute
number period it always feels terrible
MH so even the warm-ups feel terrible
absolutely sometimes worse because
you've had a really hard training block
so having this ability to not
necessarily measure velocity but give
you feedback to where your eye is
looking at the speed of the bar gives
you one more tool to accurately assess
it yeah that's a great tool most people
when tested and pushed are going to be
pretty damn close there's not this Mass
delusion of people training real far
from failure but there are some of us
maybe even many maybe even a third that
probably train pretty far from failure
compared to what we think yes and we can
add load and or reps to the bar with an
expectation of matching the load or reps
from last time to push ourselves further
to learn about our bodies potentially
also using video feedback if we're
training by ourselves and if we have a
coaching staff and fellow lifters the
whole thing is made easier because
everyone calls you on your yes
decent summary I would say so and
there's one other thing that I do
recommend sometimes especially for the
purposes of bodybuilding is do a lower
volume block primarily use machines
Smith machines and ideally have a
training
partner and train with to failure you
know you can set up training variables
in many ways and for it to still be
optimized you individually the volume
increase the pro failure so it's this
this is basically doing a block of of
something akin to hit or at least
similar to it and this I think really
does help you anchor a failure Point
sure so one thing that you can read
about in any of the perceived exertion
based studies is that ratings of
perceived exertion become which R is not
exactly but it's closely related to they
become more accurate when you have
anchored what is the top of the scale
and what's the bottom yes so if you were
using say a borg RP which is just the
original 1 to 10 or even 6 to 20 6 to 20
scale get that get that one to 10
out of my face that's make belief sorry
no no category ratio scale for Dr Mike
but um you anchor a 10 or a 20 as
failure and you actually have them do
momentary muscular failure and you go
okay that's a 20 all of a sudden now
those two variables rir and the RP
rating are more closely aligned sure um
statistically and you will see more
consistent actually achieving of that
because they've they've anchored it
so there are the average person out in
the world trying to lift weights who is
selfmotivated is probably pretty
close to failure when they think a
little bit shy of it not a ton but there
are lots of people who think they're at
three R very few people talk about that
person who's at three R and they're like
for sure at zero and they're like yeah
man could have had three more right
there's those people and there's plenty
of them and there's also tons of people
that are really sandbagging and they're
really far from failure but that saying
of all people are really far from
failure and sandbagging it's maybe
spiritually because we don't have
numbers on this like a third of the
population just to keep it even um for
just um a mental uh thought experiment
sake it's like a third is but we're
saying it's like everyone and we're
removing two groups of people one group
vetted very well by research of people
most people actually get quite close and
the other group of people who say
there's three R but they're really zero
there's tons of them also yeah there is
there was a study and I brought this up
in our discussion of of uh failure um
where they actually took recreationally
trained men I think think six months or
more experience who use bench press
trained for strength or hypertrophy if I
recall correctly and they said hey what
load do you use when you do 10 reps come
on to the into the gym uh in in the lab
have you go to failure and we'll see how
many reps you got now the important
thing about that study and is miscited
as an assessment of R accuracy in the
wild or how hard people train is that
they did not ask people what do you use
for a set of 10 to failure they asked
them what do you use for a set of 10 so
they're very well have been people using
the RP app in that study who go yeah
well you know typically I start
mesocycles off with my 13 RM because I'm
training into a three r y and then you
go oh look at that people think they're
doing a 10 RIT Max it's actually 13 RIT
Max it's like no that person purposely
chose to use a three R load so that's
what that study doesn't tell you and in
that study which is probably if anything
overestimating people who are you know
sandbagging because of that fact that
not everyone is training to failure
purposefully and with knowledge it
indicates that yeah maybe about a third
of people are too far from failure to be
effective like five R maximally
effective correct um there's a good
probably 40 50% of people who are like a
little bit unders shooting but
definitely in a good range and there's a
a minority of people who are very on
point and a very small amount who are
actually
regularly going I got one more and then
they fail and there's no problem with
well there is a problem with that
because it's more of an ego issue it's
not an accuracy issue because it
self-corrects immediately yes it's false
you do not deadlift 405 forend it's you
miss yeah exactly awesome Eric thank you
so much for coming on our pathetic
Backwater Channel um 3dmj is the company
that you represent you guys offer
coaching you guys offer mentorship
opportunities in some respect you guys
are coaching probably the best national
bodybuilders in the whole world and the
kings of that space and you yourself are
a natural bodybuilder you coach still
yourself a very small number I'm not
actively taking them my my primary role
like you is the science off officer for
3dmj so I make sure that the coaches
have the best knowledge to serve our
clients as best as they can and I
contribute a lot to the Vault where we
have our courses The Vault and how do I
get to the Vault you go to 3dmj
vault.com and there you can see all of
the courses we have from bodybuilding
program design which is very relevant to
what we've talked about today from the
default diet how to set up your habitual
approach to your bodybuilding diet to
everything from how do I count calories
how do I count macros how do I improve
adherence to my program and everything
in between awesome I love it amazing
resource guys check that out Dr Eric
Helms he has a YouTube follow him there
if you see him in real life follow him
to his home see you guys next time
[Music]