okay welcome everyone to part two of my
Q&A if you missed part one I'll have
that link down below and we're just
gonna jump right into it here I've got
my QB line prolific pre-workout ready
and we're gonna go hit a leg workout
after this so I'll just overlay some of
those leg clips over here as I go
through the questions here we go first
question should teenagers train the same
as adults I'm 14 years old 170 pounds 6
foot 2 deadlifts 375 squat 300 and bench
160 ok so here my thoughts on this um a
lot of people I feel like get this a
little bit wrong and my experience there
are two main concerns when it comes to
teenagers and training the first is will
it stunt your height or growth potential
and the second has to do with injury
risk now first things first I would say
that when it comes to programming for
people you really need to consider it
the situation outside just the age of
the individual for example someone who
may be 14 or 15 years old but has been
playing sports since they were 5 and has
really good general athletic ability is
going to be probably much more well
suited for a more advanced training
program than someone who might be 30
years old but has never touched a
football or soccer ball or something in
their life so I think that previous
experience and athletic ability really
should weigh in on this as well but when
it comes to youth training in particular
on 2014 there was an international
consensus position stand that was
published under a ton of different
organizational or regulatory bodies and
basically I'm just going to read off
what they concluded for both the stunted
growth concern and the injury concern so
first the stunted growth concern they
said that basically the opposite of what
most people say they say failure to
participate in moderate to vigorous
weight-bearing physical activity during
these stages of growth may predispose
individuals to long term bone health
implications so maybe not training with
some external resistance could actually
be a bad thing it during your developing
years and they said no scientific
evidence indicates that resistance
training will have an adverse effect on
linear growth during childhood or
adolescence or reduce eventual height in
adulthood and so I really think this is
just something that's been blown out of
proportion and actually did a full video
on it if you guys haven't
checked it out that kind of dives into
the origin of this myth basically okay
the second thing is injury risk and I
think that this is a little bit more of
a legitimate concern for me I think that
when you're a teenager you probably are
newer to weight training and so it
probably would be best to always have a
spotter handy someone with more
experience ideally an adult who's gonna
be able to supervise you and make sure
you're not biting off more than you can
chew in terms of weight which I find is
a really strong temptation for teenagers
and I'll just briefly put the summary of
the injury related stuff up here on the
screen from that position stand but in
brief basically they said that weight
bearing exercise may be critical for
reducing injury later in life so if you
can build that strength early then
basically you're off to a great start
now so my hats off to you at 14 years
old being able to perform those lifts I
think that's really impressive and just
for any teenager listening in general or
people who train teenagers I would say
that you know here on this channel you
hear me emphasize training volume and
intensity and progressive overload as
sort of the main things that are driving
muscular gains forward but when it comes
to teenagers I feel like it is a little
bit of an exception where you kind of
want to put those things to the side at
least initially and really focus on
mastering your technique first and it
can be really tempting as a teenager to
start setting the PRS this is tempting
at any age to be honnest but I think
it's especially important as a teenager
that you really master that form first
above everything it's more important
than volume more important than
intensity and effort you've really got
to nail the technique down so that would
be my number one bit of advice
[Music]