hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's BS video topic
is that insulin makes you fat
or does it
let's get into the details
what's the claim here well insulin
signals fat storage
and thus you should avoid insulin
secreting Foods
all of which at the top end are
carbohydrates
and this is the carbohydrate insulin
model of obesity people eat too many
carbs insulin is secreted on Moss
insulin is
uh lipogenic it leads to the creation of
fat stores and it also removes
carbohydrates from your bloodstream and
then you don't have any more so you're
hungry again so eat more carbs and they
just get stored as fat and so on the
Merry-Go-Round continues until you waste
600 pounds you have no idea what
happened all I ate is one apple you tell
yourself that you sound a lot fatter
when you say that
there is some theoretical support for
the idea that this might be the case yes
insulin does in fact trigger lipogenesis
it does trigger the creation of fat it
absolutely does shuttle nutrients from
the bloodstream into fat cells where
they are used to build more fat
molecules the part that usually folks
leave out is that insulin also shuttles
nutrients into muscle cells and many
other cells of your body that also build
muscle yes we'll get to that in a bit
and Insulin absolutely can under some
circumstances cause so much of your
blood glucose to be removed from the
blood into the cells that you get a
radical rebound
hunger Spike and it causes you consume
even more carbohydrate building that
positive feedback loop to get you to 600
pounds now
that is precisely where the support for
this idea ends and the theoretical
problems actually begin
first if you are not in a calorie
Surplus that is eating more calories
than you burn it is very difficult
perhaps impossible for insulin to create
net increases in your body fat and body
weight where would it get that stuff
from
insulin doesn't seem to reduce your
physical activity levels so if it can't
tip the scales of thermogenic balance
not really sure how it's supposed to
build more in that tissue the only way
to get to 600 pounds is to eat a lot of
food which insulin doesn't really itself
have an effect on
insulin in healthy people plays no
favorites as to which cells it
transports nutrients into another
problem
so insulin is actually very anabolic
towards muscle tissue it helps muscle
grow and it helps fat grow it helps
everything grow but the key to that
growth in the long term with muscle and
with that is a caloric Surplus so you've
got to eat more food than your body
needs in order to make insulin this very
powerful mediator of actual gains
now
if you say to yourself look carbs are
very lipogenic and the insulin that
comes with them is part of the problem
every time you eat carbohydrates your
body secretes insulin the carbs cause
fat gain the insulin cause extra fat
gain the two of them combined are like
the Batman and Robin
of if Batman and Robin instead of
fighting crime just made people fat
so you say to yourself well listen I
like the old 1960s Batman Robin just
fine but I'm gonna eat
more fats and fewer carbs I'm even going
to low low carb and I'm gonna have a lot
of dietary fat and very little dietary
carbohydrate to prevent the insulin or
the carbs from being turned into fat
and then you think about that for about
three seconds longer and you think why
would my body have to turn the carbs
into fat
if it just got fat in the diet it could
take that fat and pretty much directly
put it into fat cells and make me fat
that way
and then you would answer that question
in the affirmative I guess actually it
would do that
so it turns out when people do low
carbohydrate diets to try to reduce the
impact of insulin and carbohydrates on
adiposity and the creation on the
lipogenesis creation of fat they have
absolutely succeeded only to replace
that carbohydrate with fat in their
diets and now that fat directly goes
into fat cells and just makes you fat
requiring no conversion I might add and
it makes you just as fat to eat fats as
carbs as a matter of fact by a small
margin fat is more lipogenic than
carbohydrates
so the low carb diet where you eat lots
of fats that doesn't seem to work all
that well
now
those are the theoretical problems what
problems do we run into when trying to
say insulin makes you fat in the real
world well a couple but hold on a second
while I'm doing work on my computer
Windows suggests that I can explore
Microsoft movies and TV watching anime
horror action and more and it even asks
me if I want to launch it now or later
Microsoft you know what I want more of
pop-ups
ah
in any case Microsoft you're great last
time I talked smack about Bill Gates I
got a muscle cramp on this very channel
so I won't do that
all right here we go
observed problems first
insulin usually doesn't raise hunger
levels
insulin spikes do that if you inject
exogenous insulin
if you are producing endogenous insulin
which almost everyone who says that
insulin causes fat is talking about
endogenous internally produced insulin
internally produced insulin seems to
usually have a negative effect on Hunger
it creates a feeling of fullness it just
doesn't reliably make you hungrier
unless you get some really exotic
conditions so that whole idea of a
thinsulin is high you get hungry all the
time just doesn't seem to be true
second
we can test this hypothesis directly the
claim is that via the insulin mediated
Pathways High carbohydrate diets which
make the secretion of lots of insulin a
necessity cause more fat gain we could
just go and test that out yet 20 people
to eat high fat diets with low carbs get
20 people to eat high carb diets with
low fats and see who gets fatter after
three months it turns out there's
basically no difference the all of the
studies taken together of which there
have been dozens and dozens of studies
conducted in various ways different
designs different populations it turns
out that if you keep calories roughly
the same the amount of fat lost gained
or maintained is also roughly the same
whether you eat a diet mostly of
carbohydrates mostly of fats or anything
in between
so it turns out that high insulin
exposure versus low incident exposure
high carb diets versus low carb diets
don't predictably lead to any
differences in weight gain or fat gain
that just nukes that hypothesis right
out of the water I mean you can
speculate all you want about the
mechanisms but if the thing you are
speculating is simply not true in
practice you got to take a step back and
understand that you did something wrong
for example if I can speculate that you
know I can uh you know beat up Tyson
Fury in a boxing match because of all
kinds of theoretical reasons you know
I'm probably stronger than Tyson Fury
I'm probably younger than he is you know
I'm spry I'm real smart it's real a
really good idea to be smart boxing
brick where people go and then I get the
ring and he knocks me the fuck out 10
times in a row and I do nothing about it
10 times in a row you gotta wonder you
might have made a mistake in the
ultimate test of my claim that I could
beat up Tyson Fury is actually getting
in the rain putting them gloves on so
that's how science Works in study after
study after study all the studies taken
together encountered separately
shows that insulin and carbohydrates
paired together simply do not cause more
body fat gains than just good old
fashioned fats
yikes all right so we can just throw
that out
in addition
there is an idea that if foods cause a
lot of insulin secretion then they're
going to cause a rebound in low
carbohydrate presence in the blood and a
crazy rebound hunger and then more
insulin and more hunger and more carbide
more carbohydrates and you get fat
that's an interesting idea could be true
but if misses an entire component an
entire signaling pathway an entire
hormonal axis in your body called the
glucagon axis and glucagon is a hormone
that directly opposes insulin if you
have a lot of carbohydrates in your
blood insulin is secreted in order to
take them and put them in the cells
if you have very little carbohydrate in
the blood glucagon tells the liver to
secrete more carbohydrates into the
blood to keep blood sugar normal
how do we know that this happens like
100 years of physiology
what about if we take in high
insulinergic Foods foods that secrete a
ton of insulin even for how much
carbohydrate they have
foods like yogurt and skim milk for
example you would expect someone to eat
yogurt just sit around for half an hour
and then get hypoglycemic get clammy and
confused and hungry for carbs and sweaty
and then all of a sudden they're passing
out but in reality what happens is
glucagon kicks in and the blood sugar
stays perfectly normal and there is no
rebound hunger effect from eating a
fucking container of yogurt can you
imagine even saying that to someone like
yeah we eat a lot of yogurt so I'm
starving said no one ever what a
Preposterous bit of nonsense
lastly
it's the glycemic index that's the
problem right the glycemic index tells
you how much a food raises blood sugar
and if it raises blood sugar a ton and
you're a relatively healthy person even
if not it is going to raise insulin a
ton you got the carbs you got the
insulin it's a huge Spike all the bad
things that's supposed to make you fat
here's the problem with that the most
lipogenic Foods the foods that we know
from study after study cause the most
fat gain are not even high glycemic
index foods for the amount of food that
you're eating they don't even secrete
that much insulin and absolutely do not
do it rapidly the appearance of
carbohydrate in the bloodstream from
those Foods is slow and steady like you
would have with brown rice but it sure
sure doesn't brown rice that is making
people fat what is it pizza ice cream
cookies Etc they are the most lipogenic
Foods because they have two things going
for them one they have a ton of calories
for every bite two they are delicious
and you just keep wanting to eat them
and you do and then you get fat you look
in the mirror and you begin to cry what
works best for your tears your friends
May judge you but should even your
parents judge you your spouse just isn't
looking at you the same way anymore Mr
cookie he's never had anything against
you give me a hug he says put me in your
mouth he says and look if anyone other
than Mr cookie saying put me in your
mouth you got to report the
motherfuckers to the police
that aside
low glycemic index Foods all of them are
pizza ice cream cookies they're low GI
Foods they do not secrete a ton of
insulin carbohydrate insulin model is
unable to describe why these foods are
so lipogenic but the model of well foods
are tasty and you eat more of them and
they have high calories and then you eat
more of them and they have high calories
and that's how you get fat is absolutely
able to explain that and that is the
food palatability reward hypothesis by
uh Stefan Guinea and it just happens to
be the truth as far as we can tell for
now I'd put more stock into that
all right so how the hell knowing all of
this and knowing to be asked behind it
is it such a common myth I have a couple
of ideas
one is because people need a scapegoat
that allows them a way out
that allows them some convenient way to
squiggle away from the imposing
responsibility of actually eating well
I don't want to have to start measuring
my portions I don't want to have to
start exerting self-control I just want
to have zero fucking control and eat
tons of carbs blame the carbs and then
have zero control and eat tons of fats
still not lose weight and then maybe
blame the fats and the reality is that
people get fat on junk foods not
dextrose powder or fruits you never look
at someone who's eating brown rice and
apples and think man what an idiot he's
going to gain so much fat via the
carbohydrate insulin model that's
nonsense you see someone eating cookies
and french fries and taking the fries
and dipping them into cookie chunks ooh
cookie dough french fries do not take my
idea that's my idea
then you probably think they might be
getting fatter sooner or later
all that aside
any attempt to duck that reality to try
to blame insulin and thus carbs is is
the great Arnold Schwarzenegger would
inevitably say
bullshit
I'll see you guys next time