damn it so is masturbation killing your
gains this might seem like a goofy topic
but this is actually a really common
question that comes up i've been asked
this a million and one times over the
years and if you just look at the view
count on most masturbation and
bodybuilding videos you'll see just how
many people are curious about this topic
now the basic fear that most guys have
is pretty simple they're worried that
ejaculation is going to decrease their
testosterone levels and since
testosterone is the primary muscle
building hormone in the body that that's
going to lead to reduced muscle growth
and to be totally honest this is
something that i actually remember being
concerned about in my younger living
days as well and i would say that it
actually is a valid question i mean even
in some competitive sports it's not
uncommon to hear about athletes
abstaining from sex and masturbation
prior to competitions in mike tyson's
prime he says that he went five years
without having sex for similar reasons
so let's break it down i see people just
kind of tossing answers around on this
without really backing it by solid
evidence so let's look at this
objectively so first off in a pure
physical sense in other words if you
take two individuals who are following
the exact same training and nutrition
protocol with the only difference being
that one of them is consistently
flogging the dolphin three times a day
while the other is living the full-blown
red pill no-fap lifestyle would there be
any difference in muscle growth between
the two now there are a variety of
studies that have looked into this as
far as how masturbation affects
testosterone levels so one of the more
well-known papers is a 2003 study on 28
men where half of them had to keep their
wiener fully concealed for an eight day
period while the other half could do
with it as they pleased and in the
abstinence group there was a temporary
45 spike in testosterone now that sounds
interesting but the reality is that this
study just wasn't very well structured
first off the masturbatory frequency
wasn't specifically measured they also
started on different days of the week
which could have an effect on things
depending on how stress levels might
fluctuate and ultimately it was a pretty
small sample size over a short time
frame another study looked at
testosterone levels in 10 men before and
after a three week period of abstinence
and there was a slight increase after
those three weeks however once again the
increase was small temporary and they
only measured the test levels while they
were masturbating not literally while
they were masturbating but within the
same general period and so it doesn't
really tell us the whole story because
we don't have a full picture of exactly
what was happening from day to day this
study here was done on rhesus monkeys
which might not carry over perfectly to
humans though judging by some of the
comments people leave on my videos
especially over on tick tock i'm not
convinced the difference is all that
significant between the two species in
some cases um at least not cognitively
but regardless of that one group of
monkeys with the highest number of
ejaculations also had the lowest
testosterone levels but when they
followed up on another group ejaculation
frequency didn't have any effect this
one here is a rat study which of course
is not ideal but it did show that
rodents who ejaculated to the point of
sexual exhaustion didn't have any
significant change in their plasma
testosterone levels on top of this there
actually are some studies that show the
complete opposite where ejaculation is
associated with higher testosterone
levels now depending on the study
structure that could be because people
with higher test levels are just more
driven to have sex or to masturbate in
general so we can't really draw a firm
conclusion there but it is something to
consider this study showed that a period
of abstinence resulted in lower
testosterone levels but that was in men
with erectile dysfunction who might be
more prone to depression or to anxiety
which could be a causative factor or
just less social contact with females in
general that could play a role too since
that does impact testosterone levels to
a certain degree as well but all in all
when you look at the evidence
collectively what you generally see are
minor short-term fluctuations with no
significant long-term effects and it's
important to keep in mind that
short-term fluctuations in testosterone
are completely normal as is and can
range anywhere from 10 to 40 over
periods of a few days or weeks which
brings us to the key point here which is
that even if choking the chicken did
cause a small temporary decrease in
testosterone levels that doesn't
necessarily mean anything at all when it
comes specifically to building muscle
and this is the big thing that a lot of
people miss they click on some random
study they skim the abstract they read
that masturbation resulted in lower
testosterone and they think that that's
all they need to know case closed
masturbation is going to destroy my
muscle building results but that's not
at all how it works in reality what you
have to ask anytime you're dealing with
questions surrounding hormone levels
like this is how much did it decrease by
and over what time frame in order for
your actual rate of muscle growth to be
negatively impacted in a noticeable way
not only do testosterone levels need to
be decreased but they have to decrease
by a very large margin and for a
prolonged period of time these little
transient up and down spikes just aren't
going to be powerful enough to make any
real world difference and that's also
why like i've said before testosterone
booster supplements that just give you a
small temporary increase are essentially
worthless when it comes to building
muscle and the same thing applies to
growth hormone supplements as well so in
terms of the direct physical effects
there just doesn't seem to be any
concrete measurable connection between
masturbation and muscle hypertrophy so
if you're purposely abstaining for the
specific reason that you think it's
gonna speed up your rate of muscle
building or if you're not abstaining and
you're feeling guilty about it for that
reason it's just not something that you
need to be worrying about now with all
of that out of the way this doesn't mean
that i'm recommending a 24 7 fap
free-for-all and i do think that sitting
there and slapping your meat around all
day while watching large amounts of porn
is not the best idea for your overall
psychological health and for how that
could then carry over to other aspects
of your life and potentially to your
fitness program in an indirect way okay
it's not going to directly impact your
muscle mass or your body fat but if it's
affecting your motivation levels for
example that could be a factor you know
ejaculation does cause a release of a
variety of neurotransmitters and
hormones like serotonin oxytocin
prolactin and if that mixture is causing
you to feel fatigued and less driven
overall then sure that might have an
effect if you're doing it uh for example
in the middle of the day before you've
even hit the gym if anything probably
best to say that until later on when it
comes to your pre-workout ritual stick
to pure form not pornhub and look
masturbation is a completely normal
thing for humans to engage in so i don't
think you need to feel guilty about that
especially if you're a younger guy where
your testosterone levels are naturally
raging a pretty damn normal thing but
it's more so just a matter of doing what
you can to keep the overall frequency
under control and to time it out so that
it's not interfering with your
day-to-day tasks and then aside from
that there's the whole other question of
how porn specifically factors into that
and the negative mental effects that
that could potentially have masturbation
is a normal thing for the human brain to
deal with but hardcore high-speed porn
probably not so much now that whole
topic is beyond the scope of this video
but there does seem to be a pretty
decent amount of supporting research
showing that frequently whacking it to
porn can produce measurable negative
changes in brain function associated
with things like motivation attention
mood etc and just on a purely anecdotal
basis i would definitely vouch for that
and the majority of guys that i've
spoken to on this topic usually say the
same thing as well and feel free to
comment below with your own experience i
know it can be a tough thing to get
under control with just how readily
accessible this stuff is nowadays but
with the right systems in place i'm
using porn blockers for example those
can be extremely helpful if you can just
cut porn out completely i'd say that you
probably will find that to be mentally
beneficial personally my mind just feels
clearer overall better focus higher
motivation levels higher social
confidence not to mention that if you're
regularly watching porn it can turn into
a huge time sink as well now everybody
is different so this is something you'll
have to experiment with for yourself if
you are a regular porn user and you
genuinely feel completely fine and you
don't feel that it's affecting you
negatively well you know there's not
much that i can say to that but i would
wager that most guys out there will
probably be better off without it but to
sum this all up okay in a direct
physical sense masturbation is almost
certainly not going to affect your
muscle building results in a measurable
way however if it's affecting you
psychologically and if it's interfering
with your daily tasks then you've got to
get the frequency under control and
ideally porn should not be a part of
this or at the very least it's something
you should be using very sparingly if
you do have the motivation and focus in
place and you want some help getting
your overall fitness program onto the
right track then make sure to visit
seanow.com custom just fill out the
short form there and i'll send you back
a free training and nutrition plan to
maximize your results based on your
current physique and your goals the link
is up here as well as down below in the
description box here are two more videos
i'd recommend watching now don't forget
to subscribe and hit the bell icon to
stay in the loop on future videos thanks
for watching guys and i will talk to you
again soon