hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization i forgot my last name but
i think i have one
short video today kind of more a bit of
a psychological video it's a bit broly
it's a bit sort of like hard-nosed i
think you guys will get a kick out of it
it's about doing what you must
and not what you feel like if you're
interested in the best results this is
something that just comes up on my insta
a lot and on the youtube channel a lot
people exchange a lot of these ideas and
i thought i'd sort of throw my hat into
the old
hat bucket
of ideas
you guys everything like some euphemisms
that just like you'd have to google to
figure out why they make sense
historically and people say like i gotta
throw my hat into the race the last time
i was in a race nobody threw any hats
anyway
we're just gonna hit you with real shit
right up front
there is a big difference many
differences of course but a big maybe
quintessential difference between
children and adults is the following
children mostly do what they feel like
adults do some of what they feel like
but also do what they must in order to
get the things that they want
later not right now
that is called delayed gratification and
it builds literal empires you do the
tough things that have to be done now to
get the things that you want to happen
after the fact
just doing what you want right now
often if not usually builds nothing at
all but it's fun which is good for its
own sake and not much more
how the hell does that relate to
training we talk about kids adults
empire about the fuck
well in training there are often choices
about what is the best thing to do in a
given training situation which exercise
to do how hard to go when to deal it etc
and the things that you want to do now
if you're lucky slash purposeful about
it
you can
learn
to want to do the best things but
sometimes that's an uphill battle and
often
you just have to be an adult in training
and choose to do what's right
even if you don't want to do what's
right right then and there
what are some examples of what the hell
it is that i'm talking about
stuff you might have to do if you want
the best results that you might not want
to do at all times
first doing three reps in reserve at the
beginning of a mesocycle for the love of
god you get your new training program
you've been deloading for like a week
hopefully
you want to crush it and go to failure i
know i do but i guess science says that
maybe two or three or four reps in
reserve is better because then you get a
really great effect with minimal fatigue
you can build up to your best volumes
and intensities and have your best low
risk results that way blah blah blah i
don't have time for less shit i want to
go to failure but maybe it's not a good
idea so there's that sort of split in
the road shit i want to do that'll be
fun now go to failure all the fucking
time or shit that's a good idea to
actually make me better over time maybe
doing three reps in reserve
another one
taking deloads and actually following
through with them a bunch of you guys me
included every now and again like three
weeks three days into a deal you're like
man fuck this this is boring i already
feel quite fine i'm just going right
back into training and more times than
not that doesn't pay off
really letting your fatigue come down
through a whole deload is the way to set
up the best training in the future and
i've tried this with myself
dozens of other people jesus thousands
probably
especially with myself i've done this
thing where i really try to deload much
less and then i try to really deload
like as much you're supposed to every
fucking time i deload how much more
supposed to the next meso and macrocycle
is like god made the shit i fucking turn
into a superhuman animal and just smash
all pr's get super jack super lean etc
and every time i cut my d-load short
sometimes it works but almost every time
i just like
fatigue and stall out and things don't
go that well
during the deal though it fucking blows
to do it it fucking blows and it's 100
honest truth
another example
doing multiple sets to failure in peak
week if you're aligning your volumes and
intensities properly
in your peak week which is the week
before your deload you it might say okay
last week you got good pumps and
soreness and everything doing
eight total sets uh one rep in reserve
for a combination of let's say
leg extensions and hack squats and then
this time maybe the plan calls for like
10 total sets
zero rer or failure
every single fucking set
fuck that i want to train like a pro
bodybuilder nowadays i want to do one
top set one drop set by the way a little
industry insight the number one reason
bodybuilders do one top set one drops it
and switch exercises because it's
fucking hard to do shitload of fucking
sets all the way to failure really close
and it's monotonous and it's boring but
it makes you jacked
probably marginally more jacked than
just showing off a little bit so yeah it
fucking blows through multiple sets to
failure every single fucking session of
last week there's a reason
that folks have coined that week
wheelchair week right it is fucking
debilitating but it sets up the growth
that you're going to experience through
most of your deload week and even
further down with all this sort of under
underlying hypertrophy work it's doing
it's how you get better is pushing into
the limits that you don't fucking want
to do imagine if a mountain climber
thought like the average fucking
bodybuilder was you know going up mount
everest there's like a thousand feet
left and it's like oh it's really cold
and it's hard to breathe fuck that and
just turn around like
you don't get your name on the fucking
placard of having climb on everest if
you do shit like that but in
bodybuilding you still get some pretty
good results not going where you're
supposed to but you get your best
results going into that very very
uncomfortable place that you might not
want to look at another example
exercises that you know cause you the
best growth and you fucking hate doing
them deadlifts like especially for
beginners intermediates deadlifts
fucking build a thick
gunshot proof backs
okay i have like a pretty cool back by
whatever standards and most of it was
built through pull-ups barbell rows and
shit loaded deadlifting when i became
all whatever insta youtube famous dr
mike bullshit by then i was so fucking
injured that i can't even do deadlifts
properly anymore and the stimulus
figuration is not that great for me
anymore but as a beginner as an
intermediate dude i worked up to 600
pounds for a set of four in the deadlift
and other cool feats tons of deficit
stuff did i ever like doing deadlifts
you know there might have been like a
two or three month phase of my life
where i actually like doing it um i i
fucking hate them and there's tons of
extras i hate but they have good
stimulus to fatigue ratios for me or
really big raw stimulus magnitudes that
are worth it on a mass face
you just got to do you got to do them if
you want the best results plain and
simple another one this is super common
this is something very few people fuck
up
sorry this is something very people get
right
painful and humbling ranges of motion
there are two reasons why most people
cut their depth on the leg press that
explain most of the variance of why they
do it reason number one the lower you go
the fucking more hurts your quads you're
like how fuck ah fuck wait hold on what
it just hurts more the lower i go i
don't want any of this pain i'll just go
halfway down and the other reason is
it's fucking humbling because if you go
low on leg press you can't use fucking
eight plates and can't wink at that girl
on the other fucking machine like hey
lady if i can do this eight plates for
the partial rom
what do you think i can do to you girl
yeah
clearly i get laid a lot with lines like
that
but i'm not doing that shit which is why
first of all i don't get laid i never
speak to women at the gym or anyone for
that matter and also i'm trying to get
fucking in the pain zone and get humbled
because that's where the fucking growth
happens more and no it's not fun to go
in and fucking leg press 225 or 315. i
got real talk real talk
it's easy for me to say this shit now
because i'm all fucking juiced to the
gills and jacked and even my fucking
full range of motion shit is super
impressive to most people what really
sucks is if you're a beginner and you're
immediate you're watching this you're
full rom shit it's like what the girls
are doing your full rom dumbbell curls
like 15 or 20 pounds it's fucking awful
to do and look around like god damn it
like first of all he's hurt a ton and i
look like a fucking bitch trying to do
him like wow people like what are you
doing now it's 20 pounds and it's so
tempting to get the 40s and fucking
knock him around and be like yeah i'm a
fucking grown man thing is
months and years later you just straight
up get bigger biceps which is by the way
while you're in the gym at least i hope
so doing the fucking shit that's kind of
humbling and painful
and again adults do what they have to
children fucking swing around with the
40s and their first day in the
gym another one
training muscle groups you hate training
now of course you don't ever have to
train anything you're recreational fuck
it but there's competitive bodybuilders
whose careers are on the line and they
still don't train calves enough they
still don't turn traps enough they still
don't train forearms almost ever even
though like their biceps and triceps
look big but you guys look like skinny
forearms and like a um a front double it
kind of looks like it throws you off
you're like i don't know doesn't really
scream ronnie coleman to me but if you
google like lee priest or something his
um front double bye his forearms are so
big like holy arm
what the fuck jared feather perfect
example unreal forearms
makes it look good now jared feathers
gifted forearms they've just sort of
always been jacked and really responded
jared still trains his forearms to make
him even bigger however there's tons of
guys without his gifts that don't trade
forums why's form training you know i
thought that's what jacking off was for
why that's why i jack off but it's it's
some combination of painful
boring
embarrassing it's just dumb like it's
awful you don't want to talk about it
you don't want to i even like i post
most of my training on instagram i don't
even post my form training half the time
because it's like even videotaping that
shit i'm like exactly what am i
videotaping this for but i fucking do it
i don't like form training never did
never will i still do it because you
know what i'm saying clearly i'm not
jerking off enough but on a serious note
i want big fucking forms and i'm trying
to be more of an adult less of a child
ideally through the rest of my life
until i croak
and that's the thing that's the thing so
in the end
you don't have to do any of these things
that i said you don't have to you can
just go by feel
that's totally cool
but
then again
you don't have to be as jacked as you
could be or could have been so next time
there's an opportunity to go fork in the
road and do with what you feel like that
you know is not in your long-term
developmental best interest as a person
who wants to be jacked and strong
versus doing what is in your best
interest
at least give it some thought and ask
yourself
if i do what i must will i still love my
total involvement in this hobby or sport
enough to keep going and trying hard
because like doing what you must if it
ruins the fucking fun of it don't do it
because you just quit but if it can
still be a bit fun and you can still get
it done and if results really matter to
you
take the right hand turn on that fucking
road and go down to gaines alley and
tell them mike sent ya oh boy
i always wanted to finish a video dumb
as rocks with that kind of stupid shit
folks i'm out of smart shit to say maybe
i never had smart shit to say that's for
you to figure out and tell me about in
the comments see you next time for the
next video