you alternate those routines and by
reducing where you need to and
increasing where you can benefit from
you can continue to make gains whereas
if you just triy to do it all you're
going to get a whole lot of nothing hey
folks Dr Mike here for an periodization
let me tell you about the two limits to
muscle growth in training that are very
important and this is a really cool
theoretical discussion that once you
understand it and to be honest it's not
that hard to understand you can begin to
understand how to leverage your
programming for much better results than
before and actually cure quite a bit of
baffle as to why you're maybe not making
the gains you used to make two limits to
the growth of a muscle there are local
limits and there are systemic limits so
local limits is how hard can you train
the muscle how much that muscle growth
stimulus actually gets the nuclear
Machinery the Machinery inside the
cell's nucleus to really activate and
how much does the postnuclear uh
translation and transcription and all
that stuff well translation occurs uh
transcription translation so translation
is extraclear
and all the other indendent factors that
come along with that essentially inside
of your muscle cell how much does the
hard training signal the nuclear changes
signal the realization of growth that
all happens inside the muscle cell and
whatever happens outside the cell this
doesn't have much to do with that
process so there's a local limit there
and it doesn't matter how much anabolic
steroid you're on how amazing your
nutrition is how much sleep you're
getting if you get to the local limits
of your muscle growth there's just
nowhere else to do it there's no
possible way here's here's an example
let's say at most it is possible when
you're building a new home or updating
your current home for you to have 20
workers in there working on one guy's
working on the electrical stuff one
guy's working on the water one guy's
building the frame and it's 20 people
and any more than 20 people is simply
impossible to fit inside the house
without them elbowing each other and
actually reducing the work quality if
you have 20 people working in the house
and you're like hey by the way I got a
hundred guys outside all all qualified
and certified they're ready to help
doesn't matter there's no way to help
the guys yeah like well in eight hours
when these guys are off their shift have
20 more dudes come in and they're like I
can get you 40 it doesn't matter once
the local limits are peaked out it's all
happening locally those are limits fact
period that's it then there are systemic
limits for example how much nervous
system ability do you have starting with
the central nervous system brain and
spinal cord all the way through the
peripheral nerves how much ability do
you have to drive that tension in your
muscles because your nervous system gets
tired and your nervous system is
responsible for operating all of your
body's muscles so it may be able to push
some of the muscles to their maximum but
maybe not all of them maybe it gets
tired before all of the muscles have
totally been drained of their energy and
have the maximum muscle growth stimulus
available the idea here is uh o here's a
great analogy um you have a certain
amount of uh fans that are occupying a
stadium huge uh Taylor Swift concert why
not and you have a freeway system and a
set of Ubers and cabs and rails that go
from the airport where the Taylor Swift
fans are arriving to the stadium it
doesn't matter if your Stadium occupancy
is 200,000 people if only 5,000 people
per every 15minute period can get from
the airport to the stadium it's just
going to take a certain number of hours
to fill out and if you say hey look we
just upgraded the stadium it can now
seat 300,000 it doesn't matter because
the limit isn't local anymore the limit
is systemic there's just not enough
freeway to get from point A to point B
your dumb ass is stuck in the fucking
car you're going to work what the fuck
there's a traffic jam at this hour
fucking Taylor
Swift that's the key with the nervous
system it works kind of like that then
there are your hormones for example your
testosterone or cortisol ratio as you
push your system your whole body harder
and harder and harder over weeks and
weeks and weeks your testost
testosterone levels tend to start
falling and your cortisol levels tend to
start coming up and your testosterone
levels are very anabolic and promote
muscle growth and recovery and all the
wonderful things your cortisol in the
context of a hard training session helps
you go really hard it's a finer flight
hormone but chronically elevated
cortisol levels disrupt your ability to
burn fat as effectively definitely
disrupt your sleep your recovery and
directly through a various cell singling
Pathways mute how much muscle growth
you're going to experience even at the
local cell level so if you push yourself
so hard for so long systemically that
your testosterone level start to fall
and your cortisol starts to come up it
doesn't matter if you've just trashed
your biceps with the best workout the
amount of support they're going to get
in growth is now highly limited and thus
you are limited by systemic abilities
and unless you can do something to take
that testosterone push it back up take
the cortisol and push it back down you
ain't going anywhere very fast and the
last limit is nutrition if you have a
muscle that's absorbing am Amo acids and
glucose from the bloodstream at a
certain rate you can absorb fully and
not really disturb the total balance
because it's such a small part of the
whole body but if you just completely
destroy all the muscles of your body
with insanely hard
training there's a certain rate at which
food enters from your gastrointestinal
tract into your bloodstream and that
rate me may be a little bit lower than
all of your muscles drawing on it at the
same time so maybe it's possible to feed
two three four five six muscles in your
body to maximum
through their whole growth and Recovery
window of several days after training
but if you train all 8 to 12 depending
on how kind of major muscle groups in
your body the amount of food that each
one of them gets even if you're eating
from Maximum maybe at some points of the
recovery curve less than they can
internally absorb thus it's a systemic
limit not a local limit same idea as you
know there's a freeway to a certain
building even if you want to fill the
building up with people if if the
freeway's clogged or there's a certain
number of cars and you can't put too
many cars in there it doesn't matter how
many people are ready to go in the
building you're just not going to get
them there past a certain amount of time
so what does this mean practically when
you're just training a few muscles in
your plan like let's say you train your
chest back and arms you don't train your
legs you don't train your shoulders fuck
all that noise you are so far away from
your systemic cap of how much your body
can recover from and actually do that
the only realistic growth limits are the
local limits how much can your muscles
just grow
internally and
because the local limits of muscles tend
to be actually quite high as illustrated
by a series of studies over the past
several years where a group that just
trained quad recepts three times a week
I believe in several studies was able to
get north of 40 sets of quads per week
and get better results than they did
with 30 and with 20 uh-huh work sets oh
yeah to failure the whole thing how well
because when you only train your
quads the rest of your body's chilling
and your systemic abilities never really
cap you and it turns out muscles can
grow a lot if they're systemically
unhinged unimpeded that's awesome it
also explains why people are like yeah
man you want big quads just train like a
cyclist like get on the bike for hours
of fucking day what about my upper body
and they're like well just train that
like a cyclist too but with your arms
that didn't make any sense well no shit
if you only have to train half your body
like cyclists do yeah hell yeah you're
going to get big legs but what about
slapping a big ass upper body on top of
that well you can't do Cy anymore you're
going to have to change how you train
your legs because it's just too much for
your total system to recover so if
you're not training a ton of the muscles
of your body all of your muscles can
grow super well and you can cook the
living fuck out of them and do crazy
amounts of volume and still recover no
problem because it's really only the
local limits that are the problem that
are the limiting factors it's different
than when you're training a bunch of
muscles in your PL if you're training
chest and back and legs and shoulders
and basically all the major muscle
groups of your body and fuck it why not
forearms and calves too you might be
very close to your systemic limits and
thus adding another muscle you say well
I'm going to also do some trap work
might really slow down the gains that
you're currently making as an analogy
with the whole city situation if there's
a bunch of Ubers going to a special
event in town you guys know there's a
big special event especially not a huge
Town you're at the other end and you
decide hey I'm going to throw a comedy
club situation and all the people that
came to the comedy club or want to come
to the comedy club they're trying to get
Ubers and lifts and they're like the
fuck 30 minutes wait what the fuck well
that's cuz them shits are at the other
end of town doing some other shit and
that's just two events imagine having a
city with a certain max number of Ubers
and lifts and all of a sudden you throw
10 muscle groups 10 special events in
one evening motherfuckers going to be
waiting for Ubers for a long time and
thus the total number of people that end
up actually showing up to the events is
going to be much smaller than if
everyone could get an Uber in two
minutes which seems like in Las Vegas
you could just always get an Uber in two
minutes I don't know how that works in
metro Detroit you lucky to get a ubber
all but in any case you going to look at
how all the events filled up and if you
let's say you're the person that ran all
10 events around town like man like the
ticket sales are really underwhelming I
mean we pulled all the people everyone
wanted to go to the event we're supposed
to get tons of more people to come but
the problem is the Uber was the thing
that limited them they just couldn't get
there because the system is the
transportation situation and that system
was the limiting factor when you got a
lot of events that's just you couple
thousand Uber cars and well they're
going to go one way or they're going to
go another they can't take people to
both events at the same time you ride in
a car and the car splits in half and one
goes go one way and goes the other so if
you're already training all the muscles
of your body you add in traps not only
will your traps not grow impressively
because you won't be able to do the 30
40 50 sets per week that your traps can
recover from but you'll also be in a
situation where any more trap training
you do sinks the system demand even
further and thus the amount of growth
support that your quads get that your
glutes get that your chest gets is
actually less than it used to be because
now it has to split the difference of
traps another way to look at it is like
oh this is a terrible example Scott
we're getting cancelled you run an
orphanage right and you got a certain
Scott's used to run he ran an orphanage
of sworts back in his other life and um
it was all boys between the age of 18
and 22 I don't know how that worked but
you run an orphanage and there's a
certain amount of food that Charities
just give you every week same amount if
some kind of disaster hits and you get
10 more orphans to your orphanage of 20
people everyone's going to have to eat a
little
less and that's just a fact cuz you got
spread the food around same idea with
systemic resources One does not simply
in the context of a very high volume
program that's already pushing limits
just simply add something and not see a
cost to growth of other stuff now in
that pushing the limits systemically
case take a muscle out completely you're
like you know fuck forearms fuck calves
or you take your forearms and calves
down to maintenance volume which is
roughly a third or less of the total
volume they need so if you're typical
volume you grow from best for calves is
15 sets a week just with five sets a
week you can almost certainly maintain
your calf size indefinitely if you drop
down forums and Cals to maintenance
volume all of a sudden the systemic
recovery potential the systemic recovery
excess pool has greatly expanded and now
that can pour into the other muscles of
the body and significantly increase the
growth in your glutes and your quads and
your chest and everything else you're
still training as hard as you could this
is especially true if you take the
opportunity to increase volume of the
other muscles you could be training your
quads with 10 sets a week because
there's so much other shit going on
that's the most you can recover from
systemically but let's say you take your
entire body and you go down a
maintenance volume can you get better
results will you get better results
training your quads with just 10 sets a
week week after week yes absolutely
because now they get more food your
quads are more recovered systemically
session to session to session so you'll
be able to go harder get stronger over
time they get bigger quads hands down
you don't need to increase the volume
but if you're real smart you realize
your maximum recoverable volume for
quads because the systemic cap was taken
away or reduced now it's closer to your
local cap and remember local cap for
quads in some cases can be 20 20 30 40
and more sets per week and yes some
people can recover from that so instead
of doing 10 sets of quads per week
because that's used to be the only thing
you could survive now that you took your
upper body down to maintenance maybe you
do 12 sets maybe you do 14 sets maybe
you do 16 sets for quads per week maybe
you con citrated it up slowly then not
only do you have the extra recovery
capacity but you're doing the extra
volume that you're allowed to do it's
like you know five of the kids leave the
orphanage because their parents were
recovered after the great disaster those
five kids leave the other kids left over
well they're not just going to stare at
the food those five kids left behind
they're going to be like fuck that let
me get some of that shit that's how it
works here's an example to make it very
very distinct of what it feels like and
I'll talk about a little bit of what
checklists to do what it feels like to
hit a systemic mrv a lot of it comes
with a desire to train effect so here's
the deal technically speaking you can
maximize most cases of muscle growth by
pushing a muscle really really hard
making it very tired and weaker than it
normally is sometimes even making it
sore with delayed onet soreness and then
when that muscle roughly heals until
you're no longer weak and you are no
longer sore you hit it again okay you
get tired you get sore when you heal you
hit it again that's the rule however
much you can stuff into that and no more
is probably going to be close to your
maximum local ability to grow the muscle
now check this out you do know whole
body program quads and hams and glutes
and chest and back and arms and all that
stuff and you're doing side delts side
delts are a great example because you
might be able to do six sets of side
delts three times a week in an
integrated whole body program maybe you
train you know four or five times a week
three of those days you do six sets of
laterals or upright rows or whatever
that's a lot of side Del work six hard
sets that's fucking that's a lot do you
get sore from that typically the answer
is no do you get weak from that yeah for
a few hours a day maybe you sure shit
don't need two or three days between Del
sessions to still have amazing
performances so is it true to say that
you are actually training enough to fill
up your local recovery
cap no not even close and you be hold on
Dr Mike hold the fuck up are you telling
me that if I want maximum side delt size
that I have to train my delts so hard
they get very much weaker and usually
that means they'll take a day or two at
least to get back to full strength and
I'll have to feel great and not be sore
and then I have to hit it hard again as
soon as they recover mhm you think about
it for I like I could easily do eight
sets of delts for four times a week in
that case like yep hold on fuck that did
you how many fucking dealt that's so
much time and by the time I'm done with
most of my workout or if I start with
delts but I have a crapload of workout
left after after a few sets of laterals
systemically in my fucking soul I'm like
dude fuck this man yes I could keep
going but I'm so tired not of my delts
my delts feel fine but this shit is old
news if I'm stacking the program with
other hard hardcore compound lifts and
glutes and quads and chest and back
additional delts is a non-starter I'm
out I'm cashed out mentally I can't do
this shit anymore our hypertrophy
training app the RP hypertrophy training
app asks you how you're feeling and how
recovered you are and there's an extra
workload question at the end of every
muscle that asks how are you feeling
about how much work you're doing here
and it could be like ah this is super
easy I'm pretty you know getting pushed
pretty well and one is like this is
beyond my limits
if you were honest about delts in the
total body program and you eliminated
that question all together there was no
systemic fatigue question and you just
let the auto regulation adjust based on
soreness and um how quickly you're
recovering the app would ramp your delt
volume to the fucking Moon after six
weeks you'd be doing 32 sets of delts or
some shit You' be like well that's way
too much no it's not clearly you're
recovering on time is exactly OPP was
asking you are you sore today no you're
ready to go again yeah you hit a PR
great next time more next time six sets
next time time eight the time after that
10 oh 10 you still recovering well yeah
well it keep going nobody wants to hear
that shit now if you just train delts
and arms and that's it yeah hell yeah
you can pour it on you'll have that
Gusto to keep going but systemically if
you're capped One does not simply do
more stuff because if you're really
serious about taking every single muscle
to its local
mrv doesn't just end with delts you got
delts you got forearms you got calves
you got biceps you got triceps you got
pecs upper and lower you got quads and
don't forget to do some leg extensions
to get that fucking middle part of your
quad that sticks out you got hamstrings
make sure to do hip hinging and curling
you guys get my point there's so much to
do that if you are really Advanced and
really strong and really pushing it hard
you may not have a systemic fatigue cap
that's halfway to your sum of all local
muscles if you could just train one
muscle at a time you could do 20 30 40
sets for it but in the context of a
whole week of training that shit is not
going to happen that is a systemic
fatigue limit that's a systemic cap so
as a beginner and often intermediate
lifter you're nowhere near hitting your
systemic mrv cuz your muscles aren't
that big and strong and they honestly
just don't take that much damage this
means you can gain tons of muscle at the
same time in all of your muscle groups
you can train whole body if you do a
specialized routine you're saying okay
I'm going to ease up on chest and back
and I'm really going to try to train my
arms and shoulders the next question to
you is why are you easing up on your
chest and back and you go well cuz it it
frees up systemic resources but you're
not capped by systemic resources your
body's toally good to keep fucking
grinding everything okay fine and then
if you choose to deprioritize your chest
and back because your shoulders and arms
can already be trained so hard and
because they're not systemically very
limited you might get 10% more growth
with specializing as a beginner in
intermediate for 0% growth trade-off for
your chest and back what why not get 90%
of the growth you normally would have by
specializing for your delts and arms and
get 90% of the growth that you wanted
for your chest and back because you
really as a beginner and intermediate
especially as a beginner you can recover
systemically from everything you do not
have to do specialization routines and
as a matter of fact if you want all
around to be as jacked as possible do
not do specialization routines cuz you
could have recovered if someone's like
yeah man really focusing on hams and and
glutes this mess cycle you're like okay
so quads aren't maintenance y quads AR
maintenance like okay do you have the
energy to train your quads hard like
yeah fuck yeah you think you could
recover oh absolutely so why are you
back buring them like oh no
specialization I heard some kind of
program heard that's good for you it's
not good because you're not at that
systemic cap if you're not getting close
to systemic limits specialization is a
fucking waste of your time straight
up what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
[Music]
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now however
as an advanced lifter if we take all of
your local maximum recoverable volumes
for your biceps and your calves and your
hams and your quads and we stack them up
that total number of sets per session
per week is going to be significantly
higher than the systemic ability to
recover from all of those sets which
means that training all of those muscles
hard or trying to train them all hard at
the same time means you might get to
your minimum effective volume so you see
some growth but nothing too impressive
and in some very advanced cases you
might actually just be at maintenance
you're training all of your muscles as
hard as you can and they're all just at
maintenance because you're not training
them individually as hard as they can go
but the whole system is keeping you back
thus specialization routines are really
useful for advanced people for whom that
systemic cap is a real world thing and
it's maybe critical for some very
Advanced lifters that actually need
specialization for any growth to occur
Ur cuz if they try to do it all they
fall below minimum effective volume for
every muscle and then they're just
staying the same but if they take half
the muscles and drop them to maintenance
volume which is very low a third or less
of your total volume they get freed up
so much resource that now the muscles
they are trying to get bigger they can
push appropriately hard and get really
good gains and then for them it ends up
being a stagger situation you prioritize
upper body for a few months then lower
body for a few months keeping the upper
body on the back burner just at
maintenance volume something you can do
in the RP hypertrophy by the right
Shameless PL and then you hop scotch
forward upper body lower body upper body
lower body every few months you change
it or shoulders and arms chest and back
shoulders and arms chest and back you
alternate those routines and by reducing
where you need to and increasing where
you can benefit from you can continue to
make gains whereas if you just tried to
do it all you're going to get a whole
lot of nothing it's kind of similar to
the idea if you go to one party and you
really feel out the scene you have a ton
of fun but if you try to get to like
five parties in the same evening it's
just mostly transition time it's you
walking through college campus drunk
being like sure hope I know where I'm
going you get to the party it's fun for
a second you meet some people you don't
even have time to get into the scene you
got to go if you spread yourself too
thin it is very possible that you
accomplish a very very little of what
you have to do imagine this you're at a
party just fuck it you're at a party
just try to get laid right only reason
anyone parties as far as I can tell and
you're like at your friends say like
okay we're doing a bar crawl party crawl
five parties we got to hit them you are
putting in the work talking to
a beautiful name see talking to a nice
girl at one of these parties and you
know like when conversation's just
kicking it and you know it's just a
fucking matter of time and she's giving
you all the signs you know it's a matter
of time until she's like hey like yeah
you're the fucking man let's get the
fuck out of here you just got just put
in the work right put in the
familiarization time imagine like about
five minutes before you calculate she's
going to be like yeah fuck yeah let's
get out of here your friends are like
hey dude we're going to the next party
you're
like God damn it can't I just stay here
for a little longer like no man we get a
hill of parties and you're like but why
we're not at any one party to even
fucking get laid we're in and out what
the fuck which is the same thing as if
you train all of your muscles a little
bit as an advanced lifter and you never
train any single muscle enough to get it
to grow yeah you're in maintenance but
I'm going to say that again you're at
maintenance you go to the gym for
maintenance and suffer for maintenance
probably not so how do you tell what to
do because we got beginners and
intermediates then we got Advanced which
one are you it's a spectrum so how do
you tell if it's time for you to try
specialization or if it's better for you
to do all around if you can train all of
your muscles and challenge them to come
close to their individual mrvs their
local maximum recovery volumes then keep
crushing out whole body routines how do
you tell you can train your muscles so
hard that they fail to recover on time
for the next session that's too hard but
at least you know you can go too hard if
your hamstrings can only take six sets
before they get so sore you won't
recover for next week or for next
session in that week and you're able to
put in the work to go to seven sets each
time all you got to do is come back to R
four to six and then you're cooking it
and then you're good and systemically
you feel just fine someone's like dude
this whole program kind of getting
overwhelming like not not really but
it's not hard to do all that work all
those muscles no no I feel quite good
like all right keep cranking if you can
push the local muscles to their limits
no problem then you're good to go
however if you're trying to train it all
and you're getting Ultra tired
systemically your motivation to train is
going to shit your sleep is going to
shit shit and you're in the situation
often where you look at your uh RP
hypertrophy app and it says like you got
to do eight sets of quads today and
you're like fuck you get to five sets
and you're like honestly cashed out like
you're done mentally you're fucking done
and someone's like hey you did five sets
yep is that going to be like uh enough
for you to challenge yourself till next
time you're like no my quads will barely
get sore from this I could do three more
sets and still recover locally but
systemically I'm fucking done you guys
ever been to the gym and you're just
train a bunch train super hard 2 hours
hours later your body's like you want to
hit side do fuck you Frank no I don't I
can't do this anymore and if you try to
do it your Central Drive is so low that
normally you get the 20s for sets of 12
on lateral raises you get the 20s and
you're doing sets of six or eight
maximum you can't pull anymore and it's
like your muscle not so active your soul
is tired you're trying but not much is
happening it's like if I wake you up in
the middle of the night I'm like quick
get this hand grip dynamometer and
squeeze it as hard as you can you guys
ever wake up and try to squeeze your
fist try this next time you wake up in
the morning try to squeeze your fist as
hard as you can middle of the day you
can fucking crunch some shit ow it kind
of hurts my hand but if you just wake up
and your nervous system is not so active
yet try it wake up in the morning and
just try to squeeze your hand as far as
as as hard as possible you're going to
get the sensation where you squeeze it
you're like
uh what the fuck I can barely pick up a
stapler at this rate it's okay your
nervous system's still waking up but if
you've beaten your nervous system to
shit so much through a huge workout or
five days of huge workouts that you
cannot get really good performances
anymore you're technically in junk
volume and even if you somehow could
muster the will to continue to train
your side adts you're not training them
anymore you're just getting through the
motions because sets of six reps where
you're able to do 12 reps fresh are a
fucking with six reps in reserve I
didn't see the science that that rows a
lot of muscle because it doesn't so if
you get super tired trying to train it
all and for normally how strong your
muscles are deep into a routine you
can't get them to perform at that normal
level and it's not because the muscles
are so retired it's because the rest of
you is tired and can't produce that for
someone's like your delts still sore
you're like no they're tired you're like
my delts no I'm tired and if you can
really honestly say that you could use
some specialization because then you can
back up on some muscles put them at
maintenance you'll give yourself so much
breathing room to take those local mrvs
of the muscles you want to get big at
that time and really fill them in so
that when you're on set number eight of
side dels and someone's like how you
feeling you're like fucking yes I feel
my delts and they're getting tired thank
fucking God and you know what in two
days when they're healed I'm ready to
hit it again and not six sets but seven
and then we're going to see how that
works if that's the case specialization
is for you if you can survive your whole
program and get amazing results without
ever feeling overwhelmingly systemically
tired you don't need to specialize
because you could just be growing at all
why specialize give that some thought
tell me your stories in the comments
about specialization and if it did or
didn't work for you in the past and your
experience with it and tell me some
stories about systemic fatigue and how
bad you felt or how good phone say
whatever you want see you guys
[Music]
later