okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna be looking at how to use the
pull-up exercise to maximize development
of the back muscles so with the pull up
we're gonna be primarily targeting the
lats rhomboids and teres muscles through
shoulder adduction basically bringing
your arm down to your side the
brachialis biceps and brachioradialis
muscles will contribute to elbow flexion
bending your elbow while the lower traps
will enforce scapular depression the
rectus abdominus or ABS will also be
active in the pull up as they'll be
responsible for creating a spinal
flexion isometric contraction basically
preventing the spine from bending
backward throughout the range of motion
so before we dive into it with the
execution first let's just cover why the
pull-up is such a great exercise to
begin with the pull-ups target more
total musculature than lat pull-downs
in 2013 DOMA and colleagues found no
significant differences in lat
activation between a pulldown and a
pull-up
however the pull-up came out on top for
the biceps and the spinal erectors which
run all the way up the back pull-ups
also provide a very powerful overloading
stimulus and while many people think of
the pull-up as a body weight only
exercise incrementally adding external
load to the pull-up will strengthen all
of the pulling muscles and lead to their
growth through a progressive overload
pull-ups are also going to be more
effective at targeting the teres major
and minor muscles and chin-ups or rows
which are primarily shoulder extension
based so I generally recommend loading
the pull-up in a lower heavier rep zone
something like 5 to 10 reps
since its potential for overload is very
high as a high end strength standard at
the elite level that's quite common to
see trainees performing pull-ups with
bodyweight plus upwards of a hundred
pounds of extra resistance one thing to
emphasize from the outset however is
that like with all exercises you really
want to master perfect technique through
a full range of motion first before
adding any load for many people body
weight alone will have you close to
failure in the five to ten reps own well
for others assistance may be required to
reach even 5 reps if this applies to you
there's ABS
nothing wrong with using an assisted
pull-up machine to reduce the load while
you master the technique but the goal
here being to progressively reduce the
machines assistance over time eventually
reaching five reps with body weight from
there you want to add reps until you
reach ten reps with bodyweight and then
begin to apply extra load using a
weighted belt or by having a training
partner place a dumbbell between your
legs find a straight bar or a bar with a
kink in it that is ideally high enough
so you can hang from it without having
your feet touch the ground rather than
jumping up to grab the bar which can
lead to uneven or inconsistent grip
width and issues with loading you should
use a bench or aerobic riser placed one
to two feet behind the bar to get you up
to the right height this way when you do
take your grip you don't need to worry
about your feet hitting the bench on the
way down you want to grab the bar with a
pronated double overhand grip at roughly
1.5 times shoulder-width or you can make
a 90 degree angle with your upper arm
and forearm and then lift your arm
straight up wherever your hands land
should make for a good grip with one
2016 study out of Massey University
compared muscle activation and for
pull-up the variations and found no
significant difference between all four
except that the pronated wide grip
option was slightly better for the mid
traps so well there isn't necessarily
anything wrong with using an underhand
or narrow grip they may cause the biceps
to take over in some trainees and going
Rider than 1.5 times shoulder width
really is a bad idea as it's gonna
reduce the range of motion make loading
more difficult and more often than not
need to wrist pain I think the most
important thing is to just be consistent
with your grip for at least eight weeks
keep everything the same and
progressively get stronger by adding
reps or adding weight without switching
up the form after eight weeks or so now
you can switch up the grip and hit
things from a slightly different angle
repeating that same over loading process
again now you can use lifting straps
here especially if they allow you to
activate your back muscles better
however I'd recommend doing at least one
heavy back movement without straps so
that your grip strength and form size
aren't compromised from a dead hang
position you want to initiate the upward
motion by depressing your shoulder
blades and you can use the cue to pull
your elbows into your back pocket at the
same time you want to raise your chest
up to point toward the bar but don't
exaggerate this key
to the point that the exercise starts to
look like an inverted rub just slightly
puff the chest up continue to pull your
elbows down and in until your elbows are
as close to your sides as possible it
has a minimum standard you want to get
your chin over the bar which for most
people means that your upper chest will
actually touch the bar ending the range
of motion I throw out the concentric you
want to keep your hips extended to
prevent kipping basically bringing your
legs forward or upward which is a way of
cheating you can either leave your legs
dead straight or cross and tuck them in
behind you however either way you just
want to make sure that you're squeezing
your glutes to keep the hips extended
after you reach the top you want to
reverse the motion by lowering yourself
and back down under control allowing
your elbows to move up and out on the
way down you should feel your lat
actively stretching and pulled under
tension and to better feel the tension
in your lats you can think of pulling
the bar apart from the concentric and
the eccentric now because I prefer
heavier loading here with lower reps I
do think that using an external focus on
just executing the movement will be best
for most however if you're training with
higher reps you certainly can get a
tremendous amount of lat involvement out
of the pull up by squeezing and focusing
on activating your lats but certainly I
would say both can be effective for
really making the most out of the pull
up so the most common error that I see
here is just inadequate range of motion
that's really common to see trainees cut
the range of motion short at both ends
not going all the way down on the
eccentric and not going all the way up
on the concent trick now you don't have
to go to a complete dead hang at the
bottom you can leave a slight bend in
your elbows however you really should be
going all the way up leading with your
chest and finishing each and every rep
with your elbows pulled in to your sides
if you're not able to get extra reps
with a full range of motion then you
just shouldn't do them now another very
common error is lack of full body
rigidity many people will just allow
their torso and legs to become wax those
reps start to get difficult which can
cause cheating in momentum as I said you
want to keep your glutes flexed keep
your hips extended and don't allow your
lower body to swing back and forth
creating excessive momentum everything
should be solid and locked into place
now I want to quickly mention the wide
grip lat pulldown as an alternative here
it'll call from earlier that while the
pull-up may have a slight edge for the
back overall the pulldown shows
virtually the same level of lat
activation making it a reasonable
alternative especially for beginners
pull the elbows down and in touching the
bar to your upper chest and allowing the
lats to really stretch on the negative
however I would caution against
defaulting to the lat pulldown just
because it's easier you are sitting down
here so your core will be much less
involved and you don't want to get into
the habit of avoiding highly-effective
fundamental movements just because
they're hard in fact I think it's the
challenge of weightlifting that really
makes it worthwhile so that's all that I
have for the pull up guys as I said
before I'm gonna be leaving the whole
entire technique Tuesday series totally
unspun surd
and I've got 28 episodes planned so far
each episode will usually take about 30
hours to produce so needless to say this
is a pretty big project so in the space
here at the end of the video that would
be normally occupied by an ad I'm simply
just gonna refer you guys to one of the
training programs on my website so that
way if you're enjoying the series or
getting something out of it you can
directly show your support for me and
the work that I'm doing here while
actually getting a product that's
perfectly relevant to the content I'm so
for the launch of this video I'm gonna
be running a 30% off sale on my back
hypertrophy program and it's actually
one of my better selling programs the
back is hit three days per week to full
workouts and one mini workout with
pull-ups being performed on strength
days and the supplemental day with
cluster sets so this is a really high
volume program and the feedback on it
has been amazing so far so if you'd like
to check it out you can get it for
$13.99 on Geoff nipper comm for the next
week only it'll have that as the first
link in the description so I hope you
guys all had a great Christmas and I
don't forget to leave me a like if you
enjoyed the video don't forget to
subscribe so you don't miss future
technique Tuesday episodes and I'll see
you guys all here on New Year's Day