[Music]
hey folks dr. Michael Hill here for
Renaissance period ization hypertrophy
made simple video number three if you
want more details to hypertrophy guide
central hub on renaissance position and
all the rest of our longer form YouTube
videos are the place to get much more
expanded view on this let's not waste
any time how should you be warming up
for hypertrophy training well first of
all what does warming up do well it does
a couple of things probably some
something like three things it
essentially allows the heavy lifting
done after the warm-up to be much less
likely to cause injury which is a really
really good thing so people say warm up
or you get hurt
there absolutely is some merit to that
secondly it by warming up your technique
for the lift becomes more efficient and
becomes better targeted at the muscle
that you actually want to train which is
a very very good thing and lastly it
fires up your nervous system over time
as you warm up more and more and that
nervous system firing essentially lets
you work the muscle that has targeted
harder and get better stimulus now onto
the meat potatoes of how to actually
warm up number one you can choose to do
some cardio for 5 to 10 minutes if you'd
like at the beginning the session not
mandatory some people like to do it some
don't you can do it give it some thought
if you feel better doing it then not go
to town but you don't need it number two
what you want to do is take roughly like
a 20 rm+ weight ok 20 to 30 rep weight
for that exercise sometimes even lighter
and do that exercise was potentially on
unloaded bar for example for many people
do it for around 10 repetitions make
sure the repetitions are nice and slow
meticulous really try to connect with
your muscles then you want to do at
least one sort of intermediate heavy ish
weight for about 5 reps or so and that's
going to be a weight somewhere between
that 20 + RM first weight and your
planned target weight so if you're 20 RM
rate whatever was a hundred pounds and
your planned target weight was like 200
pounds you're gonna want to take like
150 pounds or so and do it for like a
set of 5 reps alright now point number 4
is the last warm-up you'll do is take
your working weight or one that's even
10% higher to give
nervous system a real big boost and do
it for like two or three wraps and
that's called potentiation that's the
part that really wakes up your nervous
system that's not more for warming up
but for firing up your nervous that's
the last thing you'll do but you'll
notice we did one light warmup we did
one at least intermediate wore off and
then one last heavy warmup the thing is
depending on how much weight spans
between the first light warm-up and the
final warmup
there is a chance to do more warms in
between some at least one you want at
least intermediate one but you could do
more for example if you're lifting
between roughly zor-el guidelines zero
to 50 pounds just one hour median so if
it's 50 to 200 pounds is your working
weight you do to intermediate sets so
you would do something like let's say oh
you know you would do 120 pounds for a
set of six and then you would do like
180 pounds for set of four right
something in between those two ranges of
where you start warming up and where
your eventual working weight is of like
200 pounds right as you get heavier you
do more and more intermediate sets
Leigha know if you're doing more than
400 pounds you could do four or five
intermediate sets because you can't just
jump into crazy crazy poundage you don't
show up to the gym to squat six hours
per UPS by doing one hundred and fifty
pounds and then 300 pounds and just go
to 600 pounds that's insane who did you
do a whole lot more warming up than that
and here's the thing that's for the
first exercise for a muscle group for
every new exercise that's so you got
done bench pressing and now it's time to
do incline dumbbell press the thing is a
lot of those muscles are warm already
you don't go through that whole sequence
again you take that middleweight again
you know somewhere between your 20 rm+
weight which you don't even touch then
and your working weight you do that for
like a set of five kind of like a feel
it out set and then the working weight
itself for two or three reps just to get
the feel of the working weight that want
potentiation set and then you go right
into it
so essentially soon as you're done
warming up a muscle for one exercise any
other exercises you for that muscle
later that day or that session rather
it's really just only two warm-ups which
saves a ton of time because really
already warm let's take a look at two
quick examples one really light one
really heavy upright rows you're only
working weight is 65 pounds on a barbell
okay it's not that much weight so what
do you do you find the thirty pound
straight bar hopefully have one at your
gym this the short straight bar that
only weighs 30 you do it for 10 reps
their shoulders are nice and warm
then you do the 45 pounds let's say you
do for five reps okay and then you do 65
pounds for the potentiation of three you
put the bar down and then you're ready
to go do your work sets that whole
process might take two minutes three
minutes no big deal on the other hand
let's say your leg pressing and you want
a leg press four hundred and fifty five
pounds well you don't just jump into
that let's say the sled weighs 45 pounds
just for convenience you do the sled +
45 s on the side so 135 pounds for 10
reps then you slap plates on a side two
plates you go eight reps three plates
six reps four plates for Epps you go a
little bit over for that extra
potentiation effect five whole plates
over for 55 that's for 95 you do for
three reps then you come back down to
455 it's gonna feel super super awesome
it's gonna feel a little lighter you're
gonna get way more reps so it's going to
be great tons of injury prevention tons
of potentiation and you're good to go
folks thanks for tuning in see you next
time for the next video
[Music]