you guys remember liver King whatever
happened to him oh that's right he was
lying about steroids and I only gives a
shit about it hey liver King if you hear
this you I'm kidding no I'm not
kidding hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and today
we're going to talk about what
supplements are worth it especially for
beginners and intermediates in
hypertrophy and strength training for
folks new to the channel I'm Dr Mike
gizell as I just said earlier I guess
I'm really bad at this I am a
competitive bodybuilder I am a Brazilian
JSU Grappler I'm a professor of sport
Science and I help all make all the
wonderful things that we have here at RP
and uh if you want to learn about how to
eat and train and have your best
physique and possibly attract a mate uh
maybe not guaranteed then give us a
subscription and we'll give you loads of
fun and for those folks that are already
subscribed I have a question for you
actually a
request let's come together and stop
treating adults that wear overalls with
human decency we need need to let people
know it's not okay personal pet peeve
call me crazy let me know in the
comments what you think about that
speaking of
crazy what supplements are worth it
because let's be honest there's a lot of
BS out there and even if some of it
might not BBS kind of every supplement
company is like buy stuff buy our triple
Max blend
3,500 proprietary ingredients so you can
look like this professional bodybuilder
who's on 15 units of growth hormone a
day but we didn't mention that part so
it's tough because everyone says bye bye
bye but you know a lot of the stuff is
BS so what are you supposed to do about
it me personally I just try to look like
uh Darth cidus wait wait wait hold
up Dark
Side to be honest our heater just kicked
on and I'm
cold so which supplements are worth it
we could use a very high number
different number of lenses which to
examine
this and so we're going to constrain our
view a little bit to keep this
simple here's how we're constraining our
view I'm not including any illegal stuff
steroids work super well though they
kill you growth hormone works Ultra well
though it also kills you and all kinds
of illegal stuff you know Clan blah blah
blah that stuff is definitely solid but
kills you um we're not going to talk
about borderline stuff un legality sarms
I'm not sure if they're so legal or not
pepti SES they definitely work too but
it's just a giant question mark as to
what the fuck is going on there and most
the folks I think that are going to be
viewing this video kind of don't want to
see some guy at the back of a GMC with a
trench coat that's like me yeah see what
do you want I got vs I got needles I got
it all um they want to kind of go to the
actual GNC and maybe buy something
that's effective and so the Target
demographic for this video for folks
that I want to get the most benefit out
of this is people that lift that eat
pretty well and just want to pay for
kind of sure thing supplements you may
or may not want to buy the supplements
that I'm going to list for you in just a
few minutes or right now but rest
assured that if you do spend your money
on them they're going to be a good use
of your money and they're going to be
safe and they're going to be effective
the last thing I'll say is there are
some supplements that aren't going to
make our list which uh some often many
people have deficiencies in for example
in some Northern climates people who
don't go out the sun especially a lot
can have uh D vitamin deficiencies and
might need Vitamin D supplementation Etc
and there's a bunch of little caveats
little tiny details and uh specifics if
you consult with a medical uh provider
hopefully your doctor then you can sort
most of that stuff out so there are some
specifics this is going to be broad
Strokes kind of for everyone that lifts
and eats and thinks you know what I
think I might start taking supplements
so Dr Mike which ones should I take that
are not a
ripoff got a couple categories the first
category is protein shakes they
definitely work there's a couple
different types of protein protein
shakes you can take the very fast
digesting whey protein for post-workout
the quality of the whe whether it's
concentrate isolate or hydraulic it it
doesn't matter for all practical
purposes that you're concerned with dear
viewer it just doesn't fucking matter if
you're physically made of actual money I
got a electron microscope scan by the
way and and the doctors were baffled
because it seems I'm actually made of
teeny microscopic $100 bill
that's the kind of stacks your boy is
working with then only way Hydro touches
this body because if if it's not the
best I don't even F I don't even look at
it you show me concentrated oh I Dr that
shit but for almost everyone else you
people no offense of regular means um
any kind of way is totally fine one
thing I I'll say is people with kind of
upset stomachs from way protein if it's
concentrate it's got a little bit
lactose in there it's got a little bit
extra stuff carbohydrates try isolate
and then try Hydro now isolate's more
expensive Hydro is really expensive but
if that's what gets you to not have the
stomach problems anymore maybe it's
worth it for
you so way is great especially for
post-workout or int workout around the
workout
window there's another thing another use
case for protein shakes and that's for
long intervals between meals you might
have a presentation at work and that's
going to take four hours and then you
got to drive a client back to the
airport that's going to take another two
and you come back home and it's going to
take another hour and you might just not
have any opportunity to eat during that
time and so a casian shake there's two
fractions of milk protein one is whey
one is casan the casan shake made of
casan protein is going to digest very
very slowly release very slowly into
your bloodstream so it works as a long
interval M placement five six seven
eight hours without
eating next there are protein shakes
that are somewhere in the intermediate
range of digestibility speed so way
protein gets in you and within 30
minutes to an hour and goes through all
that stuff casine you know 5 to 8 hours
and then 3 to four hours can be a couple
of different options you can have a
mixed often 50/50 split of casine and
Whey that's very common another thing
you can have is egg protein which is
excellent and sort of medium digesting
speed and also soy protein is totally
great no soy protein will not make you a
biological female if you eat a lot of it
it's is just not a thing that happens
but everyone's afraid of that happening
because there are compounds in soy that
act like estrogens in your body also fun
fact if you're really curious about this
estrogen is very anabolic to muscle
tissue especially when there's
testosterone also present and it's
really awesome for your health and
excellent for strength gains so if
you're a dude just a fucking guy man
just an XY chromosome and every fucking
cell of my body bro except for my germ
Lin one or the other anyway I never
fucking touch T soy bro cuz estrogen's
bad bullshit estrogen is what makes men
manlier if testosterone is present so
unless your testicles fall off soy is
fucking dope I sound like a soy boy
saying it but they rarely say it like
that all right so we got whei for
post-workout int workout casan for long
meal intervals and some kind of mixed
protein or egg or soy for just a meal
replacement what about the serving size
how much should you be taking as much as
possible as matter of fact use code Dr
Mike dildo to save on Scott let's
quickly make up a protein supplement
company we can start before we release
this video so we can
monetize what do we got oh so we're
gonna include the links yeah yeah yeah
yeah
yeah what's a good name Mike's magic mil
oh my how much work do I have to do do I
have to secrete something and like well
we got 800 vials in five minutes and hit
it as a matter of fact I'm over
qualified so in any case don't just eat
all the protein you can whatever meal
you're replacing or if you want to add
some protein to your diet and your
workout generally speaking you do a
little math p overx p is the total
amount of protein you eat in a day x is
the number of meals you eat per day so
if you eat a total of 200 grams of
protein roughly you should eat about as
much protein as
your pounds in body weight so if you
weigh 200 pounds you eat 200 GS of
protein protein a day and if you split
that over the course of five meals then
PX equals 40 G and so basically it's the
same amount of protein you eat in the
other meals super simple
math next category of supplements that
are effective optional all these are
optional but if you use them they'll
work workout carbs workout window carbs
these are carbs you take during and
finish right after your workout that to
some small extent prevent muscle
breakdown to a pretty meaningful extent
make 45 minute hour hour and 15 and
longer workouts make the ends of those
workouts higher intensity than they
would be and then much more productive
and also these supplements can maximize
the utilization of the protein you're
also consuming around the workout window
so these carbs include things like
dextrose powder if you know you go on
Amazon and buy 15 pounds of that shit
for like a dollar or you can go and get
some Gatorade or Power Aid whether it's
a Ste or powder doesn't
matter and generally you consume these
during longer workouts an hour or more
would start to make sense uh or after
training to help with anabolism and help
especially with recovery for future hard
training bouts these carbs are best
paired with a protein shake so if you
ever see me out in the world some
24-Hour Fitness in California or some
shit you're like is that Dr Mike yeah
nobody else looks like that the fuck
happened to that guy's head you're going
to notice that very often I have a power
rate or Gatorade or two and I have a
protein shake with me and I sip that
between sets that handles me super well
the serving size you're going to use is
going to be determined by your workout
volume like if it's legs you're going to
be consuming more carbs if it's like
just biceps you probably don't need
carbs at all the intensity of the
workout if it's like you know Peak Week
super hard you might need more carbs if
it's an easy kind of deal workout may
need not need any and everything in
between and of course your overall diet
if you're cutting carbs like crazy and
you're starving to death it's probably a
good idea not to have these very rapidly
digesting very not hunger squashing
carbohydrates remove that and keep the
carbs in the rest of your diet so
there's a lot of context here about how
much you should be having but usually
for practical recommendation one bottle
of Gatorade or power rate for most
people in the workout along with a
whatever a protein shake that's roughly
some fraction of your daily intake a
typical meal size and uh maybe two
bottles if you're real uh you know
training legs or you're quite large over
200 lb and muscular and that should be
good for for most people so no no real
crazy rocket science
there next up are slow digesting
carbohydrate supplements one of the most
popular ones I don't know if it's
popular now but it exists is called waxy
maze sounds nice it's not waxy it is I
believe made of corn so the maze is
accurate and it is a carbohydrate people
used to recommend to take in the workout
window and those people were wrong why
were they wrong because waxy maze is
insanely slow digesting and digests
slower than oatmeal
but it comes in a powder it doesn't mix
so well with water it's like waxy maze
out of the year but you shake it enough
and after you shake it before you drink
it again you reshake it then you're good
to go the really cool thing is that you
can store this as a powder so you can
take waxy ma which is pure white powder
dump it into little baggies all the same
size you take Each baggie and you layer
it carefully on top of other baggies in
a large metallic suitcase
and you it's a good idea to leave an
unregistered firearm in there as well
and you just go to the airport and just
push it right through the TSA screener
you're going to have an amazing time
finally you get all the physical
attention that you
deserve alternatively you can take a
little baggie of it put whatever carbs
you want to replace with the meal dump
some mixture of casine whey or soy or
egg protein in that baggie ziplock that
motherfucker take your shaker cup take
the baggie dump into Shaker close Shaker
throw that into your stuff and then when
you need that meal replacement unclick
the Shaker take out baggie put in water
dump contents of waxy maaz and protein
and Shaker fill the rest of the Shaker
up with water shake for your life and
after the shit hasn't sedimented yet and
it's still floating around gulp gulp
gulp if you do that you can also I guess
just mix the shake at home take it to
work and put it in in the fridge no
problem again before you start drinking
again reshake the fuck out of it because
it's going to settle down for
you this use of waxin ma or any other
slow digesting carbohydrate can provide
incredibly easy exact macros for slow
digesting filling hunger squashing on
thee-o nutrition it's an amazing meal
replacement and people talk about meal
replacements they usually talk about
protein shakes but motherfucker your
meals ain't all protein I mean unless
you're like carnivore or some shit do
you guys remember liver King whatever
happened to him well that's right he was
lying about steroids and I only he gives
a shit about him hey liver King if you
hear this fuck you I'm kidding no I'm
not kidding in any case you pair that
with a protein and it's an amazing meal
replacement and if you want I wouldn't
throw the nuts in the Shaker because
that's how you choke to death but uh
handful of nuts super easy with that and
then you got a complete meal the serving
size is of course whatever carbs you had
planned for that meal so if you have an
80 gram carb meal with 40 grams of
protein you put 40 protein uh you know
let's say like a egg protein 40 grams of
that in a baggie you put 80 grams of
carbs from waxy maze seal it up dump
into Shaker close Shaker throw Shaker
into bag and then whenever it is you
need the meal replacement you just take
the whole baggy out put the water in mix
voila the the quickest easiest to store
meal another great thing about this kind
of approach is that wherever you have
pable water and honestly if you really
want to go to the next level just bring
two bottles of water with you and throw
them in the bag too and now you don't
even need portable water anywhere you go
cuz you have the shit with you the great
thing is a lot of times powder that you
mix in with a Shaker is available to you
in any weather condition day or night
because a lot of times you want a meal
replacement but you're like your shit is
sitting in your car and it's like Kansas
in fucking July and it's like 110
degrees for no goddamn reason you come
back and someone's like you're gonna eat
that turkey sandwich and you're like I
think the turkey sandwich now has a
civilization of bacteria growing on it
I'm going to pass on that shit but if
it's just egg protein powder and waxy
maze carbs man like I don't think that
actually ever goes bad as long as it's
dry you can eat it you can Discover It
years later in your car what the fuck is
this is this
cocaine or is this waxy maze oh only one
way to find out nope hey Scott I've
never taken drugs because I'm a good
person and not a degenerate like you but
is it if you drink
like A4 kilo of
cocaine are you uh are you going to die
yeah you're gonna die probably just
explode to be honest from
Joy from a lot of things you like you go
through a real fast high you're like I
don't feel anything 30 seconds later
you're like I want to meet everyone and
say hi to the whole world and then 30
seconds later you're like I'm just dead
fast
ride next
creatine great grandma you ever leave
through the pictures old fucking photo
book your your parents have damn great
grandma look Jack you see there's a
Optimum Nutrition creatine container
next to that bitch that's like her
Abraham Lincoln and an Optimum Nutrition
creatine you're like America God
intended so everyone use creatine all
through history everyone knows this
creatine is dope it's one of those
supplements that really doesn't
disappoint there's a bunch of
supplements you read a study on it
Andrew huberman talks about it and
you're like dude this shit is going to
change my life you take it nothing
happens 6 months later three other
studies come out say it doesn't do
anything and you're like God damn it I
lost my money creatine is not one of
those it's been vetted over and over and
over again it causes muscle growth it
causes increases in performance it
speeds setto set recovery and it even
seems to be healthy for the brain and
nervous system for healthy aging which
is really cool something many people did
not see coming including
myself oh something nobody had a bit too
much creatine am I
right Scott I wish I had someone here to
every time I said a stupid joke I could
nudge them with the elbow or like we
need like a
Dr and then pregnant pause after like
okay so anyway um the best studied
version of creatine because there's a
couple of different molecules you can
clip onto creatine to make sure it gets
where it needs to go the best study
version of that is creatine
monohydrate um and it's the best uh
studied in terms of number studies
diversity of populations is the uh the
best vetted so that it definitely works
and for almost everyone unless you're
Brian Shaw's size and you're like three
people five grams of creatin monohydrate
every day and timing doesn't
matter is going to sort you out and it's
going to be about a week week and a half
long period where the creatine's loading
in your
cells and it's filling your muscles up
your pumps are going to get better
you're going to look look a little bit
more jacked all the time especially if
you're a creatine hyper responder
there's a normal distribution about how
people respond to creatine and the
people respond to creatine the most are
usually ones that eat the the least meat
especially red meat in their diet so if
you're vegan taking creatine might
change your fucking life if you're a
carnivore taking creatine might have
absolutely no impact on you
whatever if you take five grams of
creatine daily it's going to sort you
out it's not going to like revolutionize
your physique but it's going to be
something that you know is a ritual for
you to take and under the it's
absolutely causing some positive changes
they're small but they're there just
like I tell the ladies I'm small but
I've been following you around for years
years I know everything about you I've
been collecting your hair too would you
like to see my doll I made of you sorry
that was for another video I'm sending
to
Patricia you can take a break every few
months from
creatine not because we suspect that
there's some kind of feedback loop that
probably isn't you can just take
creatine all the fucking time and no it
is not bad for your kidneys so tell that
nurse at your doctor's office that she's
a fucking idiot I don't tell her that
that might not go over well but you can
think it in your head she's like don't
take creatine's bad for your kidneys
you're like fucking idiot thank you so
nothing's going to happen too bad but
sometimes it's just annoying to fucking
take a powder every day especially on
trips back to the cocaine thinge cre
manah hydrate is almost everywhere also
a white odorless powder and if you decid
to say I'm going to go on vacation to
the Dominican Republic and you show up
with a baggie of indeterminate white
powder there's a 98% chance nothing's
going to happen to you there's a 2%
chance you're going to be spending an
extended stay at uh one of the airports
in the Dominican Republic where folks
which English is not their preferred or
first spoken language are going to be
trying to ascertain what the fuck it is
you're doing with a white baggie of what
the hell is that it's a fun time you'll
make plenty of friends so if you want
friends definitely do that but if you
want to take a break from creatine for a
few months here and there once or twice
during the year totally cool you can
stop taking it no big
deal when you get back on Creatine
because as creatine loads in your muscle
cells it pulls in multiples of its
weight in water just to exist in your
cell it's first of all it's going to
give you a cool pump all the time like
kind like a quarter pump all the time
which is pretty sweet but you are going
to get some water weight gains from it
and again the more you are a responder
to it the more the water weight gain is
there are folks that gain three five and
even eight pounds within the first week
of getting on Creatine so I'll keep this
very simple if you're starting a fat
loss phase and you start taking creatine
and you begin to freak out because
you're not losing weight or a whole week
of eating what we thought was a deficit
but you gained four pounds what's going
on is math wrong are we living in a
simulation um no I mean maybe we're
living in a simulation find that out
anyway you're going to gain some weight
and it's totally cool because it's
weight that's going into your muscle so
it's the right kind of weight it's the
good-looking kind of weight you can
fucking Flex for Grandma and she oh boy
Billy you sure got muscular you're not
taking that creatin are you son oh no
way grandma that's poison as a matter of
fact I was on a flight once um with my
boy uh a man of Dominican descent Marcos
Rodriguez that's how he say his name and
he an elite personal trainer in New York
City look him up Mr marcosus on
Instagram no periods Mr marcosus anyway
uh we were sitting next to this very
nice uh very professional Indian lady
who was like of course a computational
chemist or some shit like that why not
and we're sitting in an airplane and
she's like hey like you know my son is
younger and he's uh he what do you think
about creatine he wants to take creatine
should I let him and before I could say
any sports science shit Marcos real
quick because he's got that New Yorker
Dominican wit so he's just way faster
than me so he goes ah I don't put that
poison on my body and she's like oh okay
and I was
like he's joking and she was like he is
and I was like yes he's he's a bad
person Marcos if you if you watch this
he doesn't watch our Channel he doesn't
give a shit about me what's up what's up
big homie anyway um it's not poison
you're going to be totally cool if
you're over the age of geeez for sure 18
but probably 15 you're totally fine to
take it expect some water weight gains
it's totally cool after a week they'll
stabilize and then you'll just have
slightly better body composition
strength recovery and all that good
stuff another really quick thing if
you're new to this whole game you're
gonna feel
creatine it's not a
pre-workout you're not gonna feel shit
so if you're like I'm taking creatine
but I don't like you know what I mean
it's not alcohol it's not caffeine it's
not weed you're not going to be able to
tell you're on it so it's just working
under the hood which is really
cool next and last supplement I
definitely feel comfortable recommending
to pretty much everyone who lifts and
eats already is a multivitamin
multi-mineral same thing by the way
because every multivitamin also has
minerals in it so same
same here's the thing if you eat
mostly healthy and varied food most ly
not all healthy you're already pretty
well off but some minimal
supplementation all the multivitamin
multimineral is kind of like a little
bit of an insurance policy it kind of
rounds you out makes sure you're not
lacking in pretty much anything and
because these supplements are profoundly
cheap profoundly easy to find and it's a
one pill you take once a day timing
doesn't matter but just take it in the
morning with your creatin to check that
box really quick it's super good
idea because it's that easy to do many
people who are involved involved in well
you know trying to eat right trying to
train right and they kind of like you
know dare I say care about their results
and want to make sure that they're doing
all the best things and multivitamin
multimineral again just one supplement
is just such an easy thing to take to
make sure to be like you know what
like I'm I'm doing my best it's kind of
like if you
um if your office has a machine that
like laminates your paper and you you
make a big presentation to like the
board and it's like you just throw your
shit into the laminator and 10 minutes
later it comes out but it costs nothing
to you really it's just 10 minutes of
your time and you want to make an impact
you put so much work into this
presentation you might as well make it
look nice so laminate the fucking thing
it comes out all plasticky and people
are like this is serious stuff good job
Johnson you got the promotions that's
exactly how it's going to happen to the
letter so just the same way you work so
hard at stuff and you give a shit and
you eat well and you train you might as
well take a multivit multi mineral to
kind of round out everything and make
sure you don't have any holes in your
program here's the thing just once a day
just the recommended dose if you take
any more vitamins than necessary one of
two things happen there are both water
soluble and fat soluble vitamins and
minerals inside of each one of those
pills you get if you consume like if
you're like man fuck that I want double
and triple and 10 times the results let
see you have 10 times the vitamins
normal you take 10 of them shits cuz I'm
going to be fucking Superman what's
going to happen is the water soluble
vitamins you just pee right out you'll
pee it be a very different color usually
fluorescent green which looks kind of
sweet but then you have very expensive
urine because you're peeing out all the
extra shit you don't need the fat
soluble vitamins your body will absorb
and it will store inside many tissues
most of the tissues that have fat
including your Outpost tissue and at a
certain point that becomes toxic and
then you get sick and during right
around that time you're going to also
probably turn a shade of yellow there
various fat soluble vitamins tend to
turn you yellow as a side effect so it's
something you want to do it has zero
upside so if you get a multivitamin you
think one a little pill you just take it
every day and that's it and if you
forget to take it one day a nothing is
GNA happen to you you just take the same
pill the next day no big deal another
thing super useful advice I think do not
overpay for expensive Brands they ain't
nothing in the world you get out of a
multivitamin that you don't get at
fucking Walmart and I'm talking about
that Walmart what is SC what's the
Walmart brand called like quality choice
or some shit like that I know shop at
Walmart oh I'm sorry um can you text one
of your Butlers to to ask where if where
he shops for his degenerate poor family
assuming he has a family at all most of
my brothers can't afford families with
what I pay
him training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same um Great Value Great Value yes
thank you so much see I knew you shop
there you motherfucker so get you a
great value fucking brand bro it's going
to have the same shit in it that all the
other companies have and to me it's
particularly funny as a exercise and
sports scientist was someone who's taken
a lot of courses in physiology uh I've
actually taught Collegiate basic
nutrition before it's just really funny
to see supplement companies being like
the best multivitamin on the market like
what the fuck does that mean it's all
the same shit folks and you can save so
much money by just getting the fucking
Sam's Club Costco Walmart
Kroger wherever you live in this world
Alibaba I don't know the regular cheap
shit Works totally
fine don't take it more than once a day
and you can just do this all the time
you can take a break when you go on
vacation but right after come back start
taking your vitamins again all right
that more or less wraps us up let me
give you guys kind of a quick overall
summary main point for beginners for
this video if you're a beginner been
training up to about 3 years trying to
get your diet in order you just straight
up don't need supplements a multivitamin
is okay but all else is at best bonus
points and at worst it's just totally
pointless because you'll never see the
results if you're intermediate you've
been training pretty seriously for three
to seven years or something like that
your diet's kind of on point you can
consider taking most of the supplements
on this list on an as needed basis you
might not need a slow digesting
carbohydrate meal replacement I don't
take waxm currently I got no there's
nothing for me to do with it at all but
if you're in a situation where you're
like dude man I need a meal at 3 pm.
lunch is at 12: got to be at my desk I'm
on call I'm not going to be going
anywhere and doing some shit I really do
need this and then dope it works super
great so you don't have to take any
supplements but if you have a use case
for them try them and they're certain to
be uh very effective and for the
advanced folks people training very
seriously for seven or more years very
in tune with their diet you should be
considering supplements on a case-by
Case basis um there are supplements
which yield very good results for people
that are using well let's say more
anabolics than others um and people that
train really hard people that sweat a
lot in training then a sport
nutritionist can help you out to see if
you need any kind of supplements
examples are some extra zinc in the
evening some magnesium some vitamin D3
sometimes Omega-3s are in order um and
some other supplements here and there
can be a good idea and of course if
you're an intermediator above you can
always do some pre-workouts or caffeine
coffee we have a lot of videos on this
channel on stimulates and pre-workouts
and stuff so you can check those out
they're not mandatory they're not
necessary but if you like to use them
stick to the recommended dosages only be
safe take it 30 minutes before you
workout rock on don't take it too late
in the day because you won't sleep as
well and then it screws up your results
but pre-workouts and stuff are
definitely cool they don't make our list
because for most people they just don't
need them and for many it's like a lot
of upsides but a lot of downsides too so
these supplements that are on this list
almost everyone can take and they're
going to have a great time doing it no
disruption to health as a matter of fact
in most cases an enhancement and if you
use some number anywhere between zero
and all of the supplements I listed
you're going to have just on the margins
a little bit better of a time with
getting results that you want and
because you work so hard anyway to get
the results that you want you might as
well be taking some supplements in some
cases to boost those results and make
sure your work is going in the direction
that you want all right that's all I
have for today folks you have any
questions shoot them down below maybe
we'll get to a couple answers otherwise
yeah go out there and uh well go to
Walmart and just open up a a container
of vitamins and yell at the top of your
lungs nobody can stop me and just start
chewing them and see how long it takes
the police to show up and shoot you dead
have fun I'll see you on the
news