could you do dumbbell lateral raises
standing up straight like this or is it
better to lean away like this or maybe
leaning into your lateral raises like
this is best well most people do them
standing up like this and there's
nothing wrong with that but there might
be a better way that's because the
dumbbell has a circular resistance path
so it applies the most tension when the
dumbbell is at the top and literally
zero tension when the dumbbell is at the
bottom so you're getting no tension
while the side Delta is stretched so
what about leaning away well the good
thing here is that you cut out about the
bottom 20Â° where some evidence suggests
that the rotator cuff is more active
anyway but this variation still has the
problem of not putting high tension on
the delt when it's stretched but if you
lean in all of a sudden the dumbbell
provides tension in that stretch
position there's absolutely nothing
wrong with including all three
periodically but if I had to pick just
one dumbbell option it'd have to be the
leanin dumbbell lateral race