is AB training for athletes for example
crunches sit-ups planks good for
performance whereas lifting weights like
heavy squats and deadlifts better thanks
Doc and the feather so I don't think
they're mutually exclusive yep you can
do both I mean so getting a good
abdominal strength allows you to perform
High flexion movements or high Force
flexion movements so actually crunches
are fine but they need to be loaded at
some point and sit-ups are also fine but
need to be loaded and planks are mostly
a waste of time unless you want to get
really good at planking yeah oblique
stuff is fine for like MMA fighters
people like that so you could train
obliques since they're not generally hit
a ton with most heavy compound exercises
you could add in some weighted stuff but
yeah they're not mutually exclusive just
do both if you're an athlete and
you find it's interfering with any sort
of Mobility or anything you know chill
out