[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization here with Chris at iron
work in Philadelphia and we are going to
do a chest and tricep workout
the code name or nickname for this is an
T tau what the hell is that maybe you
can google and find out alright so we're
gonna start with dumbbell flyes first
we're gonna start warming up once we're
nice and warmed up we'll go into the
working sense the way we do warm-ups are
super simple you will map mostly in the
first exercise cuz all the other
exercises really packs the same muscle
groups and they're already pretty warm
we start with a super light weight we
can do like 10 times rests Oh several
minutes then do a weight we can do like
five or six times then lastly do the
working weight usually for a set up like
two or three just to feel it out and
then we go to our actual weights so
right now we're feeling this out and see
how many times you're gonna get this
might be five or six maybe two to three
we're not sure how strong he is in the
flies we'll figure that out and when
we're nice and warm we start the first
of many working sets of control with a
slight pause at the bottom and up very
good
and up very good slow deep up that was
 not low enough chest up
yes great keep going seven more control
that last one was iffy slow and op8 you
got two more let's go slow ah nine and
one last one with good technique deep
and up up up up good job that's it wrap
there was three sets of flies anywhere
between ten and five reps all of them
zero reps and reserve we're gonna finish
that up we're done just three sets now
we move on to the wide grip bench press
Y our pecs are nice and pre fatigued for
that now the wide grip bench is gonna
test our pecs relatively speaking that
much more later we'll do other stuff for
triceps and finish up just we've done
flies now it's time for wide grip bench
more chest focus we're gonna do this for
another three sets and we're gonna do it
in the 10 to 20 referees that's a big
range so we're gonna shoot for a weight
that's gonna get us right in the middle
that ring you have the first set and all
the other sets as long as we're resting
long enough it doesn't really matter
what reps we go so the first set is in
the 10 to 20 range and then we let
fatigue decide after that
beautiful one to press control all the
way down press control folks how long to
rest between sets in hypertrophy
training it's actually quite simple
first rule make sure you can do at least
five reps on your next set if you're too
tired to do five reps rest longer second
rule you want to make sure that your
nervous system is not limiting your
ability to lift so you still feel
physically weak and defeated after a set
weight rest until you'll feel strong
enough to really be able to contract
your muscles hard and get a lot out of
them if you feel like a deflated balloon
don't go get rest longer another one is
to make sure your cardiorespiratory
system isn't limiting you're not accept
so if you finished a set of any exercise
and you're sitting here going through
and someone says hey you ready to your
next set clearly your limit is gonna
come from not being able to breathe and
deliver oxygen properly and waste
properly which the muscles rather than
actually pushing your muscles close to
failure so wait until your breathing is
stable and you know your next set isn't
gonna be limited by your breathing
lastly make sure any synergist muscles
and stabilizer muscles are not the
limiting factor so if you get done with
a set of squats and your next set you're
ready your quads are ready but your
lower back is still on fire wait until
your lower back cools off so that your
quads could be the limiting factor we
want the target muscles to be the
limiting factor not the helping muscle
if you can check all four of those boxes
when you can do that you're ready for
another set you can rest longer if you
want but ideally you go pretty soon
after that we've squished a lot of
really high quality work into a short
time five excellent big chest
6:7 come on now they pump them out good
technique 9 keep going keep going more
good stuff very very good folks
the sets are taken to 0ri are zero reps
and reserve which sometimes means you
actually failed but often means if you
try another rep you will fail with good
technique so on some of these he's
locking about just fine that's because
on the next rep he almost certainly
wouldn't get another good run we've done
flies for 3 sets we've done wide we're
bench for 3 sets our packs are pretty
well cooked
not completely we'll finish them off
later now we switch the focus of triceps
we're gonna do behind the head easy bar
overhead extensions when I show this in
just a bit we're gonna do 5 working sets
there and then we're gonna do more
working sets of clothes scripts with
machine bench after why are we doing a
lot of tricep sets and fewer PEC sets
because the pecs went first they got the
best quality work to make up for that
and still make this a very good tricep
workout we have to pump up the volume on
the overhead extensions let's hit it
great No
knee bent and up good
no body English your triceps yeah
elbows better elbows press let's go
elbows nine more elbows ten keep going
more one more push more
let's redeem go right now
five five strict ones is that laughs
that was
strict one two deeper well that's it
there it is that's it beautiful
we got it good stop
[Applause]
[Music]
we finished overhead extensions for five
sets now force that's a closed grip
bench were now in the 20 to 30 rep range
really blasting the pump and the
metabolites we could do a high force
movement but we're so tired from all
sorts of you know even local and central
nervous system factors that going heavy
at this point in the workout is kind of
pointless is shooting ourselves in the
foot we're gonna go super light for a
really crazy burn sets of twenty to
thirty reps why in god's name is there
only a hundred pounds of our ninety-five
because it sets of twenty to thirty when
his triceps are already messed up so is
this chest let's get into it and get
some unreal effort because this is safe
every single set is either gonna go to
failure i'm going to become very very
upset good easy machine presses we are
going all the ways let's go
great oh you got more and more
pause there you go
more Shrek technique so do not
quit smooth move everything you got push
more yes more will lock out full lock on
again move one more go go go go that's
it
awesome awesome awesome what's your name
what's your date of birth good stuff
then take a nice long break Chris good
job way to survive for the time being
folks Chris is gonna go sit in this car
and then die of rhabdomyolysis several
hours later but if he doesn't he'll get
more jacked remember this is a peak week
work out if you want to do these
exercises for these rep ranges start
with just two or three sets for exercise
not three to five and keep your reps
about three reps shy of failure every
week add a little weight maybe a few
reps add a few sets here and there to
make yourself nice and beat up but not
too far gone several weeks later you'll
climb to this point the peak week and
see if you can have a workout that's
almost everything to failure with lots
and lots of sets folks best of luck to
you in your training journey when you
get under the bar do something
about it
you